To the Old Testament Book of Leviticus. The Old Testament Book of Leviticus. I already heard a groan there. Don't worry. It's going to be alright. I think. Oh, you know, next week we celebrate one of our favorite holidays. And I really think it's uh a very spiritual holiday. In fact, I think it's the most spiritual holiday of the year. But I think like many holidays, it's losing its meaning and significance. I truly believe that Thanksgiving had its origin in the Old Testament. It had its origin, I think, really, in the book of Leviticus. And in all the feasts and festivals and sacrifices that come in the book of Leviticus, I think our Thanksgiving holiday comes from that. Now the Puritans who came to our country and established this holiday, actually just the pattern of Thanksgiving that was later declared a holiday, these Puritans were lovers of the Bible. They love the Old Testament. Did you know that they took the Hebrew scriptures very, very seriously? In fact, William Bradford, the governor and leader of this pilgrim colony, studied Hebrew And in fact, he did Hebrew exercises on the ship as they traveled to America. Marvin Wilson wrote this. He said, the Puritans who founded uh a Pilgrim America were deeply rooted in the Hebraic tradition. And so they were very strongly identified with the traditions and the customs that we find in the Old Testament. In fact, they fancied themselves, this is according to another writer, uh Gabriel Sivan. in his book The Bible and Civilization. He he wrote this. He said they viewed their immigration from e uh from England as a virtual reenactment of the Jewish exodus from Egypt. England was Egypt, the king was Pharaoh, the Atlantic Ocean was the Red Sea, America was the land of Israel, and the Indians were the ancient Canaanites. in their mind. And so when they came over, they established some laws. Some of those laws they came from the principles that come from the Bible and so on. We can go on down the list, but I didn't want to give you a history lesson here. I wanted to focus more on the the text of Scripture because out of the book of Leviticus, I think They got this great tradition about Thanksgiving and the feast that we will celebrate next week. Now, I I think it's good for us to prepare our hearts for that. I think it's good for us that we worship it with true meaning, not just go through the rituals of eating and family. But we should really know some of the tradition, some of the depth that of this holiday that comes from the scripture. So I want us to look in the book of Leviticus, and I want us to look at the five sacrifices, and then draw some application uh for us. Now someone said Leviticus is the first book Jewish children learn and the last one that Christians read. Thank you for that courtesy laugh. Did you uh someone talks about the Leviticus syndrome, you say, what's that? Where you decide that you're gonna read through the Bible in a year, you're all excited, man, I'm gonna read through the whole Bible Genesis goes real well. Exodus is okay, but something happens when you get to Leviticus. You kind of bog down a little bit there And uh and so some people look at the book of Leviticus as if it's really not relevant for today. I mean it's got sacrifice, it's got blood, it's got holy cows It's got things that pertain to the Levites in there. One person compared Leviticus to a handbook. or a a guidebook or a handbook for a 57 Chevy. It's just not really useful for today. I don't he said, I don't have a 57 Chevy. I don't need the handbook. And when I read the book of Leviticus, I almost have the same feeling. Does any of this really apply? Well, I think it is very relevant. I think there's wonderful spiritual truth here in the book. And I want us just to see, I'm going to survey these five sacrifices And then I want us to give a little bit of application about it. First of all, there's the first offering I want to talk about. That's the burnt offering. Look in chapter 1, verse 3. And if this offering be a burnt sacrifice The herd, let him offer a male without blemish. He shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the Lord. Now this sacrifice, the burnt offering, was the most frequently offered of them. The priest would offer burnt offerings every morning and every evening. But an Israelite could bring uh an individual Israelite could bring a burnt offering to the Lord to the altar as much as they desired. Now what's unique about this offering is that it is totally consumed upon the altar. The animal that is sacrificed is completely and totally consumed And it's for the purpose of making atonement. Look in verse number four, and he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering, and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him. And so the the purpose then was atonement. The Hebrew word kapar is the idea of propitiation, the rat being satisfied. And of course this is talking about the wrath of God. God is holy, and his holy wrath for sin must be appeased. And so this is what this offering points to. And of course This is the gospel, isn't it? This is all about atonement. It points to Christ. He would be the sacrifice for sins who would appease the wrath of Almighty God. And so what they would do is they would bring their a their animal to the altar. If you were a worshiper back then, you would lay your hands upon the head of the animal. That was uh stressing your identification with that animal. All of your sins would be placed upon the head of that animal, just like you lay your hands on his head. You lay your sins there, and the animal dies as a substitute, and there the animal is slaughtered in your presence. And again, what makes this sacrifice unique is that all of the animal was put on the altar. Wherefore is other Sacrifices are only portions of the animal placed on the altar here, all of the animal. In fact, it's emphasized in verse 9 Notice where it says, there's a phrase there, and the priest shall burn all on the altar in Leviticus 1. 9. Now again, this points to Christ, doesn't it? Jesus Christ was totally dedicated. All of him was involved in our sacrifice for sin All of him was involved in the sinless life that he lived and fulfilling the law for us. And then all of him was consumed on the cross for us. He gave himself wholly to us. Now, what are we to do in return? We are to present our bodies as a what? A living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. We are to give all of ourselves to Him, to God. That's the burnt offering. Number two, the the grain offering. Look in chapter two and look at verse number one. And when any will offer a meat offering unto the Lord, his offering shall be a fine flour And he shall pour oil upon it and put frankincense therein. Now this next offering is the grain offering. It's also called the cereal offering. In the King James here, where we just read, it's called the meat offering, but I want you to know that it has nothing to do with meat. This word meat was used And the King James when it meant food. It's not meat the way we think of meat because there's again no animal meat connected to this offering. It simply means we could say food offering, or some people call it a cereal offering or a grain offering. And many times a grain offering would accompany a burnt offering. And the main ingredient of the grain offering is flour mixed with oil. And the Hebrew word here for the offering is mintah, and it's a term that's meant to express allegiance or gratitude or reverence. or homage. You know, back in these ancient days, a superior king would go and he would conquer countries and he would set up vassal kings under him. And every once in a while these vassal kings would have to bring a tribute to the suzerain, the superior king, and what they would give is a minka offering to that king. And what did that offering express? It expressed allegiance. It expressed honor. It expressed devotion or dedication. Now here in this grain offering This is what the worshipper would express to God. Total allegiance to God. Dedication to God. And also the grain offering is a product of their labor, the labor of their hands, right? You have to labor with your hands to get the grain. And so this offering is in reference to human labor. Our human labor. It's an expression of our the dedication of our work to God. We dedicate the fruit of our hands. And this is what the worshipper did here in the Old Testament with the grain offering. He made it a special offering to the Lord. And what made it special? Well, we saw here in chapter 2, verse 1, that he mixes it with oil And then in chapter 2, verse 1, it says, then he would put frankincense. He would add that to the grain. Look in chapter 2, look in verse 15. And thou shalt put oil upon it and lay frankincense thereon. It is a meat offering. And so he would add the frankincense to it. So you wouldn't do this offering, you wouldn't make make this grain or flour, fine flour, uh the way you would bread in a kitchen. You know, you would add with bread in the kitchen you would add honey or you would add leaven to it. But here you wouldn't get do that. You added the frankincense. Why? Frankincense was a spice that was very, very expensive. And by adding this space, it set this offering apart. In fact, God said, don't put leaven in this. Don't put honey in it. Look in chapter 2, verse 11. No meat offering which ye shall bring unto the Lord shall be made with leaven, for ye shall burn no leaven nor any honey. It is an offering of the Lord made by fire. And so you wouldn't put honey, which was the main sweetener back then, into this. This was a special offering, a special gift to God. And also, we don't have time to look at all of it, but it also speaks about the first fruits and how you would give your first fruits to the Lord, which represented all of the Props, knowing that everything, but all of it belongs to God, but you give just a portion to the Lord as a token that all of it is from Him But then also they would add salt into this offering. Look in chapter 2, verse 13. And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt, neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering. But all thine offering shalt thou offer salt. Now salt was a preservative. It was used in covenant ceremonies. And it I think symbolized the enduring Dedication to God that the worshiper was actually displaying. And so all of this relates to how we worship and give thanks to God, doesn't it? Because when we come to church, we don't bring grain offerings to the Lord in church, do we? No, but we what do we bring? We bring the work of our hands. We bring the product of our hands That means when the offering plate comes around, whatever we put in it, it's a result of the work of our hands to the Lord. It's to be the first fruits, it's to be our best. And it also symbolizes that all that we have comes from God And yet, God, we're giving you a portion, but that portion says, you have given me all that I have. And I give you back just a portion. To worship you, to show my allegiance to you, to show my devotion to you, to show my honor to you. I bring you my offering. That's the grain offering. Now let's go to the third offering. Sin offering. Burnt offering, grain offering. There's a third offering. That's called the sin offering. Look in Leviticus chapter 4. Look in verse 1. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them It goes on to say that he's to make an offering, verse 3, and verse 4, bring the bullock under the door of the tabernacle. And then so on. He's to make an offering to the Lord there. And um on down, we'll look at some of these as we go. But the sin offering is brought by an individual It's also called the purification offering because he has committed specific sins. And these are unintentional sins. Now there's a difference between this sin offering and the burnt offering. The burnt offering deals with our separation from God and how we have to approach God through the blood, through the The shed blood which appeases the wrath of God. Therefore, we can come into God's presence. However, the sin offering deals more with specific sins committed against God. And what kind of sins? Unintentional sins. You say, what is an unintentional sin? It is a sin that you commit without realizing you're committing that sin. You might do it accidentally You might do it out of negligence. The phrase that we see repeated is through ignorance. Look in chapter 4, verse 2. Speak unto the children of Israel, if a soul shall sin through what? Through ignorance Look in verse 13 of chapter 4. And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance. Look in chapter 4, verse 22. When a ruler has sinned and done somewhat through ignorance. And on we could go. Verse 27, and then in chapter 5, verse 15. So this is through ignorance. Now this doesn't mean that the sinners were ignorant of the law, but they were ignorant of having violated the law. They sinned against God and they didn't know it. Now, ignorance of the law is no excuse, as the saying goes. They were still guilty. But when the person came to realize that they sinned against God, What would they do? They would then have to bring a sin offering to the Lord. They had to confess it. They had to deal with it. Once they learned of it. You remember what David prayed? David said, Cleanse thou me from secret Sins from secret faults. Psalm 19 verse 12. These are sins I don't know about. Sins that are in my life I didn't know I committed. And what does this teach us about sin? This teaches us how pervasive sin is, doesn't it? I mean we sin a lot of times without really realizing it. Why? Because we are sinners by nature. It's a part of who we are Now again, we don't have time to go through it, but Leviticus 5 gives some examples of these kinds of sins, sins of ignorance. And the sin offering then emphasizes the offender's guilt before God. So they would come to the altar, the priest would examine the offender and determine what sacrifice was needed And what sacrifice had to happen, and the sin offering had to be brought to the Lord, no matter who the offender was, no matter who the sinner was, whether it was just an average Common Israelite or a ruler or even a high priest, no matter who the sinner was, there had to be a sin offering that was brought. Now, the higher the sinner's position in a nation, the more expensive the sacrifice here in Leviticus. What is the principle there? The greater the privilege, the greater the responsibility, and the greater the consequence. And notice in chapter 4, let me just show you one thing about this offering. Look in chapter 4, and verse 8 down to verse 12. It basically emphasizes the fact of the sacrifice. And he shall take from off verse eight of chapter four. And he shall take off from it all the fat of the the bullock for the sin offering, the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, and then on down he'll emphasize the fat. But then in verse 12, and even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp. unto a clean place. While the fat of the sacrifice was burned on the altar, there, on the brazen altar, the body of the actual animal, the body of the sacrifice was taken to a clean place outside the camp and was burned there. Why did they do that? Well, for one thing, it made a distinction between the sin offering and the burnt offering. The worshipper would see when this animal was taken outside the camp that this was a sin offering, not a burnt offering, so he wouldn't confuse the two. But even more, it reminded the people that the sins of the congregation and the sins of the high priest had polluted the whole camp And the sin offering was too holy to remain in the camp. The sin offering had to go outside the camp to be offered because of the contamination on the inside. Now how does that speak to us of Christ? You know the writer of Hebrews said Jesus was taken outside the camp. Hebrews chapter 13 Verses 10 to 13. It's a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ who died outside the city gate of Jerusalem. He was taken outside the camp. Why? He was the sin offering. He was too holy to be offered inside the camp because the inside had been defiled by the high priest, by the congregation. The sin offering, the blessed holy Lord Jesus, was taken outside They can't. Now what is the result of this offering? Forgiveness. Look in chapter 4, look in verse number 20. And uh look at the last phrase in verse 20. And it shall be forgiven them. Forgiveness. We see that. We see it also in verse 26. Notice the last phrase in verse 26. And it shall be forgiven. The last phrase in verse 31 of chapter 4. And it shall be forgiven him. And on and on we could go. What is the result of this sin offering? Forgiveness. Jesus wrought us and got us forgiveness because he was the sin offering. So we see the burnt offering. Complete dedication, the grain offering, an offering of honor and allegiance, the work of our hands, the sin offering, which gives forgiveness for specific sins, individual sins. But then also write down the guilt offering. Look in chapter 6. And we're just going to survey these and I want to make an application here again. Look in chapter 6. Look in verse number 1. Of Leviticus, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, If a soul stand and commit a trespass against the Lord, and lie unto his neighbor in that which was delivered him, to keep or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence. Or hath deceived his neighbor. Drop down to verse 4. Then it shall be because he has sinned and is guilty that he shall restore that which he took violently away. In other words, this has to do with restitution. This is also called the trespass offering. The guilt offering and the trespass offering is different from the other offerings in that it stresses or emphasizes the idea of restitution. The offender had to make restitution, which involved paying the penalty. So this means that whatever was taken was completely restored And then plus twenty percent was added on to that. Okay? So full restoration plus twenty percent. Now there are different aspects to this guilt offering. Leviticus 5 deals with violation in regards to the Lord's holy things. Leviticus 6 deals with violations against your neighbor, lying and robbery and things like that. Let me give you illustration. Let's just say on Sunday morning after church, I get done preaching, standing up here, I see a $20 bill there on the floor. I pick it up. I put it in my pocket. Just want you to know if I ever see a $20 bill, that's what I will do with it. I will put it in my pocket. Let's just say someone comes in later And they say, um, anybody here see a $20 bill? And I don't say anything. I'm just silent. Now I want you to know this would never happen. All right? I'm just using as illustration. Alright, if I ever put a $20 bill in my pocket, I'm not going to stick around and let anybody ask me that. I'm going to go. So the person says, anybody see a $20 bill? And I don't say anything. Now What did I do? I committed two sins there. Number one, I lied. You can lie by silence, you know. And I committed robbery. Later, God convicts me of my sin. I get really convicted. So I pray, I say, God, forgive me for what I did. I'm so sorry that I did that. That ends the matter, right? It's all over, right? No? I have to go. I have to make it right with my neighbor. Now in the Old Testament context, on the very day I would bring my sacrifice to God, I would have to make it right with my neighbor. I would literally have to leave my gift at the altar. And I would have to go and be reconciled to my neighbor. And so I would give him back the $20. That was that made it right, right? No. Plus 20%, which would be what, you mathematicians? $24, thank you. $24 I would have to give back. You can't just say, oh God, forgive me for my sin, and then it ends there. No. And by the way, what did Jesus say in Matthew 5, leave your gifts at the altar? And go and be reconciled to your brother. You remember Zacchaeus in the New Testament, when he repented, he offered to make restitution fourfold. He said, for anyone that I've cheated or ripped off, I'm going to give them back fourfold for whatever I've cheated, which was a sign of true repentance. And so this is the idea of the guilt offering. We have to make restitution. Kind of need to tell myself here, so you'll see what a scoundrel I really am. I don't know if I ever told you the story, but one time I was in college When we were in college, we didn't have laptop computers. I asked uh y uh young college girls would type up our papers that we would write out, our research papers, and they would charge a dollar a page. Well one young lady I recruited to type up a research paper I had written. I told her I would give her a dollar, a page, it was 10 pages, and I would give it to her at the end of the week And she was so zealous to do it, she got it back to me the next day. Well, I wasn't prepared to give her ten dollars that next day. And then later on I forgot about it And then it got to be one of those things where man I've got to give her ten dollars, I forgot, and I would forget again. And then it got to be where I got embarrassed about it. Did that ever happen you all look so holy. I I I forgot about it. And then more time went by. And then I would pray and the Lord would remind me you gotta pay that girl ten bucks. And I'd forget about it. And I want to tell you, it got buried in my some subconscious somewhere. And years went by. Twenty-five years went by. Yeah, I know. I'm a scoundrel. And I remember one time I was praying and the Lord said, You know what, you thief? You never paid that girl for ten dollars. Well this is twenty-five years later. And I said, Lord, I'm tired of this resurfacing in my conscience So I did some research and found out where this girl lived. I mean it took a lot. Her brother was a missionary in Hungary. I had to get a hold of her brother to find out where she lived, got her address And I just simply decided to pay her back. And, you know, it would have been not ten dollars plus two dollars for twenty percent extra. I thought that twenty-five years of accruing this interest Should be a lot more. So I just came up with I wrote her a check for two hundred dollars. And I I I got her address, I just sent it, and then I emailed her. And I told her all that I'd done, all of my sins, all of my foolishness. I told her I was so sorry. I said, you you might not even remember this. And of course she emailed me back and she said, You're right, I don't remember this. She said, however, my husband is disabled, and we have been praying for extra this month And she said, this is going to meet a need. It's exactly what we've been praying for. So thank you for that. And so it all worked out. But the idea is we need to make restitution for the things that we do, right? Now the idea of the guilt offering stresses complete satisfaction. Complete payment is made. There's nothing lacking. And this is the idea of write down Isaiah 53. 10, where it said, Yet it pleased the Lord to prove to bruise him. He hath put him to grief when thou shalt make his soul an offering for Sin. That phrase, offering for sin, listen, is the same word used in Leviticus for guilt offering. The bottom line is Jesus was our guilt offering. Not only did he pay the price for our sin, but he even paid the restitution for us. the restitution that we owed, so that the payment was absolutely, totally complete. That's the sense of this offering here. You remember the story in the New Testament? Philemon who had a slave named Onesimus who stole from him and ran away. Paul led them to Christ, sent them back with a note that said, Whatever he owes you, I will repay. I'll make the restitution for you. That's exactly what Jesus Did for us. Jesus said to God the Father on my behalf, Father, I will make the restitution for Jerry. I will make the restitution for you. Now, that's the guilt offering. Now the last offering. Number five, peace offering. Look in chapter 7, look in verse 11. Chapter 7, verse 11. This is the law of the sacrifice of the peace offering, which he shall offer unto the Lord. So this is called the peace offering. Sometimes it's called the fellowship offering. The word for peace here is from the root word shalom, where we get our word, the Hebrew word peace. And the reason this is sometimes called a fellowship offering is because this offering is unique from the other offerings in that When the worshipper brought the animal to the altar, he didn't give all of the animal. A portion of it was actually given back to him. And so this offering expressed health, it expressed peace, it expressed blessing, it expressed well-being. And what would happen is the the offering would be given and the fat of the animal would be taken and put on the altar. Because the fat was the the the good portion of it. That represents the best of the animal. When it's the Bible talks about the fat of the animal, that's the best of the animal. By the way, there's an interesting parallel in Genesis forty five eighteen, where the the land, the best of the land is called the fat of the land. I'm going to give you the fat of the land. And so this represents the best part of the animal. And so the worshiper would come, bring the animal to the altar, give it to the priest. The priest would take the best of it, the fat of it, and then he would give a portion back to the worshiper. And what would the worshiper then do? The worshiper would then use that portion to honor the Lord and to praise the Lord and to celebrate the Lord. How would he do that? He would have a meal. And he would invite his family and his friends. And that's why this was called a fellowship offering, because they would all sit down together and they would all enjoy a meal together And it was an act of worship and honor to God. Now, why would the worshiper do this? Look in chapter 7, look in verse 12. If he offer it for a what? Thanksgiving. So he would do it for thanksgiving. It would be a declaration of thanksgiving to God. So whenever a worshiper wanted to express His thanks to God, he would bring his peace offering to the altar. Maybe it was because of a blessing that God poured out upon him. And he wanted to bring a peace offering to say thank you, Lord. Maybe it was in response to Something great that happened. Perhaps he was sick, very seriously ill, and it didn't look good, and perhaps the Lord, through his grace, raised him up, and he was back to health, and he would bring a peace offering to the Lord as a way of saying thank you, Lord. Maybe it was some unexpected financial blessing. Maybe the yield of this harvest was unusually big that year. Maybe it was just some great occasion that demanded that he bring this peace offering to the Lord. Whatever the occasion, if he wanted to thank God He would bring his offering, a portion was given back, he would call together his family and his friends, and they would eat this meal together, and the eating of that meal in itself Was a way to honor the Lord. Was a way to say thank you, Lord, for what you have done. Let me ask you a question. Does that sound familiar to you? Sound a little bit familiar? Listen, when you have Thanksgiving this year, don't just sit around and eat and don't think about God. It should be a religious experience. It should be a worship It should be done in honor to the Lord, who has been so gracious, so kind, and so good to us. In 1 Kings 8, we don't have time to turn there, but in 1 Kings 8. Solomon was dedicating the temple to the Lord. You know what? Just go ahead and turn there. I don't, you know, we'll go ahead and do that. Look at 1 Kings chapter 8. And look at verse 62. This is Solomon dedicating the temple to the Lord. And notice what it says in verse 62. And the king and all Israel with him. offered sacrifice before the Lord. And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered unto the Lord, two and twenty thousand oxen and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the Lord. And drop down to verse number 65. And at the same at that time Solomon held a feast and all Israel with him, a great congregation from the entering into Hamath unto the river of Egypt before the Lord our God, seven days and the seven days, even fourteen days You talk about a Thanksgiving feast? Solomon sacrificed 142,000 peace offerings. And then he failed they feasted for two weeks. This is a serious Thanksgiving dinner here. Two weeks They feasted before the Lord. And then notice verse 66, and on the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king. And went unto their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the Lord hath done for David his servant and for Israel his people. And so this was a thanksgiving feast that he had unto the Lord. Now there are other places we can mention in the Bible. One in the New Testament that comes to mind is the story of the prodigal son. When the prodigal son returned, what did the father do? He killed the what? Fatted calf. Someone said everyone was happy about his return except the calf. He killed the fatted calf. Now, according to the peace offering, before he would kill that fatted calf, what would he do? He would give thanks to the Lord. He was thanking the Lord that his wayward son had been brought back to him. Now go back to Leviticus 7. So a person to give thanks to the Lord would bring a peace offering to God. And sometimes they would vow a vow or make a promise. Look again in chapter 7, verse 16. But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, Or a voluntary offering. In other words, sometimes when he would bring his peace offering, he would make a vow to the Lord or a promise. You know, uh when Jonah was thrown overboard, apparently he made some vows or promises to God that he did not keep. His prayer in Jonah 2 says this, but I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay what I have vowed. That's the peace offering in view there. Jonah hadn't vowed hadn't paid the vow, and he says, I will pay my vow. Interesting, right after that, that's when the fish vomited him up on dry land. In Psalm 50, it talks about paying your vows. Psalm 50, verse 14, offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High. And so sometimes with this peace offering, when it was a time of thanksgiving, also the worshiper would make a promise or a vow to the Lord. Now keep in mind that in the Bible you're not required to make a vow. You're not under any obligation to make a vow. But if you do make a vow, you better carry it through because God will require it of you, the Bible says in Deuteronomy 23 So when you bring your peace offering to God and you make a vow, you better be careful and ready to perform it. In 1 Samuel chapter 1, when Hannah Came to the tabernacle in Shiloh, she made a vow unto the Lord. If God would give her a son, she would give him back to the Lord. She made a peace offering to the Lord and she made a vow. And then years later, when she came back to Shiloh, she paid her vow And she made another peace offering to the Lord, thanking God for his faithfulness. Thanking God for what he had done. Now also in chapter 7, verse 16, this was also done as a free will offering. That is, if a person just wanted to give thanks and praise to God in general. He just wanted to thank the Lord just because God is good. You know, we don't have to have a specific reason to be thankful, do we? God is just good. He's good in general. And if you and if the worshipper felt praise and thanksgiving welling up in his heart and he just wanted to bring an offering, a peace offering of thanksgiving to the Lord, he would do it. Now to me all of these, and again, there was always the meal with family and friends whenever this happened. Now again, all of these offerings are lessons. To us about the expression of worship and thanks to God. The burnt offering reminds me to give thanks to God for the life and death of my Savior, who gave himself holy. for me, and that I might give myself wholly to him in return. The grain offering reminds me to thank God for his wonderful provision and to give him thanks by giving back a portion of what he's given to me. Do you realize when we take an offering, you're it that's an offering of thanks that you're giving to God? Please don't give an offering like you're paying taxes. This is an act of worship. This is an act of thanksgiving to God. We give back a portion. The sin offering is a reminder that we should constantly give thanks to God for his forgiveness of our sins. He's the one who redeems us from our sins. The psalmist said, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. We should give thanks to God for that. The guilt offering. reminds me to give thanks to Jesus, my Savior, who made a complete full payment for my sin, including the restitution that needed to be paid on my behalf to God. And then the peace offering is a reminder that we should simply set at aside times to give God thanks and praise, and we should even uh continue to honor the Lord with thanksgiving, with enjoying a meal together. And that's a worshipful experience in the Bible. Now the Puritans understood this. They understood this concept. Which is why they laid aside a time to have a meal. They would give their thanks to the Lord. They didn't need to bring a peace offering at that time. Why? Because Jesus Christ was our peace offering. He is our peace offering There's no need to bring a peace offering to the altar, Jesus is that, but we still give, the Bible says in Hebrews, the sacrifice of the praise from our lips. That's our peace offering today. And then they understood that and they set aside time for thanksgiving with family and friends together. Now, I think, and I'll say these few comments and then I'll be done, but I think the dinner table has become very secular in our day and age. Back in the Bible, back in ancient times, the meal had a much greater meaning than it does today. To the people in the Old Testament and the New Testament, when they came together to eat a meal, it was a spiritual event. It was a time to give thanks to the Lord. It was a time of worship. It was a time of communion with God In fact, that's what the Lord's table is, isn't it? We come together at the Lord's table. It is kind of kind of a New Testament version of the peace offering, the festive meal in The Old Testament, but again, we don't need to bring a peace offering because Christ is our peace offering. But that fellowship that we enjoy together around that table is sacred. It's spiritual. And the Lord is present. And there's a sense in which when we come together on Thanksgiving with our families and we offer praise to God, please make sure you set aside time, as a family, to offer praise to God. from what he has done. That's a spiritual thing. And there's a sense in which God communes with us around the table and we with him and one another one one another You say, where do you see that? One more verse. I promise. I think. Look in 1 Corinthians. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Let me just show you this one thing. As we're closing, Paul is talking about this very principle. Now, in 1 Corinthians 10, Paul is trying to convince some of the Corinthians not to go into the pagan temples and eat meat. The questionable practice that he dealt with is buying meat at the market and taking it home and eating it. That was questionable. What was not questionable In Paul's mind, but was absolutely wrong, was going to a temple and eating meat sacrificed to an idol together. These temples were like restaurants. They had dining rooms all in them and they would sacrifice meat unto a God and take a portion of it and they would eat it together. And Paul says to the Christians, don't you do that. Because when you do that You're fellowshipping with a false God. Look in chapter 10, look at verse 18. Behold, Israel after the flesh, are not they which eat of the sacrifices, watch this, partakers of the altar? What is Paul saying there? Listen, when you bring your sacrifice to the altar and then you eat of it later on, you're partakers of the altar. That is you fellowship with God when that happens. And you fellowship with each other? And Paul's using this argument to tell them, don't go into the idol's temple. Look at verse 19. What's Shall I th say I then that the idol is anything, or that which is offered and sacrificed to idols is anything? But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils and not to God. I would not that ye should have fellowship with devils. So what's he saying there? Listen, when you do don't you Christians realize when you do this, when you go into the temple and you sacrifice, you take apart that meat that was sacrificed and then you eat it together with those people there, you are fellowshipping with Who? Devils. Now the idols are not anything. There's not real gods, but there are demons behind that. There are devils, and you fellowship with devils when you do that. What's the principle that I want you to see? Paul's using this argument when he talks about the Lord's Supper. Don't you realize when you come to the Lord's table, you fellowship with God? And when you go into the idol's temple and eat, you fellowship with devils. Here's the principle. A meal Is really communing with God. So when we bring thanks to God, when we come to the Lord's table, we're communing with God. And when we bring a thanksgiving offering, and then we take a portion of it and we eat it together as a family, Paul said, You're partakers at the altar, you're fellowshipping with God, and so here's the principle. The principle is the meal together is a spiritual event where God is present and you're giving honor to the Lord as you're eating together. It's a spiritual, sacred event. Now, that's what's missing today. That's what's missing. We watch football, we eat until we can't eat anymore. But we don't really think of this as a spiritual event where we are giving thanks and honor. to the Lord together with our family, where we make the table, not just a place where we eat, but uh an altar of sacrifice where we give praise to the Lord. For what he has done. Now I say all that because I want the holiday to be very meaningful to all of us. We have so much to be thankful for. We have so much to give God praise for. And I pray that the holiday for you will be a meaningful spiritual event with your family together. Let's vow for prayer. So Lord, we thank you for this wonderful season that's coming upon us. It's a wonderful time, Lord, when we're reminded again to give you thanks. For all of your benefits, for all of your blessings, for all of your love. Lord, let this Thanksgiving season be a time when we're edified spiritually, when we're built up in the faith, where we truly from our hearts render sincere thanksgiving and praise to you for all that you are, for all that you've done in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen