Good to see you here in God's house. It's a good way to end the Lord's day, isn't it, to be with God's people. I invite you tonight to take your Bibles open to First Peter chapter five. First Peter chapter five. Now I'm going to preach the last message. In my series on 1 Peter, we'll be done with it. And I know I have a lot of verses here to deal with tonight, but I want to handle them all right here in chapter 5. So we'll deal with verses 1 through 14 tonight. And the title of the sermon tonight is The Shepherd and His Sheep. Because if you look at chapter 5, what you're going to see is that Peter is addressing very clearly the elders that are in the church. Look at verse one. The elders which are among you I exhort. And so this is addressed to the elders. Now the question may come to mind, who are the elders that Peter is referring to? Well, in the New Testament, there are three words used that all refer to the same office. There's the word elder, and that is the Greek word presbyteros. where we get the word Presbyterian from, by the way. And it just has the idea of someone who is wise, who is mature in the things of God. That's why Paul said to Timothy at one point, and when he wrote Timothy, he said, When you're looking for anyone to fill that office, don't look for a novice, don't look for someone who's newly saved. Look for someone who's been saved and they have a maturity and a wisdom about them. And so the word elder implies that. And then there's another New Testament word called bishop. And that is the Greek word episopas. And the idea behind that word is it simply means an overseer, a leader, and it really focuses on the administrative role of a pastor. And then you have the word pastor that I just use. And this is the Greek word poimin. And the idea of that is to feed. It literally means to shepherd And it refers to someone who feeds the flock. Now, all these three words are used interchangeably in the New Testament to speak about the same office. It is the office of a pastor. And so Peter is writing basically to uh the the pastors. Uh and so this is a a sermon written primarily to men of God. And if I had every pastor before me, I would probably preach 1 Peter 5, because really this message is to pastors. And so tonight I'm going to be preaching to myself You guys get to listen in on that. You get to see if I'm going to be hard on myself. And then of course it refers to all pastors. And so you'll hear a message from the pastor about the pastor to the pastor. But I want you to listen in and I want you to learn because uh all of us can apply This to us. You say, why is that? Well look in verse 3. It says, neither is being lords over God's heritage, but being what? Examples And so the pastor is to be an example to the flock, which means that you too then uh learn from these things. Since we're to be an example, our life is to be a pattern to follow, that means that You must follow that pattern, and so you can learn from this as well. Also, if you look in verse 5, there's the word likewise, likewise younger. And again, he's referring to the church. Yeah, I'm speaking primarily the elders, but also likewise. It goes to other people. Likewise ye younger be uh submitted to the elder And so he's talking really to the rest of the members, when he uses that word likewise And also we remember in chapter 4, verse 10, where Peter said, Every man has received a gift, and so therefore minister. And so there's a sense in which all of us are servants of God. We all minister before the Lord. And so we can learn from what Peter is going to say to pastors in this passage Now, the image that he uses again, the primary metaphor in this whole chapter, is shepherds and their sheep. Now, in the Bible, it's very often that God compares his people to sheep I just want you to know that's not a compliment. Alright? Of all the animals God could have used, God could have said, you know, my people are courageous like lions. But I don't see that in the Bible. Or he could have said, My people are strong like horses Uh I don't see that in the Bible. Are my are my people are stubborn like mules. I I think I've seen that in the Bible. No. I'm just kidding. Or my people are wise like owls. I don't see that in scripture. No, you're sheep. Alright? My people are like sheep. Now, what does the Bible say? In fact, just write down Psalm 100, verse 3, we are his people, the sheep of his pasture. And again, it's not a compliment because sheep are not very smart. In fact, I would just say that sheep are dumb, sorry. You know, I used to go to circus when I was a kid. I I used to watch all kind of trained animals I used to watch elephants be trained and bears and monkeys and even pigs. You can train a pig. Lions and tigers and bears. Oh my, yeah, you guys are with me. I have never, ever seen a trained sheep, ever, in the circus I think also uh sheep are directionless. That is, they have no sense of direction. Birds know where to migrate, animals can find their way home, you can drop a cat off, and that cat will beat you back home and be waiting for you at the door. Animals had I tried that, I'm just kidding. Animals all seem to have a sense of direction, but sheep do not. In fact, right down Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And so sheep go astray. They're directionless, but also they're defenseless when you think about it. You think about the animals of the animal kingdom, just about every one of them has some kind of defense. I mean, deer have their antlers and Uh porcupine has its quill and the turtle has its shell and on you can go. But if you look at sheep, they have really no means of defending themselves They are very vulnerable against any predator. They need to be protected. Also, another thing in reading about sheep, they're very easily disturbed. It's very easy to disturb a flock. They can get stressed out. They're nervous creatures, very fearful creatures. And so therefore they're dependent. In order for sheep to survive, they need to have a shepherd to lead them and feed them and protect them. Now the good news is that Jesus is your shepherd. He's the chief shepherd, isn't that right, amen? What does the Bible say in Psalm 23? The Lord is my shepherd. And so Jesus is your Shepherd, he's your chief shepherd, but now in God's plan in the church, God has raises up and calls under shepherds that will help in this task of taking care of God's people. And this is who Peter is talking to here. And what I want you to see are four thoughts. about God's faithful shepherds that I want you to see. First of all, just write down if you're taking notes, number one, the crowning of a faithful shepherd. The crowning Because it speaks in here about a crown of glory that the Lord gives. Look at verse 4. And when the chief shepherd, that is Jesus, shall appear. Ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. When Jesus appears the chief shepherd, he's talking to his under-shepherds, if you have been faithful then you will receive that crown of glory. Now the Greeks had crowns that they would bestow upon military heroes that won great victories or victorious athletes However, these crowns were made normally of oak or ivy leaves. They were wonderful to have, but they were very, very temporary. And very soon these crowns would fade away. But not so with the crown that the Lord will give. It's not a crown of greenery, it's a crown of glory. Notice where it says in verse 4 that fadeth not away That's from one Greek word. And this one Greek word that's used here fadeth not away is a word that is used of a flower back in that day. It was a symbol among the Greeks of immortality, and the reason they used this word is because it seemed like this flower would not fade away like other flowers. It had a permanence about it And so what the Lord is saying here is this that for those under shepherds who serve the Lord faithfully, God has a crown. It's not a temporary ward It is an eternal reward. It is a crown of glory that will not fade away, that we will have throughout eternity. It's a permanent reward. You know, a lot of the rewards here on earth, I mean, they're okay, but you know what? They're they're temporary. It's nice to get uh an award. It's nice to get a trophy. I I I got trophies growing up You know, they're somewhere in a closet, I think in my mom's house, they're all filled with rust and dust, uh, and they're they're kind of fading away. Uh they're just tempor temporary rewards. But one day God says for those who faithfully serve, God will give a permanent reward. Now, just because you hold the title of and a minute in the ministry of a pastor or whatever that title might be, does it mean this reward is automatically yours It comes through faithful service. And Peter here tells us: notice the ministry. Look at verse number two: feed the flock of God, which is among you. This is an imperative. Peter says, you feed God's flock. Now, by the way, notice how Peter speaks. Back up in verse 1. I exhort you who am also an elder. Peter's speaking from experience, he himself. Has this task of leading the church, of being a faithful pastor, elder. And not only that, notice what it says, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory That shall be revealed. Here, Peter is giving his authority to say these things. Peter is speaking to these pastors and saying, Look, I'm talking as one who's a pastor myself. And not only that, I'm speaking as one who saw the sufferings of Christ. Peter was one of the few that saw Jesus suffer the Passion during that Passion Week suffer on the cross. But also Peter was one who saw the glory. You say, how in the world could he see the glory of Christ? Well, you remember that transfiguration experience that he had in Matthew chapter 17, where all the glory that was on the inside of Jesus came out on the outside and he got to s have a foretaste of the glory that is going to come. And so Peter said, I'm an experienced person in the sense that I'm a pastor. I've seen the sufferings of Christ, but I also have seen the glory. Now you have to remember Peter is writing to people who are suffering. We've seen that throughout this whole letter. These are Roman Christians that are under severe persecution. And what Peter does purposely here when he introduces this idea to these pastors is to link together suffering and glory. The greater the suffering, the greater the glory. And the proof of that is Peter said, I've seen it with my own eyes. I saw our Lord suffer, and I also saw his glory. And Peter's saying to all these believers here, you may suffer a bit now, but there's glory that will come. And to you pastors who faithfully serve, there will be a crown of glory that the Lord will give you. But you have to make sure, verse two, to feed the flock of God which is among you. Now uh You know, I think sometimes uh uh you know pastors sometimes think it's their job to get up and lamb blast the sheep. And by the way, there are some times when people need correction. There's no doubt about that. The Bible is a good sword, but it's a poor club. Peter said, don't fleece the sheep, feed the sheep. Just feed them. I think Peter no doubt was remembering the time after he denied the Lord Jesus on the shores of Galilee. You remember in John 21? When Jesus restored Peter, and one of the best ways to restore a person after they have repented and have been forgiven is to charge them with an important task. And that's exactly what Jesus did with Peter. Three times Jesus said to Peter, Feed my sheep. Peter, feed my sheep. Now, I think this idea of feed has the idea of just generally take care of. I think the pastor has many duties under this idea. I think he has to protect his sheep from the wolves. I think he has to go after wayward sheep, those who may go astray from time to time. I think that sometimes they're rebellious sheep that he must go and and graciously try and meekly try to bring back into the fold. That are uh need to repent of sin. They sometimes need to be approached in that sense. But what this implies here, I think, is an intimacy with the shepherd and the sheep. You have to know your sheep in order to be able to do this You have to know who they are. And I think of how shepherds in that time especially, when they would bring their sheep into the fold every night. The shepherd normally would call their sheep by name. It's amazing that they would know their name. They would know the shepherd's voice. And as he called each one into the fold, he would anoint them where they were bruised. He would pour in healing oil. He would remove the briars from the wool. So the shepherd had many tasks that he had to perform. But there was no more task, more important, than to feed the sheep, and that is to make sure they were nourished, to make sure they were fed healthy. And so the shepherd would lead the sheep from pasture to pasture. He would find green pastures. I remember when I was over in Israel a few summers ago, we were digging at a place called Kerbid Elmakar. And we would always get there really early in the morning. There was always the same ritual. We had right close to us a shepherd with his sheep. He had his own fold there. And every morning, at the same time, he would just bring those sheep out of the fold, and they would just go out into the wilderness. And I knew that what he was doing each day is he was finding green pastures. for his sheep to feed upon. And it seemed like clockwork at the same time every morning he would lead the sheep out of the fold. He would find places for them to graze, which wasn't a really easy task if you look at that countryside. And then it seemed like at the same time he would bring the sheep back into the fold. Every day he would do that. He was, what was he doing? He was feeding the sheep. And I think this is a metaphor for how the pastor must feed God's sheep, God's word. You see, this is the nourishing pastor for you. This is what God's people need. They need the word of God. Feeding the sheep will produce healthy sheep, and healthy sheep will produce lambs. Or at least that's the way it's supposed to happen. I was reading about one pastor who was coming to the close of many years of faithful ministry. He was an aged pastor, and he was kind of getting his things together. And he tied up his sermon notes in bundles. Can you imagine after many years how many bundles of sermons that would encounter or include after all those years? And he was bundling together all of these sermons, and he wrote on the top of it, in a moment of reflection, he wrote this note: Where has the influence of all the sermons I have preached gone? For in that moment he was wondering, you know, I've studied for so many years and put so many hours into studying the Word of God and have preached so many thousands of sermons. Where has the influence of all those sermons gone? And one person who saw happened to see that note on the bundle wrote a note right next to it to the pastor, and this is what he said. He said, Where are last year's sunrays? They have gone into the fruits and grains and vegetables to feed mankind. Where are last year's raindrops? Forgotten, of course, but they did their gracious and refreshing work And then he wrote this: Your sermons preached over the years have gone into the lives of others and into my life to make me and them better and more Christ-like. They have deepened our love for God's Word, given us a vision and love for unsaved ones. They have challenged us to go on in the Christian life. Amen. And he left that note there. That is what shepherds do. So many sheep are not healthy in churches because they're not being fed the word of God. They're being fed Uh as uh Walt Kaiser said one time, the great Old Testament scholar, he said, Too many sheep are eating junk food. They're not being fed the Word of God, and so therefore they're not growing in Christ. And he said, he went on to say, well, Kaiser, not me. The reason they're being fed junk food is because they're being fed by careless and lazy pastors who don't do the job of hard work and study in the Word of God. And I tell you, beloved, it is hard work to get into the Word of God and to study it and to feed God's people. Someone said that some sermons are like popcorn. They're fun to eat, but they have no nutritional value Someone else said that some sermons are like porridge, hard to swallow, but they stick to your bones. I don't know which kind of sermons I have, I'm sure they're not popcorn. Hopefully, maybe. But we know this, that God's word is what will grow you in Christ. It'll do the work of sanctification. And so his ministry is to feed God's people the flock. But then his motive, look again, it says in verse number two: feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint. But willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. And oversight here again is just to watch over You're to watch over the flock, and that means you have to be among them. Notice where it says uh that the uh flock of God which is among you. You have to be among the the flock Don't put yourself on a pedestal and make yourself super saints, like some do. But be among the people of God. Someone said some pastors are invisible during the week and incomprehensible on Sunday. The idea of a shepherd and sheep is the idea of close intimacy. A shepherd knows his sheep. David Roper wrote this about the relationship. Throughout the day, the shepherds stayed close to his sheep, watching them carefully, protecting them from the slightest harm. When one sheep strayed, the shepherds began to search for it until it was found. And then laid across his shoulders. At the end of the day, each shepherd led his flock to the safety of the fold, and slept across the gateway to protect them. A good shepherd never left his sheep alone. They would be lost without him. And so his motive is to do that willingly. Notice where it says in verse number three. Verse 2 rather, not by constraint. It is not out of obligation, not through compulsion. It's not just a job to perform. He doesn't do it for money. Notice where it says in verse number two, not for filthy lucre. We're not in this for money or material gain. But from what a willing heart because you want to do this, because this is the call that God's given. The great pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Dr. George W. Truett, was the pastor there for nearly 50 years. Often he was asked to accept other positions, to do other things, but he always refused, and this is what he would say: I have sought and found a pastor's heart. And when a man has a pastor's heart, he will love the sheep and he will serve them because he wants to. Not because he has to, or not because he's paid to, but because he wants to He desires to. So his ministry is to feed. His motive is not out of constraint, not for filthy lucre, but then his manner. Look at verse 3. Neither speak lords over God's heritage But being examples to the flock. Pastors are not dictators. They're not autocrats ruling in a heavy-handed, high-handed fashion. And this is what he says here. We're not lords over God's heritage. There's only one Lord of the church, and that's Jesus. This is his church And so the matter is leadership, not dictatorship. He says in verse 3, you just be an example, you lead through love and example. And people follow your example if they will if they love you. You know, you don't drive sheep. You drive cattle. But you lead sheep. And so it's not dictatorship, it's just simply leadership. A dictator, he will drive people through fear and intimidation and force and anger. But a leader will lead people through love and example and encouragement and serving. And that's the idea. But But notice the key thing in here where it says, Neither be Lords over God's heritage. And this is the idea, and I think it's key here. This is God's heritage. This is God's church This is why it's such a fearful calling. Do you understand that pastors are going to have to give an account to God? Because this is his church. You are his people. You are his sheep. And one day we'll have to get an account for how we have led God's church, God's heritage, God's work. Now I know that sometimes as pastors we will use phrases like my church, my people, my work, but truly it's not ours, it's God's. We're just charged with this particular place of ministry. And we exercise leadership, not lordship. That's what he's saying here. I believe that Jesus is the Lord of his church. And one of my strong convictions is that the Lord of his church, every Sunday, wants to speak to his church. And the way he speaks to his church is through his word. That's why I'm I I make no apology for trying to preach through the word and try to make it clear because I believe this is the instrument that God uses to speak to his people. Jesus, who is the Lord of His church, speaks to his people through his word. If I got up here and I gave my ideas, my philosophies, you're not going to get anything out of that If I got up here and I read to you the latest uh what's happening in the world today in the news, surely you don't want to hear that. Or try to help you digest the evening commentary and do all these other things Where peop pastors do and they waste time in the in the pulpit when they do things like that. We're called to preach the word of God and make it clear. I would hate to go to the Lord and have to give an account for wasting time doing those kind of things. I believe if I preach the word and make it clear that Jesus, who is the Lord of his church, will speak to his people. And that's what it means to, I believe, feed the flock of God. Give them the word of God. Let the Lord speak to his church, to his people. And so his his manner then is to simply lead as an example. His motivation, again, is crowns in verse four, that when the chief shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory. that fadeth not away. But the motivation is the reward that the Lord will give you one day. It's not crowds. Some pastors are motivated by large crowds. All they're concerned about is the number. They consider a small crowd a failure. They seem to forget that Jesus started with a small crowd. They seem to forget that the kingdom of God will begin small and it'll get bigger. Besides that, I believe that church growth is sovereign. Call me crazy, but I believe the Lord Jesus builds his church. He hasn't charged me with doing that. I'm glad he hasn't because that's way too much for me to do. He will build his church. If we preach the gospel and make it clear, if we're faithful to share the Word of God, and by the way, that's your responsibility as well. You need to get out there and share the Word of God, share the gospel, plant the seed. We need to do all that the Lord has commanded us to do, and once we've done that, you know what? We entrust it to God. And Jesus said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And so his motivation is to do it for the reward that the Lord will give. So we see number one the crowning of a faithful shepherd. But then I want you to write down number two the clothing of a faithful shepherd, the clothing. Verse 5. Likewise ye younger, submit yourselves unto the other. Ye all of you be subject one to another, be clothed with humility. And I like this. Be clothed with humility. We're living in a day when preachers like to look nice. I think you'll agree that I look nice tonight. Nothing wrong with looking nice and neat. We are, after all, the ambassadors of our Lord, our Lord Jesus Christ. And so we should not be sloppy. A lot of preachers they kind of take it to the next level and look like they step out of GQ magazine, you know, and that's okay. But I want to let you know that What Peter here, when he talks about clothing, again we know he's using kind of metaphoric language here, but there's no clothing or no suit. That looks any more attractive on a preacher than the suit called humility. That's what he's saying here. Be clothed with the garment called humility. Be wrapped In humility, one size fits all. I believe this is the chief virtue of the man of God. We enter into the kingdom. We start out with being poor in spirit. And we continue in that humility. What is humility? Someone said it's a very deceptive virtue. I heard about a man who was given a humility badge, and when he wore it, they took it away. But actually, I really kind of disagree with that idea. I I disagree with the comment that says, you know, that Humility is elusive, and when you think you're humble, you're no longer humble. You've lost it. I don't really agree with that, and the reason I don't is because both Jesus and Paul called themselves humble. Are you okay with that in Scripture? Jesus referred to himself in that way. Paul said that he was humble. I think the best biblical definition of humility is in 2 Corinthians 3, 5, when it says, not that we are adequate in and of ourselves. Or consider anything as coming from ourselves. I'm not adequate in and of myself. But what does it say? Our sufficiency comes from God. I'm not sufficient for these things. I'm not adequate to do these things. It's that realization. And believe me, I feel that every day I'm not adequate for these things. I'm not sufficient for these things. And I hope this doesn't make you disappointed in me, but there's some Sunday mornings when I wake up where I don't feel like I'm adequate to do this. And I and sometimes I'm like, yeah, I would I wish that someone else would preach today. Because I just don't feel adequate for this There's the heavy weight of that. And I think this is what he's saying about here. It is being aware of our own insufficiency. And being aware of our own insufficiency, what do we do? We trust in the all-sufficient Savior. We trust in the sufficiency of Christ. And I think that's really the idea here. I suppose that Moses had a low self-esteem when he told the Lord, you know, Lord, I I can't speak well enough to lead Israel out of Egypt. God didn't say, well, Moses, you need to work on your self-esteem. Really, you're you're terrific. Really, you know, you can do it, Moses. You're you're a wonderful person. That's not what God said to Moses when Moses said, Lord, I can't do this. Instead, God confronted Moses with his lack of trust in God's ability. Moses, I'm not asking you to do it. I'm asking you to trust in my sufficiency. God didn't correct Moses' low view of himself. He challenged Moses' low, inadequate view of God. And the problem is, some people who are so-called have a low self-esteem are too self-focused. What they need to do is focus on the adequacy of God and the sufficiency of Christ. And we need to do this especially as leaders or pastors in the church. We need to realize, you know what, I I'm not on a uh whining trip of having a low self-esteem. I just realize it's a fact. I'm not sufficient for these things. But thank God I don't have to depend upon my sufficiency. I look to the sufficiency of Christ to do these things. Augustine said this, if you ask me concerning the precepts of Christian religion, first, second, and third, always I would answer humility. Humility. One great commentator said this. He said he regards pride as the chief vice and humility as the preeminent virtue. He said, But I require only that laying aside the disease of self-love and ambition by which he is blinded, talking about leaders and pastors, and thinks more highly of himself than he ought, he rightly recognizes himself in the faithful mirror of Scripture. And that's so true. Part of it is r having a correct assessment of ourself. I think Spurgeon said it best when he said this. I think it's the best definition I heard of humility. He said it's just to think rightly of ourself. To think rightly of ourself. And so Peter says, you know, be clothed with humility. That should be the garment that you wear. And literally, when it says be clothed, it literally means to gird oneself. Like you're going to gird around a garment or a or a or a belt or Perhaps a towel I think honestly when Peter wrote this, you know what I think he's thinking of? Remember that time when the disciples were fighting over who's the greatest? And Jesus took a towel and girded himself with a towel, and what did he begin to do? I think Peter's thinking about that. And I think this sticks out in his mind and he says, be clothed with Notice the explanation for humility, verse 5. Ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. You are to be humble to superiors. That's duty to be humble to equals, that's just courtesy, but to be humble to inferiors, some would say that's nobility. But you're to submit yourself, especially to the elders. This is what Jesus did. And he modeled this whole thing before us. And so then there's the exhortation for humility. Look what he says in verse number five. Likewise, the younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, be clothed with humility. Watch this, for God resisteth the proud and gives grace to the humble. This is another exhortation. Do you know why we need to be humble? Because God hates pride, that's why. He resists the proud And the word resist here is a military term. Use of an army drawing up for battle, getting its armies in order to carry out a military campaign. It's the idea of carrying out that campaign against a foe. And there's a sense in which when a person shows pride, God carries out a campaign against that person. You know what this makes me think of? Remember Daniel chapter 4, Nebuchadnezzar? So filled with pride. Is not this the great Babylon that I have built by my power, my majesty, my might? Talk about an ego trip. I did all of this. It's all me. And God had warned him already through the prophet Daniel that you need to humble yourself. In fact, he had a dream of a tree. And an angel coming down, chopping down that tree. By the way, did you know historically that Nebuchadnezzar loved to chop down trees One time he went to Lebanon, to the Cedars of Lebanon, and with his own hands he chopped down one of the cedars of Lebanon, and then he bragged about that. It's written in an inscription they found in Babylon how he would love to chop down trees And one day God gave him a dream of a tree being chopped down, and guess who the tree was? It was him. And God was saying to that king, You know what? You'd like to chop down trees where you're going to get chopped down, if you don't learn to humble yourself. If you don't learn to understand that it's the Most High who rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will. But Nebuchadnezzar didn't learn that lesson, did he? And so one day on the porch at Babylon, he's looking out over this kingdom and he said, All it's my might, it's my power, it's my majesty, I did all this And immediately there was a voice from heaven that spoke and said, To thee, your kingdom is taken. And immediately he went insane, and God humbled him. You know why? Because God resists the proud. And he will carry out a military campaign against those who are proud. But look on the other side, but God gives grace to the humble When you're humble, God will fill you with grace. Isn't that a wonderful thing to know? And so then there's the exaltation of humility. Look in verse 6. Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God that he may exalt you in due time. So we make a decision to humble ourselves under the Lord's hand. And knowing that in his time, in his own way, he's fully able to exalt us if and when he's ready and wants to. He he knows how to do that. And again, I think of the Old Testament. I think Joseph, when he was thrown into a pit and then sold into prison, uh into slavery, excuse me, uh in Egypt, and then thrown into prison You can't get it much more humble than that. For 13 years he was in that prison and suddenly he went from a prison to being second. And charged the Pharaoh, God exalted him in due time. But then look at the expression of humility. Look at verse 7. Casting all your care upon him. For he cares for you. You want to know the ultimate expression of humility? There it is. When you cast yourself on the Lord, knowing that he cares for you. I gotta tell you, beloved, I do this a lot. I remember one time I asked my mother, this was years ago, I said, Mom, what's your favorite verse in the Bible? Without hesitation, she quoted this verse to me. First Peter 5, 7, casting all your care upon him, for he cares for you. And looking back, it makes sense now. She was dealing with four Harmon boys All of us growing up. And so she learned to cast her cares on the Lord. And friend, that's what we need to do. That's the ultimate expression of humility when we cast ourselves, we throw ourselves before the Lord and say, Lord, you please, you be my help, because I can't do this by myself. So we see then the crowning of a faithful shepherd. We see the clothing of a faithful shepherd. But I want you to see, number three, the contending. of a faithful shepherd, because Peter here speaks about warfare that takes place. Look at verse 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. Just be aware that you have an enemy and he is on the prowl. You know, as you know, the sheepfold had a uh had an opening for the door, and the shepherd himself was that door. That's what Jesus meant when he said, I am the door. If any man gets into the sheafold, he's going to have to come through me. And so there's a sense in which Pastors in ministry are kind of function that way. Whatever Satan wants to get at a church or a ministry, a lot of times he'll first try to get at the pastor. And so therefore, those in ministry sometimes are under severe attack from the enemy. Because Satan is always trying to get them to fall. Because Satan knows that if the leader falls, then many elder others will be vulnerable. And fall as well. And so Peter here gives a warning. You better be sober. You better watch out. In fact, here's the first thing. Respect him in verse 8. Be sober. Be vigilant. One mistake Christians make is to underestimate the devil. Now, the devil is a defeated foe. There's no question about that. We have the victory through Christ. But, friend, he's also a very wise foe. And he knows how to make us fall. He knows how he can make you miserable in your life and take away your joy and your happiness and your usefulness to the kingdom of God. And so we have to be careful. Billy Sunday used to challenge the devil. He used to he when he was preaching, he used to pretend to be boxing the devil. People love that. He would roll his fists and he would call the devil smutty face. And you know, I I think Billy Sunday is a great preacher, greater than I'll ever be. But I don't think it's a good idea to challenge the devil to a boxing match. Or to call them smutty face. That's not the attitude that the Bible tells us. It says we're to be sober. We're to be vigilant. Michael the Archangel in the book of Jude, what does the Bible say about him? When they were disputing about the body of Moses, Michael the Archangel would not bring against Satan a railing accusation. He wouldn't call him smutty face. But what did he say? Michael the Archangel said, The Lord rebuke you. The Lord take care of you. He wouldn't resort to that kind of tactic when it came to the enemy, Satan. And so we must be sober. We have to be alert. We have to respect our enemy. We have to recognize him. Look again in verse number 8. He's like a roaring lion. Walking about seeking whom he may devour. Now, something about a lion, and that is, lions are masters of camouflage. They're silent hunters. And they pounce on their victims suddenly without them knowing. And the only time I'm told in the wilderness when you hear a lion roar is after they've made a kill. And so the idea here of a roaring lion is Satan who has made so many kills. He's defeated so many already. That you better be careful. We better respect him. We better recognize him. We better resist him. Look in verse 9. Whom resists steadfast in the faith? Knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. And so the word resist here, again, this is a military term. We resist him steadfastly. What does James say? Resist the devil, and he will what? Flee. Very simple strategy, but it works. In the name of Christ, when you resist Satan, the Bible says he will flee. Now let me give you the last thing and we're done because we're out of time. We talked about the crowning. of a faithful shepherd, the clothing of a faithful shepherd, and the contending. Let me give you the last thing, the confirming of a faithful shepherd. Look in verse number um 10. But the God of all grace Who have called us into his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. And here, I think what Peter is saying is that God will use difficulty, he will use adversity, he will use suffering. On the behalf of his shepherd to make them strong. And that's part of the way that he confirms their calling. And so we have to again learn that our sufficiency is God's grace. Look at verse 10. But the God of all grace, that's our sufficiency right there. What did God say to Paul when Paul said, Lord, remove this suffering, remove this thorn in the flesh? What did God say, my grace is sufficient? We need to learn to find his grace sufficient. Notice our suffering, while you suffer a while, and we already saw in the book of 1 Peter that God will bring seasons of suffering, but notice also our stability make you perfect. That's tellos, the idea of complete, mature, established, that means to firmly fix, strengthen. He will make you strong through suffering. Settle you. That's the idea of stability. Suffering makes a good pastor a great pastor. We don't like it. No one wants to suffer. Paul said this in Galatians 6. 17. From henceforth let no man trouble me. Don't I think he was talking to the Galatians. Some of them were believing lies about Paul. Paul said, look, don't let no one trouble me. They were questioning his calling. You want to question my calling? I'm speaking here for Paul. You want to question my calling? Don't trouble me about that You know why? Because I bear on my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. You want to know if I'm authentic? Just look at my body. Look at the marks that I bear. Look at the suffering that I've been through. And I'll close with this. Dr. G. Campbell Morgan, one of my favorites in history. He was a pastor of Westminster Chapel many years ago. One day he and his wife were going out, they wanted to hear a young preacher. They they thought a lot of this young preacher, very interested in him. He was very eloquent, very good looking. He delivered a great sermon. And after they heard him on the way home, Mrs. Morgan was just profuse in her praise of this young preacher. And Dr. Morgan made no response And finally she said, Well what do you think of him? And he's she said, Don't you think he's great? And he said, Not yet. He's good He said after he suffers, he'll be great. And then time went by. And the young man found out by experience what it costs to stand for Christ. And he went through persecution. And then, when they came, after he went through all of the suffering that he had gone through, they heard him preach again. And she looked at her husband, she said, what do you think now? And Dr. Morris said, he's a great preacher. He's great. Suffering made the difference And that's what Peter's saying here. And by the way, that goes for all of us. When we go through suffering, it has a purifying work on us. It makes us strong. It establishes us. And so all these things apply to you as God's people. You too have a crown to earn in your service. You too. Has to be closed with humility. You too have to learn to get victory over your enemy, the devil. You too. will go through suffering that will make you strong. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for your word that is constantly leading us, guiding us. It is so practical for us, Lord, so relevant for our life. It is what we need. Help us to take it to heart. I I know Lord these are your sheep. Many of them here are going through some suffering in their life, and you're using that to establish them, to strengthen them. to perfect them. I pray, Lord, that we will be an example of that in our own life. To submit To learn to find all of our sufficiency in you, to learn that it is your grace, your grace alone, that brings us through. We have no strength in and of ourselves. We have no sufficiency in and of ourself. Lord, our strength is in you. All our sufficiency is in our Savior. So Lord, may we learn that, may we find that, may we draw upon this strength. May you use this word, Lord, to bless your people as they apply these things. And with heads bowed, let me just ask you, how many say that's, I just want to ask for the Lord's grace in my own life In this time, I need his grace to help me through. God bless you. I may it may be a time of suffering. You need to learn to find your sufficiency in Christ. So Lord, you see all these hands, these are your people. I pray for them, each one Lord, that you would help them and bless them, that they may find all of their strength, all of their sufficiency in you. Casting all of their care upon you, Lord, knowing that you care for them so very much. And we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.