Well it's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of Psalm 132. And we are continuing the Pilgrim Psalms series that we are started a while back. And really we're coming close to the end of this. We have three more chapters to go, and Psalm 132 is the passage tonight. And I follow along as I just read a few verses of this, verse 1 of Psalm 132. Lord, remember David and all his afflictions, how he sore unto the Lord and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob. Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed. I will not give sleep to mine eyes or slumber to my eyelids. Until I find a place for the Lord, a habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. Lo, we heard it of it at Ephrata, we found it in the fields of the wood. We will go into his tabernacle. We will worship at his footstool. So I want to talk tonight about the heart of a worshiper or the heart of David. Last week I received a very special blessing. A dear Christian woman who was a member of my church sent me a gift. She sent me a gift, it was a smooth stone that was taken out of the valley of Eli, a brook in the valley of Elah. Some of you might remember in the Old Testament that David, as the shepherd boy, when he was fighting against Goliath, it was there at the Valley of Elah, and in that brook he took five smooth stones. And one of them was the stone, of course, in which he slew Goliath. So for some reason this woman felt led of the Lord. She said, To give me this stone And uh she said uh it was to remind me of God's power and slaying the giants that we all face in our life. However, when I look at that stone, really what it reminds me of, or when I think about that stone, it really reminds me of the heart of David. Why was David fighting Goliath to begin with? Why would a shepherd boy go up against a giant, a champion like Goliath? Well, it was because David, even at that young age, had a heart for the Lord. He had a passion for the honor of God. And he knew that the Philistines and this giant was dishonoring the name of God. And that was the thing that provoked David. 1 Samuel 17, 45, David said to Goliath, You come to me with a sword and a shield. I come to you in the name of the Lord, whom you have defied. That's the heart of David. He was passionate about honoring the name of God. And this is what this psalm really focuses upon right here. It focuses on honoring the name of God or giving glory, the rightful glory, to the name of God. Now this psalm was written about David. It wasn't written by David, but it was written about David, and it was written about his desire and his determination to do exactly that, to honor the Lord. And it's about his heart. It's about the heart of a true worshiper. I want to have that kind of a heart. I know that you want to have that kind of a heart as well. So let's look at Psalm 132. Let me give you a few aspects of this as we get into it. First of all, this is the longest psalm of all of the Psalms of Ascent. It has 18 verses in it. That's twice as long as any of the other Psalms of Ascent. And really it's the climax of these pilgrim psalms. Right after this, there will be two short psalms, three verses each, and then it kind of is done. And so really this is the climax. And the climax of it is really the worship of God. There are only three Psalms in all of the Bible that make reference to the Ark. Really it's uh they're implicit, but this one here is explicit. In verse 8, it mentions the Ark of God specifically, where it talks about the Ark of thy strength. And then after that, we really don't read too much more in the Old Testament about the Ark. And another thing about this psalm, this chapter that makes it unique and beautiful is the symmetry of it. And let me just talk a little bit about the structure. Again, there are 18 verses in this chapter And it's divided in half neatly, nine verses at the beginning that talk about uh a man with God. And there are really two stanzas in those nine verses. And then the other nine verses talk about God with man. And again, there are two stanzas in that section as well. And notice that these sections begin with a reference to David. Look again in verse 1. Lord remember David and all his afflictions. Then look down at verse number 10, start of the second part, the second section. For thy servant David saith, Turn not away thy face from thine anointed And so here are two sections, each starting with David. Again, the focus is on David. And another thing about this psalm, how it divides, both sections talk about oaths or vows David took an oath or a vow in the first nine verses. He makes a vow unto the Lord. And in the next nine verses, from verses 10 down to verse 18, God makes an oath, and God takes a vow. In the first nine verses, David vows to build a house, a house for God. And in the second part of it, God makes a vow to build a house for David, or we could say a dynasty for David David is. So David desires to build God a house, and God decrees to build a house for David. What I see right off from here is there's an exchange, isn't there in that? David, he wants to exalt the Lord, he wants to honor the Lord. And what does God do for David? God blesses him. And that's always true with respect to worship. The more you want to honor and exalt God in your life, the more God is going to bless you. The more he's going to honor you. That's always the experience. Now, another thing about this law, this was probably written by Solomon And the occasion for which this was written was probably the dedication of the newly finished temple. This is what many Old Testament scholars. propose and believe. Verses 8 through 10 are actually quoted by Solomon in his prayer at the dedication of the temple in 2 Chronicles chapter 6, verse 41 and verse 42. But really the main theme of Psalm 132 is this idea of worship. This idea of giving God the honor. That's the main theme. And this is the ultimate goal of all the pilgrims that were on their way to the Holy City. Why were they going? They were going there to worship God. That's what they set their heart to do. And friend, that's why we come to God's house, is it not? We come here to worship our God. And by the way, there's nothing like a worship experience in God's house. You can't compare it to anything else. It does so much spiritual good for the believer. For example, when we come to God's house and we worship here, you know what happens? Grace is imparted to us. I'm not talking about saving grace. I'm just talking about strength and blessing from God When we come and we focus on the Lord, God in turn blesses us. He rewards us with strength and grace. Just like when we're praying, we go into our prayer closet and we pray. And what does God do? He gives us strength. And when we come to God's house with God's people, we worship the Lord. God in turn gives us the grace to face whatever challenges we're going to face in a new day, in a new week. And so our hearts are empowered. Our hearts are uplifted. But another thing I notice this, when I come to God's house and I enter into the worship experience, I'm much more ready to go out and witness after that. Worship really uh provokes witness. It really gives us a desire more to witness. I remember one time I read a book. called The Enemies of Soul Winning, and the author was talking about all the things that are enemy of soul winning in the church. And he had a whole chapter saying worship is the enemy of evangelism or soul winning. And I thought there's nothing more ridiculous I don't think I've ever read in my life than that. That's ridiculous. In fact, it's the opposite. When you really worship the Lord, it will make you want to go out and share the gospel and share Christ with others. Remember Isaiah 6, Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up. And then he heard a voice that says, Who will go? And Isaiah said, Hear my Lord, send me. Right after that worship experience, he was ready to go. But also worship inspires us to pursue holiness. When we come to God's house and we worship the Lord and we see the holiness of God, it will provoke us and help us to desire. to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord as well. So all of that is it's all about worship. Now what I want you to see from this psalm Are four elements of the worship experience mentioned in this psalm that I want to just pull out of here and just look at with you? Four elements of the worship experience. These are four, there are more, of course. But I think four that are mentioned here in this psalm that ought to be a part of every believer's experience when they go to the house of God and they enjoy the experience of worship. And let me give you the first one. If you're taking those right down, number one, first of all, we contemplate God's rightful place. We contemplate God's rightful place. Because in the first five verses, what we see here is David's consuming passion to give God the honor and the glory that he rightfully deserves. And that's what worship is all about. It's all about Him. The heart of the worshiper longs to give God glory. The worshiper longs to give God first place in his heart and his life. Here's the bottom line. David could not bear the fact that God did not have a temple where he could be honored and worshiped. He couldn't bear that fact. In those days, back in that time, every nation served their gods. False gods we know, but they served those gods. And really they're not gods at all. They were nothing. They were just idols. Demonically inspired, perhaps, but they were nothing. And all these nations, these people groups They all had their temples where they set up their images and their idols and they worshipped their gods and they boasted in their gods. The Philistine had their temples. The Egyptians had their massive temples devoted to their gods. The Babylonians certainly had their uh their temples to the many gods that they served and the whole pantheon of gods that they worshipped. And then the Persians had their gods. But the God of Israel, the real God, the true God, he had no temple. When David saw this, and David couldn't stand that fact. He couldn't stand that the real true living God, the one God, the real God, had no temple in which he could receive the rightful honor and glory due to his name. And so as his heart was passionate for the honor of God, he said, I'm going to change that. I'm going to give God his rightful place. I want to build a house that will put God on high, that will exalt the name of God. So notice David's desire in verse 1. It says, Lord, remember David and all his afflictions. Verse 2, how he swore unto the Lord and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob. That is, he made this a vow He took this very seriously. He began preparations for building the house of God. Now we know that ultimately it was not David who built that house, it was Solomon, but David began all of the preparations And by the way, that wasn't an easy thing. That was a hard thing. In fact, again in verse 1, remember David and all his what? His afflictions. This desire brought him affliction. This desire was not easy. Write down 1 Chronicles 22-14. Now behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the Lord. And he begins to list all of the things that he brought together to prepare this house that he wanted to build for God. But David said it was in my trouble. It sure did cost me It sure did bring affliction. It brought trouble, but I wanted to do it. Let me ask you a question. Are you willing to Do whatever you can that God might receive his rightful place, the honor and glory due to him, even if it costs you a little trouble. Even if it cost you something, some affliction. I compare this with the story in Haggai. Remember the Jews were led out of exile, they came back. They began building the temple, and as they got into building it, they laid the foundation. You know what happened? They just forgot it. They went back to their own thing. They started building their own houses. And they forgot about God. And God had to stir up the prophet Haggai. And Haggai had to get out there and he had to preach and he said, You Live in your sealed houses, your paneled houses, while this house lies in waste. And then Haggai said this. Now consider your ways. What was he saying? You better check your priorities Because you're not putting God first. You're not honoring the Lord. And so the prophets said, go up to the mountain and get wood and come down and build the house. And put God first. And here's David. He's doing everything he can to honor the Lord. And it's costing him something. But that's the heart of a true worshiper. He's willing to pay whatever cost there is. That God might get the rightful honor. But then notice David's determination in verse 3 Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go into my bed. I will not give sleep to mine eyes or slumber to mine eyelids until I find out a place for the Lord, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob. His desire turns into a determination. Now the words here were not literal, it's figure of speech. David didn't literally go without sleep until the temple was built, but what he meant was simply this. He said, I'm not going to rest until this house of God is built. I'm not going to stop working or planning or preparing. This was the zeal of David that we see here. He's again saying, I'm willing to sacrifice whatever I have to do for God's glory. Again, I want to ask you a question, are you willing to sacrifice? For the honor of God. By the way, this is why missionaries go to the foreign field. They go there to share the gospel. But not so they can brag about what a good soul winner they are. Or not so that they can brag about what a good servant they are. They go for the n for the honor of the name of God That's why we go out and that's why we witness, not because we want to build a big church and brag or anything like that. It's because every time a person repents and comes to Jesus, that's another person added to the chorus of voices that are giving God honor and praise. And we want that group to expand and get larger and larger. We want to add more people to the chorus of voices that are giving God the glory that's due unto his name. And that's the thing that should motivate us to glory and honor of God. That's why we do what we do. Henry Martin was a Cambridge University student, and he was honored when he was 20 years of age for his achievement in mathematics. He was brilliant. He was given the highest recognition possible in that field. Yet he says there was an emptiness inside of him. Even though he had all that recognition, he was still empty. He found no fulfillment in that. And so he said, it was only grasping at a shadow, is what he said. And he sat down and began to think about his life. And he was a Christian man. And he evaluated his life and he decided that he was going to go to India as a missionary. And at age twenty-four, he left everything behind. He went to India. When he arrived at India, this is what he prayed. As soon as he set foot on the shore, he said, Lord, let me burn out for you. And then a little bit later he watched a Hindu temple in India and he saw people prostrating themselves before idols. And he wrote this in his diary. He said, This excited more horror in me than I can express. He wrote, I could not endure existence. If Jesus was not glorified, it would be hell to me. Those are strong words But that shows you his heart. He said, I can't bear the idea of Jesus not getting the rightful honor and glory. I can't bear to see people giving honor to just mere idols In Jesus' name not being glorified. Someone once said to him, Why are you so preoccupied with Jesus glory. And he said, if someone plucks at your eye, you don't ask why are you preoccupied with the pain if someone pokes you in the eye? He went on to say, It's because I am one with Christ, and I'm so deeply wounded when he is not giving the rightful glory. And so the next seven years of his life He began to translate the Bible. He translated the New Testament into three different difficult languages there in India. And he died. His passion was for the glory of Christ. That's what made him so zealous. He wanted God to have the rightful place, and this should be the desire of our heart. For Jesus to have the rightful place. David said this in another Psalm. I have set the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh also shall rest in hope. David said, I'm always putting God ahead of me. I'm always putting him in his rightful place. He's always before me. He's the priority of my life. And you know what happens in return? He said, Therefore my heart is glad There's joy and fulfillment in the life of the believer who puts God in his rightful place. Here's the second element. Number one, we contemplate God's rightful place, but number two, we celebrate God's reviving presence. We celebrate God's reviving presence. Look at verse 6. Lo, we heard of it at Ephrata. We found it in the fields of the wood. We will go into his tabernacles. We will worship at his footstool. Arise, O Lord, into thy rest, thou and the ark of thy Let thy priest be clothed with righteousness, and let thy saints shout for joy. Now you might say, now what are these verses referring to? These verses here are referring to the Ark of the Covenant. This is when the Ark of the Covenant was brought back to Jerusalem. And notice how it says, we found it in the fields of the wood. Now, in case you don't know, and I'm sure most of you here do, the Ark of the Covenant was uh is a box that's about a yard long, 18 inches high and deep. It was covered with gold. Inside the ark was the tablets of stone, and on those stones was written the law of God. And this was carried through the wilderness. It had a a lid on top of it, and on the top of that lid was the mercy seat. Angels' wings were outstretched. And it was overlaid with gold. It was carried through the wilderness, and it symbolized God's presence. Whenever the Jews would go from place to place, always at the head of the parade were the priests bearing this ark. In fact, when the Israelites came to the Jordan River, the priests were the first ones to step into the river, and when they did The Jordan River parted like the Red Sea and they walked over on dry land. And then we also read of it the ark was in Shiloh in Judges 18. 1. After that was in Bethel, and then at Mizpah. And then you remember the story in the Bible how the ark was taken away by the Philistines. This was during the Judges era of Israel's history. This was the Dark Ages. When Israel was not obeying the Lord, and God would raise up a people to punish them. And on one of those occasions it was the Philistines And in a battle, the Philistines, they they won the battle and they took the ark that belonged to Israel. And you remember that Eli was the priest, and when he heard the news of that, what happened to Eli? He fell back and he broke his neck And the glory of God had departed from Israel. And in fact, why don't you just look in 1 Samuel 5 and just look at a few of these verses with me? I they can probably just reading them would be better than me describing them. But then what happened after that was that the the ark of the Lord was out of the land of Israel and it was in enemy hands. Look in verse chapter 5, look at verse 2 And when the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of David and they set it by Dagon. And verse 3 Uh when when Dah Ashpat arose early in the morning, behold Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the Lord. And they took Dagon and they set him on his place again. This happened again. Bottom line is No idol was going to be able to stand next to the real ark of God. This was a message God was sending to them. But look at verse 6. But the hand of the Lord was heavy upon them at Ashtad, and he destroyed them and smote them with emrods, even Ashdod in the coast thereof. So wherever the ark went in the land of the Philistines, God was punishing those people there. And so for a time they were passing it around almost like hot potato. I don't want it, you take it I don't want it you take it. Wherever it went, it brought trouble, it brought punishment, until finally they said, let's just send it back to Israel They put it on a cart with some cows and they shoved it towards or they pointed towards uh the land and then it went to Beshmes. Look at chapter six. Look down at verse 19, and it went to Bethshemesh and there, because they looked at the ark, verse 19. Even he smoked the people, fifty thousand and three score and ten men. And finally it comes in verse 21 to the inhabitants of Kerjath Jiram. And they came to see it in verse 21. It says, The Philistines that brought again the ark of the Lord Come ye down and fetch it up to you. And chapter seven verse one they come out and they take the ark, and they there it stays at the house of Obad Edom for a time, until finally it goes back into Israel into the hands of God's people. But with all that in mind, go back to first or excuse me, Psalm 132 and look again down at verse number 6, where it says, Lo, we heard of it at Ephrata. We found it in the fields of the woods. They heard the news of where it was. They went down and they got it and they brought it back. And again, this was a joyous occasion. This was a time of celebration. Because to the Israelites, the Ark of the Covenant represented the presence of God That's why in the Bible, David, when the ark was finally brought back into Jerusalem, the Bible says that David was dancing before the Lord with all of his might. He was filled with joy and praise. Because this was a symbol of the presence of God coming back upon his people. And David longed for the presence of God. That's the heart of a worshiper. Let me ask you a question. Do you long for God's presence in your worship, in your life? That's part of the worship experience Have you ever had that? Have you ever come to God's house and being here and the singing going on and God's name is being exalted and you sense the presence of the Lord? Or when the Word of God is being preached, God is speaking to your heart. Whenever God's presence comes in a very real way, what happens is there's always a reviving that happens with the people of God. Do you ever notice that? His presence comes. Now we know that God's already everywhere. But there's there's a certain dynamic that takes place when we begin to praise and honor God that we sense his presence. He comes in a kind of an atmospheric type revival with his presence and he fills our hearts. And it's a wonderful thing. Maybe you've had that happen in your own personal devotions. I've had that happen several times. It's wonderful when we sense the presence of the Lord. And so it has a reviving presence. And by the way, every service that we have in God's house with God's people coming, there should be revival taking place in our heart. There should be a renewal at the presence of the Lord. Revival means, said Martin Lloyd-Jones, it means days of heaven on earth. Stephen Ofer said revival is an invasion from heaven that brings a conscious awareness of God's presence. Jonathan Edwards said during their first great awakening, when God was moving in such a mighty way that you could feel the presence of God in that whole town during that time. That's what we long for. We long for His presence. Let me give you the third thing. What is part of our worship experience? We contemplate God's rightful place. We celebrate God's reviving presence. And then here's the third thing. We communicate God's reliable promises. Look down at verse 10. For thy servant David say, Turn not away from the face of thine anointed. The Lord has sworn in truth unto David, he will not turn from it, of the fruit of thy body will I set upon the throne. Now this is the second part of the psalm where God makes a promise to David. Again, David wants to build a house for God. God honors David by giving him a promise. And what is the promise in verse 11? The Lord has sworn in truth unto David, he will not turn from it, of the fruit of thy body will I set upon the throne. God says, I'm going to take one of your descendants, David Now this story is given in 2 Samuel chapter 7. We will take time to go there But here in this psalm, or in that chapter, I should say, are the promises of God are made very clear. And here in this psalm, these promises are being retold. They're being reiterated. God, this is what you told David. And they're rejoicing over this. Lord, here's what you said in your word. That's part of our worship experience. You know, when we come to God's house, all we do is we tell you what God has already promised. What he's already said. That's what we do. I don't try to tell you anything new. I just try to tell you what God has already said. What he's already promised. Peter said this in 2 Peter 1. 12. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you in remembrance of these things, even though you already know them. A lot of times when you hear preaching, you might sit there and say, Well, I've already heard this. Okay, well you need to hear it again. Especially if you're not living it. You need to hear it again. And that's what it's all about. We're just telling you again and again what God has said in his word. And you know what? We need that. Because we have the tendency to forget what God has promised. And so we simply make God's word clear Whenever I preach, I'm shooting for two things. Accuracy. I want to be accurate in the way I handle Scripture. And number two, clarity. I just want to tell you. His word clearly. Hebrews 13, 5 has a good definition, I think, of this. It says this, for he has said, that is God, for he has said, verse 6, so that we may boldly say That's preaching. Preaching is boldly saying what God has already said. He's already given us these promises. Now we need to just keep telling ourselves and reminding ourselves of what God has taught us. and what he has told us. God's promises are to be reiterated, but also they're reliable. Look again in verse 11 where it says, the Lord has sworn in truth. Unto David, he will not turn from it. God's promises are reliable. He never breaks his word. Men break their word all the time, but God never will break his word. Spurgeon said, I thumbed my Bible many a year. I have never yet thumbed a broken promise. The promises have all been kept to me. Not one good thing has failed. And you know what? You'll find in God's Word, you'll find promises for every situation in life that you might face. There's a promise in the Word of God that you can claim for that situation. And his promises are true. Now let me give you the fourth thing. We contemplate God's rightful place. We celebrate God's reviving presence. We communicate God's reliable promises. But here's the last thing We commemorate God's redemptive provision. Look at verse 13. For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation. This is my rest forever. Here will I dwell, for I have desired it I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread. I will also clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. There will I make the horn of David to bud I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. His enemies will I clothe with shame, but upon himself shall his crown flourish. And these verses speak about God's plan of redemption, excuse me, redemption, his unfolding plan, which should cause us again to wonder and worship as God. And notice there are so few things that he talks about. God's Selected place in verse 13 is Zion. That is Jerusalem. That's the place where God desired to place his name And he's talking about that literal city of Jerusalem. We have seen in Scripture that that has a very special place in God's plan. And by the way, it still does. You want to know when the Lord's coming back? Keep one eye on Jerusalem and watch what's going on there It's kind of like a prophetic calendar because God's plan is not done. And by the way, this city of Jerusalem also speaks of the new Jerusalem where all of us will live one day. And so we should think about that. We think about the place that we're going to be with God. And notice God says, I've set my name on this place forever. So it's suggesting about that heaven, the new Jerusalem. I think in God's house when we come, we should spend some time dwelling on that place that we're going to live forever. One of the best books ever written on heaven was written by Richard Baxter. It's called The Saints Everlasting Rest. He was an English preacher. He was 35 years old. He was broken in health. And his doctors told him he was going to die. And so to prepare himself, he began to just meditate on heaven. And he wrote down all of his meditations. And that really was the book, The Saints Everlasting Rest. And this is what he said Talking about heaven, he said that we should meditate on heaven every day. He said, for one of this recourse to heaven, he wrote, Thy soul is as a lamp not lit. In other words, when we don't take time to think about the place that God is preparing for us, It's like a a lamp that isn't lit. Thinking about that will ignite our soul is what he's saying. And so we see God's special place, but then God's saving provision in verse 15 And 16 where it talks about it uses the imagery of bread. I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread. I will clothe her priests with salvation. Her saints shall shout aloud with joy. Now here God has promised to bless the inhabitants of Jerusalem. But this also speaks of a preview of the salvation that God has for his people in the new covenant. and his citizens of the New Jerusalem. God will feed us with bread. Jesus said, I am the bread of life. And so really these images here point to salvation. In verse 16, the garments of salvation speak about God's righteousness that He gives to the believer at the moment they trust in the Lord. And so here it's a it's a picture of God's saving provision. But then there's also God's special person. Look at verse 17. There will I make the horn of David to bud. I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. Now notice where it says the horn of David there A horn is uh a sign of being exalted, and this is speaking of the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice where it says, I will make his horn, I will make the horn of David to bud. Look at that word bud there. It means to sprout. In other places it's it's the word branch. For instance, it's used in Jeremiah 23. 5. Listen, behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I will raise up unto David a righteous branch. Same word there. And so all these verses are messianic, and it points to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is how this psalm ends. It ends by pointing to the greater son of David, Jesus Christ the Messiah, who will come. He will be the exalted horn. He will be the one that brings salvation. He is the object of our worship. And we're talking about the worship experience. Beloved, any service or sermon that does not make much of Jesus is a waste. We need to focus on Christ. We need to focus on God's special person who brought salvation to us. Christ is the central figure in biblical revelation and the cross is the central factor. in biblical revelation. And so these last verses describe how God is going to cause this horn to sprout up and to grow. And how that this horn will be our king, the coming king, the returning king, the one who will reign on the throne of David. You know, people today, they look to governments to solve all their problems. Friend, if you're looking to government to solve your problem, you're looking in the wrong direction. Thank God for government, but as the early church fathers said, government is a necessary evil. There's corruption in all government If you're looking to them for help from your problems, it's not going to come. Look to Jesus, the coming King. In the 1980s when Ronald Reagan was uh at a Christian function, he was speaking to a bunch of Christians, some evangelical and fundamental Christians, and and when he was done, they they all stood up and they began to applaud wildly. thinking that you know Reagan was their hope. And then right after that, Chuck Colson stepped up to the podium And Chuck Colson calmed the people down and he said, I want to remind you that the kingdom of God does not arrive on Air Force One. And that is very true. We don't exalt or put our trust in man, we put our trust in Christ. And He's the one that we worship, He's the one that we exalt and adore. And I'll close with this. John Newton is a man we know who wrote Amazing Grace. What a great man. And after he got saved, he began to serve the Lord passionately. He was a pastor, very faithful servant of the Lord, and he preached for many years. But when he got very old and was just about fully blind, he needed a helper To wherever he would go to preach, this helper would go with him. And he began to fade a little bit in his thinking, in his mind. And one time he was standing up and he was preaching and his voice wasn't as strong. He would he would preach in whispers One time on one occasion he was preaching and he couldn't find his words, I guess you could say, and he was saying, Jesus Christ is precious. And then he repeated it. And then he repeated it a third time, and his helper was from behind and said, You've already said that three times. And Newton whispered back to him, yes, I know, and I'm going to say it a fourth time. And so he shouted with all his might, and someone said it just about shook the foundations of that old church. Jesus Christ is precious. And friend, that is what we experience as worshipers. We and this we look in the scriptures, we look through a glass darkly, and we see the glory of Jesus. We see how precious Jesus is. And friend, that's the experience of a true worshiper. We focus on Christ. Do you know the Lord Jesus? Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Father, we again thank you for your word. Thank you for the worship experience that we enjoy when we come to God's house. And Lord, I pray that this psalm will encourage us in this experience of worship. I pray, Lord, that we would always give God his rightful place And long for your reviving presence, Lord. And to trust in your word, your promises. And Lord, to continue to think about and remember all that we have in Jesus Christ, all the provision that we have in our salvation. Lord, help us to truly experience worship, to have the heart of David, to be passionate for your glory. Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' name. And for his sake, for his glory, we pray.