Take God's word today and would you open please to uh the book of Matthew chapter two? We're going to be looking at this passage today, Matthew chapter two. And I want to read uh the first twelve verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Matthew chapter two, starting in verse one. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. When Herod the king heard these things, he was troubled And all Jerusalem with him. And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem in the in the land of Judea in Judah, art not the least among the princes of Judah, for out of thee shall come a governor. Then Herod, when he had privately called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go and search diligently for the young child, and when ye have found him, bring me word again, and I may that I may come and worship him also And when they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. And when they were coming to the house, they saw the young child with Mary, his mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures they presented unto him gifts gold and frankincense and myrrh, and being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod They departed into their own country another way. May God bless his word to our heart today. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, uh, as we look at this passage of Scripture, I pray that you would give us uh enlightenment, Lord, that we would see things here that will encourage our own heart. As we seek to worship our Savior, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now we've been doing a series on Sunday morning called The Characters of Christmas. We looked at Zacharias and saw that we learned from him that God remembers his promise. Zachariah was the priest that uh who was the father of John the Baptist and with the promise of the his son John the Baptist coming, there was a promise that had long been awaited to be fulfilled, the promise of the Messiah. Then we looked at the life of Mary and we saw with her that with God nothing shall be impossible. She was To chosen to be the one who was the mother of the Messiah, being a virgin, she would have a child. This would be miraculous. But as the angel said, this is not a hard thing for God. This is not impossible with God. You just need to believe in the power of God And then we looked and we uh we saw also Joseph, and Joseph was the one who believed in God's promise. of of the virgin birth. You can imagine what he was going through at that time, but he's an example to us of believing in the promises of God. And today we're going to look at the wise men. They certainly play an important role in the Christmas story. And today we're going to look at the fact that um what they really teach us is the manner in which we are to seek the Messiah to seek the Lord Jesus Christ. Think about this. This this was a group of men who were they were Gentiles. They traveled a long distance. to come and see the Messiah. But their journey was focused on worshiping the newborn king. So I want us to really just draw three important observations from these wise men. These are things that we could learn because if we're not careful, during the Christmas season, we can get so distracted by all the things that come with it. It's a wonderful time. It's a beautiful time of the year. There are many things about Christmas that we enjoy, but let's not forget the main thing about Christmas is worshiping Jesus Christ. Is worshiping our King. And this is what the wise men teach us. So notice three important observations I see here in this. Number one, just write down the guidance they sought. Notice in verse 1, it tells us that sometime after Jesus was born, the Magi or Magi is the Greek uh word gives us and really it's a Persian word. These men they show up at the home of Mary and Joseph. Again, the this word translates into wise men And this kind of gives us some questions, who were the wise men, how many were there? Where did they come from? Why did they travel to see Jesus? You know, there's a lot of misconceptions out there about this group of men. Um were they kings? I mean we sang the song this morning, We Three Kings of Orionar. Were they really kings? Um Kings is a lot easier to say in a song than We Three Wise Men, I guess. Were they wise men? Why are they called wise men? Why is this translated wise men? Again, there's a lot of ideas out there about these men, but really the only verifiable information we have is really given to us here in Scripture. What do we know? We know they were Gentiles. And there's a sense in which Matthew here is sheeping uh is heaping shame upon the Jews who were not really seeking the Messiah. Here are Gentile wise men or kings traveling from a long distance coming to see the birth of the Messiah, the King. And yet the people that are there in uh Judea, there in Jerusalem, really don't seem to be that concerned about seeking their king. Remember the book of Matthew was written too the Jewish people. So there's a sense in which Matthew is again saying, shame on the the Jewish people for not having the same kind of passion and seeking their Messiah. Here are these Gentiles coming from the east from a long way Again, look in verse 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east. So we know that they were from the east. At the time Matthew wrote his gospel, there were four great empires in the world. There was the Roman Empire, there was the Persian, the Indian, and the Chinese. Now we know this wasn't the Roman Empire. We know uh the Indian and Chinese Empire was too far. So really th these are Persians, and again the word magjoi is a Persian word. And so they they travel about 800 to 900 miles. And according to Persian history, there was a priesthood of Medes known as the Majoi, they were credited as having profound and extraordinary religious knowledge. They were experts in the interpretation of dreams. Early on, King Darius set them over the state religion in Persia. You might remember that in the Old Testament one of the titles given to Daniel was Chief of the Magi. And you remember he was there in Babylon and for a time. The Babylonians were taken over by the Medo-Persian Empire, so the Persians ruled there, and Daniel being a a person who was just an excellent man, they set him over the Magi. And it was perhaps through Daniel's influence that they began to learn the Hebrew scriptures. They began to learn about the coming of the Messiah. He imparted unto them this messianic understanding of the Old Testament that there was going to come a king, a Messiah, one day. No doubt he taught this group this, and this was passed down from years, from generation to generation. And so they were informed, no doubt, by him. And so now here's a group of men who probably have looked at the scripture. They were guided by the Word of God. And also, as we're going to find out, they were guided by what the Bible calls a star. They calculated and figured the approximate time when this Messiah may be born. And they began seeking him. Now, another thing to note about this group, just studying the history, is that the Majoi, according to the Persian history, not only were they priests, but they also served in a governmental role. The Persian government was ruled by something that really is equivalent to our own government. We have a executive branch with a president. We have a legislative branch with two houses, the Senate and the Congress. Well the Persians were ruled by a king But they also had two houses in their government, a upper house called the Sofoy and the lower house called the Majoy. And part of their responsibility was Perhaps the Magi were looking for a new king to set over them, and they heard about this Messiah that would be born. So we see then in this the this army of the Magi that come to Bethlehem, but then we see secondly the anxiety of Herod. Look at verse 2. They came saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. Now this troubled King Herod In fact, in verse 3, when King Herod had heard these things, he was troubled. Tarasso is the word there. Very strong word. He was afraid. He was filled with angst and anxiety. He was terrified that this group had come to his city. And that they were looking for a king of the Jews. Now wait a minute, wasn't that what he was supposed to be doing, ruling over this the Jews? And so he was terrified. But not only that, look in verse 3. It says, and all Jerusalem with them. Not only was King Herod afraid, but all of Jerusalem was afraid when these guys came rolling into town. They say, why would they be afraid? This kind of debunks the idea of three guys riding three camels just coming in. When they came in, it was just not them. They had a whole army with them. They had a cavalry of people with them. And by the way, the If they were rulers, they would be accompanied by a cavalry unit. And according to history, the Persian cavalry was the best in the world. They were skilled at riding horses. And um whenever the Persians and the Romans clashed, the Persians always won. They were that formidable in battle. And so and also add to that at this time, at this particular time, Herod's garrison that normally protected Jerusalem was away they were fighting in another war, so they had a city that was relatively unprotect unprotected. And in comes this entourage of kings and with a with a military unit that was formidable and they're looking for a king And this threw the whole city of Jerusalem into fear. And it threw King Herod into fear. But the Magi were very excited. at the prospect of seeing this new king of the Jews. They were excited about seeing him But they were the only ones foot because apparently no one in Jerusalem was very excited about it because we see next what I call the apathy of the people. Look at verse number four. And when they had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born. Now this is Herod. These guys are coming in, they're looking for the the king of the Jews. Herod brings together the chief priests and scribes of the people and he wants to know where this Christ, this Messiah, is going to be born And you know, what we see here really is uh a kind of an apathy when the Magi get to Jerusalem, they don't find the town buzzing with excitement, talking about the coming Messiah. No. They find a bunch of apathy. There's no real excitement about this. You see, the people in Jerusalem were so familiar with The scripture and holy things that, you know what, it became really old hat to them. They became indifferent to the things of God. You know what? That's something that we need to guard against in our own life. If we're not careful, we can be so familiar with the Word of God and we can have God's blessing and and and we can meet in a place like this and be uh accustomed to good things happening that if we're not careful we we fail to appreciate what we have. We fail to appreciate the holy things of God. Their familiarity with holy things brought their indifference. It even brought their contempt. Others in the world had a sense of anticipation. It seemed like everyone in the world w was sensing that something special was going to happen at that particular time, except the Jewish people. Historians record for us that at that time there was this strange expectation in the world for a coming king. And the people in the East had it, which explains partly why this group of Magi came all the way from Persia to come to Jerusalem trying to find out where this king of the Jews would be born. Suetonius the Roman historian wrote this. He said, There had spread all over the Orient an old and established belief that it was fated that at that time for men coming from Judea to rule the world. And so that was kind of the spirit back then. Another A historian, Taxitus, who was a famous Roman historian, kind of tells the same belief. He says there was a firm persuasion that at this very time the East was to grow powerful And rulers coming from Judea were to acquire a universal empire. And Josephus wrote this. He said that the Jews had a belief that, quote, about that time one from their country should become governor of the habited world. And so it's kind of hard to believe that there was this kind of indifference that was there in Jerusalem with regard to what was going on. And this reminds us of what Paul says in Romans chapter 9. about the Jews that they had all these privileges and all these blessings, and yet they seem to be very apathetic. Romans 11, 8 says, according as it is written, God has given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, ears that they should not hear unto this day. And that that verse really describes the the spirit of the Jews around this time when Christ was to be born there They really didn't care. And by the way, let me just say that's the attitude of the majority of the world today. I mean people love Christmas. They just don't love Christ. They love all the trimmings that come with Christmas. They love the fact of receiving gifts, who doesn't? And all the other warm and wonderful notions that are passed around With Christmas. Everybody loves that, but are people really seeking Christ? There's an apathy about spiritual things. There's an apathy about Christ. And some peop some will say, well perhaps they just didn't know. Maybe the Jews just didn't know. No, because again, look at verse 4. Harry calls in all the priests and the scribes. He wanted to know where the Christ would be born. Look at verse 5. And they said unto him, in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet. They know exactly. They were able to they didn't they just hey we know what the Bible says and they were quoting here from the the prophet Micah about the ruler that that would be born in Bethlehem. And so they respond right back, Yeah, we know it's supposed to be in Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, look in verse six, and thou Bethlehem, in the land of Judah Art not the least among the princes of Judah, for out of these shall come a governor that shall rule my people, Israel. And so these scribes, they were the scholars, the authorities on the law. They spent their whole life studying Old Testament law. Ezra's scribe memorized basically the whole Old Testament. He could sit down and write out Genesis through Malachi. Some of these scribes join the Pharisees and so they were literally the the the legalistic fundamentalists of their day. And when Herod called in and demanded where Christ was to be born, they just spit it right out. They knew. They knew. But none of them bothered to walk the short distance from Jerusalem to Bethlehem. It's probably about four miles. It's not a far walk. But none of them bothered to go to Bethlehem to see the birth of the king, one of the greatest events in human history. They paid absolutely no attention to the events that were going on in Bethlehem. Here are these rulers that traveled 800 miles from Persia to see Christ, the Christ's child, yet these Jews would not walk over a few hills to see him. So there was this apathy. But add to that there was fear. Look at verse 7. Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star appeared. Herod was very subtle. And politically shrewd in his outward appearance. He wanted to play his cards just right. Outwardly, he pretended to have an interest in Christ to worship him. Oh yeah, man, I want to I want to be a part of this But inwardly Herod didn't want to worship him. He wanted to kill him. He wanted to kill any rival to his throne. His whole life was spent getting rid of rivals. History tells us that he was so insecure, so paranoid, it was dangerous to be close to him. He killed his own two sons because he was afraid they would take his throne. He killed his wife. He killed his mother-in-law. This man was evil. He was evil. He stomped out any rivals. Caesar Augustus said it better when he said this of Herod. He said it's better to be Herod's hog than to be his son. And this is actually a play on words in Greek. The Greek word for hog is kois. The Greek word for son is hois. It's better to be as kois than his hois. Again, a play on words there. What Herod and the rest of the Jews did not realize was that Christ had come to be a savior. Not a political leader at this time. His kingdom was a spiritual kingdom that begins in the heart. He came to transform hearts He came to save people from their sins. This is the very thing that Zechariah sang about when we studied Zechariah, when he sang his song of joy. Remember, he said he came to give salvation to his people by the remission of their sins. This is the first issue that the Messiah had to deal with. It was the sin of the people. But they didn't understand that, and they feared this coming king. And by the way, we still see that today. People are afraid of Christ. They don't want Christ ruling in their life. They just don't seem to understand that the reason Jesus came was so that they could have eternal life in heaven. They could escape the punishment of hell. And beloved, mark it down. When you die, there's only two places to spend eternity, either heaven or hell. That's it. Those are your choices. If you're gonna spend eternity in heaven, there's only one way, and that's through Jesus Christ. Any other way is a wrong way, it's a false way. And God doesn't want you going to hell, He wants you there in heaven. He wants you to know him. That's why he sent his Savior into the world. So we see number one there was the guidance they sought, but then I want you to write down number two, the glory they saw. Another interesting feature of the Christmas story is the star. This is a very unusual star, if indeed it was a star. Is that really what it was? Was it is what was the star of Bethlehem? There's been a lot of attempts over the years to try to identify. This star. Let me give you the four most common. Number one, some people say, well, this was a comet. Really? The early church father Origen was the first to suggest that the star really may have been a comet. Haley's comet made an appearance in twelve B. C. That was much too early for the birth of Christ. Another comet appeared about seven uh for about seventy days in March and April of 5 B. C. That's closer to the Frame of Christ worth, but it still doesn't really match at all. It doesn't really explain the miraculous movement of this star towards Bethlehem. Also, comments in in that day were generally considered to be bad omens rather than a bearer of good news. Then there's another idea, well it was a conjunction of planets. What is that? That's when planets kind of align together and when they align together, it gives us this beautiful bright glow. And uh this happens from time to time, this conjunction of planets. This happened in 7 BC. Again, that's still not the right timing. So you can kind of throw out that idea of a conjunction of planets. And then there's another idea that this star, Bethlehem, it was probably a supernova. The astronomist Kepler actually suggest suggested that this might might be what it was, that the Magi saw a star that had gone supernova. A supernova is basically an exploding star And it's spectacular, it flares up in brilliance, but it it really doesn't last a long time. And again, um There was a report of and they're called sometimes tailless comets. There was a report of something like this happening in 4 BC. May have been a supernova. The time is it is close, but again, it does not account for the movement of this. this star as as we're going to see it here. And I want you to notice that the that the Magi, they called it his star. Look at verse 2. They came looking and they said, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east. How did the Magi know this particular star was his star It appears that only the Magi saw the star. And it also appears that this star led them to Jerusalem and then it disappeared. Because They come to Jerusalem. They don't see it anymore. They're asking around. And then it seems to reappear in verse number nine. Look at verse 9. And when they heard the king, they departed. And lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it was stood over where the Christ child was. And verse 10, and when they saw the star, they rejoiced for the exceeding great joy. So there Seems to imply that for a time they the star disappeared and then it reappears. And when it reappears in verse 10, they rejoice that the star reappeared. And now this star is going to lead them. All the way to where the Christ child was. That's an unusual star. I don't know any star that acts like this. Do you? The behavior of the star to me indicates that it was something, it wasn't just a star. Let me tell you what I think that this was in my humble and yet most accurate opinion here. I had a professor that said that all the time in seminary. I'm just kind of repeating him, you know. Uh I think this was the glory of God. That's what I think this was. I mean it it disappears, it reappears. It it it ha it it's able to lead this group to where Christ was not just the city where he was. But look again in verse nine. And when they heard the king, they departed, and looked at the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. This star didn't just lead them to the city or the town. It brought them to the home and over to where over the young child it says. And when they saw the star, they rejoiced. So they it led them to the very place where Christ was. So it disappeared, reappeared. It went before them. This sounds like the glory of God in the Old Testament. Remember the Shekana glory of God? Remember that glory, that pillar of fire and pillar of cloud that led The Jews in the wilderness, and whenever the glory picked up, they would follow it. And then it would settle and then they would pitch their tents around it. And sometimes it would appear and then sometimes it would disappear and then reappear. And was able to hover right over the tabernacle that was in the center of the camp. And when the Jews looked up and saw the glory right over the tabernacle, what did they know? They knew that God was present. They knew that God was there. God was in the house when the glory settled over it. The word for star is aster In the Greek. This can be used to speak of other things other than literal stars. I think really it's simply conveying the idea of something that is shining, something that is blazing. In Matthew 2. 7, Herod wanted to know what time the star appeared, appeared as the Greek word fano, to light up. When did this particular shining forth take place. Now if it was a permanent star, a regular star, you know, you wouldn't have to ask that question, would you? I mean stars are always there. When did this particular shining forth take place? To me that hints that this was something other than a natural star. I think this was the glory of God. It was the glory of God that they looked up and they saw, and this glory led them all the way. It led them all the way to Judea, to Jerusalem, and then reappeared. And led them to the very home where Jesus was and hovered above that place, which signified, and by the way, the Jews that were would read this account, they would get it. Again, when the glory was above the tabernacle, that was a sign that God was there. And when the glory of God hovered above the place where the Christ child was, what was that saying? This is God. This is God here. God is present. And we see in Luke that the announcement of the birth of Christ Was accompanied by what? The glory of God. The shepherds saw the glory. The Bible says the glory of the Lord shone round about them. These shepherds saw the Shekinah glory. Now again, you're dealing with Persian kings here. They would probably maybe call an Ashtar or a star. But the Jews understood the glory of God. This was this was the glory of God was all a part of the first coming of Jesus. By the way, it's also going to be a part of the second coming of Jesus because listen to what the Bible says in Matthew 24. Verse 30 says, Then will appear in heaven the sign of the Son of Man, when all the tribes of the earth will mourn, and they will see the Son of Man coming on clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Glory will be the sign of his second coming. Glory was the sign of the first coming. Glory will be the sign of his second coming. And so the the Shekinah glory appeared. And again, it conveys the idea that God was presence. By the way, later on in Acts When um the the Holy Spirit is poured out onto the church, what does the Bible say it appears over the heads of the people that are there in that prayer room? Little tongues of fire. Little pillars of glory, we could say, where God is letting everyone know that these people are now filled with the Holy Spirit of God. So this was of God. I believe it was the Shekanah, glory of God. But whatever, it was supernatural. It was something that God did. Let me give you the third point as we close. There was the guidance that they saw, or excuse me, saw it. There was the glory that they saw. And then number three, there's the gifts they the gifts they shared. When they come, they come bearing gifts for the Christ child. And this is the whole point of the passage. It's the giving of these gifts to the Messiah. These wise men came following this heavenly phenomenon for the purpose of worshiping the king, for the purpose of adoring him. And the point Matthew wishes us to see is that from the very beginning, Christ was worshipped. He was worshipped by kings. By people of authority and power. And Gentiles came from distant lands. By the way, this was prophesied in the Old Testament. Again, this should be something that the Jews would pick up on. This demonstrated how great this child was and the significance of the gifts. What did they give? Well, it tells us And look in verse 11. And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary's mother, and fell down and worshipped him. And when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. This these were incredible gifts. They were associated with royalty and power. Gold is associated with kings. I don't need to sp elaborate that. That was the the medal of kings. And so here they're worshiping Jesus as the King, frankincense, this was a special kind of incense that was used in worship. In fact, there was a prescription given in the book of Exodus That was used only in the temple. God said, You can't use it anywhere else. This is mine. This is used for the worship of me. And I think this incense refers to the fact that not only was Christ king, but he was God. He was to be worshipped. He was to be adored. This was an appropriate gift to give not only God, but someone, or not only King, but someone who was God. This particular Frankincense. And then there was myrrh. And this really to me speaks about the death of Christ because this child who was king, who was God, would come to die. That was his purpose, coming to die for sin. Did you know that myrrh was used in embalming? That was the primary spice that was used And embalming. So it speaks of death. When Jesus died, the Bible says Nicodemus used 100 pounds of myrrh to prepare the body. 100 pounds. For one body. So this must have been a very demanding spice. By the way, we saw in Revelation 2 when we were studying it on Sunday night that the city of Smyrna was a place that produced myrrh for the ancient world. And again, this was uh a very expensive ointment. And uh this would some would consider an odd gift to give a baby. You know, this speaks of death. But again, this was appropriate for this child because this child's whole purpose was to come and to die for our sins. And so there was it was kind of prophetic this gift. Because it would speak about his later suffering and death for us. The Bible says in Isaiah 53 about this coming Messiah, speaking prophetically about him. Surely he has borne our griefs, carried our sorrows. Yet we esteem him stricken and spitten of God and afflicted, but he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised, or we could say crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. His chastisement brought us peace. And with his stripes we are healed. This is why he came. This is the whole purpose. Let me give you a few principles of application from this, and we'll be done. The wise men are really an example to us of how we should diligently see Christ. We should be seeking Christ all the time. We should be seeking him every day. You say, well, I'm already saved. Well, good, you're just starting then. We should seek Him for salvation. Let me tell you something. If God has opened your eyes to see the beauty of the kingdom and the beauty of Christ, that's one step. Now you need to seek and make sure you know Jesus Christ as your Savior. Make sure seek him. The Bible says we'll find him if we seek him with all of our heart And if you have any desire within you at all to see Christ, even that is not of you, that's of God. That's like a little flame. You better just fan that flame. And seek Christ. This is what these men were doing. Seek him with all your heart. And then you say, well, I'm saved. Well then you just continue to seek him. We seek him every day of our life. We seek to be more like him. We seek to worship him more. Here's a second lesson. You know, most people have a head knowledge of Christ and not a heart knowledge. You know, the scribes and the Pharisees, they all knew about the Messiah. They were smart. They had PhDs. They had religious knowledge. You know, I know a lot of people that are incredibly smart. They just have no heart for Christ. I mean when I say smart, I mean smart about religious things. They can quote you the Bible. They know all about it. They can give you the prophecies of the Bible. They can tell you all about this. They are scholarly when it comes to the Bible. They're very academic. You know, the problem is their heart is just cold. They have no heart knowledge of Christ. We need to guard against this, becoming cold and apathetic like the people in Jerusalem. The third lesson I see in this is that those who would truly worship Christ, you need to acknowledge him as King. You don't come to Christ Bartering about your salvation. You know, I hear people say this all the time. Well, you know, I'm ready to accept Jesus as my Savior. I just don't want him as Lord. You don't divide Christ stuff like that. You you acknowledge him as King, as Lord, and you repent of your sin and you turn to him and you bow to him. You don't barter with him and say, you know, Jesus, I'll let you have this part of my life, but the other part I got to keep for myself. That's someone who doesn't have genuine repentance or genuine faith. You don't barter with him. You acknowledge him as your king. And you surrender to him. Number four, we have to clearly point the way to Christ, just like we see here in this passage. And then number five. I like this one. God takes care of his children with unexpected resources. You know, right after this, Mary and Joseph have to go to Egypt to flee from the wrath of Herod. God Speaks to them in a dream in verse thirteen and says, you know, take the young child and his mother, flee into Egypt and and and be there until I bring you word, for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him. And so they they run and they go From there to Egypt. Question, here this is a poor family. How are they going to get to Egypt? I mean I just went to Egypt, it's expensive. Where are they going to get the money to do this? Well, they just got a bunch of gold. They just got a bunch of frankincense, which is pretty expensive in myrrh They had enough there to take care of them for a long time. And this tells me that God takes care of his children with unexpected resources. And I just want you to be encouraged, beloved, that God will take care of you. He will always take care of you. And then number six, finally, this is the last thing. Worship is giving Christ the best you have to offer. The best. Please don't give Christ your leftovers around Christmas. And this is what we typically do. You know, we We finish shopping, eating, attending all the parties, putting up decorations. And if we have time, we kind of squeeze in a little bit of worship here and there. You're totally missing it. Christmas is all about giving Christ the best we have. Worshiping Him is giving Him the best that we have. When worship interferes with your plans, you don't have the right heart. Christ is to be preeminent. He's to have first place. Give Christ your best. Give him your best. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for this beautiful narrative and the things that we learn from it. And we can't help but be in admiration of these wise men, these kings, who study diligently The revelation that they had received, it wasn't a full revelation, but the bits and pieces, Lord, that they received, they responded to. And they responded with great effort and great diligence, great expense to seek the Messiah, the Christ child. And not just to seek him, but to worship him and to give to him honor and glory and praise. What a beautiful example they are to us. And Lord, help us to examine our own heart. And I would say, Lord, make my heart the heart uh like these men that pursue Christ. sacrificially, passionately to truly worship him. And Father, I pray if there's someone here today that's never trusted Jesus as Savior and Lord, That today, Lord, would be their day of salvation, their day of visitation when they truly see the beauty of Christ That he came to die for them and that they would reach out in faith. And beloved, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I don't want to embarrass you, but I don't want to to close out our service without giving you the opportunity to respond where you are. Would you be willing? at this moment to confess, you know, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior. I've always heard about him. I've I've read about the Christmas story. But it's all knowledge that's in my head. I've never with my heart opened it up and said, Jesus, be my Savior and my Lord. This is your opportunity right now. It's not an accident that you're here. It's not an accident that you're hearing this word at this moment. This is God's appointed time. The question is, what are you going to do about that? Will you trust him? Just reach out in prayer. Very simple prayer. God be merciful to me, sinner. Save me, Lord. Save me. Pray that and mean it. And if you do, would you please let us know. We want to pray for you. We want to encourage you in the Christian faith. Father, thank you for again this passage. Let it resonate in our mind and our heart all through the season. And all through our life, may Christ be the object of our worship more and more. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.