John, would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter twenty-one. For the next few weeks I want to kind of get into the Passion Week. You know, in the Christian life we all need to stay focused on Jesus Christ and Focus on the cross and what he did for us. And I think as we approach Easter, we kind of need to ramp that up a little bit, don't we? We need to think about what Jesus went through in that final week of his earthly ministry, the week that is called the Passion Week. And so I want us to do that to Sunday night and then next Sunday morning and next Sunday night and then on Good Friday and then the following Sunday. I'm just going to be focusing on all that took place there and what the gospel tells us about this final week of the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we look at Matthew chapter 21, and I just want you to look at one verse I'll read, and we're going to look at several verses, but just to start it off, we'll read one verse, verse number. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? is this? And the multitude said, this is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. Now this is the most crucial question in all the world. Who is this? Who is Jesus Christ? Is he all that he claimed to be? Well, the answer of the scripture and the Gospel of Matthew answers yes with a resounding yes, he is all that he claimed to be. the Son of God. He is the Messiah, the one who has come to sit upon the throne of David. But this is a matter that every person has to settle in their own heart. Because the if he is who he claims to be, that means everything that Jesus said was true. And if that is the case, that means that there's only one way to heaven, because Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father but by me. That means the exclusive nature of the gospel then is true. There are a lot of people that can't accept that idea today. They want to think that there's many ways to heaven, that the Christianity might be the best way, but there are other ways, and that simply is not the case. Jesus made it very clear. In John chapter 10, Jesus said this. So Jesus again said to them, Truly, truly, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. All who came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not listen to them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. And so, again, if Jesus is all he claimed to be and he is, that means everything that he said was true. And Jesus made it very clear that there's only one way to salvation, and that was through Jesus Christ. Christ. He is the door. Now with all that in mind, I want you to see that Matthew does his best in this gospel to br to just give evidences one after another regarding the claims of Jesus Christ. And this, especially, I think, in during the Passion Week, Matthew kind of ramps that up. Because again, remember, he's writing this gospel to the nation of Israel to the Jewish people primarily, and he is pleading with them to believe on Jesus Christ, to believe the claims that Jesus made with respect to the fact that he is the Messiah, the Son of David. And so in the Passion Week, Matthew just lays out all kinds of evidences that support the claim of Jesus Christ And so we're going to look at this week. On Sunday is the triumphal entry. On Monday, he cleanses the temple and he curses the fig tree. On Tuesday, he has a controversy with the religious leaders. On Wednesday is apparently is a day of rest. And then on Thursday it's the preparation for the Passover. And then on Friday early in the morning, uh right after the Passover meal, Friday early, there is the uh the uh the tr the trial of Jesus and and then finally we know on uh Friday uh evening there's the crucifixion uh actually Friday afternoon Friday evening the crucifix And then Sunday Jesus is raised from the dead. But another way to look at this is that Matthew presents all these events that happen, we could say, in groups of three. It's a good way to remember it. In chapter 22, Jesus will answer three questions posed to him, and Matthew records this. One question from the Herodians is a political question. One question from the Sadducees, a doctrinal question. One question from the Pharisees, which is a legal question. And that's followed by three sermons, we could say, or three discourses that Jesus gives from chapters 23 to chapter 26 of Matthew One sermon is condemning the Pharisees. One sermon is explaining the future. That's the great Mount Olivet discourse. And then one sermon preparing the disciples for the cross. And that's followed by three trials. that Jesus will have in chapter 26 and 27. One trial before Caiaphas and the Jewish Council, one trial before the council in the morning, and then one trial before Pilate, which leads to his crucifixion. But before all that, there are three signs that Jesus will give uh to all of the nation of Israel that he is the Son of God and the Messiah. One sign he will give is as the king. As the king he will present himself. He claims the throne. And we see this in chapter 21, verses 1 to 11. And then one sign will be as the great high priest, the great priest Jesus. What will he do after that? He will cleanse the temple. What he basically is saying is the temple's mine. I take ownership of it, and I'm going to cleanse this temple. That's a sign as the priest. He he gives a sign as a king. He gives a sign as a priest. And then he'll give a sign as a prophet, and what does he do? He curses the fig tree. Uh that was kind of a uh uh a an enacted parable where where the fig tree represents Israel The fig tree may have a lot of leaves and a lot of foliage, but there's no fruit. And the cursing of the f fig tree is a symbolic gesture by Jesus to say that he sees no fruit in Israel, no fruit of repentance, primarily in the nation of Israel. And so these are signs that show that he is The Son of God. He gives a sign as of king. He gives a sign as a priest. He gives a sign as a prophet. He is prophet, priests, and king. But I want us to focus tonight on the one Sain, and that is the one that initiates this Passion Week, and that is his entry into Jerusalem Um, in his entry into Jerusalem, Matthew is going to again point out one evidence after another as to the claim about Jesus being the Messiah, the King. The first thing you could write down is the final preparation of the King. And we see this in verses 1 to 3. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were coming to Bethage, or some pronounce this Bethegy. I think those around Israel pronounce it Bethegye, so I'll go with that And unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus to disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her, loose them, and bring them unto me. So here Jesus is preparing to officially present himself as the king. And this is in fact the major theme of the whole book of Matthew. This is what Matthew is trying to point out from the very beginning of his gospel. He wants to prove this one claim. And like a lawyer, Matthew is just compiling all kind of evidence, and we see this all through his gospel. In chapter one, he gives the testimony of history. He starts out with the genealogy of Jesus and uh shows that he's the the only legitimate uh heir to the th throne of David, that he was also born of a virgin And then there's a testimony of prophecy in chapter 2. Jesus fulfills Old Testament prophecies, as Matthew will point out. And then in chapter 3, there's a testimony of John the Baptist. The forerunner and also God the Father who says, this is my beloved son. And then when you get to chapter 4, there's a testimony of Jesus' power. And then in chapter 5 and through 7, there is the testimony of Jesus' words himself. That's the great Sermon on the Mount And then chapters eight and nine is the testimony of his works, his miracles. Matthew just gives a small sample of all of his mirac of some of his miracles that shows that Jesus has the authority of heaven with authority. And then in chapter 10, yeah, the testimony of his disciples himself, who bear witness that Jesus is who he claimed to be. And then when you get to chapter 11 and 12, Matthew records the response of the people, the verdict of the people. And what is the verdict? Well, he gives a series of negative responses. Because there were some people that just simply did not believe. And they were rejecting the signs. They were rejecting the words of Jesus. To put it another way, the revelation of the king being complete in chapters 1 through 10, Matthew shows the rebellion against the king in chapters 11 and 13. And then and by the way in chapter twelve that's where they uh they they say that Jesus does power or does miracles in the power of who? Of Beelzebub. And that was the ultimate rejection of Jesus. So you get to chapter 14, you have the withdrawal of Jesus, the retirement, we could say, of the king. John the Baptist is beheaded. which is kind of a uh pointing on which the way things are going. People are rejecting Jesus. They rejected the Forerunner. If they if they beheaded the Forerunner What are they going to do to the king himself? And so Jesus kind of withdraws from the crowds. He stops preaching that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He begins to focus on his disciples and to get them ready for the fact that he's going to die. And not only will he die, but he will after three days come out of that grave. And then you get to chapter 18, where we can call this the resolve of the king, where Jesus sets his face to go to Jerusalem. To fulfill the mission for which he came into this world, and that is to be the sacrifice for sins, to take care of the sins of the world. And so all along the ministry of Jesus, there's been enough evidence to prove all these claims that he is the Messiah. But here in chapter 21, Matthew is going to give us yet more evidence as to that. And what we see here is that there is still a spiritual blindness in Israel. Specifically in Jerusalem, the people are still blind. You could say willfully blind. The religious leaders in particular are willfully blind in respect to who Jesus is. But here in chapter 21, Jesus begins preparation to present himself officially as Israel's Messiah. Now, this was the only time in his ministry that Jesus actually planned and promoted a public demonstration. Up until this time, Jesus was cautioning people around him, saying, look. My time has not yet come. There were a lot of people that wanted Jesus to take more center stage, but Jesus didn't do that. He said on purpose, you know, look, my time hasn't come. My hour hasn't come After he'd do a miracle, people would want to uh you know have more of a public proclamation about who Jesus is, and Jesus again would say, Look, it's not my time yet. It's not my time yet. He would constantly shy away from that And then, however, things change now where Jesus says just before uh this triumphal entry, the Bible says in John 12, 23, Jesus says the hour has come. It's time now that the Son of Man should be glorified. It's time now to present myself to the nation as the Messiah. So now he's planning this public demonstration. It's time to make the claim and uh to for him to be officially presented. So notice the plan for his disciples. In verse number one through three, we see Jesus telling them what to do. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, they were come to Bethegy unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus to disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway Ye shall find an ass tied in a colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me. Bethage was a little village between Jerusalem and Bethany. It means house of figs. That was because of the abundance of figs produced in this region. A person traveling to Jerusalem headed east would first come to Bethany and then pass through to Bethegy on the slope of the Mount of Olives. And Jesus stopped first at Bethany and he spent the night there with Mary and Martha and Lazarus. This was the Lazarus that Jesus resurrected from the dead in Bethany. And in fact John twelve says that there was no secret that Jesus was in Bethany, the people knew it, and it and it spread, and many people came to him. They wanted to see Jesus, but they also wanted to see Lazarus. It tells us in John John twelve. I mean if a guy resurrected from the dead, wouldn't you like to meet him? I mean if he died and then came back to life. By the way, John Chester, is he here tonight? But I mean, wouldn't you like to see someone who Jesus resurrected from the dead? I mean that was the idea here. And so there was a lot of tension in the air. This was a highly charged atmosphere. Many people uh believed, but the religious leaders were enraged. And so Jesus begins his journey to Jerusalem And he sends two disciples ahead to Bethlehem. And notice in verses two and three, he says, go to this village. You're going to find a tie a colt tied there. No man ever sat on this colt. Loose him and bring them to me. If any man says what are you doing, then you just say the Lord has need of them. And verse number three. And so Matthew said, you know, says you're going to find this colt, the mother of a uh uh of the colt of a donkey, this one little foal that has never been ridden. Uh it's as if this little cult was created just for this one specific purpose to Bear this rider, this great rider, the King of Kings. He was carried in the womb of a m of a woman who never knew a man. He'll ride on the back of a colt that had never been ridden. He'll be buried in a tomb where no one had ever been laid. All of this speaks of sacred use In the Old Testament, when an animal was put to sacred use, it had to be one which had not been already used for something else. And that's what we find here. And then we see the proof of his deity. Notice where it says Jesus said, if any man say aught unto you, then you'll say to him, The Lord has need of him. How did Jesus know that this would happen? How did Jesus know that there would be a cult there that had never been ridden on? How did he know that someone would, you know, ask that question? And I think all of this shows uh um gives us a glimpse uh a glimpse of the The divine omniscience of our Lord, who knows all things. There's many things about God that cause me just to be in all of Him, but one of these things is God's omniscience. That God knows everything. He knows everything about everybody. I just was kind of made clear to me, you know, you ever fly into a city uh uh maybe at night and as you're flying and you're landing you see all those thousands and thousands of lights and you know that behind those lights there are people living in houses And the thought always comes to me that Jesus knows every person behind those doors. He knows every person in those in those houses. Not only does he know them all, he the very hairs of their head are numbered. And he knows all of their thoughts before they ever think them. I mean that just blows me away in my mind. Did you ever think about that? I mean that the Lord has this incredible omniscience. He knows everything. He knows where you are, he knows what you're thinking, he knows what you're going to say. And we see a little glimpse of this omniscience from our Lord Jesus here. The Bible says in John 2. 25 that he needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man. He knows everything about you. He knows what is in you. He knows what you're going to think. Remember in John 1 uh when when uh Philip was reporting to his friend Nathaniel that he found the Messiah and then uh it was Jesus of Nazareth and N Nathaniel said, you know, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? And Philip said, Well won't you come and see and find out for yourself And when Jesus came and Nathaniel saw them coming, Jesus said, Behold, an Israelite indeed in whom there is no guile And Jesus revealed that he saw Nathaniel under the fig tree, reading the scripture, reading the passage in the Old Testament, in the book of Genesis about Jacob and Jacob's ladder. And Jesus kind of revealed all that knowledge, and Nathaniel was blown away by that. And he said, you know, truly you are the Son of God. And Jesus said, you know, you're going to see more than just that. Because I tell you this, you believe that? And he said this. He said, You shall see the heavens open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Jesus revealed that he had supernatural knowledge. That he is completely omniscient. Now, friend, that should be a comfort to all of us. I know that nowadays, uh, if you if you ever doubt that God knows everything, just remember this that Did you know that if you have an iPhone now, everybody you know people know where you are? They can you know you're never really ever hidden. And that information is all out there. People know everything about you. I don't I want to spook you here tonight, all right But, you know, just because of technology nowadays is just amazing. You're never really hidden unless you just throw This thing away or turn it off, but even then. But if man can do that, is it a hard thing for God to know everything about us? No, not at all. And so we see a glimpse of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we see the final preparation of the king, but secondly, the fulfilled prophecy. Verse four And all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold thy king cometh unto thee meek and sitting upon an ass, and the colt full of an ass And so Matthew, again, in his gospel, is just very consistent in pointing out all the times that during Jesus' earthly ministry when he fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. Scholars call this the fulfillment citation. Matthew is constantly saying, hey, you remember what the Old Testament said? Jesus is fulfilling exactly what the Old Testament prophets predicted. Each time Matthew points back to the Old Testament, he's adding more evidence as to the claim of Jesus Christ. And we see this expression many times in the Gospel of Matthew that it m that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Propheting. Here is yet another prophecy that Matthew points to that says, Jesus fulfilled this prophecy. And this again is evidence that he is the Son of God. But notice the particular of this prophecy. He's quoting specifically from Zechariah 9. 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation. humble and mounted upon a donkey, even on a coat, the foal of the donkey. And this prophecy refers especially to the Messiah in his humiliation. Daughter of Zion refers to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, sometimes referred to as Zion, because Zion was the city's prominent hill there in Jerusalem. And so the prophecy quoted here in verse 5 had been given 500 years earlier by Zachariah. the prophet. And it again says that when the Messiah comes, he'll come gentle and humble, mounted upon a donkey. Now this would be unusual in Jesus' day. You know why? Because around the time of Solomon, a donkey was considered a lowly animal, a ridden only by a person of no rank. or of no position. Kings and warriors and peace people of prominence at that time they would ride a horse Especially a king would ride a white horse. So it seems inappropriate that any king, much less the king of kings, would present himself upon this lowly animal. I mean, why not a white horse Well, this is what God's prophet predicted: that when he came to present himself, he would be riding upon a lowly animal. A donkey was considered a beast of burden An animal of peace, not an animal of war. And we see here the purpose of the prophecy. Riding a donkey into Jerusalem was not a put down by um I but it was rather it was the sovereign choice of God the Father. And really what does it say about his son that and really it's appropriate when you think about it because The one who would bear the burden of the whole world, the burden of sin for the whole world, was presenting himself coming into Jerusalem, riding on a beast of burden. It's appropriate when you think of it that way. He would be the sin bearer. He would bear the burdens of all of our sins. Isaiah prophesied about the suffering servant Messiah. He wrote that the Lord would lay upon him the iniquity of us all. All of our sins would be laid upon Jesus And so there's a sense in which there's an appropriateness into the way in which Jesus is presented here. By the way, one day he will come on a white horse. The King of Kings and Lord of Lords. But here at his first advent, he's coming on an animal of peace because he wants to bring peace between God and man. So we see then the final preparation of the king, the fulfilled prophecy of the king. But then here's the third thing. The formal presentation of the king. Because look in verse number six. And the disciples went out and went and did as Jesus commanded them and brought the ass in the cold and put on them their clothes. And he sat thereon. So here is Jesus being officially presented. Notice the placement that we see here in verse number 7. They make a saddle from their garments And they set Jesus on this colt. And again, this is the humble coronation of Jesus the King. Think about it. Of all the coronations that have ever been held in the world's history to honor a monarch, no monarch deserved greater honor and glory than Jesus Christ. Christ. And yet there's no coronation with more humility than this one right here. This humble coronation. It doesn't look like much. But it reveals him as the divine creator who has control over his creation. This unbroken cult receives Jesus. The colt received Jesus on his back without bucking. You know, Jesus came unto his own, but his own received him not. But here this humble animal receives Jesus. It's as if this animal knows who he is. Then we see the parade. Look at verse number eight. And a very great Multi and very great multitudes spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches from the trees and straw them in the way. Jesus begins his ride towards Jerusalem, and afraid of people follow. He comes to the crest of the hill of Mount Olives. He can look east and see the city of Jerusalem, just as he crests the hill, and then he'll begin that descent down into the city of Jerusalem. on the western slope and as he begins to descend uh people begin to uh see him coming in the crowd Well, there's a crowd of people around them, if you can picture this in your mind. Just a a a great crowd of people, people from Bethany, people from Bethegy. And uh the closer he gets to Jerusalem, the bigger the crowd gets. Uh John's gospel tells us that some people on the inside heard about what was going inside the city heard about what was going on, and they ran out of the eastern gate and ran up to the hill to greet and to see Jesus who was coming in. Some scholars estimate that as many as two hundred thousand people could have been there. That's a that's a huge crowd These are the people that saw Jesus do his mighty works. In that crowd, there are people that Jesus healed. In that crowd, there is Mary and Martha and Lazarus. Each one of these people probably has a testimony of something that Jesus did in their life. And the Bible says in verse 8, and a very great multitude spread their garments in the way. Now this is an old custom, an ancient custom, and it's described in 2 Kings 9. 13, when you would throw your garments sometimes at uh the feet of a king, uh You know, here's Jesus riding this animal, or sometimes they would throw themselves at the feet of the king. Well, if he's riding an animal, you don't want to throw yourself in front of the animal, right? So instead they would throw their garments, and this symbolized that we are submitted to you We are submitted to you. By the way, that's why thrones were elevated back then because Because you would always bring yourself to the feet of a king, symbolizing submission. And so they were saying, you know, we place ourselves under your feet. We submit to your authority. In verse 9, notice what it says, and the multitudes that went out, went before, and that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. They all begin to praise him. And what are they quoting from? They're quoting from Psalm 118, verse 22 to verse 27. It was a beatitude to be addressed to the king as he approaches the temple. So they're quoting the appropriate verse here, Psalm 118, and the crowd they kind of modified it slightly by saying, Blessed the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Now at this point the crowd that accompanied Jesus out of Bethany is not the only one that participated in the activities. Again, that's when the people in Jerusalem, hear about what's going on and they come out and they also get involved in the excitement about what was going on there. during that time. John twelve, verses twelve to fourteen, you might want to write in your margin. It says, And the next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, so they took branches of palm trees. And went out to meet him, crying, Hosanna, Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord, even the king of Israel. And um and then in verse eighteen of John twelve it says, The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard that he had done this sign. So again it was estimated about two hundred thousand people and they're cutting down palm branches and now they're throwing them in the way in the path. Because again, uh this symbolizes joy. This spoke of the glory of God. This spoke of the the t uh the uh the the uh feast of the tabernacles where they built booths and they would decorate them with palm leaves. It symbolized God's glory in the wilderness. And Matthew tells us that these were poems taken from the trees in the field. And so they were welcoming the Messiah. They were saying, Save now! You say, wow, all of that is great. Well, it was kind of superficial, to be honest with you. Not everyone who gets caught up in the excitement of something going on is really genuine. Because there was only a handful that truly believed. In fact, these same people, we'll find out later on, these same people will turn against Jesus Some of these same people, and they will cry, crucify him. But we notice the people, look in verse number ten. And when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? This this kind of shows you it was a a bit superficial. They're crying this out, but then they're saying, Who is it? They're kind of getting, you know, kind of like some of these protesters who get out there and protest and when they're interviewed they say, What are you protesting? They'll say, well, you know, just anything in general. Just whatever. I'm just against something. I saw the excitement, wanted to be a part of it. That's kind of what's going on here. Here's this crowd, and and they don't really know who Jesus is. They're like many professing Christians today. They have this shallow, superficial faith that is a result of being caught up in an emotion instead of really truly repenting. As soon as they finish proclaiming Jesus as the Son of David, they they go back into the city. And the Bible says in verse ten that the city was moved. That's a word uh sometimes translated earthquake. I mean it was a shaking event. And the people are asking, Who is this? Who is this? Again, that reveals their superficial faith. And then the response in verse 11, the multitude said, This is Jesus the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. They did not comprehend who he was And this shows it. They're no longer calling him the son of David. Later, some of these same ones will cry, crucify him. Him. They were spiritually blind. They should have known who he was if they knew the scripture. They should have known that this day, this very day, was on God's prophetic calendar. They should have understood that. This was a huge day. In fact Luke points it out the way he phrases it in Luke nineteen forty three when he says, J this is thy day, when Jesus is talking about what's going on and he talks to the people and says, you know, you You didn't really recognize this thy day. This day was predicted in Daniel chapter 9, verse 26. After threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off. And Daniel prophesied that from the decree of Artaxerxes to the time of the Messiah would come to Jerusalem and be cut off would be a total of 69 weeks or 69, 7-year periods. That means that would be 483 years. Remember a Jewish year was three hundred and sixty days, not three hundred and sixty-five. So if you do the math, 173,880 days from the decree of Art of Xerxes, if you do the math, you'll find out that this was the very day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem. This day was prophesied in the Old Testament. So when they're asking the question, who is this? They should have known. By the way, Psalm twenty-four answers that question. Who is this? This is the King of Glory. This is the King of Glory. But sadly the multitude of pilgrims and worshippers there in Jerusalem that day were blind. And this was a cause of grief for our Lord. In fact, just uh let me go to another gospel here. Go to Luke chapter 19. We're talking about all this is on Sunday that begins the Passion Week. And Luke chapter 19, look down at verse number 39. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. Verse 40, and he answered, and he said unto them, I tell you that if these should be held hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. We see here the rage of the Pharisees. As all this is going on and people are crying out Hosanna and all these other things, blessed be the king that comes in the name of the Lord. The Pharisees can't stand this. They hated Jesus. And to them, this was blasphemy because they did not believe that he was the Son of God. They didn't believe that he was the Messiah. They can't deal with the crowd. That's too massive. They didn't want to anger the crowd. They didn't try to silence the crowd. So they come directly to Jesus and they say, hey, you silence these people. Listen to what they're saying about you. And notice the response of Jesus in verse number 40. Again, he says, and he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. Jesus knew that the worship and praise he was receiving from the people, he knew that it was superficial, but there's a sense in which he approves what was going on because he was all that he claimed to be. He was the Son of God. Now, when he says, if these are silent, the stones would cry out. This is uh this is future indicative. We could say it like this when these people are sil are silent, the stones will cry out. There's a sense in which Jesus is telling them, look, these people are going to be silent, they are going to grow silent, and when they do become silent, the stones will cry out and they will bear witness as to who I am. That's the idea here, because again it's future indicative. Because not long after this, this same crowd, they will get silent. And the stones will cry out. Now what stones are they? I think that when Jesus was crucified, the Bible says the rocks rent. And I think it was the stones crying out, This is the Son of God. It could also be a a sense in which when the stones of the of the temple in Jerusalem were ripped apart By the Romans who would come years later and destroy the temple, there's a sense in which those stones were crying out that Jesus was the Son of God. But notice in verse number 41, notice what it says, and when he was come near, he beheld the city, and he wept over it. Jesus weeps over it. With the city in full view, the pilgrims all around him, as he approaches the city, Jesus begins to weep. Now surely the multitudes, all the people, they must have been stunned. The word for weep here is not a quiet weeping, but this is a it's the strongest word in the Greek language for weeping. The same word used when Jesus wept at the grave of Lazarus. This is a loud lament, an external expression of great grief. And why does Jesus weep here at this point? And that's because of the people's rejection of him. He knew that their celebration was superficial. He knew that except for a small remnant of people, that most of the people there had rejected him. And uh so notice in verse number forty-two, saying, as he wept, he says this, saying, If thou hast known, even thou at the least in this city, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. He's not talking about peace with Rome or political peace. He's talking about peace with God. Repentance, believing in Him. How to come to the kingdom of God through faith and repentance from sin. He had preached all of his earthly ministry. For people to repent and to believe on Jesus. But now he says they're hid from thine eyes. The opportunity is pretty much Gone. What was he talking about there? He was talking about their own blindness and their own unbelief. Because of their own unbelief, because of their own hardness of heart, because of their own stubbornness, now these things are hidden from their eyes. And so then Jesus predict what's going to happen. Look at verse 43. For the day shall come upon thee that the enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee on every side, and shall Lay thee even with the ground and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knew not the time of thy visitation. And here Jesus is making a prediction of something that will happen to the city of Jerusalem and to the temple as a result of the hardness of heart by the majority of people there. What will take place to the in this city? What will take place in the nation of Israel? Well, there's going to be a great judgment And Jesus is making a prophecy about a future judgment. What does he say is going to happen? Well, someone's going to come and they're going to cast a trench around you. Now when you wanted to conquer a city in ancient days, that's the first thing you would do. You would go and you would you would build a trench around the walls. Uh you would kind of put a siege against the city, you would put barracks against the city. Uh why to starve the people That's exactly what happened in 70 A. D. when the Romans came to Jerusalem. In verse 43, they kept the city shut up. As Jesus said in verse number 43, come past thee roundabout and keep thee in on every side. The city is sealed off from supplies. No one can go out. No one can come in. And the people in there were starving. Verse 44, notice they shall not leave one stone upon another. You could say those are the stones crying out. These stones are ripped apart. And and Josephus tells us that when the Romans set the the the temple on fire, that the fire was so hot that it melted the gold dome of the t of the temple and that dome kinda turned to to liquid gold and and just seeped down in between the rocks of the temple and the Roman soldiers anxious to get it the spoil of this siege tore the stones apart trying to get the gold. And this was a prophecy that was literally fulfilled. as Jesus said. And he also said that they will level you level you to the ground, Jesus said. Literally they're just gonna, you know, basically you'll be shattered against the ground, to smash against the ground. The siege of Jerusalem took about five months. The Romans overpowered the weakened, starving Jews, and they rampaged through the city, slaughtering everyone that they could, women and children and just everyone, except for the strongest young men which they kept and they took back to to Rome for the gladiatorial games there in Rome. They destroyed the city Everything except the Western Wailing Wall, which was really a a foundational comp part of a wall that was a foundation upon which the temple was built. Uh it was really part of the complex, the foundation of the complex there. It wasn't really part of the temple. But all these things happened. Josephus stated that over one million Jews died in the destruction of Jerusalem. Why? Because in verse 44, Jesus said, Because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. The visitation, what visitation? The time when God incarnate came to them. When the truth personified walked among them, when they saw great miracles and heard the words of Jesus, rather than submitting and repenting, they hardened their heart. And as a result, they paid a serious punishment. All the evidence was there. It was right in front of them. Who is this? This is the Messiah. This is Jesus. Jesus. This is God's Son. This is the Savior. And you need to repent and you need to put your faith and your trust in Him. And what is the message of this? Well, there's a serious judgment when you don't Receive Jesus. There's a serious judgment when you in sovereign unbelief push him away. You can't just do that and walk away. God will hold you accountable. Now, friend, just as surely as Jesus came the first time to the Mount of Olives, you know what the Bible says? He's coming again. Second time to the man of Olives. Don't doubt it. This time he will be riding a white horse. This time he will come as a warrior And he'll put down sin. There is still time to repent until he comes, but friend, just as surely as Jesus came the first time, Jesus will come again And the Bible says in Zachariah, same Old Testament prophet who prophesied Jesus would come the first time, that was literally fulfilled, right? Well he prophesied that he's going to come again the second time. And why should we doubt that it's not going to be literally fulfilled And Zechariah 14, 4, on that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall be split in two from east to west By a very wide valley, so that one half of the mountain shall be moved northward, the other half southward. The Bible says he will come again. He will step down there on Mount of Olives, then it's going to split in half And he will present himself as the king. You believe it? Yeah, he's coming again. And so we need to be ready. Next time he comes, again, he's not going to be the lowly, meek savior. He will be the mighty sovereign king. Coming to judge this world. There's only one way to be ready, and that is through genuine repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. Christ, bowing to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. So this is the first day of the week of Passion when Jesus comes to present himself. We'll be looking at the other events that take place right after this because again, Matthew is so very clear in the way he lays it out, all the things that took place during This week that literally changed the world. That was the culmination of redemptive history. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, we uh we're so thankful for the Word of God And the gospels that tell us all about our Savior. And Lord, as we approach the celebration of the Passion Week, when we remember all of what our Savior did for us. All the suffering for sin. And it didn't really begin at the cross, it really began at the beginning of this week. All what Jesus would have to bear. All the emotional toil, all of the rejection, all of the all of the the animosity that Jesus would deal with all throughout that week As he set his face, the Bible tells us, Father, as uh as a flint, as determined to go to Jerusalem and to die for He would would not be detracted or or distracted in any way from doing the thing that you sent him to do. And Lord, we're humbled by that. Our only hope is Christ. And Father, I pray that as we Begin to think about this Passion Week, Lord, that as we meditate upon the sufferings of Christ, that you'll use it, Father, to draw us near to you. And Lord, that it would inspire us to pick up our cross and follow our Savior. That, Lord, your love to us, your incredible love, demands our fullest devotion. and fullest commitment. So Lord, speak to us through your word, and may it be so in all of our hearts that we would pick up the cross and follow our Savior. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name