Take God's word tonight, please. Open to the book of Philippians. As you know on Sunday night we've been looking at Philippians and we just finished chapter one and now we're going to jump into chapter two. And this is a beautiful passage of scripture. One of the one of the great Christological passages in all of the New Testament. Just read verse number one with me if they're Be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship with the Spirit, if any vows and mercies Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Verse 5: Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus Now, in the ancient world, the Greeks told a haunting story about a young man by the name of narcissist. He was strikingly handsome. So much so that when he saw his own reflection in a pool one day, he was unable to pull himself away from that reflection. He became utterly captivated by his own beauty. And according to the myth, narcissists eventually died there, consumed not by any external enemy, but by his own selfish obsession. Narcissism, therefore, is the term that we get based on this story of narcissists who was fixated with his own self. And the tragedy of this story of narcissists is more than just the tale in the distant past. This is an issue that we deal with in our culture, in our world today. In 1979, Christopher Latch wrote a best-selling book. The title of the book was called The Culture of Narcissism. And uh this was a book where he basically examined and evaluated the American culture and he concluded in the book that the dominating characteristic of American society and American conculture is narcissism. Uh he talked about people focusing on their own lives so much so that they forget everyone else around them. That even includes generations forgetting about the past generation or the previous generation just of living basically for themselves. And the result of this incredible selfishness is the breakdown of relationships. But we could also say it's a spiritual issue. There's an emptiness that comes with it. It is a self-love, a selfishness on the highest level. Now let me just say that this is not just an American cultural phenomenon. This is something that is all over the world. In fact, let me go back farther than uh 1979 or even the story uh and the Greek myth. We can go all the way back to the Garden of Eden. If you want to know where narcissism began, it began in the Garden of Eden. Right after the sin that was committed when Adam and Eve disobeyed God, they were filled with an inordinate self-love. And they became fixated and focused on themselves. Selfishness, by the way, you say, well, who is a narcissist? Now don't get mad at me, but tonight when you go home and you look in the mirror, I want you to see a good narcissist. Because all of us struggle with the sin of self-love. We all struggle with the sin of selfishness. I know y'all look so holy tonight. But it's a reality. But let me let me just make it personal. I struggle with selfishness. The biggest enemy that I face is the one that I have to deal with every morning when I look in the mirror. That's the person that gives me more trouble than anyone else. If I can just deal with that guy, if I can take care of that guy, then a lot of my problems will fall away. My problem is self-love. I love myself too much. I need to learn to obey more the command of Christ, to deny myself, to take up the cross, and to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. But this is one of the greatest problems that we have. in our society today is selfishness. I have counseled for many years as a pastor and I want to tell you that the one problem that has destroyed more homes and more marriages is selfishness. The thing that has destroyed churches is selfishness. It has broken up marriages, it has broken up churches, it has destroyed relationships, it has brought misery into the lives of people. When you think about it, again, we can go back to the Garden of Eden, but let me just give it a a step farther. We can actually go back Farther than that, and say that narcissism or self-love was the first sin that was ever committed, and it was committed by Lucifer in heaven. Remember the Bible says Lucifer was God's beautiful creation. It was one of his archangels. The Bible describes us of Lucifer in Ezekiel chapter 28 in the Bible in describing him said that he was he seals up the sum. In other words, he was perfect in beauty. There was nothing more beautiful than Him. He was a perfect ten, we would say. Full of wisdom, perfect in beauty, the Bible says And Ezekiel chapter twenty-eight. And is and evidently Lucifer knew that and he was filled up with pride, so much so that he decided that he could challenge the authority of God. And as you know, the Bible tells us that he was He was uh booted out of heaven. He was excommunicated out of heaven. And so it is a sin that God hates. But yet it's a sin That seems to be embraced in our world and in our society. Did you ever notice that we live in a world that encourages self-love? In fact, Madison Avenue makes billions of dollars by appealing to this innate, selfish desire that resides in all of fallen men. For example, we we uh we hear slogans like Have it your way. Have it your way. Or you deserve a break today. Or just in general, you deserve it. Or here's another one: looking out for number one. Or I owe it to myself. We hear all those kind of slogans and more like that. That is the world, a culture that is appealing to man's innate narcissism or self-love in order to make sales. I notice that even in pastoring when people look for a church, the number thing they look for, the thing, the question that is on their mind that they want answered is, what can you do for me? What can you do for me? Not how can I serve the church or God's leading or you know where can I jump in? But what can you do for me. Almost as if I've been shopping around for churches and I've been looking in this area and this church here offers me this, this, and this. And they search for a church the way a consumer searches for a product at Walmart. All of this is selfishness. All of this is an innate self-love. And let me just tell you that it's exceedingly sinful to Almighty God. Scripture calls us to a radically different way of life. And again, we see this here in Philippians chapter 2. What Paul is going to do here in Philippians chapter 2 is hold up the greatest example of selflessness That the world has ever seen. And the key verse in this whole section is verse number five. We read it a minute ago, but I want you to read it again. Look at verse number five. Let this mind be in you which is also in which was also in Christ Jesus. This uh this is the cure for narcissism It's not the exaltation of self. It is not going around trying to point out everyone who is a narcissist and go on a tangent against them and point out all that the the qualities of a narcissist. That's not going to cure anything. And by the way, people that are obsessed with that are the biggest narcissists around. They seek to try to make everyone else look bad so it makes them look better, and that's all about self What's Paul's cure for narcissism? What does Paul do? What does he tell us to do? What's the command of verse number five in Philippians chapter 2? Let this mind be in you. Which was also in Christ Jesus. The cure is by dealing with the narcissism in my own life The way I curate is I gotta first start with me. I gotta first deal with me. And the way that I deal with me is I have to, as a believer, I have to develop the mind of Christ. So what does Paul mean when he says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus? And we're going to talk about that. But let me just give you a little background into what's going on here at the church of Philippi. Why does Paul bring up this message? of of uh Christ's mindedness or having the mind of Christ. Again, he is pointing to the cross. He's calling all the believers there in the church to follow in the pattern of Christ. Pick up the cross and follow Christ, which is a symbol the cross is a symbol of death, death to self. Why does he do this? Well, because there was a problem in the church at Philippi. There was a deep-seated issue with some people in the church, and Paul had to deal with that issue. And let me tell you how he found out about it. Remember, Paul's in a room in prison The church of Philippi was eight hundred miles away. It was a colony of Rome in Macedonia. The apostle Paul loved this church. They loved him. They found out that Paul was in a Roman prison and they were concerned about Paul. And so they sent him a love offering. They put together some gifts. And they sent it to Paul in that prison because they wanted to take care of him. And Epaphroditus came to Paul and he delivered that gift to Paul. And Paul was so grateful to receive that gift from the church. But Epaphroditus didn't just bring the gift to Paul, what he also did was he reported to Paul what was going on in the church at that time. You can imagine Paul had a lot of questions. How's the church of Philippi? Tell me how so and so and how so and so and what's going on. And if Aphroditeus was reporting to Paul some things that was very concerning. Number one, there were false teachers coming into the church from the outside. And we see that in Philippians chapter three, and we'll we'll we'll get to that as we move through the book of Philippians. But then another problem that he reported was that there were members in the church that were not getting along Look in Philippians chapter 4, and uh look in verse number 2. Philippians chapter 4, verse number 2. I beseech thee, Yodius, I beseech thee, Senechi, that they be of the same mind in the Lord. Here are two women in the church that were not getting along. Yodis, which means uh fragrant, and then also sineci, which means fortunate. And here are these two women that they could not seem to get along in the church. One country preacher pronounces their names you owe me and it's so touchy We can we can name many believers like that. Some people are just waiting around to be offended. They walk around with a religious chip on their shoulder, waiting for you to knock it off. And I enjoy knocking those chips off, by the way. But number three, what Paul does is Paul identifies the root problem. What was the root problem? It was a focus on self. Paul doesn't give a message on selfishness, basically, per se. He just basically says, don't think about yourself at all. What the Apostle Paul does here in this with this letter, addressing this issue of people in the church who weren't able to get along because there was a division brewing because these two women were unable to uh to to get along. He starts by trying to redirect their attention. You know, division starts with wrong thinking. Again, it starts when you're centered on yourself and everything has to be your way. Wrong thinking, wrong attitude. And the way you think about others. And again, it's a fixation on oneself. I I heard that in the South Sea Islands there's a bird called the Mimi bird. And the reason it's called a minibird is because it f when it flies it makes a sound Me, me, me. Now I've never been to the South Sea Islands, I've never seen that bird, but I have seen that bird in some Baptist churches that I've been a part of So Paul seeks to challenge the way they think. He wants them to think like Christ He wants to redirect it. Again, it all starts in the mind, the way you think, your whole perspective. And he wants them again to think about Jesus Christ. So he points to Christ. Right in the middle of this epistle, he points to things about Jesus Christ, hopefully by them dwelling on Christ and the things that happened in the life of Christ. It will redirect their thinking. They'll be convicted about their own self-centered perspective. And they'll learn to think of others instead of themselves And put put others in front of them. Christ laid aside his rights and privileges. He thought only of others. He descended that we might one day ascend. He became poor that we might become rich. He was born into this world that we might be born again. He became a servant that all of us would become sons. He became homeless. so that we could have an eternal home in heaven. He was hungry that we might be fed. He was thirsty that we may be made satisfied. He was stripped that we might be clothed. He was made sin in order for us to be made. righteous. All about the life of Christ was all about others and what he could do for others. And so Paul in chapter two is going to give one of the great uh Christological passages in all the New Testament. I think this is probably the best. There's a lot of great passages in the New Testament that focus on Christ. There's you know, the incarnation in John chapter one, which all focuses about Jesus being God, and then in Colossians, Jesus as the Creator, and in the book of Hebrews, Jesus is the revelation of God. But here in Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 to 11 This is all about Jesus Christ and his humiliation. How Jesus humbled himself. How Jesus focused only on other people. And again, verse 5 is the key verse. This is the verse that ties all the verses together in this whole section and these first eleven verses here. uh chapter two verses one to four look forward towards verse five and provide a description of the mind of Christ verses six through eleven look backward upon it and provide an illustration of the mind of Christ. But taken as a whole, they address the character of Christ, they address the cross of Christ, and it addresses the crown of Christ. In these verses, we learn how to have the mind of Christ, how to develop supreme selflessness. That's Paul's whole goal here. He wants us to develop this selfless, Christ-like mind. So let me just give you three steps in this that I see. Number one, cultivate the character. of Christ. We see this is in verses 1 to 4. And I would say the sub point under that would be let Christ's love motivate us. Again, look in verse 1. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ. And then if any comfort of love, and if any fellowship with the spirit, and if any vows and mercies. Now look at the if that you see there, the ifs, four times, we see the if clause, which in Greek, let me give you a little Greek lesson here, all right? This is called a first class condition in Greek. And it what it does, that type of grammar, it speaks of certainties So in this passage, we could actually be accurate if we translated it like this, since there is therefore consolation in Christ. Christ. And since there is comfort of love, and since there is fellowship with the Spirit, you get the idea Paul is reminding us of the blessings that we have being in Christ. Blessings that we get as a result of Christ loving us. Because he loves us so much. And his whole point in these wonderful blessings, by showing them to us, is that it should motivate us to be selfless ourselves. This is how God has blessed us. His consolation, the word is paraclesis, encouragement. That's the idea, the idea, excuse me, there. Jesus comes alongside and he encourages us. He exhorts us He is the one who is who lifts us up, who takes care of us in our times of discouragement and being down. Also his comfort This uh is really speaking about the Lord coming close and whispering words of gentle cheer or tender counsel in the believer's ear. You may have experienced that in a subjective way, where you may have a verse uh suddenly come to your mind. And friend, that's the comfort of Christ, reminding you of the promises of God. The Lord might use a sermon or a verse of scripture or words from a song or maybe words from another believer. Uh you know, and maybe even unbeknownst to them. You ever talk to someone and they say something to you and it kind of was like an arrow to your heart and they didn't even realize what they were saying? But it was something that God was directing to you. He was trying to convey to you. But then also his communion. If any fellowship of the Spirit, fellowship means to have in common. And this refers to a partnership provided by the Holy Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit dwells in every believer and draws us into fellowship with God, all those who love God. The instant you believe in Christ, the Holy Spirit baptizes you into the body of Christ, and we experience God's limitless love through that Holy Spirit who lives inside of us. It's a wonderful blessing. We have his communion. And then his compassion. If any bows and mercies. Again, the word bows here, spotna, it's a Greek word for your inner organs, you know, your your midsection, because in the ancient world that's where your affections was thought to come from from your m your midsection. And it has the idea of deep emotion, compassion. We would say, you know, loving with all of our heart If any bows and mercies, we have a Savior who cares very much for us. He has compassion on us. When we are hurt and troubled, he feels with us, the Bible says. We have a great high priest who is touched with the feelings of our infirmities. So we have all of these blessings. These are all yours. And Paul is reminding the believers about this. Now, here's the Apostle Paul sitting in a prison and saying, you know, I have all these things. And you have them too. So don't be discouraged. You might be down, you might be hurting, you might be depressed, you might be troubled, but remember all these blessings Because of Christ's love is yours, you have a Savior who's a very personal Savior who comes to minister you in your desperate moments. He's always going to be there for you. So what's Paul's point? A Christian life that's encouraged by this relationship to Christ experiences all these things, wonderful comfort. and and intimate communion and compassion and if you experience all of these things, it's going to motivate you to be selfless towards others That's the whole point here. If there's any consolation in Christ, and there is, any comfort, yeah, there's comfort. Any communion, yes, there's communion, yes, there's compassion. Yes. So look at the next phrase, verse 2. All this is builds up. Look at verse 2. Fulfill ye my joy. That is a imperative. That's a command in the Greek. Paul says, based on all of this, you make my joy complete. You fulfill my joy. Paul is giving a command. You fill my joy to the max. He's commanding that. Now we don't normally go around and do that. Hey, you make me fill with joy. Do it right now. Thank you, Mrs. Johnson. At least I have someone here that's listening to me tonight. And that that's what Paul is saying. He's giving this command. How do you do that, Paul? How am I? And I'm speaking here for the Philippian believers. Paul, how am I gonna fulfill your joy? You're all all the way over there in R in Rome in a prison. Here I am in Philippi. How in the world am I gonna fulfill your joy, uh make you joyful? And of course, the answer is very simple. It's by putting away selfishness, narcissism This attention on self, put all that away, that selfish spirit that divides and love one another Think of others, put others ahead of you. That is how you fulfill the apostles' joy. That is the command that Paul is giving here. So let Christ's love motivate us. But here's the second thing. Let Christ's likeness mark us. And we see this in verses 3 and 4. This is the action in verse 3 and 4. It simply describes the mind of Christ. Look at verse three. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others And so Paul is listing things that characterize a selfless life. These are the actions. This is a life of humility. Paul again is trying to resolve a potential conflict in the church, and he does this by teaching them to be selfless. And Paul's giving some examples Here is how you are to be selfless. And again, if you look at these, this is the exact opposite of the way the world thinks today. The world's way of resolving conflicts is to teach you to stand up for your own rights. Be assertive. Go on the attack. Make sure you get what is yours. Have a proper self-esteem You know, Christian psychologists have imported this stuff wholesale into the church. You know, you need to love yourself. I promise you, people don't have a problem with that The problem is the world's ways do not deal with the root problem, which is pride and self. So what does Paul say to do? Reject self-promotion. Look again in verse 4. Um actually verse 3, excuse me, let nothing be done through strife. The word strife here literally means rivalry. It's a political term. This is someone who goes out in the spirit of party politics and they're trying to win support They're trying to campaign for themselves. They're forcing people to take sides. That's what take place in the Greco Roman world whenever a person was running for a high political position, they would go out on a campaign, just like we see today. It's not unlike what we see in politics today where people go out and and they uh on a campaign they're trying to get you to get good on their side and they're forcing people to make a decision and so this is all selfishly motivated a selfish agenda Building a followership for you. This is the same word that Paul uses about selfish ambition in chapter 1, verse 17. We looked at that. And so, you know, this is the idea here. Don't go out on this campaign for yourself. Let nothing be done through strife. Or notice the next phrase, vainglory. Vainglory is from two words, kino, empty, doxia, glorious. And by putting these two words together, Paul is speaking of a kind of self-promoting glory that has no substance and therefore it's It's meaningless. It's an empty glorying in yourself. You might go around on this campaign of trying to win others, but Paul calls it vainly glor Glorious. It is the praise and glory of man, which means nothing in the eternal scheme of things. It is empty. And these are people who are self-promoters. And so on. But then he says, reject self-love. Look again in verse number three. But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. This verse is not saying that we need to think bad of ourselves. It's not putting a premium on a low self-esteem. That's not what it's doing. This verse is a warning against thinking too highly of ourselves. The problem is that we think too much of ourselves. We think that we deserve to get a lot better than what we're getting. We think that we're much more important than we really are. Therefore, we think that we somehow deserve better, and that somehow we're better than others, or somehow we are irreplaceable in the church or in the kingdom of God. I love the poem. Sometimes when you're feeling important, sometimes when your ego is up, sometimes when you take it for granted that you are the prize-winning pup. Sometimes when you feel that your absence would leave an unfillable hole, just follow these simple instructions and see how it humbles your soul Take a bucket and fill it with water, put your hand and up to the wrist, now pull it out fast and the hole that remains is the measure of how you'll be missed Look at look at verse number three. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. We are taught to esteem others better than we are. Now we're taught growing up that this is a weakness. You know, you hear people saying that. That's you, you know, to think that way is weakness. But it's strength. We're taught to think opposite of this today, to think of others, to put others ahead of you, to think of others as being more important than you are. That is certainly what Jesus did when he left the glory of heaven. He looked at how valuable we were. He put us above himself, ahead of himself. And also rejects self-centeredness. Look at verse number four. Look not every man on his own things. But every man also in the things of others. The word the word lookscopeo, where we get the word scope, like in telescope or microscope, literally means to scope out or look out for A truly humble person will not be self-centered. You'll put the interests of others ahead of your own interests. Someone said humility is not thinking bad of yourself. It is not thinking of yourself at all. It's just thinking of others. And so that's the whole point here. That's what true humility looks like. So we are to cultivate the character of Christ. But here's number two. Contemplate the cross of Christ. This is the next thing. How is it that we have the mind of Christ. And by the way, how do we know that Jesus had this kind of mind that was absolutely totally selfless? Well there is the the cross of Christ And notice uh notice how Paul starts off, and again, this whole, you know, you can preach a whole series of sermons just on these verses right here. here because there's so much in here. And the whole range of scripture, I mean this whole paragraph s stands out as one of I think the most majestic uh uh passages about Christ, it really gives us a story of Christ and his incarnation and his crucifixion. It just gives us the whole scope And it kind of gives it from a different perspective. The Gospels and the Epistles present the cross from what man witnessed. Here the cross is presented from Christ's perspective. From the perspective of Christ, in coming to earth to die for the sin of man, Christ totally turned away from all of his own prerogatives and his own rights for the sake of others. This is really just an incredible thing. So notice uh verse six Who being in the form of I back up to verse 5, we have to catch it there. Let this mind be in you, which also which was also in Christ Jesus Have the mind of Christ. What was it? Well, who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. So we see here his selflessness in his renunciation. In verse 6, where it says, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. The word form here, Morphe in the Greek. The best way to understand this word is by contrasting it with another Greek word that has a kind of a relationship. So there are two words for form In the Greek, there is morphée and there's schema, where we get the word scheme from. You can hear and the word morphe, you know, to morph or you know, uh metamorphosis, you know. the idea there is some kind of a form. Now morphe, when it's used, always is speaking about an inward character or an inward nature of something. And the morphe of someone, when it's used in Greek, never changes. The morphe is always the same. Schema is a word that talks about the outward changes or the outward form. So while the morphée never changes, the outward schema always changes, and it's going through changes. Let me give you an illustration of that Here is a baby that is born as a boy, a little boy, and uh that more his morphe, his nature is a a boy, is a male. That nature, that morphée will never change, despite what society is trying to tell you today. You can't change your morphée. You can't change what God made you when you were born. Alright? That is always the same. Now, so here's a little boy born as an infant baby, and then he grows up to be a toddler, and he gets into all kind of stuff. You know my I need to say this, my daughter Abby sent me a picture today this afternoon, little Levi Levi, he's uh two years old, and he she sent a picture where he got into his mother's nail polish. If that ever happened, um, you know, and she showed where he had it all over his feet, all over his hands, all over the carpet, you know, nail polished all over. He's sitting there on the counter with this look of please help me Paul Paul on his face Abby sent it. He got into the nail polish. Well that's what little toddlers do, you know. Not men. We don't men don't get into nail polish. You know. So what'll happen is is that you know he'll grow the his n his morphe, his inward nature as a boy, that's always going to be the same. Outwardly he's going to mature into, you know to adolescence, pre-adolescence, adolescence, and then into adulthood and then so on. Well the outward nature will continue to change. His his morphée will Will always be the same. He's always going to be a male, always going to be a boy. And so we have to apply that here with respect to the Lord Jesus Christ. He, his nature as God, never changes. It never changes. Who being in the form of God He was God when he came into this world. And he never stopped being God. He was God born into this world as a man. And so, but then he says this in verse 6, and he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. The word robbery is the idea of a thing seized by a robber. Eventually it came to mean to be clutched or embraced or something to be prized or something to cling to or hold on to. And what the verse is basically telling us is that he being God Thought it not something to hold on to. What does it mean by that? He thought all of the privileges of being God, he laid aside some of those privileges. He laid aside some of the glory that came with being God because he didn't feel like that was something that he needed to cling on to, to hold on to. In other words, he was willing to lay all of that aside. Why? To come to earth. To be a man. That's the incarnation. Some people they talk about the kinosis theory. This is the idea that Jesus laid aside some of his deity. Oh no, he never laid aside any of his deity. The way Jesus humbled himself is not by what he laid aside. He laid aside nothing of being God. He humbled himself by adding to his nature humanity. That's how he humbled himself. But he also did not hold on to the privileges that come with being God. He let go of those privileges. What did he renounce? Heavenly glory When Jesus came to earth he gave up his glory and then also independent authority. He compl Became completely submitted to the Father to do all of what the Father told him to do. He laid aside all of his divine prerogatives When he decided to come here to the earth, he laid aside eternal riches. All that was laid aside. He laid aside that close, favorable relationship that he had with the Father And he laid all of that aside when he came to earth to be born as a man. That is incredible selflessness. He walked away from all of that. Why to become a man? But also we see his selflessness in his um again in his emptying out, verse 7. But he made it he took made himself of no reputation. Took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. Again, how did he empty himself? Again, he didn't he never stopped being God. He humbled himself by taking upon him the form of a servant, and he was made in the likeness of man. That's how he humbled himself. And then we see it in his crucifixion in verse number eight, his selflessness, and being found in fashion as a man. That sounds like a repeat of verse number seven, but there's a difference here. The difference between that and verse 7 is a shift in focus. Now we view the humil the humiliation of Christ from the viewpoint of those who saw him. Those who were now looking at him, Christ was the God-man, but as the people looked at him, they saw the appearance, the schema of a man. And Paul is implying that though Christ appeared like a man, there was much more to him that could not be seen with the natural eye. They could not detect it, they could not see it. But nevertheless, he humbled himself, he made himself low. And uh he became obedient unto death. I wish I had time to get into all of it, but we could go through the trial and the crucifixion or the the trial before the crucifixion. We can go through all the humbling things that Jesus had to endure. They mocked him, they s they they scourged him, they pulled out his beard, they spit upon him. We all know the passion, the suffering of Christ, how he humbled himself. And you know what was amazing is the Bible says he didn't open his mouth. He didn't cry out for his rights. He didn't accuse people of being unfair. What did he do? What does the Bible say he did? He committed himself to him that is the Father who judges righteously. He he never opened his mouth. He didn't until the high priests made him do it under law, and even there he upheld the fact that he was the Son of God. But he he became obedient unto death The Bible says, even he submitted to everything, even the death of the cross. Even calls attention to the most shocking feature of Christ's humiliation. Christ suffered not just death, but death on a cross. On a cross. This was the most excruciating, the most embarrassing, the most degrading, the most painful, cruel way that a person could die. And he humbled himself even to that point. The Jewish people considered that anyone who was hung on a tree was cursed. That's how humiliating it was for Christ. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 21, 23: Anyone who is hung on a tree is under God's curse. And the Jewish people that saw Christ being hung on a tree considered him to be a curse. But there's a sense in which they were it was true because Jesus took our curse upon himself. The curse that should have fallen upon us because of our disobedience to the law of God. It all fell upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And what Paul is showing us here is that the most selfless act ever done, there's no close second. There's no close second to this. The most selfless act ever done was when Christ humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. And when we lay the selflessness of Christ next to mankind today and society today, the selfishness of society, it becomes indescribably ugly. And for us to be taught to think that way, to think of number one, when our Savior thought exactly the opposite way, this is what Paul means when he says, this is you need to get the mind of Christ. Christ. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. This is supreme selflessness on a scale that mankind has never seen before and will never ever see again. This kind of selflessness So we cultivate the character of Christ. We contemplate the cross of Christ. But here's the third thing that Paul does. We celebrate the crowning of Christ. Look at verse number nine down to verse eleven. And again, what we see here, what hap what happened as a result of Jesus' humility and his supreme selflessness? Well, the result is that Christ is exalted to the highest degree. To the highest degree. Notice the source of his exaltation. This is one of the greatest statements in all the Bible. Verse number nine. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. Because of Christ's submission, his humiliation on the cross, God the Father in turn highly exalts him. He exalts Christ. God the Father is the source of all exaltation. Exaltation comes from God. And here God highly exalts his Son God the Father is not going to leave this whole drama unresolved. The Father's response is To affirm his pleasure in his son by exalting him. Man gave Christ a cross, but God the Father will give him a crown. Man gave Jesus a grave, but God the Father will give him glory. Man gave Jesus anguish, but God the Father will give him adoration. Man expelled Jesus, but God the Father will exalt him. And notice man pierced him with nails, but God the Father is going to give him a name. And notice here the scope of his exaltation. Look in verse number 9. has highly exalted him and given him a name which is what? Above every name. Highly exalted. Hooper Upso, beyond measure. He's exalted Christ beyond measure. You see, in God's economy, when you humble yourself, God the Father will exalt you. And when you exalt yourself, God the Father will humble you. And of course Jesus said this, whoever exalts himself shall be humbled, he who humbles himself shall be exalted. We see this here in the very life of our Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. And then in verse nine, he's given him a name. This is a gracious gift. God the Father gives Jesus a name. Men all over the world are trying to make a name for themselves. They, you know, try to do things to g to make a name for themselves But basically their name is forgotten in history. The only real way to get a name for yourself is for God to give you a name. God the Father has to give it. And notice the significance of this. When Paul uses the definite article before the word name, there's a question. What is the name that is above every name? What is the name that he's talking about here? Again, I wish I had more time to expound on this, but just to in short, it's the name the Lord Jesus Christ. He's Lord. And In the Old Testament, whenever Yahweh is used, it's in all capital letters in the King James, but when a New Testament writer wants to refer to Yahweh, they use the word curios in the New Testament. Paul does this consistently throughout his letters And so in a sense, uh God the Father is giving Jesus that name, the holy name, the exalted name. Jesus is God, um, but that name is being exalted to an even higher degree by God the Father. And so verse nine affirms that God gave Christ a name. God exalts the name of Jesus Christ so much so that the Bible says that in verse eleven And we have to wrap it up in verse eleven, but it's a great verse to end on. Actually verse ten. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven. And things on earth, and things under the earth. Verse eleven, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Because Jesus made himself a servant of all, God the Father will make him Lord of all. And indeed he is Lord of all. So Paul points to that whole message about Christ. Here's this division brewing in the church. And Paul, he doesn't try to, you know, give some kind of uh you know formula for getting along. What he does is he points to Christ. He says you need to have the mind of Christ and think about Christ. You know what the cure today for narcissism is? Just think about Christ. Put your mind on Christ. Put your mind on his incarnation. What all he left to come here. Put your mind on his crucifixion. What he did for you on the cross. And you know what? If that doesn't cure you, I have no hope for you. you. There's no hope. If you can't get cured by knowing what Jesus did for you, you probably need to go to the cross. And kneel there. And don't leave until you have fully repented of your sin and put your faith in Jesus Christ yourself. But it starts there at the cross. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful passage of Scripture in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ, how Paul just points to the cross. And it's the answer for so many problems that we face in this world. Problems in our own personal life, in our spiritual life, and our sanctification. Most of those problems, Lord, will be solved if we just go to the cross and think about the cross and have the mind of Christ. Father, grant that we would indeed have that mind. That we wouldn't obey the command, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.