Take God's word tonight, please, and open again to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 22. Now you know on Sunday night I'm normally doing a unique series called The Echoes from Puritan Pulpits. We're going to set that aside. as I told you this morning because I want to deal in Luke 22 with the trial of Jesus and the reason for that is it's just so much. You really can't get it in one sermon. In fact, you can't get it in two sermons, all of it. And just two sermons, I'm still rushing through it. There are so many things going on. during the trial of Jesus. And I just want you to have an understanding of that. I want you to see the beauty and the majesty of Christ as he goes through this trial. And all the things that he had to endure. This is all part of the passion of Christ. This this t tremendous injustice that was rendered to him during this time in his life. And so I'm going to finish tonight what we started this morning, and then on Friday night, we'll go again to Luke's Gospel and talk about of course the crucifixion of Christ from Luke. And then of course Sunday we'll stay in Luke and we'll talk about the resurrection. So let's continue talking about the trial of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're in Luke chapter 22 And we were looking in verse 63 on down into chapter 23, all the way down, we'll get to verse number 25 tonight, Lord willing. Now remember we told you that this whole trial of our Lord Jesus was a travesty of justice. The Jews had already determined, the Jewish leaders, the religious leaders, the Sanhedrin already determined that Christ needed to be executed. They they already had that determination and how to do that, that's what this was all about. After they arrested Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, they took him to the home of Annas, the high priest and which is also the home of Caiaphas, as I told you, these were two houses connected by a courtyard. And uh Annas was still in the mu in the hearts of the people, the high priest, even though he was deposed by Rome and Caiaphas was put in his place, yet he still wielded a lot of power. And Jesus was brought to him and Annis questions him about his doctrine and his disciples trying to find something to get Christ. They had he really had no case. He wanted to use something uh against the Lord Jesus, even though a a a person couldn't incriminate themselves with their own testimony. That didn't seem to matter. All of the laws regarding uh fairness and justice were all set aside by the Sanhedrin when it came to uh bringing Jesus to trial. And so we see then that we saw this morning that he went before Annas. Remember I told you there were actually we can divide his trials into two trials, Jesus before the Jews, and then Jesus before the Romans. And before the Jews he stood before Annas, and then Caiaphas, and then the whole Sanhedrin had gone to give their verdict. From there he was taken to Pilate, where Pilate e examined him, questioned him, and then from there he was sent to uh Herod. And it was Herod's turn to question the Lord Jesus. But we saw first of all, we we talked about how ways in which Christ is rejected all throughout his trial. The malice towards the Savior when Jesus was waiting Outside the home of Annas, the Bible says in verse 63, just to remind you, the men that held Jesus mocked him and smote him. rejected Christ with open contempt. These were guards that were supposed to protect any prisoner, but they abused him. And other gospels tell us that they spit on him. And they mocked the fact that he was a prophet. They they put a blindfold on him and said, Prophesy to us who smote you. And of course Jesus knew exactly who it was. And they'll stand before him one day. But the very fact that they hit him was a fulfillment of the prophecy that Jesus gave earlier in Luke 18, where he said that he would have this kind of treatment, this kind of abuse. But then the second thing we saw was the manip the manipulation uh by the Sanhedrin, and we saw that some reject Christ under the cover of religion. All of these religious leaders again set aside all of the laws that of of fairness and justice and right in order to render the verdict that Jesus needed to die. They tried everything. They brought in false witnesses, but none of those witnesses agreed They paid false witnesses. Finally, they found two men where their witness agreed, where Jesus made this the uh statement, destroy this temple in three days I'll build it back up. And according to the Old Testament, it was a law punishable by death if you uh spoke against the temple. And so, but this wasn't what Jesus was saying. They twisted his words. He was talking about his own death and resurrection. And so they manipulated the uh the words of Jesus to make him say something that he didn't say. But this is religion rejecting Jesus. And don't be surprised, friend, because religion all over the world rejects Jesus Christ. Because Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation. And proud men does not like that, and so men make their own religion, which is in d which is in uh distinction to what Jesus taught that he is the only way and the truth and the life, and when Jesus gets in the way, well, Jesus just gets rejected, or he's put on the back, or he's redefined in some way. And this is the third thing that we saw, the misrepresentation before Pilate. Jesus is brought to Pilate. This begins in chapter 23. Um and remember they had kind of changed the charges. The charges before the Jewish trial was blasphemy But Rome is not going to execute anyone for blasphemy. And by the way, the Sanhedrin, they had no power to put someone to death. They were under the rule of Rome. Only Rome could do that. So if they wanted to see Jesus die, they had to get the Romans to check off on it. Pilate had to order his execution And so Pilate's not going to execute Jesus because of blasphemy. He's not concerned about Jewish theology or some religious debate The key thing for him, is Jesus treasonous? Is he a threat to Rome? And so when Jesus comes before Pilate, Pilate will question him and ask him, Are you indeed the king of the Jews? And Jesus will answer and say, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were all this world, my servants would fight. But the very fact that they're not fighting now is evidence that my kingdom doesn't expand through violence and military use and political force. My kingdom is a spiritual kingdom. And so Pilate gives the verdict to the religious leaders, I find no fault in him. Well, they didn't like that. Look at verse number five of chapter twenty-three. And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all jewelry, beginning from Galilee. to this place. And when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged in the Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod. who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. Pilate, he was glad to get this out of his court. He didn't want to deal with it because he didn't have a really good history with the Jews. He had already been in hot water over some things that had happened with Rome. And this was a a a a a powder keg for him politically. So when he heard that Jesus was a Galilean and Herod, that's his district, he has authority in that area, he sent Jesus to Herod He wanted to get rid of this. He wanted to wipe his hands of it. Herod happened to be in Jerusalem at that time for the Passover. And so this is the next thing. What we find is they take Jesus to Herod And this is where we come. This is the next point I want you to see. How do men reject Jesus? We see the mockery of Herod. Some reject Christ by trivializing him. And so in this account of Jesus before Herod, it appears only in Luke's Gospel, by the way. This whole scene doesn't take uh appear in any of the other gospels when Jesus appears before him And uh let me just give you a little background. Who is this Herod? Uh this is Herod Antiphus. This is one of the sons of Herod the Great. Remember Herod the Great was was the was Herod when Jesus was born. He was the one that wanted to kill Jesus as a child He was the one that gave the decree that all the babies, two years old and under in Bethlehem, should be killed. That was Herod the Great. When he died His kingdom was divided among his sons. Herod Antipas was one of his sons, and he was given the region of Galilee and part of Perea. That's where he ruled. And this is the the the Herod that uh John the Baptist, if you remember in the gospel, uh he rebuked him. Why did he rebuke Herod Antipas? Well, because Herod Antipas had seduced his brother Philip's wife and married her, Herodias, who also happened to be his niece So it was adultery and incense that he was committing, and John the Baptist, being the prophet, fearless prophet, rebukes Herod Antiphus. And uh he doesn't that doesn't go over well with Herodanthippus, even though he feared John. But Herodias uh asked for the head of John the Baptist on a platter, and so that's exactly what happened. John the Baptist was beheaded And Herod uh uh was uh had a guilty conscience after that. That troubled him. And Miss Herod, Herod Antipas, happens to be in Jerusalem And we're going to see here that he's excited that Jesus is brought before him. Look in verse number 8. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad. When they brought Jesus to him, he was really glad about that. And why? Why was he glad? Well, several reasons. First of all, curiosity. He'd heard reports about Jesus. He heard all about his miracle working power. He heard about some of the things that Jesus taught And he was really curious to know more about him. But he had never seen Jesus personally. And this was the first opportunity. And I think another reason why he wanted to see Jesus was because his his conscience was troubled After executing John the Baptist, he was haunted. At one point, the Bible says that he heard about the ministry of Jesus, and he said, This is John the Baptist, come back from the dead. That's how haunted his conscience was about executing John the Baptist. So finally when he sees Jesus, there's kind of an undercurrent of fear, there's curiosity. wondering who this is. There's a little bit of fear. He wants to know who Jesus is. Is this man really a prophet? Is he uh really one that he claims to be? uh the son of God is um is he talking to someone who is supernatural? He had all these questions in his mind. So his gladness is kind of mixed with a little bit of fear and uneasiness. But I think also there's another thing that Luke says about him. Look in verse number eight again. And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad, for he was desirous to see him of a long season because He had heard many things of him, and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him. Luke makes it clear that he wanted to see Jesus do some miracle. So he wasn't after the truth, he wanted entertainment. That's why a lot of people go to church sometimes. They have Jesus. Here Herod has Jesus right there in his presence, and rather than seeking for truth and to worship him, he wants to be entertained. He wasn't seeking truth about salvation. He was seeking a spectacle. He wants Jesus to perform. And so, uh, in a way, he's, and that's it, saying, Jesus, do a trick for me, do a miracle. Let me see you turn. Here's a cup of water, Jesus. Let's see if you can turn this water into wine. Or here's a full of water, Jesus. Let's see you walk on water. I heard that you're able to do that. Or here's a lame man. I want to see you raise up this lame man to make him fully whole He wanted to see some kind of miracle from Jesus. And he begins to ridicule him. What's the matter, Jesus? Don't you have any miracle power left? Daryl Bach writes this, Jesus refuses to perform for unbelief. Jesus is not a performer. Especially before a hardened, ungodly man like Herod. And so he begins to ask Jesus questions. Look at verse number nine. Then he questioned with him in many words, but he that is Jesus answered him nothing. Now from his conversations with John the Baptist, perhaps Herod had some questions. He knew some questions to ask. He was perhaps fascinated with some of the theology. uh that he had heard from Jesus and he wanted more, but Jesus doesn't answer him at all. He doesn't speak to him at all. Not one word Jesus is just completely silent. Why? Well again because Herod is not really seeking truth. He's not really seeking truth. And Jesus found that there was nothing worthy in Herod that deserved any kind of response. None. I mean this is the man that executed the greatest prophet born among men, that Jesus said was John the Baptist. This was a man who was hardened. This is a man who was evil. And Jesus is refusing to cast his pearls before swine. He's not going to answer. This is one of the most striking moments in all the gospel. Jesus speaks to sinners. Jesus speaks to tax collectors. He even speaks to Pilate when he's before Pilate. But he doesn't speak to Herod. He doesn't say a word to him because Herod had already rejected the truth and hardened his conscience, and he is now reducing divine things to entertainment. And so Jesus will say nothing. And Herod really is a warning to all that it's very possible to be interested in Jesus, to hear a lot about him and want to know more about him, but never really seek the truth about him. And in the end, the most terrifying judgment is this, that Jesus has nothing to say to you. Nothing to say to you. Now the chief priests are there. They continue to accuse. Look at verse number 10. And the chief priests and the scribes stood and vehemently accused him. They continue to accuse Jesus. And again, Jesus is silent, and he refuses to speak. And the more questions Herod asks, the more it makes him look silly or ridiculous in front of his men, and his anger begins to build. And then suddenly he begins to mock and to ridicule Christ. Look at verse eleven. And Herod, with his men of war, set him at naught and mocked him. and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate So he continues. This time Christ is mocked as king. He was mocked as prophet by the soldiers. You may even say before the Sanhetron he was mocked as priest, and now here he's mocked as king. If you're King Jesus, where are all your men? Where are all those fishermen that were around you? And to mock them, the Bible says they give them an eloquent or gorgeous robe. And they send him back to Pilate. Now, during this whole time, this whole event brings a friendship between Pilate and Herod. Look at verse number 12. And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together. Or be or before they were at enemy between themselves. This whole event uh seals uh you know causes a bonding between these two rulers. What's the old saying, the enemy of my enemy is my friend It's kind of what you see here. There was enmity between Pilate and Herod, and this went back for many years. Pilate slaughtered some Galileans and Herod's district without consulting Herod about it. Um Herod had gone over Pilate's head to Caesar to force Pilate to take shields out of the out of out of the palace. Pilate didn't like that. And yet this day there is a friendship. All the animosity is put aside, and the Bible says they uh are friends and they're brought together by one common purpose and what is that to execute the Son of God It was the murder of Jesus that brings them together. But again, Herod teaches us not to dabble in spiritual matters. Don't treat Jesus as an interesting subject to discuss or as a sideshow to see him perform. If you treat Jesus any less than he is, if you treat him any less, he is the Son of God, King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. And if you treat Jesus any less than that, you're treating him with contempt. And you're trivilizing the Son of God. This was Herod's famous fatal mistake. There's no more sin that's worse, more common than trivializing Christ. And that's how some people reject him today. But then we move on to the next point. We see next the moral weakness of Pilate. Some reject Christ out of fear and pressure. We come now to the sixth and final phase of Jesus' trial. This is the Roman trial. He went to Pilate, to Herod. Herod sends him back to Pilate. This will be the last trial before Jesus is sent off to be crucified. And so notice what happens here. He's brought back to Pilate. And look at verse number 13. And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers, And the and the people said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me as one that perverteth the people, and behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man, touching those things whereof ye Accused him. Again they bring him back to Pilate. Pilate says the same thing. Look, I've already examined them once. You're bringing them back to me. I haven't changed my opinion. He there's no fault in him. He's done nothing worthy of death So at this very moment, Pilate is dealing with a very volatile situation. And let me just explain you the situation he's in. This is Passover in Jerusalem, the crowds have swollen. There are many, many there, hundreds of thousands of Jews in one place. And Pilate's primary role during times like this is to keep order. He wants to keep civil order. If a riot broke out, especially during Passover, that's on him. And again, he's already been in trouble with Rome before. And it could it result in him being taken uh from this position, being demoted. And it's beginning what he sees is a potential mob situation in front of him There's this unified leadership with the Jews. Normally the Jews were divided, but the Sadducees and the Pharisees and all the people, they were all united in this. They had come together in total unity, and Pilate can see that They're not seeking justice. They're demanding that Pilate honor the verdict that they already gave that Jesus is worthy of death. And Pilate tries to reason with him. He's done nothing worthy of death. Again, in verse fifteen, No nor yet Herod, for I sent you to him, and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. I've examined him, Herod has examined him. There's still nothing worthy of death that he has done. But his reasoning doesn't calm the crowd. It doesn't calm the religious leaders. It really intensifies it. Now again, Pilate already had this strange history with the Jews. Two ancient historians, Philo of Alexandria and Flavius Josephus, record these incidents where uh it caused Pilate to have a strained relationship with the Jewish people. When he came to Jerusalem, he brought the Roman military standards bearing Caesar's image to Jerusalem. That offended a lot of the Jews that He would bring that standard into the Holy City. Jews saw that as idolatry. And that made them angry already. They protested fiercely for days after Pilate had done that. And then there was the temple treasure controversy. Pilate just simply took it upon himself to take money out of the temple and use it to build an aqueduct. He didn't ask for any permission to do that. He just did it And again, that made the people angry. It sparked an outrage. And then there was the shields incident that I already told you about. He put up gold shields in Jerusalem honoring Tiberius, and again it enraged the religious leaders and the Jewish people and they appealed to Rome that uh those shields be taken down and Tiberius, who is the Caesar He rebuked Pilate and the shields were taken down, and this put him in a bad relationship with the Caesar in Rome. They were doubting whether he was competent enough to rule in that district. And so this is all in the background. And now here Pilate has Jesus before him. He's already examined him. He's already said he's innocent. But now he has these religious leaders and the mob demanding that he Capitulate on their verdict and that he they put that he put Jesus to death. So what does he do? He tries to offer an alternative, an alternative. Look at verse 16. He says this, I will therefore chastise him and release him. This is a political move. Again, he knows Jesus is innocent. Well, if he's innocent, why would you chastise him? This is a political move. He's trying to make the crowd uh calm down. He's trying to satisfy them And he thought, maybe if I just punish him, and this, I think this was just talking about discouraging that is talked about in other places in Scripture. Let's just whip him. And this is a painful punishment. And when they see him suffering by that, that will satisfy him and the case will be over. This really reveals his fear is already at work. He's trying to appease them without conceding fully. But again This is a this is something that a person that a weak person would do. Someone who doesn't have strength enough to say, no, he's innocent, I'm releasing him He's he's taking this political move. He's willing to sacrifice righteousness in order to uh to manage this crowd, this mob that is there, which tells us what he feared men more than he feared the truth Pilate had authority, yet he bends under the pressure. And the crowd becomes louder than his own conscience. And he lacks moral courage. So he chooses his own safety over righteousness. And finally he capitulates to the crowd. Look in verse number 20. And Pilate, therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them. But verse 21, but they cried, saying, Crucify him! Crucify him. And verse twenty two and he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil has he done? I found no cause of death in him I will therefore chastise him and let him go. Verse twenty-three. And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed. So what happens? Again, Pilate asked to do this alternative. They refused. They cry all the louder, crucify him. Matthew adds in his gospel, Matthew 27-20, the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitude. They're out there cheerleading They're leading the multitude in the chant, Crucify Him. And Matthew records the warning that Pilate's wife gives him. In Matthew 27, 19, Pilate's wife says to Pilate, have nothing to do with that just man. She had suffered dreams about him. She comes to Pilate and says, don't have anything to do with this just man. And so now Pilate has this external pressure. From the crowd. He has this internal warning from his wife. So you can see he's in a really difficult situation. He knows Jesus is innocent. And he can choose either to do the right thing and stand against the crowd, or just out of pressure, fear and pressure, deliver Jesus over to them. And then Uh verse 23 where they cry out, crucify him, crucify him, the violent, the viol the volume, excuse me. continues to get higher. It replaces reason. The Bible says in Matthew 27, 24, that Pilate saw that a riot was beginning to break out. And finally, out of fear and pressure, he capitulates. Look in verse 24. And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required. Public pressure defeated his governing power, and injustice prevailed. And basically, Pilate let the mob rule to give the crowd what they wanted. One other thing that uh John's Gospel tells us here that helps us to understand this, uh in John's Gospel in John 1920 It records that the that the crowd said to Caesar or to Pilate, If you let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend. What was that? That was a veiled threat. If you let Jesus go, we're going to report you to Rome again. And you're going to be in real trouble. So he collapses. He capitulates. He's controlled by a fear of a riot. He's controlled by fear of wrong. He's controlled by public opinion. But then he does something that Luke doesn't record here, but Matthew records it. Matthew's gospel said that Pilate takes a bowl of water and symbolically washes his hands. He washes his hands. Why? Well, that was him saying, I am innocent. Matthew 27, 24, he says, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. Well you just sentenced him. You just released him to the crowd. And now he's trying to make it look like I'm not responsible for this. This is an attempt to separate himself from his own This is a moral contradiction. No, you bear responsibility too. Alexander McLaren wrote this. Pilate's sin was not ignorance of the right, but the unwillingness to do it. He was unwilling to do it. Spurgeon said Pilate washed his hands, but he could not wash his conscience. But again, this is how people reject Christ. This is what they do. They do it through cowardice. They know the truth, but they won't stand for the truth. It costs too much. And there are people all the time claim to be Christians who name the name of Christ who will not stand for Christ. They capitulate to peer pressure. They capitulate to fear. All kind of people around them. They're unwilling to do the right thing and stand for truth. That is a rejection of Jesus Christ. And then we come to the final thing here. I call this the misguided choice of the crowd. And some reject Christ by choosing something else instead. In the course of this, when Pilate was offering alternatives to the religious leaders, there was another alternative that he offered. Look at verse number 17, back up just a little bit in this. When he says, I'll chastise him in verse 16 and release them. Look at verse 17. For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast. And what is Luke referring to here? Luke is referring to a Passover custom. And again, Matthew's gospel tells us a little bit more about this. In Matthew 27 and 15. Now at the feast the governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner whom they would So in other words, this refers to the Passover custom that at every Passover the governor of Rome, out of a gesture of goodwill and kindness to the Jewish people, Well let the people choose a prisoner to be released from a Roman prison. That was just something that they would do to show goodwill. It was also to reduce the likelihood of unrest. And uh it was really for uh uh so really calculated crowd control is what that was. So every Passover, the people got to choose someone that could be released from prison. And so Pilate thought, well, well, let's just do this. I can release to you Barabbas. Or I can actually Jesus can be released. He offers him the choice of Jesus or Barabbas. He was hoping that they would choose that Barabbas would be would suffer and Jesus would be released. That's why he offers to them a known criminal. Mark tells us that he was in prison for murder and insurrection. Luke also tells us that as well. Look down in verse number 18. And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man and release unto us Barabbas. We don't want Jesus released. We want Barabbas released. So Pilate was saying, you know, I can offer you a person of release, and there's uh Jesus, we can release him and we can we can uh let Barabbas suffer, but they said no. Release on us Barabbas. Pilate picks the worst possible criminal, thinking that they'll choose the innocent man. Surely they'll choose Jesus over Barabbas. So which one? Barabbas, a murderer, a rebel? Jesus who is innocent? And holy, and they choose Barabbas. Very clearly. Look at verse 18. And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man and release unto us Barabbas. Verse 19, who for a certain sedition made in a city and for murder was cast into prison And verse 20, and Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them, and they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Now there's an interesting play on words here. The name Barabbas means son of the father. Bar is the Aramaic word for son. uhba or abas that is the Aramaic for father so son of the father is what Rabas name means So you have Barabbas, whose name means son of the Father, and you have Jesus, who is the real son of the Father, Heavenly Father. And Pilate was offering a choice between Barabbas, the son of a human father, and Jesus, a son of a of the Heavenly Father, and again they choose Barabbas. And this is a this is a moment here in the story I think that is loaded with irony. The guilty man Barabbas is released and the innocent man Jesus is condemned. And when you think about it, at that moment, they unknowingly illustrate the very heart of the gospel because that's what the gospel is. We are the guilty ones. Jesus is the innocent one. The guilty go free, and the innocent one takes the place of the guilty, and that's what Jesus did for us. He took our place. J. C. Raoul said this, men will choose anything rather than Christ. And it and it's shocking, but spiritually it happens every day. People choose things over Christ all the time. People choose sin over Christ. They choose self. over Christ, over submission to Christ. They choose the temporary over the eternal. This is the most direct form of rejection. People choosing something else besides Jesus. And again, as we study the trial of Jesus, we have to ask the question, what will you do? What is your choice? Neutrality is not an option. It's not an option. But notice how this unjust trial ends. Look at verse 25. This is how it ends. And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired. But he delivered Jesus to their will. And then Jesus is led away to be crucified at that very moment. And Jesus will be crucified. This is Friday morning. Jesus will be taken to the cross. He'll be nailed. to to the cross by nine o'clock that morning, and he'll suffer there on the cross. And we'll of course talk about that on Good Friday. We'll talk about Jesus crucified at Calvary in Luke's account starting in verse number 26. But in this trial, everyone responds to Jesus. No one remains neutral. But what we see here again are the forms of how Jesus is rejected. Some mock him, some twist his words, some avoid him, some trivialize him, some compromise, some choose self instead of Christ, or they choose something else. instead of Christ. And every one of those responses still exists today. But again, the glory of this whole passage is What looks like injustice is actually substitution. This is all about Jesus being our substitution. Him standing in for us. Barabbas walks free because Jesus takes his place. Leon Morris writes this: Barabbas was the kind of man who deserved the cross, and Jesus was the kind of man who did not Yet the roles were reversed. And again, friend, that is the gospel. That is the gospel We are Barabbas. We are guilty. We deserve judgment. Yet we are set free because Jesus took our place. So this trial is not about just what they did to Jesus. It's about what you will do with him. What will you do with Jesus? Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment and meditate upon what you've heard, this passage. And again, I just want you to see the majestic dignity and beauty of Christ. As he willingly submits to God the Father's plan to be our substitute, to be beaten, to be spit upon, to be whipped. And we'll see him later taken to the cross, crucified in our place. But everybody has to make a decision about Jesus. Everybody. The soldiers, they chose to reject him. They chose to mock him. The Sanhedrin resisted him. They didn't want him because he was messing up their religion. Pilate just wanted to avoid him. He just didn't want to do it with them at all. He wanted him out of his life. Herod wanted to trivialize Christ. He wanted to make him a form of entertainment for him. And the crowd just they wanted them to replace the What are you going to do about Christ? The same Jesus who stood silent before his accusers, he now stands as the Lord over all He's Lord of all. And he offers grace to every person who will reach out to him. Father, thank you for this beautiful narrative about the trial of Jesus. We went through it somewhat quickly. There's so much to it. We think of the words of the Isaiah as a land before his shears was dumb, so he opened not his mouth. He willingly submitted himself To the greatest injustice anyone has ever faced. And he did it for us, so that we may have eternal life. Thank you, Father. Thank you for our Savior. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.