Would you take God's word this morning and open to Psalms chapter thirty-three? The book of Psalms, chapter thirty-three, and I want to read some verses with you from this. Uh starting at verse one, would you stand together for the reading of God's Word? Psalm 33, verse number one. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp. Sing unto him with a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud noise, for the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heat. He layeth up the depth in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake and it was done He commanded them it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth for ever the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nations whose God is the Lord, and the people he has chosen for his own inheritance Thank you, me. God bless you may be seated. May God bless the reading of his word to our hearts here. Today, would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the privilege we have of coming to worship. And Lord, would you help us now as we go to the Word of God? Give us understanding. Give us ears to hear. Lord, help me to make your word clear and speak to hearts for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So for several weeks we've been doing a series on the subject of spiritual disciplines. And remember that the theme verse that we're using is 1 Timothy 4:7. Where it says, exercise yourself unto godliness. And the word there is a word that simply means discipline yourself for godliness. And as we had said before, Paul is using a an athletic metaphor and applying it to the Christian life. Spiritual disciplines are those habits, those godly habits that we instill in our life That will produce godliness. It is really replacing bad habits with good godly habits. And we looked already at the discipline of the word of God. And the discipline of prayer. And we talked about the discipline of the Lord's Supper. But today I just want us to consider this discipline, the discipline of worship. The discipline of worship. Clearly the Bible makes uh this command to us that we should all come to worship our God It's our purpose. Godliness without the worship of God is unthinkable. But you know, it's possible to come and not really worship the Lord. It's possible to not worship God. in a way that is acceptable. And so I want us to look at this, and I think Psalm 33 here can help us in this regard. This Psalm is a call to all the people of God to come and to worship the Lord. And and the verbs in this psalm are plural, which means this is talking about worshiping in community. There's two ways we worship. We worship privately, and certainly we should be doing that, and we'll talk about that at some time the discipline of our private worship to God. But this psalm here is dealing with these this discipline of public worship coming together. As the people of God to worship our Lord. In verses one to three, the leader is calling them to worship here in this psalm. And really in verses four on down to verse 19, it's really the choir that's leading the assembly and praising God. And then the Psalm closes from verses twenty-two down to verse twenty-four. It closes with um this affirmation of Faith. Now the Psalms have been called Israel's Hymn Book because it's really directing the nation of Israel to worship God But Psalm thirty-three kind of follows a different pattern because it looks to all the nations and all the people to worship God. And so this Psalm is calling upon God's people to worship him and to praise him. And what I want you to see here in this psalm are four crucial elements in our worship. And they're very simple. Here's the first one. Number one, the people of worship. Because look again in verse 1, rejoice in the Lord, oh ye what, ye righteous. And so it's the righteous, it's the people of God that are being called to worship him And this is something we see a lot in Scripture. We see this throughout the Old Testament, even from the very beginning in the book of Genesis, the moment man sinned, he learned to build an altar and to worship God and get forgiveness from God. And then we see it also in the book of Exodus. Remember, through God's servant Moses, Moses said to Pharaoh, Let my people go that they may worship me. We see that all throughout. And finally Pharaoh did after being judged and punished to let the people of God go to worship God. And then later on while the Jews were in the wilderness God gave directions on erecting a tabernacle for the purpose of coming together and worshiping the Lord. And just to show you the priority that God placed on worship there In Exodus, there are a total of 243 verses that are designed to discuss how God is to be worshipped in that temple. Think about that because there are only 31 verses in the Bible that describes the creation of the whole universe. And yet two hundred and forty-three verses where God is describing the worship that God's people are to give to Him. And in the New Testament, this is the purpose of the church In Ephesians 1 twelve it says the church was appointed to the praise of his glory. That's why we're here, to give him praise for his glory. In Philippians 3. 3, it says that we are the true circumcision who worship God in spirit and in the glory of Christ Jesus, and who put no confidence in the flesh. Did you know that the call, the gospel, is a call to worship God? Jesus said this in John 4. 23, but the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him. God is looking for people that will truly worship him And of course we know the verse Romans 12, 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. That's a worship word there. This is what you should do. Real worship is recognizing all the mercies that God has given us, and in return we Give ourselves to him. It is our reasonable service. And we see this all throughout the New Testament, all the way until the end in the book of Revelation, when the Bible tells us that We will be worshiping God throughout eternity in heaven. Listen to this verse, Revelation 5. And every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all them that are that are in them Heard I saying Blessing and honor and glory and power be unto him that sitteth upon the throne and unto the Lamb forever and ever And the four beasts said amen. And the four and twenty others fell down and worshiped him that lived forever. The worship in heaven is going to be radical. If you don't like worship, you're not going to like heaven. Because we're going to be doing a lot of that there all the way through eternity. So it's the righteous. And then in verse 1, again in verse chapter 33, it says, For praise is comely for the upright. That's another synonymous term for God's people. We're called the righteous because we've been made righteous because of what Christ has done for us. But also the upright. This is just simply obedient. You know who worships God? The obedient. Those who walk uprightly. That's why in Jesus' ministry, Jesus rebuked the Pharisees because they pretended to worship God. With their lips, but their life totally betrayed that. Jesus said, This, ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying, The people draw nigh unto me with their mouth And they honored me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. God wants people that will worship him with their hearts. with their whole life, not just with their lifts. Not just once a week when we come on Sunday, but all throughout the week we worship God. by how we live. There are examples in Scripture of private worship, and I hope that you're doing that. I hope you're taking time each day. to pray and to read the word of God, to give praise to God, to give thanks to God. We should be worshiping every day. A once-a-week worshiper is kind of an oxymoron, as the people of God. That's what we do. Remember when Jonah was caught by the sailors on board the ship, he was running from God, and they said, Jonah, who they didn't say his name yet, but they said, Who are you and what do you do? And he said, I I worship God. That was an interesting response. What do you do for a living? Oh, I worship God. Does that include right now when you're running from them? He wasn't a real good testimony at that time. But it really describes the people of God or people that we worship This is who we are. We do it privately, we do it every day, but also we do it corporately. There are many verses in scripture that talk about Public worship, coming together, Psalm 22, verse 22, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise thee. And verse 25, My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. I will pay my vows before them that fear him. And again in Psalm 89, verse 7, God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him. When we come to God, this is the assembly of the saints. We are to fear him, we reverence him, we worship him. That's why the writer of Hebrews said in Hebrews 10, Not forsake ye the assembly of ourselves together As a matter of sum is, but exhorting one another so much more as you see the day approaching. We don't forsake the assembly, the writer says. We come, we assemble together, we exhort one another. Not only do we worship God here But we encourage one another to do the same thing. That's part of the reason why we come. Not only for our s we don't come for ourselves, we come to worship God, and we encourage others to do the same. We exhort one another. We encourage one another. That's why you're needed in the worship. You're needed here. Your presence encourages my heart. Your presence encourages the heart of others that are around you. And we encourage one another. with our worship to God. So this is the people of worship. But then here's the second thing I see in this psalm, the participation, because notice what it says in verse 2, praise the Lord with harp, sing unto him. With the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Verse 3, sing unto him a new song. This is the participation here. Part of our worship is singing unto the Lord. That's why we do this. We come to God's house, we sing. We sing the Bible says with a loud noise, that would describe some of you very adequately Some people say, well, I don't have a very good voice. I just make a joyful noise. Well, that's biblical. It's exactly what the Bible says do. Don't worry about the people around you. Just sing unto the Lord. Sing out unto Him. A loud noise is really one word in the Hebrew. It means shout for joy. It has the idea of enthusiasm. No half-hearted singing. Sing with enthusiasm. Sing with joy in your heart. And then it says sing a new song. There's nothing wrong with new songs. New songs show the new things that God is doing in our life and in our experience. Thank God for The tested and tried old songs that we sing that have such depth and meaning and doctrine that minister to our heart. But also thank God for the new songs that show the new things. that God is doing in hearts and lives. Now scholars debate over what is meant by new. One scholar said it means a song that springs freshly from a thankful and rejoicing heart. Montgomery Boyce wrote this, it is more likely, however, that a new song means that every praise song should emerge from a fresh awareness of God's presence. I really like that. Even though it's the same song, it's kind of a new song because it comes from a new expression of joy and thankfulness and gratitude from God in our heart. So even though we sang the same songs this morning that we sung before, it's a new song in the sense that I'm bringing my worship on this day. And it comes from a fresh awareness of God's presence and what he's done in my life. And so it's new in that sense. And it's wonderful that we can do that. So new song can be new in time or new in expression. A new expression of what God has done in our heart. And by the way, do you know what? There's nothing that can duplicate what we do here. There's no substitute for it. There's no replacement for it. And every worship service is different and unique. And we come, we bring our worship with us. And we bring a new song to God from a heart that truly is in all of who he is. So many times we're told to sing a new song, Psalm 40 verse 3. He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and trust in the Lord. Psalm 96, verse 1, Sing unto the Lord a new song, Psalm 98 verse 1. Sing unto the Lord a new song, for he hath done marvelous things. I love that. Each time we come to God's house, we sing a new song to him because of the marvelous things he has done. So I see s singing, I see serving their playing their instruments here. This is the first time in the Psalms that musical instruments are mentioned as being employed for worship. Certainly nothing wrong with that. It's wonderful. The Psalms endorse using musical instruments in worship And they should be played with skill and done to their best unto the Lord. And the idea, the principle is whatever gifts that God has given us, we employ these gifts in honor of God and worship of who He is. Let me give you the third thought here. We see the people of worship and the participation, but also the purpose. What is the purpose? Actually the word worship means uh the the word the idea of to give honor, to give reverence, uh the word means to bow down, to prostrate. Uh the Greek word for worship means to kiss towards. It's the idea of of just adoration, submission, all of that is involved in this idea of worship. Stephen Sharnock said it's nothing else but a rendering to God the honor that is due unto him. It is a consuming desire to give to God, to give to him the honor that he's worthy of. And our God is worthy of all honor. All of our praise. And in that sense, if I could just give it one word, it's really giving to God. It's giving. Heart, we give him ourselves, our possessions, we give all to him who is worthy of our praise Now why is he worthy? Well the psalmist gives us a few reasons. I wish I had time to speak on each one of these for an hour, but we don't. But look in verse number four. For the word of the Lord is right And all his works are done in truth. That's a reason to give him praise and honor because of his righteous character. He is the standard of what is right. God doesn't do a thing because it's right and just a thing is right and just because he does it. He is the standard of what is right. He's righteous in all of his ways. In verse 5, it says the earth is filled with the goodness of the Lord, the word Kessid, unfailing love. All the earth shows the unfailing love, the Kessed of God. How does it do that? Well because all the world all the the world gives. The ground gives of its food, the sky gives of its rain, the trees gives of its fruit, the rivers gives of its uh fish and water, the Field gives of its meat. All of God's creative order is giving, giving, giving. And as God's saying to us in his common grace, I love you, and I'm giving to you. We praise him because of his righteous character. We praise him because of his creative word. Look in verse number six, where it says, By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. That is such a powerful verse. Everything that was made was done by divine fiat. What does that mean? God said, let there be, and it was. Can you imagine the power of that? The power of God's word. God just spoke it into existence. Everything that is, all the visible things, came from nothing. Because God's word simply spoke it into existence. You say, I don't understand that. Neither do I, it's a miracle. And I I I just hate it when scientists try to explain creation. That is so futile. You can't use scientific principles today to explain creation. It was done by the word of God. You know, some people want to say, well, matter is eternal. All these ridiculous ideas. No, there was a creator. He spoke the world into existence. You can't try to test it. You can't apply science to it. There was no one back there that saw it. It was only God, and he tells us here in his word what happened. Whatever scientist wants to come to me and try to explain creation, I want to say, were you there? No? Well then be quiet, please. The one who is there tells us what happened. The Word of God did it. Everything that is visible came out of nothing. That's creation ex nihilo. God created it all. That is incredible. The power of God to create. Think of the immensity of this universe. It's staggering. They say that astronomers are discovering vast regions of space that are completely empty. One such space is a billion light years across. That is 10,000 times greater than the distance across our Milky Way galaxy. And there are billions of huge galaxies like our Milky Way, and they're constantly finding these things How did it get there? God just spoke it. He spoke it. And it wasn't a hard thing for God. It didn't exhaust him at all. God said, let there be, and it was. And our psalmist puts it very simply. Verse 9: For he spake, and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. Wow. You know what our response should be to all of that? Back up to verse 8. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. That is just incredible. We worship him because of his righteous character, because of his creative power because of his sovereign control. Look at verse number 10. For the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught, he maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. You know what? There are powerful people in positions today who think they're running this whole thing. They're not. God is. Now they do what they want to do, but if they think that their ideas and their purposes overturn the purposes of God, they got another thing coming. God allows them to do the things they want to do, but all the things they want to do basically fulfill his purposes, not theirs. God is sovereign. He's in total control. And that's what he's telling us here. We praise him for his sovereign control And we also because of how he delivers us. Look in verse number thirteen. For the Lord looketh from heaven to behold all the sons of men, from the place of his habitation, he looks upon all the inhabitants of the earth He fashioned their hearts alike. He considers all their works. This is the stomach is giving us a picture of God looking down from heaven, just like you might look down from an airplane. You know, I flew back here from Memphis and We flew on a clear day and I was looking down. We passed by cities and there are thousands and thousands of houses and people driving. And you look down and I think, you know, this is the image that the psalmist gives of God. God looks down from heaven. He sees everyone. He knows everyone. He's numbered the hairs of their head. That just blows my mind. I look down, I say, you know, God knows every person down there. He knows all about them. He fashioned their heart. He knows what's in their heart. He knows the thoughts of their heart. Not only does he know them, he knows them inwardly, all about them. And this is incredible. He sees everything, everyone in the earth, and he knows why they do what they do. And he knows and he delivers them. He knows why they do the things they do and if they're depending on him or not. He knows the people that are actually trusting in him and depending upon him and worshiping him. And the Bible says his eyes especially on them. Look in verse eighteen. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, and upon them that hope in his mercy. As God is looking down and he scans the world and he sees people, he knows their heart. He zeroes in on the people that truly worship him and fear him. And you know why he does that? Look at this in verse 19. To deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine. You know what God does? Those people that truly worship God and fear God and trust God, God zeroes in on them. You know why? Because He's going to deliver them when they need it. When the time comes, the time of famine. We're hearing about all these bad things that are gonna happen. There is a war going on and the price of gas is going up and the price of food is going up and we're gonna Have all these difficulties and all that. You say, what is our response to that? We just worship God. You know why? Because He knows the hearts of those that trust Him and fear Him, and you know what? He's going to deliver them in the time of famine He'll be there for 'em. That's what God does. So these are the people that he favors to protect them. Let me give you the last thought here. The product of worship. Because in verse 20 to verse 22, what I see here is there's an exchange that takes place. As we wait on the Lord, as we hope in the Lord, as we worship the Lord, you know what God does? He helps us. In verse 20, for also waiteth for the Lord, he is our help. For our hearts shall rejoice in him. There's an exchange. We worship him in response. He builds our faith. He rejoices our heart. He refreshes our soul. Always when we focus on God and we worship God, we get something back. And it's always wonderful. The psalmist said it like this in Psalms 16, verse 8 and 9. I have set the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. I like that. I'm always going to worship God. I'm always going to keep Him first. I'm always going to hope in Him and trust in Him. I will not be moved. I'm not going to stop doing that, talking about a spiritual discipline. He's got this one figured out I'm not going to be moved away from this. Therefore, my heart rejoices. In response, he has joy. And with my song, I will praise him. What happens when we worship? We delight in God. God delights in us. We draw near to God. God draws near to us. But then there's a dynamic he ministers to us. I want you to see this in closing. Look in Psalm 73, another Psalm here. I want you to see this here, because uh this is a good way to close out this sermon. is looking in Psalm 73. Let me just give you a little insight into this. This is a written by a psalmist named Asap, and he's struggling spiritually. He's going through a crisis. Did that ever happen to you? Go through a crisis spiritually, a crisis of faith. He's the choir director. He's supposed to lead others in worship, but how's he going to do it if he's not right? He kind of lost focus. So look in verse number one of Psalm 73. Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as a clean heart. But as for me. Uh-oh. You can see the Psalm 20 right there. Yeah, God is good. In general, he's good to Israel. He's in good in general, he's good to people that live a clean life. But as for me. Now we're already he's starting out wrong because what's he doing? He's he's getting a little self-focused here. But me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had well-nigh slipped. What happened? Well, he took his eyes off the Lord. He started putting his eyes on people around him. And notice verse 3, for I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Uh-oh. He took his eyes off of God. He started looking at people around him. And he saw the wealthy, wicked, and he thought, you know what? These people aren't having it rough like me. I'm trying to worship God. I'm trying to follow God. And yet their life is a whole lot better, it seems, than my life. You see, he doesn't really see things as they are. He sees things as he thinks they are. It's the grass is greener on the other side type syndrome. All these people that don't worship God Love God. They don't seem to have the problems I have. And so this is causing him to slip. He nearly lost his foothold. He's almost gone, he says. He was becoming bitter. He was filled with self-pity And look what he says in verse number four. For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. That is, it seems like when they die, they'll die with ease. Verse 5. They don't seem to have worries like others. They are not in trouble as other men, neither are they plague like other men. Verse 6, he says their pride compasses them as a chain. They kind of wear their pride like a gold chain. Verse 7, they have everything they could want. And verses 8 and 9, they speak with blasphemy to God. They are corrupt, and they speak wicked concerning oppression. They speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. In verse 10, it seems he's saying that they get away with murder. People just overlook what they do. Therefore his people return thither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. They just get away with whatever they want. Verse 11, they say, how does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? They think that God doesn't even see it. Emboldens them to live a wicked life. And verse 12 he says, Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world, they increase in riches. So he's looking at people that don't know God and he's seeing how easy they have it and how good they have it. And then look in verse 13. Then he looks at himself. The key pronouns here, I, me, my Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, I have washed my hands in innocence, for all day long have I been plagued and chastened every morning. He's saying, You know, what good is it to be a believer to live a clean life, to pursue holiness? He's questioning the value of godliness here. Wow, he's in trouble. And verse 15 is really interesting. If I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. What's he saying there? If I really share with you what I'm thinking, it's going to offend you. Which leads to a principle. When you're going through a crisis of faith, don't say everything that you're thinking. Don't tell everyone what you're going through. Everyone has those moments. He's out of sorts. You ever get out of sorts? You guys look so holy this morning. You ever get out of sorts? Start questioning things? Go through a crisis? You know what the problem with this psalmist was? He's been missing his time with the Lord. He hasn't been worshiping God in private. He hasn't been going to the house of the Lord. Hadn't been reading his Bible. He's been listening to too much social media. He's been watching too much TV and not reading his Bible, not focusing on the Lord. Things change for him, however. You know how it changes? Look in verse 17. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. That's when things change. You know what he says? Now I'm going to go to church. And when he goes to the public worship and he gets with God's people, suddenly things changed Suddenly he began to see things differently. You know what? He got the eternal perspective back. He began to see things the way God sees them. He began to evaluate things in light of the Word of God and spiritual values. In short, he got his eyes back on God in the worship service. And when he did, he realized how foolish he was. Look at verse 18. Surely thou dost set them in slippery places. Who's of them? That's the wicked That you think they're having it better than you? Listen, they're living on slippery places. In an instant, thou castest them down into destruction. How they are brought into desolation as in a moment. God will allow the wealthy wicked to do their thing now. You know why? Because this is the only heaven they're ever going to have. In a moment it can all change if they don't know the Lord. And I don't say that Proudly I say that with a broken heart. I would to God that everyone came to the Lord Jesus Christ and were saved. But some are hardened their heart against God. And God, he gives the image here of God waking up as in a moment and bringing swift judgment. on those who don't know him. Let me say something. If you know the Lord Jesus, if you're a recipient of the grace of God, and he has imputed you his righteousness and he's blessed you with his grace, you have it better than anyone. Because in a moment judgment can come. And so he he gives this picture of God as if the Lord is a is a is asleep, but he's suddenly going to wake up. And when he does, judgment will come. This reminds me when I was a kid, um growing up on Riverside Avenue, me and my brothers, you know, we would do crazy things sometimes. Sometimes We were bored we would have what we called a shoe fight. We would throw shoes at each other. So why'd you do that? Because we're kids. We didn't know any better. Trying to find something to do. And one day we were throwing shoes back and forth, and my father had worked a third shift. He was home. He was sleeping in his bed. One thing you don't want to do is when a dad's asleep, you don't want to wake him up. I remember we were finally a shoe fight and I threw a shoe and it went over my brother's head and it landed on my dad, who was who was asleep. The door was open, it hit him in the head, he woke up with a smelly shoe over his face. And he woke up. And what happened? Judgment came swiftly. Right after that. When he aw was awoken, and this is the picture that the psalmist is giving here. It may seem like God's asleep, but in an instant he'll wake up. And when he does Judgment will come. And so he begins to realize how foolish his thinking was. So look in verse 22. So foolish was I and ignorant I was as a beast before thee. Actually, verse 21, he said, My heart was grieved, he got convicted, I was pricked in my reins, I was foolish. And then he begins to realize all that he has. Nevertheless, I am continually with thee. Thou hast hold me up by my right hand He was talking about slipping and falling, and the only reason he didn't fall is because God was the one who held him up. And I want to tell you something, friend, the only reason we don't fall is because God is holding on to us. That's the only reason. And then he said this, verse twenty-four Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel. Afterward receive me to glory. Whom have I in heaven but thee, and there is none upon the earth that I desire beside thee. What is better than having God's constant presence, guidance, counsel in our life, watching over us? He's going to see us through this pilgrimage, this earthly life, and at the end of it, you know what? He's going to receive us in the glory What an incredible blessing that is. I love that way he says, Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. That's what worship is all about. It's treasuring God above all things. All things. And I don't have time to go into all this, but look at the last verse. But it is good for me to draw near to God. I put my trust in the Lord God that I may declare all thy works. And that's what he's saying. This is the discipline of worship. It's good for me to draw near to God. That's what we do. And we have to do it every day in our private worship. And we do it every week in our public worship. We draw near to God. And we realize that whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. We treasure him above all things. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this reminder in your word. I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to incorporate into our life the discipline of worship. That will not let anything keep us from it. Like we'll say, like the psalmist, the Lord is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Keep you first and foremost in our life. Make a determination to worship you each day of our life Every week when we gather together in the public assembly of the people of God to give you honor and praise. And Lord, we realize that in return from that, Lord, you strengthen our heart. You refresh our spirit. You renew our perspective. You give us the strength that we need to go from grace unto grace to make it through this pilgrim journey. Help us, Lord, to make this the greatest priority of our earthly existence, to worship you. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just say this. You can't worship the Lord if you don't know Jesus as your Savior, friend. You can't rightly do it. The greatest act of worship you can do is to come to Christ as a sinner, like all of us have done, and say, God be merciful to me as sinner and save me. And give your heart to Christ because He has given His life for you on the cross. He took all of your sins upon himself. He died for you. That you might have eternal life. And if you're here today and you turn to him and you come to him with a repentant heart and you call upon him for salvation, the Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. And friend, I recommend you do that. That'll be the first step of worship. And then every day of your life, you can praise him and thank him for forgiving you for your sins and giving you eternal life. Anyone here say that's my prayer? Pray for me, preacher. I'm trusting Christ this day, this very moment. I'm inviting you right now, put your faith in Christ. How many with a lifted hand say, Yes, I'm going to do that. I'm going to trust Christ. If you haven't already, would you do that today? Would you pray this prayer in your heart? God be merciful. Just say that. God be merciful to me a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Pray that. And you know what? He will save you. He will save you. And let me know. Come to me and talk to me afterwards about this decision that you've made for Christ. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts today. May we be committed worshipers of you, and we pray in Jesus' name, amen.