So take your Bibles tonight, please, and open to the book of Psalm, chapter 32. As you know, on Sunday nights I've been doing a kind of an unusual series called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits. And really I'm preaching sermons that I can say are not my sermons, that's why they've been so good lately. Um it's because uh I'm just really going through these books that I've read uh from Puritan works and um you know How many of you know pastors need to be preached at, not only just preached, but I need to be preached at as well, and I need to be fed, and there's nothing that really feeds me and helps my soul like reading um The guys who are already going on to heaven, the dead guys, reading the Puritans. Uh there's such a spiritual death about 'em. And every time I pick up one of the books and read it, I just get convicted I feel like I have to put it down and I have to uh deal with the Lord myself about some areas of my own life. And what I'm actually doing is I'm just kinda it's unusually I'm just kinda trying to summarize what the really the whole book is about, um which normally these Puritans they would take one verse and they'd preach a whole series of sermons on one verse. Uh some of you might remember that I did a series on um the the uh the armor of God and uh thought, man, I you know I did a sermon on each piece of armor, that's pretty good, and so I picked up a Puritan book work book where a guy named William Guthrie basically um preached uh three volumes on those uh on those same verses. So I I didn't feel so good myself after that because he got such depth out of it But I try to take their sermons in just in the book and just kind of summarize in a general way some of the things that have helped me that I pray will be a help to you that'll help you in your Christian life. And tonight we look at Psalm 32, verse number 6. And this is from Thomas Watson. The name of his book is called The Godly Man's Picture. This is uh the Puritan Thomas Watson who uh was again uh lived in London in the uh 17th century in a very difficult time in London. He After the London fire and imprisonment for nonconformity and you'd heard me talk about nonconformity before. What is that? That's when Parliament came together And they gave a list of laws that every minister in England had to abide by and a book of prayer that they had to use. And many of the curative ministers said, Hey, wait a minute, we already have a book that we can use, and that's called the Bible. And they refused to conform to some of the laws that that the Parliament enforced on them and because of that, because they refused to conform, they were stripped from their pulpit. It was against the law for them to preach. And so therefore a lot of them would go out into the woods and meet crowds of people in the woods. If they'd go to a barn They didn't stop preaching, they just began to do it what was against the law. It'd be like the state of Maryland coming to us or to me and saying, look, uh, here's some things that you can't do, some things you can't preach in the pulpit. And of course, um uh I would just say, meet me in the woods. Would you be there with me if we did that, you know? Um so this is what the Puritans are doing, and Thomas Watson was certainly one of them. And after going through all of that and the loss of his pulpit, he preached a sermon on Psalm 32, verse number 6. And uh this became uh a series and it became also one of his most enduring books, and the name of it is called The Godly Man's Picture. It's a portrait of what genuine godliness looks like in uh a believer's life. I I don't know about you, but I want to be a genuinely godly person. I don't want to just be that on the outside. I want to be genuinely godly. So what does that look like? And by the way, I had the privilege When one of my many trips over to London, one of the things I did when I was over there, I kind of charted out some of the famous Puritans and where they preached and some of their churches were still there. And I know this sounds like a totally boring thing for a lot of people to do, but I'm a I'm a history nerd, I admit it. And but I went to each of those churches that I could map out and just visited the church and just kind of remembered that person and I was able to do that uh with Thomas Watson and and actually see the pulpit where he preached out of, which was a pretty pretty cool thing for me to be able to do And uh so Thomas Watson was known for his unmatched gift of just taking real theological truths and presenting them in a very, very easy way to understand. One historian said Watson could press a mountain of truth into a single diamond. That seems to be what he does here in Psalm 32, verse number six. Look at the verse here that we're going to look at tonight. For this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found. And here in this verse, Watson sees a simple but profound truth. And that is that godliness is not some kind of vague feeling, but godliness shows itself in your life and practical living. He said this godliness consists in an exact harmony between holy principles and practices That's so true. The godly man prays, the godly man seeks God, the godly man repents, he loves, he obeys. Watson said this, godliness is the is the sacred impression of God upon the soul. So I want us to kind of just kind of review what he had to say. And uh I want to summarize it really in just four guidelines here. First of all, what I want to call the condition of godliness. And this is where we look at the first part of the verse where it says, For this shall everyone that is godly, everyone that is godly. And he uh uh begins to uh uh expound on Psalm 32. So let's talk a little bit about this psalm, Psalm 32. This is called a penitential psalm. There are several Psalms in the Old Testament that have this designation. Why is it called penitential? Because it was written when David had repented of a sin in his life, a certain failure. that had taken place in his life and he confessed that failure and he was penitent towards God. But also if you look at the subtitle, right above um uh right above the uh the the chapter uh where it says a psalm of david and then it says miskill What does that word mean? The Hebrew word miskil? It is a word that c actually means to give instruction. And so a Miskil Psalm was a psalm that was meant to give someone insight or to give them instruction. It's really designed to cause the reader, or actually we could say the singer of the song, to evaluate their own heart, to examine their heart, and to instruct their heart. So it wasn't just music, it was also teaching. That should be true of all of our hymns, right? When we sing, we're not just singing, we are also instructing our heart. And this is what this psalm does. And this psalm was written by David after his sin with Bathsheba. And also the death of Uriah. So this was written after a sin, after that sin. And you remember that after David, the man after God's own heart, failed the Lord in this way He remained silent for a long period of time. There was a long period of time when he did not confess that sin. And this psalm here describes very vividly what was going on with him. uh in that interval. Look at verse number three. He says this, when I kept silent my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. Verse 4, for day and night thy hand was heavy upon me. My moisture is turned into the drought of summer. And this is really, he's describing the internal cost of concealed sin. When we conceal sin in our life and we don't deal with it, there's going to be that inward anguish because we are under divine discipline. There's the psychosomatic anguish that may come through our body and our soul and also the spiritual drought that we feel in our life because of the hand of God. Some people say when you sin you lose your salvation. No. God doesn't loosen his grip on you, he tightens his grip on you. David said, day and night, your hand was heavy upon me. You ever experienced that when there's unconfessed sin in your life where God just seems to grab hold of you tighter? And there's that inner turmoil because of that. But then God sent Nathan the prophet to David to confront him about his sin. And when exposed, David confessed his sin. You remember that great expression that David gave. And uh 2 Samuel chapter 12 after Nathan had dealt with him, he said, I have sinned greatly against the Lord And this psalm reflects that turning point in David's life. This was a turning point after he had sinned against the Lord. Look at verse number 5 of chapter 32. I acknowledge my sin unto thee. And my iniquity have I not hid. I said, here's David's determination. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord. And notice this next phrase, it's so beautiful, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. David knew what it was like to be forgiven for a terrible sin that he had committed, and he felt the sense of that forgiveness. Thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. And then upon that we see verse number six. This is the context. For this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found. You see, a truly godly person is not a person who is without sin. Because if that were true, none of us would ever be godly, because all of us are sinners. Is not a person who is perfect But it's the person who has been pardoned for their sin, and they understand the grace that comes with that great pardon. It's not someone who is flawless. But it's someone who has been forgiven. And here's something that we learn about godliness. Godliness is not of us. Let me tell you something. If you're a godly person, it's not of you. Any godliness you see in me, I promise you, it's not me. Godliness is something that God does in us. It is a work of God. It is something supernatural. And that's what Watson says. It is a supernatural thing. It's not a natural thing to be godly. That is the work of God upon us. Watson wrote this, a man may be civilly righteous, that is on the outside, and yet eternally miserable. But he says godliness is something more sublime. It's wonderful to have to be in church to attend. It's wonderful to have outward morality and good manners. But you can have all of that without having godliness. Godliness, he says, begins with the miracle of regeneration. It's the work of God's regeneration in our life. He said this, quote, a godly man is a man born from above. His heart is a heaven made in miniature. He's godly because a new nature has been planted in him, a new heart has been given to him, a new hunger. Now drives him to want to live a holy life. A new spirit dwells in him. That's the condition of the godly person, someone who realizes they have been forgiven. And it's all of God. But here's the second thing, not only the condition of godliness, but number two, just write down the cry of godliness. Look at the rest of verse six. For this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee. And Watson focuses now on the second part of this phrase, and he says that a godly man is a praying man, not occasionally praying, not formally praying just in public when you're in church. But he's a man who lives constantly near the mercy seat of God. He's constantly seeking God. He's constantly crying unto the Lord. And so he would say that godliness expresses itself in prayer. And Watson seizes on that word shall, shall, for this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee. Not may pray not ought to pray, not sometimes pray, but shall pray. He says this is the language of certainty. This is not an exhortation. The psalmist is not commanding prayer. He is describing a spiritual reflex. This is just going to be a natural thing to you now that you have been born from above. You're just going to pray. He says this, godliness does not invite prayer, it produces prayer. It's very natural. Just like a child after it's born naturally cries out unto It's mother, even so a child of God naturally cries out unto God. He says prayer is a breath of spiritual life. What breathing is to us physically, prayer is to the godly man spiritually It's like breathing. Um and and Watson says this, it's um, you know, it's n you don't have to pray um perfectly And it doesn't mean that you pray without distraction. You may even be weak in the way that you pray, but you're still going to pray I don't know about you. Sometimes when I'm praying, I get easily distracted. Okay? Um something comes up or anything. I need to turn my phone off, you know, but because the devil makes sure I get a phone call every time I start really praying Sometimes I feel like my prayers are so weak, I have to say, God forgive me for the weakness of this prayer. But Watson would say, look It doesn't mean that your prayers are going to be great and magnificent all the time and that you won't pray, you know, you'll have distractions at time, but nevertheless, there's going to be that prayer there. You're going to talk to God because it's very natural. It's just like breathing. He says prayer is a language of dependence We are a godly person since they know their corruption and they feel their weakness. They sense the continual need of grace in their life. Then it is the language of dependence. We pray because we express our absolute dependence upon God. But also prayer is the channel of communion. Prayer is not just asking things for God from God. You know, I just need this, this is why I'm praying. No, it's communion. You pray because you delight in God, because you want to sense his presence in your life. Because love always seeks an expression. It loves God. Silence toward God, he says, would be unnatural to a regenerate heart. So you're going to want to talk to him. But also prayer is the outlet of a burdened heart. And Watson understands that godliness does not remove sorrow, but it redirects it. The godly man feels sin more deeply. Sometimes people say, man, you know, I feel like the closer I walk to the Lord, the more sinful I feel. Welcome to the club. That's just the way it's going to be. Because if you really seek God and you want to live a holy life, then sin is going to matter to you and you're going to feel the weight of sin even more He says a godly man feels sin more deeply, feels trials more sharply, feels providence more searchingly, and prayer becomes the vent of the soul. This is why it's the outlet for us when we have these burdens and we feel the sin and we feel the burden of the trial, then prayer is that outlet for us. But prayer is also evidence of adoption. Remember the passage, we all know this, that the Spirit stirs our heart whereby we cry out what? Have a Father. It shows the spirit of adoption. And he would also say that prayerlessness exposes counterfeits. Very simply, if you don't pray then he says that, you know, you are, you don't, you're not, it's not real. Godliness is impossible without prayer, he would say. Where prayer is absent, he says grace is absent, and repentance is counterfeit, and religion is external. So prayer flows from a heart acquainted with God. And Psalm 32, 6 pictures a man who is running to God. Now think about that. Here's David who had just committed a terrible sin and now he's repented of that sin and now he's not running from God. And this is the characteristic of godliness, especially after you failed, and we all have. What does he do? He runs to God. He runs to the Lord. And that's the thing this emphasizes. The ungodly, he says, hide their sin. The godly confess it. The ungodly complain about providence. The godly submit to it. A godly man prays because he knows God is merciful, he knows God is near, and he knows God is his refuge. The godly man's heart is a temple where God delights to dwell. says Thomas Watson. So that's the cry of godliness. So we have the condition of godliness, we have the cry of godliness. But now here's number three. The character of godliness. And in this part, what Watson does, and this is really the whole bulk of the book, if you ever get the book and you want to read it, this is the whole summon substance of the book. And the the the biggest part of it, the most pages are devoted to this one section. And what he does is he gives the marks of a godly man or a person we could say. Um and he gives are you ready for this? Twenty-four marks. Twenty-four. How much time do you guys have tonight? I'm not going to give all twenty-four. We don't have time to give all twenty-four. No way. You have to get the book for yourself. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to pull out some of those that are Marks, he says, of Godliness. Alright, here's the first one. A godly man is a man of knowledge. A godly man is a man of knowledge. Now, Watson does not argue that knowledge alone makes you godly. There's a lot of people that have a lot of knowledge, religious knowledge. Biblical knowledge and they're not godly. Um but he does say this: you know, you can have knowledge and not be godly, but you can't be godly without having knowledge. You have to have the right knowledge. And he says that the godly are twice born and twice enlightened. And this is kind of a key point for him. What does he mean by twice enlightened? Well, he says everyone first of all has natural light. What is a natural light? That is reason. That's conscience. That is outward instruction. All of us have that. We all have the ability to reason. We all have a conscience that God has given us. We all have the ability empirically to be instructed and to learn. That's natural knowledge. Everybody has that. But a godly person also has spiritual light And this is the Spirit's inward working, revealing to us divine truth. We have to have the Spirit. And this is Paul in 1 Corinthians 2, right? That the natural man doesn't receive the things of the Spirit of God. The natural man can have natural light, but if you're going to have spiritual light, that is a work of the Holy Spirit. And we would call that divine illumination, right? The Spirit of God has to teach us God's word. And he says, this is why a man might have theology. You can know theology and yet not know God. A man may argue truth and yet at the same time resist it. A man may teach scripture and never be taught by it. And his concern here is that people have a heart knowledge. A lot of people have a head knowledge, but they don't have that heart knowledge about who Jesus is. So a godly man, however, has this spiritual light. And what does he know? Well, there are four specific things that he points out, Watson does that he knows. First of all, he knows God's holiness. A godly man doesn't merely affirm that God is holy, he says. A godly man feels the weight of that holiness It's just one thing to say that you believe God is holy. It's a whole different thing to see that you believe it in the way that you live and you feel the weight of that holiness in your life. God's holiness humbles a godly man. God's holiness corrects him. And God's holiness regulates the manner and the way in which he worships God. Until a man knows God is holy, he will never tremble at sin. He will never treasure grace in his life until he knows that. But also, Watson says he knows his own sin. True knowledge always, he says, turns inward. And so a godly man sees sin as sin. He doesn't see it merely as an inconvenience. He sees sin as sin. He mourns over his own inward corruption, not just the outward acts But he he mourns over his own inward corruption. And he confesses heart sins, not just visible faults that are visible before others, but he confesses his own heart sins. And Watson insisted this knowledge, this kind of knowledge is painful, but it's necessary. But then also, number three, he knows Christ's efficiency. He says. Watson is deeply Christ-centered uh at this point, and he says that the godly man knows Christ is sufficient for our guilt. Have you do you feel the guilt of Something that you have done, well, Christ is sufficient for that. He can take that from you. Christ is sufficient for power. You feel weak, Christ is our strength Christ is sufficient for perseverance. And he says, this knowledge of the sufficiency of Christ will kill self-righteousness. He said it'll sweeten obedience, it'll make us want to obey him all the more, and it will strengthen assurance in our life. But there's another thing he says that a godly man knows, and that is he knows the world's vanity. Watson says a godly man is not naive about the world. He knows the world promises what it cannot give. I don't know if you know that. The world's always advertising. Overadvertising, promising you things that it is unable to deliver. It will never deliver. He says he knows that pleasures fade, that is, worldly pleasures they fade. That worldly honors disappoint, and that riches betray. And he says this kind of knowledge will loosen his heart's grip on the things of the world. That's what is part part of being godly. You loosen your grip on the things of the world because you know those things don't ultimately satisfy. It's vanity, it's empty. And knowing the vanity of the world Causes him to see the emptiness of it, and he will not therefore idolize the world. So, a godly man is a man of knowledge. We're gonna have to go faster on these. That's just one. I've got nine more. All right. We'll try to hang in there. I won't keep you too long. Here's the next one. A godly man loves the word. This was of course obvious to us. In the godly man's picture, Thomas Watson insists that the genuine godliness is never indifferent to Scripture. He says, where grace has entered the heart, love for the word inevitably flows. And what he does here at this part is he kind of uses a metaphor. an image that kind of captures his meaning and he kind of pictures um the word as a uh uh uh as like a garden. Scripture is kind of like a garden walking into a garden He says, Scripture therefore is the godly man's garden. You ever walk into a beautiful garden and just love the beauty of that huge garden there and kind of slowly walk through that garden and notice all of the different beautiful flowers and the botany there in that garden. And that's how he uh Thomas Watson talks about scripture. The godly man is like a a person who's in a garden and he loves that garden. He doesn't merely pass through it or glance at it or admired it afar off, he walks into that garden and he lingers there and he delights in it and he returns again and again. He can't get enough of just strolling through that garden and seeing all the beauty of it. And that's that's the image that he uses there. And this Watson grounds this love not in discipline alone, but just kind of having a spiritual affinity. You have a spiritual affinity for God's word because the word of God is the voice of God. And the word of God reveals Christ, and the Word of God sanctifies us. And this is why we love it so and why we love to return to that garden and walk through it again and again. So therefore, he's going to do what? He's going to read God's word. Not merely out of custom, not just for information, but with expectation and submission. You're going to want to just really absorb it and submit to it. He meditates on God's word. He says, reading is taking in the food, meditation is chewing it, obedience is the strength drawn from it. So the godly man turned scripture over and over again, examining it, applying it. Praising God for it, praying it back to God. He treasures God's word. But let me give you the next one A godly man hates sin. This is another mark. A godly man hates sin. And Watson insists that the hatred of sin is one of the surest proofs of godliness. He says, where grace reigns, sin is not merely feared, it is detested. And his language really is very vivid, intentionally vivid at this point. He says, quote, To the godly sin is a plague sore It is a poison of the old serpent. And the Puritans were really good at this. And and this is what he does here. He chooses these metaphors that that are revolting and says that's what sin is. A godly man hates sin. Not just the punishment of sin, but he hates sin itself. And he makes this crucial distinction. He says hypocrites hate sin for its consequences. But a godly man hates sin for its nature. Not just the consequences of what it does in our life, but because of what sin by nature is. And then watch him ask this penetrating question. Ready for this? Would you hate sin if there were no punishment? He says the godly man answers, yes. Yes. Why? Well, because sin offends God. Because sin defiles the soul. Because sin dishonors Christ Because sin grieves the spirit. That's why a godly person must hate sin. Sin is contrary to God's nature, and God is holy. And Watson would say, he that loves the king cannot love treason. You can't love treason and the king at the same time. And to tolerate sin is to tolerate that which crucified Christ. Sin is the enemy of the soul. It is a plague. It spreads, it infects, it weakens, it kills. And we see that David learned this in Psalm 32. But then also he says, sin is Satan's poison. And he has the image of the old serpent. highlighting the deception of Satan. And uh sin rarely appears deadly at first. He says it flatters, it promises, it entices But also sin, wars against grace. That's why we hate it. It's a war against grace. And Watson, of course, understands and he explains here at this point the believer's inner conflict. And so a godly man hates sin. There's so much more I can say about that, but let me move on. Next one, a godly man is humble. A godly man is humble. In the godly man's picture, Watson teaches that humility is the soil from which all other graces in the Christian life grow. It grows out of the soil of humility. He says godliness doesn't inflate a man. It lowers him. If you're truly godly, you're not going to be proud about that. You're not going to be inflated about that. Reminds me of the man who uh attended church so much. And was so faithful that and the people the people in the church recognized him and they gave him hu a humility badge to wear. And when he wore it the next Sunday they took it away from him Said grace will not inflate you. And by the way, humility for Watson is not timidity. It's not self-hatred, it's not weakness of personality. Rather, he says that humility is a right estimation of God and self. produced by spiritual illumination. When the Holy Spirit has illuminated your heart, you know what you see. You see God as He is and you see yourself the way you are. And if that happens, you can't help but be humbled by that. You can't help it. The humble man thinks highly of God. He thinks soberly of himself, and he submits gladly to the will of God. And so the reasons why, you know uh uh humility is hand in hand with true godliness is because the godly man knows the greatness of God. He knows God's holiness and his sovereignty and his majesty. And uh that's that causes but also he knows his own sin. We talked about that. And he also knows that grace is undeserved. And so we know that our salvation is not earned. It's nothing that we deserve. And when you understand that, you can't help but be humble. And he submits to the providence of God in his life. But let me move on. A godly man loves God. And again, that's uh very understandable and natural. Watson wrote the godly man loves God with a love of appreciation and admiration. He obeys because he loves. He serves God because he loves God. He prays because he loves God. Let me move on to the next one. A godly man is passionate for Christ-likeness. Watson says this is the highest work of the Christian to aspire after godliness. Godliness is not static. That is, there's going to be constantly changes in your life. What kind of changes? Spiritual growth. You deepen, you mature, you bear fruit. You learn to fight spiritual battles, you're constantly changing. And you're constantly asking the question to yourself, how may I be more like Christ. Christ's likeness is the aim of the godly person to be conformed to the image of Christ. But then here's the next thing. A godly man loves the saints. He loves the saints. And again, Watson says the godly prize is saying so they have infirmities, weaknesses. Um you know what Uh you're gonna love God's people despite the fact that they have faults and weaknesses. We all understand that, right? None of us here are perfect. And and if we only love the good people, we're not gonna love anybody The godly man loves people despite their weaknesses and faults, he says. He loves the church. He prays for the church. He supports the church. And Watson's logic is very simple here. He said, if a man loves the father, he must love the children. And you know, we're studying 1 John on Sunday morning, and that's something that John makes very evident over and over again in his letter. If you love him that is that that is begotten, you're going to love the one that begot him. You're going to love your brethren because they have been they come from the Father And that's that's very, very clear. Love for the saints, he says, is evidence of new birth, and John and 1 John, of course, would agree with that wholeheartedly. And what this love looks like in practice is affection, genual warmth, not cold tolerance. The godly man delights in the company of believers. He loves being around children of God. He prefers spiritual fellowship over worldly amusement. Think about that next time you choose a Ravens game over being in church. Of course we don't gotta worry about the Ravens anymore this season, do we? Also esteem that godly man honors, grace, and others. He may differ on temperament, maturity, secondary matters, but he esteems them for Christ's sake. And it also shows itself in service. Well, let me give you the next one. A godly man weeps, he says. A godly man weeps. And Watson here teaches that holy sorrow is one of the tenderest evidences of grace. Godliness does not harden a person's heart. Godliness softens a person's heart He says, where sin once produced indifference, grace produces tears. And he doesn't mean that every godly man weeps outwardly all the time, but that the heart of the godly man is broken and tender. Towards many different things. You may carry around you a tender heart and weep quietly on your own. But he says godliness will produce tears A heart of stone, he says, does not weep, but a heart of flesh must weep. What does he weep over? He weeps over sin. Not only his own sin, primarily his own sin, but sin when he sees it committed in other places. and with other people because it dishonors God. These are not tears of fear. He says these are tears of love, wounded. But also the godly man weeps over Christ's sufferings. And he ties sorrow for sin to the cross. A godly man considers sin that nailed Christ to the tree, sin that pierced the Savior's soul, sin that required such a price that Christ would have to die in that way. But he also he weeps over the sin of others, as I said. He grieves over this dishonor done to God in the world, to the blindness of sinners, and sometimes to the coldness of the church. But then also, here's another one. The godly man is a heavenly-minded man, and he sets his affections above. His affections follow him heavenward. His treasure is Christ, his hope is Christ, his home is Christ. He says the godly man uses the world, but he doesn't rest in it. Go ahead and use it, but this is not your home. You're just passing through. And this heavenly-mindedness, he says, this is a key point, is not escapism or mysticism Or neglect of earthly duties. You know, uh you can't say, well, how come you're not going to work today? Well, because I hate earthly things. It doesn't cause you to neglect earthly duties. That's not what he's saying here. But it is the sanctification of the affections whereby heaven becomes the believer's chief love. The highest hope and final aim. Because the godly man has a new birthplace. That's where you're born now. You're born from above, so therefore you're going to have a heavenly mindset. And all of your treasure is in heaven. You lay up treasure in heaven. That's where your thoughts will go. You deposited your best treasure there is righteousness, your inheritance, your future, your crown, and so forth. And you're united to Christ who's there in heaven. Here he talks about the believers' union with Christ. We're so united to Christ that since Christ is there, our affections are there. So we have this heavenly affection that we always carry with us in our heart. And that again loosens our affections towards the things of this world. So that's point number three. Whew. Got through all of those. Let me give you the last thing here, and we're going to be done. I talked about the condition of godliness, the cry, and the character, but here's number four, the call. And this is the last part of the verse where Watson will dwell, and it is the part where he says, in a time when thou mayest be found. For this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found. And the question we have to ask ourselves of this verse is, what is that referring to? When is the time That God will always be found? Such a good question. Well, remember, this is a penitential psalm, right? It's teaching you, it's instructing you how to act after a failure, after you've fallen, after you have messed up. So, what is it teaching us? And by the way, there's an urgency in this verse. You know the perfect time to run to seek God with urgency is right after you have failed. That's what he's saying right here. Seek the Lord promptly. While grace is alive, while your conscience is tender. That's the perfect time. That's when God will be found. That's when his mercy is offered. You don't have to wait. Once you have failed and you realize it and you're penitent and you're sorry, run to him because that's the time for him to be found. That's what the godly man does. The issue, he says, is not that God becomes unwilling to hear, but that hearts can be hardened. And life can end suddenly. An opportunity can be lost. So when you fail the Lord, don't wait. Don't wait. Run to Him. Run to him. That's when he can be found. Don't wait until that covered sin hardens you, hardens your heart, or the opportunity may be lost. You don't know what tomorrow's gonna bring And so when God may be found means you run to Him. Right when you have been, and God in His providence has reminded you about your failure, in His grace, He makes that known to your heart So that he wants you at that moment to run to him. Run to him at that time. Watson said, God has a time for mercy. But be careful, because there's a time when he may not be found. And here he's warning about delaying. Don't delay. Don't delay. A godly person runs to the Lord. Because he has failed and he sinned. In Hebrews, today if you will hear your his voice, harden not your hearts. And so the godliness seeks God at the appointed time. Do not delay. Do not allow your heart to be hardened. Do not presume upon tomorrow. Godliness runs to the throne of grace. Runs. Why? Because God is nearer than we think. He's more ready to forgive than we imagine. Don't ever get the thought in your mind, I failed too bad. God doesn't want to hear from me. Oh, how wrong you are. That's the perfect time. That's exactly when He wants to hear from you That's exactly when you turn to him. That's when his mercy is extended more than ever. Flavor once said this, if men knew the sweetness of communion with God, they would run through fire to reach it. And so that's uh that's that's the book in a nutshell. Uh and go read it. It's a whole lot more than what I just said here. But Watson closes with this piercing question, and it's a question that we all need to ask ourselves tonight. He says this, and I'm quoting, art thou such a man? Is that who you are? Is that what you're like? Canst thou find the features of godliness in thy soul? He says. And again, he's not painting a portrait of a perfect person, but a flawed person who it's not perfection, you heard me say before, it's direction. who is running towards the Lord. A godly man is not sinless, but he strives. He's not flawless, but he fights. Near the end of his uh short life, I don't know if you ever heard of Robert Murray McShane. He was a great Scottish preacher. He only lived twenty-nine years. He had a terrible illness that uh caused his body to waste away. And those who knew him said that um Physically he may have been fragile, but there was nothing fragile about his spiritual life. He made such an incredible impact in the short life that he lived. And it was McShane who once wrote these words, very searching words. It is not great talent that God blesses so much as great likeness to Jesus. And really, that's really what Thomas Watson is talking about in this book. If you really want to sum up the picture of the godly man, it's Jesus Christ. That that's the picture that we are really seeing here. And that's the image that we want to see in our own soul. And so Are we content to just drift? Or are we pursuing to be a godly person in our life? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for men of God like Thomas Watson That take verses like this and show us the richness of it, that distilled in this one verse are things that Are so precious. Really, it is a mountain of truth compressed into a diamond. And we thank you for men that are able to pick up that diamond and show us all the luster of it. And yet at the same time, while showing us the beauty of godliness, also shows us how desirable it is, Lord, to run to you. How that godliness is not a person who's perfect, but a person who has been pardoned, who sees in Christ all the sufficiency we need to be godly. That is not of us. Godliness is not of us. It's all of Christ. And so, Lord, may we run to Christ. May we flee to Christ. May it be the heart, the desire of our heart that we be like him in every way. Help us, Lord, in this endeavor in our life, we pray. In Jesus' name, Amen.