But we started on a study about forgiveness, and I want you to take your Bibles this morning open to Ephesians chapter four and verse number three This is a classic verse and we all know it. And we'll kind of read it in its context from verse 30 down to verse 32. where it tells us in verse 30, and grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed unto the day of redemption. And let all bitterness and anger, or excuse me, and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all malice. In verse 32, it says, and be ye kind one to another. tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. Now we are talking then, we were talking about this idea of forgiveness and how that there needs to be in the believer a understanding of how to forgive the way the Bible tells us to forgive and to have a forgiving heart. And uh we gave and I'll just review with you just a little bit of what we talked about in our first session together, and we talked about forgiveness, and we we said that there's a need to practice forgiveness in us, and one of those was because we're kind of born to retaliate, aren't we? When someone does something to us, we said, I'm not gonna get mad, I'm gonna get. Uh we uh we tr want to get even. There's something in us, there's kind of a retaliatory spirit in all of us where we say, I'm gonna give back at this person who did this thing to me. And uh and really um We kinda in our society we really make heroes out of people that take nothing off of no one and uh from nobody and will stand for no one messing with them. The strong, the tough, the courageous, the macho, they're kind of put up as heroic figures. And our society often kind of looks down on the meek or the non-retaliatory person, the gentle, the forgiving, almost like that's kind of a weakness. Because it's in us, it's kind of innate in the sin nature that we have to get back at someone. I mean think about it. The movies that make the most money, it seems like at Hollywood are the movies about vengeance, where we've got to get back at someone and that sort of thing. And so we kind of make a hero out of that. But also there's a need that we need to learn forgiveness, and we mentioned this point the last time because of the blood of Jesus And what we mean by that is that in the and there's a wonderful verse in the book of Hebrews that compares the blood of Abel, where the Bible says when um Cain killed Abel You remember that story in Genesis where God said to Cain, the the voice of your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. And what was uh Abel's blood crying out to God? And what was it saying? It was basically saying uh vengeance or justice. Uh give me justice. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with justice. Justice has its place. There's nothing wrong with crying out for justice, and the Lord knows that we certainly need that. But the Bible says that the blood of Jesus speaks better things than that of the blood of Abel. And what does that mean? Well, simply that the blood of Jesus cries out not for justice, but it cries out for forgiveness, for mercy. And so when we think about the blood of Jesus, that's another reason why we need to learn to forgive. the way the Bible says. But then another thing we talked about was the burden of bitterness. If a person carries around bitterness in their heart, they're wasting a lot of time and emotional energy on carrying a grudge and really we had said before that that grudge, that bitterness, doesn't really hurt the person that you're angry at or bitter at. Really it hurts you. It's like a it's like an acid. Bitterness is like a acid that eats its own container. And it wounds you on the inside. Someone said that bitterness is like drinking poison and then expecting your enemy to die. And in fact, it'll be you the one that will be hurt by it. And so bur uh bitterness has a tremendous burden that a person might have. And so we need to learn as we said, the biblical pattern of forgiveness. So we talked about the pattern of forgiveness, and one of the things that we can we considered before, if you remember, is There's a debate among some people about as to the pattern of forgiveness. Is our forgiveness to be conditional or is it to be unconditional? And you remember that we said that Some say that forgiveness is conditional. That is, I don't have to forgive someone else unless first they apologize to me. That all forgiveness must be conditional. And they basically people who use this argument say, well, the Bible tells us to forgive like God forgives. And God forgives only when a person comes and asks for for that forgiveness, then does God forgive. And so therefore I am not uh required to forgive anyone until first they come to me, they recognize their wrongdoing, and they ask for forgiveness. Only then do I have to forgive. That's conditional forgiveness. And the question is, is that the biblical pattern, the normal pattern of a Christian? Now I have to tell you that a lot of people that I've talked to, even in counseling, have kind of used this this this idea of conditional forgiveness really to hold on to a grudge. I might ask, I might say something like this in counsel, well have you forgiven that person? Well they haven't asked for forgiveness, so I don't have to forgive them. And so they they don't forgive them. They hold on to it, and what they're really doing is they're kind of holding on to that bitterness in their heart, they're holding on to that unforgiveness in their heart, and they say that that's the way, anyway, the Bible tells us to forgive. Well, I would like to challenge that notion. I think that, and we said this the last time in case you weren't here, I think the normal biblical pattern Or I like to call it the default mode of a believer is that we are unconditional in our forgiveness, that we just forgive. And I think that's the idea behind the verse that we just read. Be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another Even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. And I think the idea in that verse there is that the reason we're to be unconditional in our forgiveness is because we have a God who has forgiven us for so much. I think that's the idea there in that verse. Again, some will say that this means conditional forgiveness and um You know, and so therefore, um, you know, I don't have to forgive unless a person comes and asks for forgiveness. There has to be this formal transaction. And there can be no forgiveness until the offender first asks for forgiveness. But I think that unconditional forgiveness is the normal pattern in the Bible. And there are verses that I gave you that speak of this. For example, in 1 Peter 4. 8, where it says, love covers a multitude of sins. Okay? So I think the normal pattern is that as loving people, we just overlook faults. We overlook sense. If a person does something against me, I'm going to automatically just overlook it. Okay? I'm not going to go to them and elicit an apology. By the way, did you know you just did something to offend me? You ever had someone do that? By the way, if I've a if you forgive me for something, you don't have to come and tell me that you're forgiving me, just forgive me, alright There I sometimes people come to me and say, Well, I just want you to know it's taken a long time, but I've finally forgiven you. What did I do? And then all of a sudden you're you're you're loading that on me. You're putting that burden on me because now in my heart I'm getting, well who are you to forgive me? What did I do to you? You know. Now all of a sudden I have these negative emotions that I gotta deal with. Look, when you forgive someone, just forgive 'em. Don't go and tell 'em. Don't be ceremoniously pomped and go up to 'em and say, Oh, I just want you to know that you, even though you're such a wretch I've been able to forgive you. You know, that sounds spiritual, but that's not the biblical pattern. We just forgive. Just let it go. If someone does an offense, we let it go. You say something about me, I let it go. You do something bad towards me, I let it go. Why? Because love covers a multitude of sins. I don't have to confront you over these little things. Now I think I told you before that in some of the counseling that I've done in marriage relationships, Marriages have struggled because um one partner feels like that every time something is done to irritate them, they have to confront their spouse over that source of irritation and then get them to recognize it and then get them to apologize And and can you imagine a marriage relationship where every little thing that you did that was wrong that irritated someone y you had to be confronted about it? That would be a very difficult relationship to maintain where every little thing you've got to confront and you've got to elicit a a a a uh formal transaction or or or elicit a a response to where a person will forgive Again, I think the normal pattern is we overlook the offense. We forgive unconditionally. We forgive unilaterally. We forgive unceremoniously. We just forgive We allow the our love to just cover it, write it off. Control alt-delete. I get it out of my computer. I let it go. I don't dwell on it. I don't think about it. Okay? Because it's difficult if you're going to live a life where every little thing that someone does that offends you, you're going to have to go and deal with it. Again, that becomes a very odious type relationship. So again, the question is, should it be confrontational or non-confrontational? Now, let me just say this. Having said that, I think the default mode for a believer is that we just forgive unconditionally. And that we don't confront people over the things that they've done to hurt us or maybe against us. Having said that, having said that, that's the default mode. Let me just qualify that by saying this. There are times, however, where the scripture teaches that we do have to confront Where we do have to be conditional in our forgiveness. And uh I think part of the the the the um The spiritual understanding about forgiveness is learning when to confront someone and when to just let it go. And what does the Bible say about that? And so that's really the issue here. So let me just give you some things from the scripture that I think help us in this area about when do we confront someone, if someone's done something against us, when do we just let it go? Overlook it. When do we confront? Okay? And so that's what uh we looked at the last time. And uh so let's look at these again right here Whenever possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it's best just to forgive unconditionally. If someone does something against you where it's it's petty, um You know, just let it go. Or if it's unintentional, someone does something unintentionally to bother you, again, it's best just to forgive that Completely. I think that's the idea behind the word that we see in scripture sometimes called forbearance. That we be uh showing forbearance one towards another. You're in Ephesians chapter four, go back to verse number uh one, where it says this, Ephesians four, one I therefore the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you're called With all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering. Watch the next phrase. Forbearing one another in what? You guys with me? We awake in love. Forbearing one another in love. Because we love someone, that means simply I'm gonna put up with it. You're just gonna put up with it. I'm not gonna make a big deal about it. I'm gonna be forbearing. I'm gonna overlook it. If someone does something or says something petty or schneid or you know s a little you know thing, I just overlook it Let it go. Why? Because the Bible says we need to be forbearing one to another. And I think that's the principle there. And so um So just overlook it. If it's a petty thing or something unintentional, just be forbearing in love, the Bible says. Number two, I think if you're the only injured party Even if the offense was public and flagrant, you might choose to forgive unconditionally. If you're the only one that's hurt in this, okay. And you and even again if it's flagrant, you wanna you wanna just might want to just let it go. I think that there's examples of this one principle that abounds in scripture. Joseph, for example, was the victim of a grievous uh evil uh plot against him by his brothers. They plotted to kill him and then they sold him into slavery. And I think again you remember the story I referred to it before years later after um everything had turned out well in the end because of God's providence. The brothers came to Joseph and they said, hey, you know, you've forgiven us for that, right? And Joseph said, look, you know, you meant it for evil, God meant it for good. He just let it go. Even though it was flagrant, it was planned, his forgiveness was unconditional to his brothers. It was unilateral. It was not predicated on any expression of remorse on behalf of the brothers. He just forgave them We see another example of this of David, when David was run out of Jerusalem because his son Absalom had strategically planned a rebellion at the right moment and got his forces together. So organized was this plot that David had to run for his life. He had to literally run out of Jerusalem. And you can imagine the grief and the heartache. And while he was on his way out, there was a man by the name of Shimei, and you talk about pouring salt and wounds, he began to curse David. And he began to throw rocks at him. And one of David's soldiers said, Let me go over and take care of this guy. And David said, No, just let him go. Just let it let it slide. Just forget about it. That was just complete forgiveness. Completely overlooking that fault. And so I think that again, this is the pattern. You might want to forgive if you're the only one injured, even if the offense was public and flagrant, just let it go And here's a third thing here. Um if you observe a serious offense that is a sin against someone other than you, then at that point you might want to confront the offender. That's different. Now if there's something against you see against someone else, there's a sense in which you kind of become the person who confronts just so that there can be righteousness right done there. I can unilaterally and unconditionally forgive a personal offense when I'm the victim, because I'm the only one bearing the wrong, but if I say it against someone else then I think I have a responsibility. By the way, there's scriptures about this. You might want to, if you're taking notes, right down Exodus 23, 6, you shall not pervert the justice due to your needy brother. In his dispute, you see a needy brother that's going through a a time where he's not getting traded right. It's okay to go and speak on his behalf. Deuteronomy 1620, justice and only justice you shall pursue. Isaiah 117, learn to do good. Excuse me. Seek justice, reprove the ruthless, defend the orphan, plea for the the widows. And so there's a principle in scripture where that it is it does become our responsibility to speak up for those who can't speak up for themselves. For those who are the innocent, for those who are the weak, we might want to do something about that because God does at that point. Lay on us that responsibility according to these passages here in the Old Testament. That's especially true With those, again, like in the in the era when the Bible was written, the most vulnerable people in society were widows and orphans, little children. You know what I I think is the church we need to speak up on behalf of the innocent. You know, that's why you know I don't want to get on a soapbox here too much, but that's why I hate abortion with all my heart. Because the most innocent people can you think of anyone more innocent than a baby in the mother's womb? Um I think you probably heard I'm getting on a rabbit trail here, so just letting you know in advance. Um you heard this this Hollywood uh Golden Globes Awards? You ever notice how they love to honor one another? And this woman, Michelle Williams, who got up and and gave the speech and said she she she said that had she not killed her previous child in abortion, she never would have been able to win this award. I want to tell you something, folks. That's the most evil speech I've ever heard. If you want to see a picture of the narcissistic, selfish, ungodly attitude in society today, just listen to that speech right there. The Bible says as Christians we need to stand up for those who cannot stand up for themselves. We need to speak up for those who cannot speak up for themselves. We need to come to the aid of those. And so I think there's a principle in Scripture. If I observe a serious offense, that's a sin against someone else, not me, but someone else, and this someone else really can't really speak up for themselves, I think it becomes our responsibility at that point where we must confront the offender. Jeremiah 22, 3 says, as thus says the Lord, do justice and righteousness and deliver the one who's been robbed from the power of his oppressor. And do not mistreat or do violence to the stranger, the orphan, or the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place. So here again is a principle of scripture where God said, Look, you speak up for those that are not being dealt with correctly where it's not right. And a previous church that I pastored I found out about An incident where a man in our church who had his own business was trying to go around to other church members getting business, and what I found out is he was defrauding these people And there was one one case where the guy uh paid for work to be done and this guy uh did not uh do the work. He took the man's money, didn't do the work, didn't plan on doing the work. And when the man confronted him about, hey, look, I paid you to do this work, you haven't done it, when can I expect it? The man turned on him and said, Why are you being so divisive? And uh when I heard about that, I I felt like I had to say something to this man. You have defrauded your brother. You I had to confront him on it. Hey, listen, this is what you agreed to do, you haven't done it. And uh and it became an issue where this guy he didn't want to he didn't want to he didn't want to give the money back and he didn't want to do the work. Can you imagine that? And uh later on I got a voicemail message on my phone and he left a message at 11 o'clock. Guess where I am at 11 o'clock on Sunday morning normally That's when he left it on a Sunday morning at 11 o'clock. I'm normally in the pulpit. I'm probably not going to pick up. I'm probably not going to answer my cell phone at Sunday at 11. Left the message, oh God's leading me to another church. And so he was just defrauding people. Now in a case like that you have to go and you have to confront the individual and you have to seek for There's a time to confront over sins that have been committed against your brother or sister. At that point, you're obeying the injunction of Scripture where the Lord says, do justice and righteousness and deliver the one who has been robbed. From the power of the oppressor. Go seek him out and do what is right at that point. Okay? Here's another principle of Scripture. When ignoring the offense might hurt the offender, confrontation is necessary. If I see a person sinning and I know that that pattern of behavior will ultimately hurt them, I've got to confront them and I've got to do it out of love. And we talked about that before. Brethren, Galatians 6 1. If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such one in the spirit of meekness. Considering thyself, lest thou also be Tempted, the word overtaken can literally be mean caught. A person could be caught in a sin. I think all of us understand that any one of us at the wrong moment we can be caught up in a sin. You understand that? Because we have this thing inside of us called the sin nature. And any one of us at any time can can yield to a temptation. And we can fall. And so if I see someone struggling over a pattern of sin or a sin in their life, then when I approach them, I'm not going to them in a holier-than-thou attitude or in a condu with a spirit of condemnation to that person. I'm going to them in a spirit of meekness, knowing that I could be there next week. I could fall tomorrow if if God doesn't help me. I go to them with a humble spirit because what I see in them now is a pattern of behavior That's going to ultimately hurt them, it's going to ultimately destroy them. It's going to bring them down And so I'm doing it at this point, not because I am some kind of a righteous judge trying to show my superiority in spiritual things. God forbid. I go to them with a broken spirit, with a humble spirit, with a loving spirit. Knowing that that thing, whatever it is Can overtake him, we can bring him down, could hurt him. Number one time I was pastoring a church years ago And then we had a man in our church who was a very uh just a good faithful Christian, at least all outward appearance seemed like he was a good uh a good man. was married, he and his wife just had a baby. And he started into a pattern of behavior that was not good. He he moved out of his house with his wife and moved in with a bunch of friends. And then he was not home and he was not being a husband to his wife and and and all these things and one thing after another. And I saw this pattern of behavior in his life and I went to him and I confronted him Just a good man. I remember after work I just went and said, hey man, you got a minute? Let's talk. What's going on? I want you to know I love you. I I I I I'm coming because I'm very concerned about what's going on in your life And the Bible tells us that at those moments we have to confront someone who's going astray, because what I see then at that point is a pattern of behavior that is unhealthy. that is ruinous in his whole whole life. And by the way, this person didn't repent. And basically what I was doing was fa following the biblical pattern of Matthew 18, which is church people like to call that passage church discipline. I like to call it church restoration. We're going to restore that person. At that point I can't forgive. I've got to hold them accountable. My forgiveness has to be conditional upon that person's repentance of doing what's wrong. I have to confront them at that point, and I'm not doing it because I'm hurt or I'm offended so much as I'm concerned about that pattern of behavior in their life. I know it's going to hurt them. It's going to hurt his life. It's going to hurt his marriage. Hurt his family. I got to go after him. I got to go after him. By the way, did you know that you are your brother's keeper, right? A lot of times people say, oh, I don't want to get involved. Are you a Christian? Do you love Jesus? Do you love your brother? Do you love your sister? Then you have to get involved You have to get involved. And by the way, as a pastor, listen, let me tell you this. I don't go around playing spiritual detective. We don't have a a uh A BIA, Baptist Um Information, or what does CIA stand for? Central Intelligence, Baptist Intelligence Agency Where we are out investigating everyone. We don't do that. I don't play those games. You know what I find out? If someone is taking an erroneous path, God lets me know somehow. Somehow he'll put that in front of me. And let me tell you something, friend, if God does that to you, if he puts that in front of you about a brother or sister in Christ that you love, that's taking this path, it's a dangerous path. For you to sit back and be silent and do nothing about it is wrong. At that point you have to go to them and you do it lovingly. Confront them lovingly. It is spirit of meekness. I can't ignore the offense then. I've got to go after them because I see how dangerous this is for them. Okay, and here's another thing. When a sin is scandalous or otherwise potentially damaging to the church, confrontation is necessary. And again, this this uh just goes along with uh what we are talking about when an offense might hurt someone else, but it there's a such a thing as an offense that a person may commit. Not only hurts them, but it hurts the overall body of Christ. It hurts it hurts the church in general. It's scandalous. It brings shame to the name of Christ. At that point, you have to go to them. And I think there is a biblical uh warrant for being very aggressive in going after this person and confronting them. And it's really dependent upon how scandalous is this thing that they're involved with? How much does it hurt? the body of Christ and the name of Christ. Let me give you an example of that. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 5 real quick. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And just show you this. I'm sure you're probably familiar with it. This was Paul, and he's writing to the church at Corinne. And this is a church that has a lot of problems, as you know. And one of the issues was in this church was there was a scandalous behavior that was going on. And it was reported to Paul, chapter 5, verse 1. Notice what he says, it's reported commonly that there is fornication among you. And such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles that one should have his father's wife. Paul says, look, it's been reported to me that this scandalous behavior is going on in the church And this kind of behavior is is uh is shameful. Even among those who don't know God, they would consider this And what was the particular sin? Chapter 5, verse 1, that one should have his father's wife. Evidently what was going on in the church there was there was a man who uh his wife died and he married a Uh uh as a widower he married a a younger woman and this man's son and this younger woman began having a immoral relationship. And this was going on in the church. And it was reported. Look at verse number two. And here's the bad part. And ye are puffed up. And I'm not rather mourned that he that's done this deed might be taken away from you. Can you imagine that? This was going on, this scandalous behavior was going on in the church, and Paul. Said the real bad part about it is talking to the church. You're puffed up about it. Which means rather than dealing with this man And confronting him over this scandalous behavior, what they were doing is they were defending him. They were giving excr excuses for him And you know, there were certain group of people in that church at Corinth that believed in their liberty, and we have all things are lawful type attitude. And Paul says, you're you're puffed up with pride. And in verse 2 he says, and have not rather mourned when this kind of thing goes on, what should the response of godly people be? It breaks our heart. It should cause us to mourn that he that has done this deed might be taken away from him. Now look at verse number three, strong words here. For I verily As absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already as though I were present concerning him that has done this deed. Paul said, look, I'm not there. Even though I'm not there at the church, I'm absent bodily, but I'm there in spirit. And I've already judged this matter. Paul said, I don't have to be there to render a judgment on this matter. Even though I'm away I'm going to give you a judgment. Here's what should happen. Look in verse 4. That in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ. To deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that spirit might be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. What is he saying here? Even though I'm not there? Even though I haven't been involved in the church physically, bodily, I'm giving you this that here's what you need to do. You need to take this person, you need to get them out, cast them out, this scandalous behavior. We shall not continue on. And by the way, this was radical. If you compare this passage with Matthew 18, Paul didn't go through the process of church discipline the way Jesus taught it. He skips over all that. And why does he do that Because this particular offense was so scandalous, so hurtful to the church, to the body of Christ, and the world was watching And Paul said, here's what you need to do. Go ahead and cast them out. Get them out. You deliver this one unto Satan. This is really another way of saying You know, they're no longer under the umbrella of the protection of the church. Get them out. They're no longer a part of you. You deliver them unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh that the Spirit might be saved. You know, the Bible says there is such a thing as a sin on the death And if this person is committing this sin in a pattern of unrepentant behavior, you kick him out and you deliver him to Satan, his body might die, but at least his soul will be saved if he's a real believer. And then he says this, look at verse 6, your glory is not good. Know ye that a little leaven leavens the whole what? The whole lump. Purge out therefore the old leaven. You put a little bit of yeast in bread, and what's going to happen? That yeast is going to spread throughout the whole loaf. And he's comparing this to sin in the church. A little bit of leaven. Will spread, will leaven the whole lump. Paul said, Cast out the leaven. Get rid of the person. Now, again, this is an example in Scripture of where Paul, because of this scandalous behavior. Which is damaging to the church is demanding to the church that they confront this and that they deal with it in a biblical way. And again, from this we can draw the principle that there are times where I can't just automatically write off an offense and be forgiving and say, oh, I forgive them, let's let it go. No, wait a minute. If what the person is doing is scandalous to the body of Christ, to the name of Christ, damaging to the church, I've got to be aggressive I gotta confront. Again, we're not doing it in a holier than thou attitude. We do it with a spirit of meekness, but we have to confront We have to go to that person. We have to rebuke them. We have to ask them to repent of that sin. We've got to call them back to obedience. At that point, I can't just write it off. And then here's another instance. Anytime an offense results in a broken relationship, confrontation is necessary Uh whenever there's a relationship where the the the it has been broken, at that point you can't overlook it. You have to confront, you have to get together, you have to get that thing right. If if uh if someone uh if I sense that someone has aught against me, maybe it's something I didn't even know I did, but I can kind of sense that there's a there's there's aught there At that point, what does the Bible say? If Bible says that I need to Matthew 5. 23. Thou thou thou therefore therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, remember that thy brother hath aught against thee, what? Leave thy gift before the altar and go thy way and first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer the Anytime there's a rift in a relationship, I want to be proactive and I want to confront, I want to make sure that that relationship is restored, that we're good. So at that point I have to confront and again even in this situation I'm not doing it necessarily f f uh out of a selfish desire to get back at someone I'm doing it because I want there to be peace and love in every relationship, in every human relationship I have. I want there to be peace. I want there to be love. I want there to be harmony. Now, that's the pattern. So hopefully that helps you to understand that there's times when I just write things off, I let it go, and there are other times when the Bible says at that point I have to confront, I have to go to that person. I have to elicit a response. And hopefully that's the right response. It's a response of repentance towards God. Now let's get into the second part. By the way, that's all review. It didn't take too long. That was about half-hour there review. Let's go on to the second part, and that is the practice. of biblical forgiveness, the practice. How do I practically forgive? Let me just give it give to you from what the Bible says forgiveness involves. First of all, I would say that biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It's a decision that you make. Okay? This is the thing I notice about Ephesians 4:32. It's a command. If you look at it again, be ye kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. And this is not a suggestion from God, this is a command. This is in the imperative mood in the Greek. Remember I told you about Greek verbs, the moods. This mood is imperative. It is not a suggestion. It is not a wish. It is not a suggestion. It is an order. God says you forgive. You forgive. Which tells me this: that forgiveness is not necessarily an emotion. It's an act of the will. You might say, like, well, I don't feel like forgiving. God didn't say feel like forgiving. He just said forgive. Okay? You really can't command a feeling, can you? Those who indulge themselves in bitter feelings will find forgiveness does not easily germinate in that kind of soil. Instead, the root it springs up is kind of a defiling influence. So forgiveness a lot of times is frustrated by negative emotions. Lingering resentment, unquenched anger. And there are some people that feel like, well, if I don't feel like forgiving, then I can't forgive. And that is not true. I like this expression. Do it, just forgive. Make a choice of the will to forgive. And you know what? Your heart will catch up to you later. You just make a choice. Listen to this verse here. Love your enemies. Do good to those who hate you. Bless those who curse you. Pray for those who mistreat you. Think about that. This is what Jesus said. These are all willful, deliberate, rational acts. They're not emotional reflexes, are they? It's what Jesus is commanding us to do. These are acts of the will that the Lord is commanding. Obey these commands. Is what God's saying. And your heart will catch up to your emotions will catch up. It might not happen easily, but it'll happen. A friend of Clara Barton, Clara Barton was the founder of the American Red Cross, once reminded her of an especially cruel thing that someone had done to her years before. And her response was this. When her friend said, Don't you remember this? She said, No, I distinctly remember forgetting it. I remember to forget it. Forgiveness is a decision to drop the offense, to let it go, to not bring it up. And I believe it involves several aspects here. It is uh, one of them is to release the offender from the guilt of his sin. We just choose to release them. We choose to um say not guilty. It is just like a judge in a court case, he bangs the gavel and says not guilty. That's what forgiveness is. And this is, by the way, what God does for us. God bangs the gavel to us and says, not guilty. And this is what forgiveness involves. It is to release the offender from the guilt of his or her sin. It is also, I think, number two. It is to refuse to bring up the offense, to use it against the offender. Remember what the Bible says in a Hebrews, for I will be merciful towards their iniquities. And I will remember their sins no more. Now when God says that, God doesn't have divine amnesia. Rather, what he means is that he was not going to bring up our offenses against us in the future. He's not going to bring it up. We don't have to sphere standing before God one day and The judgment. Why? Because what does the Bible say? There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. God declared us not guilty. God says, I'm not going to bring it up again. It's done. That's what forgiveness involves. Okay? It involves not bringing up that offense again. I think it also involves refusing. Let me see here. should be number three. I skipped it. Refusing to think about the offense. Refusing to think about the offense. And then also number four would be refusing to talk about the offense. Okay? Um I'm not gonna I'm not gonna talk about it to others. Not gonna talk I'm not gonna think about it at all. I'm not gonna talk about it at all. I don't go to someone and say, hey, you know, guess what? So-and-so really did something mean towards me, but you know what? I forgave. Go around telling everyone how much you have forgiven this person. You know what? You haven't really forgiven them, have you? In a way what you're doing is you're kind of getting back. Well, I just want you to know I've forgiven them. Well, if you're forgiving them, why are you talking about it? Why are you bringing it up? Also, um it is, I would say this, to be reconciled with the offender as as far as is biblically possible. When you forgive someone We reconcile that relationship. We get back that relationship and reconciliation as much as is possible. You know, if you say to someone, I forgive you, but I don't want to see your ugly face ever again. That's not quite the biblical response. You know, you basically want to get back that relationship. We restore the broken relationship. So, just to summarize, biblical forgiveness is a decision to release the offender from the guilt of his sin, to refuse to bring up the offense, to use it against them, to refuse to to refuse to think about the offense, to refuse to talk to others about the offense. And to be reconciled as much as possible to that person who has done that thing against you. And again, this is the way God forgives. God forgives so that we may be reconciled to Him and enjoy a close relationship with with him. Okay? And so when we forgive others, we should also seek to restore the broken relationship. All right. Now, let me see. We have a few minutes here. Let me just see if I have any questions here. Everything I've given you so far. Any questions or comments? Yes, ma'am. Nice and loud so we can all hear you Okay. Can you hear me? It works. Okay. Uh what about a situation where the offender is a family member? Yeah. You see them regularly and they keep doing either the same thing or same sins or similar sins over and over and over again. Yeah. To you or to other family members, it's like almost a habit. On and on and on. Yeah. Uh it is very difficult to forgive over and over again the same offense The same offender. Yeah. Do the same thing all the time. So when people distance themselves from these folks, To me that's a solution, at least an immediate solution, so it won't be blown, it won't get any worse, you know, escalate to something, you know, really bad. Right I've experienced it and I'm sure other families, you know other folks in their families have done that too. Right. I'm done. Okay. Well that's a good question. It's very practical because again, we all have family members that um you know, we uh well let's just you know um what what's the old saying uh you can choose your you can choose your friends but you can't choose your family. Anyway, uh what's a good question? You know, what I thought of immediately when you said that was um Matthew 18. Oh by the way, let me back up before I go there. Let's one of the principles we talked about was if this person's actions is damaging to them. If it's hurtful to them, you might see a person just continue in a pattern of behavior that's ultimately hurting them. So you could go to them on that basis and say, look, I just noticed that you're struggling with this. Because it just seems like you're constantly asking for forgiveness for this. And what can I do to help you with it? And then at that point you might want to just because sometimes people have genuine blind spots or maybe they don't want to deal with it. But but I think of the passage in Matthew 18. You might want to just go ahead and turn there. We're going to deal with this eventually. We're not going to have time this week, but we're going to deal with it next week. Matthew 18. Where um Peter kind of asked this same question to Jesus. And this was right on the heels of Jesus teaching about If your brother trespassed against you, Matthew 18, verse 15, go and tell him his fault between you and him. If he doesn't repent, bring two or three witnesses. If he still doesn't repent, tell it to the church, and so on. After Jesus explains that whole process, look at verse 21, then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Till seven times? You remember that story because this is the parable, let me kind of fast forward here, the parable of Jesus is going to talk about the parable of the unforgiving servant here. in this because the question that that he that Peter asks is a good practical question. Or what what about a what about a person I mean Lord, you just explained this process of us forgiving, but what if this person just keeps doing it? How many times do I have to forgive them? Now, keep in mind that the rabbis back then taught that you're only obligated to forgive a person three times and after that you don't have to forgive them anymore. You do this once. I forgive you twice, I forgive you three times, I forgive you after that, no more. I don't have to forgive you. In fact, there were some of the rabbis that taught that very specifically. And so Peter, when he comes to Jesus and asks this question and he says, Lord, how often do I have to forgive seven times? I think Peter is Probably thinking Jesus is going to pat him on the back and say, Oh Peter, how forgiving are you? You're wonderful seven times. Wow, that's a lot. I mean Peter doubled the number three, and then he added one more on, just for good measure. And how did Jesus respond? And Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. And of course we know that verse. And I don't think Jesus was being literal there. He's not telling us, okay, that was 483. So seven more times and I'm done with you. I think Jesus was saying our attitude, our mode of forgiving is we just have to keep on, keep on and keep on forgiving. Now, this could be hard, as you're as you're basically saying, you know, it's hard sometimes. Because what's the tendency in people sometimes to take advantage of your generous spirit, your forgiving spirit? That is the tendency of people. And how can we forgive like this? Well, it's God who helps us to do that. But I again would go back and say, if this person is in a pattern of behavior that is destructive to them and if they're hurting others, I think you have biblical justification to go to them and confront them. But if it's just little petty things that they keep on doing, I think the biblical pattern of what God is saying is we just we just keep on forgiving. Mark, did you have your hand up? Here's the m microphone there, Mark. I agree with you. Um you know I I've dealt with people in counseling as well where, you know, one spouse is seeking forgiveness, the other person refuses to forgive, and I watch them get divorced. And I said, Well that's great. You're gonna win the battle and lose the war. That makes sense No sense at all. But I also do believe that we we can forgive and still have limits and boundaries with people. Because you know, if I'm going to still forgive them somebody but I don't want to um create an environment where they're not becoming the person that God intended them to be. So I have to have great wisdom as far as you That's a good point. I think that goes up to support what you're saying as well. We don't want our forgiveness to be enabling folks to continue in a pattern of behavior that is selfishly indulgent where they're taking advantage of other people And again, to the point, self-destructive, hurtful for themselves. So we have to use discernment and wisdom in this, don't we? And we have to be able to discern when that that forgiveness that I'm giving really is enabling this person. It's not in helping that person. At that time, I have to practice bearing my brother's burden with them. I have to go and I have to be remember I said there's a difference in being uh unconditional and conditional and confronting and not confronting. If I see that the pattern of behavior is hurtful to them, it's enabling them, I think we have biblical warrant at that point. To confront them over the offense, to help them just to deal with it in their life and come to a place of repentance where they where they uh These are all really good questions. Um we're going to pick up here next week. I still have a lot a few more principles and then I want to get into this parable a little bit more and give the perspectives of biblical. I hope you'll come as we finish up our study on this. Let's all stand together. We'll have a word of prayer and we'll have our service to follow. Father, thank you for your word. It is our strength, Lord. It is our guide. It is our map. It teaches us how to live and how to please you. And so, Lord, help us to be people of your word. And Lord, we know that in and of ourself we can't obey it. We need your strength. So I pray for these, your people, strengthen them through the power of your Spirit, that we might obey our Lord and follow His example of love and forgiveness, and give us wisdom and know how to apply these principles. Bless our service to follow Lord, strengthen every heart as we seek to please you and serve you in Jesus' name. Amen