It's good to see you here tonight in the Lord's house. I encourage you to open your Bibles to the book of Psalms. We're going to go to chapter 62 tonight. Psalms is such a beautiful book in the Bible, and it ministers to us in so many ways. No matter what you may be experiencing emotionally in your spiritual walk, you seem to find that the psalmist has been there. But we're going to look tonight at Psalm 62, and just let me read a few verses. Truly my soul waiteth upon God. For him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved Some of you might remember a while back I did a sermon series on the five solos of the Reformation. The word sola is a Latin word that means alone, and this became the battle cry for the Reformation. uh around the word alone all the issues were centered and that really they still are. And so the five solos was a term that was designated to Point out the five great foundational rallying cries of the gospel. They are as follows, sola scriptura, which means scripture alone, sola gracia is grace alone. Sola fide is faith alone, sola Christus is Christ alone, and Sola Deo Gloria is glory to God alone. And these five solos were developed in response to the perversions of the truth. the sp uh specifically the truth of the gospel that were taught by the corrupt Roman Catholic Church. The Church taught that salvation was a combination of scripture and sacred tradition And also decrees from the Pope and the Magisterium and the Reformers said, no, it's Scripture alone, not Scripture plus the Pope or Scripture plus tradition. The Catholic Church taught that salvation was a combination of God's grace and the merits that we receive through penance and good works, and the ri and the reformer said no, it's solar gracia, it's only by the grace of God. That's it. Sol de fide is also by faith alone. It's not by works of, it's not by faith plus works, which is what Catholicism teaches, but simply faith in what Christ has already done for us. And the price was paid by Christ, not not Christ and Mary, not Christ and the accumulated uh uh uh accumulation of works. Done by saints, uh, the merits of the saints in heaven. No, it's only Christ's and his righteousness alone. It's Christ's work on the cross alone And then of course, because salvation is of God, God is the one who gets all the glory, right? Well, what I want to talk about today, and by the way, those are important for us to understand, and they still are. They're still pressing even for today. But what I want to speak about today is the forgotten sola. I want to call this. Long before the Reformers were emphasizing the importance of the word alone in their theology, David saw the value of trusting God alone. And this is the message of Psalm 62. In life's most threatening times, you will be at peace if you place your trust in God alone as your salvation and your refuge. David wants us to know that his faith isn't in God plus something else, but his faith was in God alone. Yes, God uses means to accomplish his work. And the same God who ordains the end also ordains the means. But our faith is in him, it's not in the means Our faith is in God alone. And this is what Psalm 62 is all about. This Psalm comes out of a trial for David Some think it was when his son Absalom rebelled and David had to flee for his life. Others think it was when David was uh ruling over Judah and Hebron and the forces of Saul were plotting against him. Either way, it was a time of darkness and danger for David Look at verse number three. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? Ye shall be slain of all of you, as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence Now there are some versions that read this as if these were the words of Davis to his enemies. But there are other translations and versions that say this this is really the words of di of Davis' enemies against him, and I think that's the correct way to understand verse number three. These are the words of David's enemies, and they're saying it against David. David is surrounded by his enemies. They were treating him as if he were a leaning wall or a tottering fence. You ever see a wall that's leaning, ready to fall down? All it needs is just one good push And this would probably be a stone wall back in David's day. Here is David. He's like this leaning wall. He's about to crumble and fall over. This is according to their enemies. And they were attacking him. They were looking for his total defeat Yet, in spite of all the hostility, in spite of the dark circumstances, David is not worried. He's not anxious. He is at peace. And he's trusting in God. In fact, David's trust in God is so strong that as you read the psalm, you know what? There's not even a prayer here This is a psalm is not a prayer. He's quiet and still before God. He is a total peace. One commentator, Luphold, writes There is scarcely another psalm that reveals such an absolute and undisturbed peace, in which confidence in God is so completely unshaken. And into which assurance is so strong that not even one single petition is voiced throughout this psalm. Wouldn't you like to have that kind of peace in the midst of your difficulties and trials? David was unshakable. His peace was perfect before God. What was the secret of David's peace before God? And I think it's this word alone. This is hard to see in the English translation, but look in verse 1. The first word, truly, my soul waiteth upon God. The word truly there is the Hebrew word. Which is a word that is almost untranslatable because it's hard to find an English word that captures the full meaning of this word It's translated truly in verse 1 and only in other places. It sometimes means surely, or sometimes it means s certainly, but the best translation of the word is our English word alone. The word is used six times in this Psalms. In this Psalm. In the Hebrew, the word occurs at the beginning. of these verses for the emphasis. In verse 1, we can say, upon God alone my soul weighs. In verse 2, He alone is my rock. Verse number five, upon God alone my soul waits. In verse six, he alone is my rock. Does that all sound familiar? David's just repeating. David is emphasizing the fact that he has made God alone the object of his trust. Montgomery Boyce says the most important fact about this psalm. This is the most important fact about this psalm. And he says, this is the secret of David's peace. He trusts in God alone. And that's why he's so confident. And to quote another great expositor, Alexander McLaren, he says this, that one word alone is the record of conflict and the trophy of the Psalmist victory. This is something that as Christians we need to learn as well. Our problem is not that we do not trust in God, at least sometimes or in some sense. I mean we have to do that to become Christians, right? We have to trust in Christ alone for salvation, amen. And maybe you're trusting Christ alone for your salvation. We must exercise faith alone in the finished work of Christ. We rely upon God's grace alone. We learn this in salvation. But when it comes to living each day, We forget to trust in God alone for daily needs or in daily living. We trust God, but we want to add something else to trust as well. You know, we we trust God and someone or we trust God and something. And that's not really fully trusting in God alone. This is the reason we don't have confidence and peace the way David had it. David emphasizes this word alone to demonstrate that his faith isn't in God plus something else. It is in only God. One writer said that there's a crisis of faith in the church in America. He called it a lack of belief in God and the power of the Word of God which He has given. He goes on and he writes and he says this. The real reason preachers do not teach the Bible and resort to other devices such as light theology and funny stories is that they do not trust God. They do not believe that God actually works through his word to convert unbelievers and strengthen and form character in Christians. And I and I think he's right. I mean we just had a session here with Dr. Mortensen where he's talking about the challenges to the church where the church is not trusting in what the Word of God says. But it's not only preachers, but the average Christian does not trust in God alone. That is to say that they that uh they d are trusting God, but they're trusting God and something or someone else. They betra they b pretend to trust in God, but not trust in Him only is like having one foot on solid ground and another foot on sinking sand. You'll soon be in trouble. And David learned that if he was to trust at all, he had to trust in the Lord and the Lord himself. So in Psalm 62, what we have are three stanzas. Two of them are end with the word selah. But I want you to see three ways that David expresses his faith in God alone. And I hope that this will encourage us to do the same thing so that we might have the same peace that David had. Number one, God alone is the source of protection. God alone is the source of protection. Look at verse 1 again. Truly my soul waiteth upon God. From him cometh my salvation. The word waiteth here, Damaya is the word that means silent waiting. Or we could say awaiting with composure. The silence is what David intended here in this verse. It really shows his submission to God. It shows that he believes in the promises of God. It shows that he submitted to the sovereignty of God. He suppresses every desire to murmur He's just waiting submissively before the Lord. He's not waiting with an anxious spirit. He's not waiting with worry. He's not waiting with complaining. He has total peace as he waits and he trusts in God to fulfill his desire. And that's not an easy thing to do, beloved Just to illustrate, I remember one time we were flying back from London to here to Baltimore, and we were bringing our grandkids with us. And British Airways put us on the plane and they brought us out to the tarmac and then there was an announcement that said the pilot got sick, they have to find another pilot. And uh and basically, however, we weren't allowed to get off the plane. They kept us there waiting for three hours to to before they departed. And then the keep in mind it's an eight hour flight to Baltimore. I had right next to my my little grandson Theo. He was five years old. Uh and I want to tell you, however, that he composed himself much greater than a lot of adults on that plane. He had he was fine. He was great. And I thought maybe he'd go to sleep. You know, he actually didn't go to sleep until that we were touching down in Baltimore, you know. But I mean he was just totally composed, totally trusting, totally happy. He was doing a better job than I was. But that's that's what God wants. He wants kind of like a childlike faith. Where we just were trusting in God. We have to wait, but that's okay. We trust God. Sometimes God puts us in a circumstance where all we can do is wait. But the manner in which we wait on God expresses whether we truly have faith in Him. If you're waiting, but you're not waiting silently, it means basically you're not submitted to God. But if you're waiting silently with peace and composure, it means you're absolutely submitted to God, and that's when the peace will come. And that's the key word. It is submission. David is waiting silently, but also he's waiting securely. Look at verse 2. He only is my rock and my salvation and my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. And you want to notice in verse 2 how confident and secure David feels as he waits on God. I love the images he gives here. He's my rock. He's my fortress. He's my salvation. He uses these three descriptive words in other places for God, but they convey God's unchangeableness. They convey his strength. They convey his character, his protection. The thought of God as a rock or a fortress conveys the idea of a refuge that is set up high. I've been to Israel several times. I've had the privilege of going uh climbing last time I went there I climbed Masada and also uh been to Engedi up in the uh in in the high hills of Engedi. These were the places where David hid from Saul. If you ever been there, if you get on the top of Masada, you can look out around that um the Dead Sea desert area and you can see for miles, you can see the enemy coming for miles. And it seems like when you're up there that no one can reach you and that you're secure. Same thing with Engetty. You get up there, you can look around, and you can see for miles. And I think this is the idea that David has here, that, you know, he's on top of this fortress, and by the way, the word for refuge, the Hebrew word is Masada, and David uses that word in 1 Samuel. I think that he was probably there. We know he was at Engedi. But when David is on top of this high rock, he feels so secure, he feels so safe, but he compares that to God David was not so much trusting in that rock, Masado, but that rock for him was an image of God. His trust was in God. He is my rock. He is my fortress. David's enemy said he's like a wall that's about to fall down. But David said, No, I'm standing on the rock. I'm not falling anywhere. My trust is in God. And notice he says in verse 2, I shall not be greatly moved. When you trust in God alone, you will not be, excuse me, intimidated by people or circumstances. Nothing will move you off of the rock that is our God. So God alone is the source of protection. But here's number two: God alone is my source of peace. Notice what he says in verse number five, verse six: My soul wait thou only upon God for my expectation. is from him. Verse 6. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be moved. I think the theme of this next stanza seems to be David's growing peace. confidence. In verse number two, David said, I shall not be greatly moved. Here in verse number six he says, I shall not be moved. David is growing in his confidence and hope in God, and therefore his sense of calmness and peace is also growing. The greater the realization that God was his rock, the greater the calmness and rest in his soul. And notice verse 8 where he says, trust in him at all times. Pour out your, at all times ye people, pour out your heart before him. I praise God that we can trust him and we can pour out our heart before him. And again, this is one of the reasons David could wait silently before the Lord, because he'd already unburdened himself in prayer. He'd already taken all those things to God. He told God all about it. He poured his heart out to God until there was nothing else left to say. The only thing that was left was to wait silently, submissively. And now David urges others like me and like you to do the same. Peace is the byproduct of pouring out your heart to God in prayer. And notice what David does. First of all, he talks to himself. Look at verse 5. Back up to verse number 5. My soul, who's he talking to you there? He's talking to himself. My soul. Wait thou only upon God, for my expectation is from him. Again, he's addressing himself. Ever talk to yourself We think that's a sign of senility or maybe, you know, insanity, but not here in the Bible. David does this often. This is another time we see this. We see this several times in the Psalms. Every time David addresses himself, he says, My soul, who are you talking to? I'm talking to you. My soul, wait thou upon God. He only is my rock. My expectation is from him. And I think that the psalmist by doing this, it gives us an example of how we are to treat ourselves. And I've mentioned this before when we were studying Psalm 42 and 43, because we see the same dynamic there. Where the psalmist says, Oh my soul, why are you disturbed? Why are you cast down, O my soul? Hope in God. Again, he's talking to himself. And remember, I told you this before, because of our depraved nature, our depraved mind, our depraved heart, that our sin nature or even our human nature is constantly giving us negative thoughts. You ever experience that? Where you're bombarded with one negative thought after another after another? And the next thing you know, if you begin listening to all of those negative thoughts that your own uh depraved nature is is is giving you or sometimes even the devil can add a little bit in there and the next thing you know you're gonna be restless you're gonna be filled with anxiety there's gonna be no peace there's gonna be doubt There's going to be distress. But what does the Bible tell us to do? It tells us to rebuke ourselves at that time. Speak to yourself. Don't listen to yourself. Preach to yourself. Remind yourself of who God is. This is exactly what David is doing here. He's reminding himself again of who God is. And he piles up description after description of who God is. After telling himself to wait in silence, notice what he says. Again in verse number five or verse six, for he only is my rock and my salvation and my defense. Verse 7, and God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God He just keeps reminding himself again and again and again. Don't miss the pronoun my, my, my. He's my rock, my refuge, my glory, my strength, my salvation. Nine times in verses five to seven, he uses that word mine. God has either directly named or referenced with the pronouns him or he five times in these verses. And so David's reminding himself of who God is. He's speaking to himself, talking to himself, telling him God is his hope, his rock, his stronghold, his refuge. If you want peace in severe trials, you have to remind yourself of who God is. You've got to talk to yourself. You've got to tell yourself, you know, God is your rock. He is my rock. He is my refuge. And David learned to do this. He learned to encourage himself in the Lord. When all his circumstances looked bad, when things were bleak. When all the things were against him, David learned to not cave into all the negativity. He didn't cave into the circumstances. He didn't cave into the negative thoughts. He encouraged himself in the Lord by speaking to his own soul. About the character of God. We see this in the 1 Samuel 30, verse 6, where it says, David encouraged himself in the Lord. When did he do that? Well, when his men were ready to stone him, because they had lost their wives. and their children because Ziklag was attacked by the Amalekites. They were ready to stone David and David lost his own family. Most people would have just given in and quit. But the Bible says David encouraged himself in the Lord. And this is what he's doing here. He's heaping one expression after another, after another, about God. He's heaping it up. Now we may say we're trusting in God alone, but then we quickly scheme how to deliver ourselves rather than waiting on Him. It's not that it's wrong to think about how to get out of a difficult trial. It's not wrong to use methods to do so. In fact, more often than not, we should use plans and methods, but we should do that in dependence completely upon God. It's wrong to give God just a token nod of trust and then set him aside while we really trust on our own schemes, our own plans, our own methods. That's wrong. That's not faith. You're not trusting in God alone. But rather, with David, we must fight to make God our only source of deliverance. Again, our hope is not in the means that God uses, our hope is in God Himself. God Himself for our deliverance. So he talks to himself, but then he talks to others. Look at verse number 8. Trust in him at all times, ye people. Pour out your heart before him. And I think the lesson here is this, use your peace through trials to encourage others to trust in God alone as their refuge. That's the good thing. When you go through trials and you learn to master uh uh this thing of having peace in the midst of difficulty, you know what? You can encourage others to do the same. You can tell others to do the same. And David wants others to know the peace that he has. So he says to these people, look, people, put your trust in God at all times. Because when you've learned to trust God alone, then you can say to others, Do this. Trust in God. Kind of weak if you're not doing that yourself. God is our refuge. Now some Christian psychologists say that it's usel This advice that David gid gives is kind of a pad advice. It's a useless pat advice to tell hurting people to trust in God. Oh, just trust in God, you know. Well, I don't know what Bible that they're reading. They're probably not reading any Bible, to be honest, but David isn't giving out Pat useless advice. He's telling us how we can endure a difficult trial. By trusting in the Lord, just like he did. He poured his heart out before God and he took refuge in God. And now he's saying, you can do the same. Let me show you the third thing. God alone is our source of protection. God alone is my source of peace. But here's number three: God alone is the source of power. Look at verse number nine. Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie. To be laid in the balance they are altogether lighter than vanity. Now in the first stanza, David looked at his enemies in relation to himself, so that he was aware of the danger he was in. Here in this last stanza, he looks at his enemies in relation to God. And by comparing his enemies to God, what he sees is, you know, they're nothing. First, he's really telling us, look, here's what not to trust in. First of all, don't trust in man's rank He he's he's basically saying, you know, not that we you know so much that we should fear man or we have nothing to fear from man, but rather There's nothing to hope from in man. If you're putting your hope in man, that's the wrong place to put it. That's what he's saying here. Don't trust in man's rank. Notice again, surely men of low degree or vanity, that's people that are basically of no character. High degree are men of influence or power. We have the tendency to put our trust in people of power. But David says, look, don't put your trust in men at all, whether they be people of low degree or whether they be people of rank. No matter how powerful they make seem, it's an illusion. If you add them up all together, it comes to vanity. The word for vanity is hevil. It's a Hebrew word that means nothing. It's a word that's used to describe what's left when a bubble bursts. They're nothing. You can add all of them up. All the men of high degree, all the men of low degree. You know what? They're lighter than vanity, David says. Don't trust in them. Don't trust in men of rank. Don't trust in man's robbery, verse 10. Trust not in oppression. And become not vain in robbery. You know, this is what the world thinks powerful people are like. They're either people who are a low degree, they're thugs. and they they commit crimes and they and they have a certain power because they have no character and they don't k they're not afraid of killing others to get what they want. Or men of high degree that are powerful. And here's another example of someone who would oppress someone else. You have the maybe the political power or some kind of power where you can oppress other people. And sometimes the world thinks of them as being powerful. And people sometimes go to people like this. To try to get things done. David says, Don't trust in that. And then don't trust in man's riches. Look in verse 10. If riches increase, set not your heart upon them People of riches, you know, that that also looks like power to the world. But what he's basically saying is all of this show of power that the world thinks is is really something that you can trust in. It's a display of worldly power. It's nothing. It's not power at all, it's an illusion. Where does power come from? And then David tells us who to trust in. Look at verse 11. God has spoken once, twice have I heard this: that power belongs unto who? God is the only one who has real power. The once-twice thing that we read here is a common Hebrew poetic advice. It's a way of saying repeatedly. God spoke it once, but David heard it repeatedly over and over again. This is a great way to emphasize the next phrase. That you know, that power belongs unto God. God alone has power. That's the whole point. This is the attribute of God alone. It's the quality of having all power. He can do all things. God can do whatever he wants. You understand that? Whatever he wants to do, whatever is not in conflict with his holy nature, he can do. He has all power. Power might look other men might look like they have power, but it's a it's a temporary illusion. God is the one who has all power. They wouldn't have any power unless God allowed them to have to have it It all belongs to God. And so therefore, that's why we put our trust in God. Men think they have power. But God is the only one who really does. In 1715, King Louis the uh the 14th of France died after a reign of 72 years. He called himself the Great, Lewis the Great. He was the monarch that was famous for saying, I am the state. And when they had his funeral, it was one of the most magnificent in all of Europe. He was laid out in a golden coffin. And orders were given that the cathedral should be very dimly lit with a special candle set right above his coffin. And that candle that was lit demonstrated his greatness. And when the preacher got up to do the funeral, the first thing he did was he reached down and he snuffed out the candle. And then he said, This only God is great. And that's true. Only God is great. Only God has power, but also God is merciful. Look at verse 12. Also unto thee, O Lord, belongs mercy. For thou renderest to every man according to his work. Satan always attacks either or both of these truths when we face trials. When you're in a trial, he might say, God, if God was all-powerful, how come he can't get you out of this? Or if he's all merciful, how come he's letting you go through this? But no, God is all-powerful, and God is merciful, and he's someone that we can trust. And in fact, as a believer, you have to trust in him alone. If you want to have peace, you've got to trust in him alone. He uses means, but my faith and hope are not in those means. My faith and hope are in God alone. Trusting in him and in him alone. Are you trusting in God alone? God alone is the source of protection. God alone is the source of peace. God alone is the source of power. There was a young family in Dallas with two children. There was a third on the way. At seven months along, the wife became deathly ill. And the doctors finally decided that they would deliver the premature baby with a C-section and attempt to save the mother's life. Thankfully, everything came out well. The baby and the mother both survived. But during the height of that crisis, the wife's parents, who were not believers, said that their son-in-law must not really love their daughter because in the height of that crisis, he was calm. He was at peace. So they thought that that meant that he really didn't love his love their daughter. But then he explained to them, he said, look, I love your daughter dearly. But that he was trusting in the Lord alone who gives peace in times of trial like that. You know the main reason that we should fight for God's peace in threatening times is not So much that we will be at peace, even though we will be at peace if we trust in God alone, but so that God will be glorified and others will be drawn to him through what they see in us. As we go through trials, as we put our trust in God alone, and we have peace that comes only from God, because He alone is our salvation. He alone is our refuge. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment and think about this beautiful Psalm, Psalm 62. Maybe you're here tonight, you're going through a trial, a trial that It's lasted not just a month or two months, but maybe there's some here you've been in a trial for a year or two years. It's just one big long trial. It just seems not to end And during this time you've had to fight negative thoughts. You've had to fight against depression, discouragement. Take a moment and remember this forgotten sola. God alone. God alone is our source of protection. God alone is our source of peace. God alone is the source of power. If you're trusting in man to get anything done, man, you're wasting your time. But you're trusting God. He can do anything. But you have to wait. And you have to wait submissively, silently, at peace, because that reveals that you're trusting in him and in him alone Take a moment and just tell God, God, forgive me for trusting you and other things. Help me, Lord, to trust you and you alone. You only are my rock. You only are my refuge. You only, God, are my salvation. You only Father, we with all our hearts confess that what David says here, Lord, this beautiful psalm. This your chosen king who was waiting to take the throne. And during that time, Lord went through so many severe trials until he learned to Give this testimony that we read here in Psalm 62 that Lord you were his rock, that he trusted you and you alone. Lord, let that be our testimony tonight. And Lord, may we daily renew this complete total trust in you alone. May we say like David, my soul, wait thou only upon God, because He only is my rock and my salvation Father, we say that with all our hearts. We wait upon you, Lord, to work. Bless your word, Lord, that hearing your hearts here tonight. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.