And you know, I don't know if I could say anything other than what you heard in the song that was just sung here. We d we want you to give Jesus your heart if you haven't already Done that. That's certainly what we want you to do. And I want to just take a few minutes. I'm going to preach from God's Word. I'm not going to be long. Uh, but I want to share with you something from the scripture, and then right after that, we're going to wrap up our our our service with uh a candlelight service. So if you happen to have a Bible, I invite you to open to Luke fifteen. If you don't, that's just fine. You can just listen as I read this passage And this is Jesus giving a parable here uh in the scripture. And by the way, on Sunday morning we've been kind of doing a series about why Jesus came. And and I just want to kind of wrap that up here tonight with talking about this little parable of the lost coin. In Luke chapter 15, verse 8, it says this either what woman having ten pieces of Silver, if she lose one piece, does not light a candle and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it. And when she has Found it, she calleth to her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over So why did Jesus come to this earth? Very simply, to seek and to save that which was lost. You know every church kind of has a lost and found department department. Uh we have one here, it's called the coat room. So if if you leave something here on Sunday morning, uh it'll probably if it's left behind we'll probably kind of scoop it up and put it on a shelf in the coat room. You can come by, feel free to come by and look through those things to see if you left anything here. I was just walking through that coat room not too long ago and I noticed that some of those things have been there for an awful long time. Been there for years in some cases. And it may be that the person who lost that item perhaps didn't re doesn't really realize that it's lost, so they don't really know it's gone. That could be one reason why there's so many things in there. It could be also that the person who lost that item uh just really doesn't value it that much. They they think about it, you know, it's just not worth the effort of trying to look for that thing, uh, you know, because it's really not that valuable to them. Well, let me tell you something about God. Whenever something is lost, God always God is a God who seeks after that which is lost. And in this case, it's not an article of clothing, it's not a coat. Say, make it a little more personal. It is me, it is you. That's the lost thing. And that's why Jesus came. He came seeking that which was lost. Now, I'm so very glad that God doesn't treat me or you the way some people treat lost items. I'm so glad that God saw it after me. And beloved, he is seeking after you Now Luke chapter 15 is God's lost and found department in the Bible. What we see here are just three parables that Jesus gives, and really these parables are an answer to A criticism that was rendered against Jesus. There were Pharisees that said, you know, in fact, let me read chapter 15, verse 1. It said, and then drew near on the hymn all the publicans and sinners And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and he eats with them. This was intended to be a criticism about Jesus. They said, Jesus, he eats with sinners But this was really a compliment. Jesus loves sinners and he seeks after sinners. But they criticize Jesus. And then upon that, Jesus then Gives three parables here in Luke chapter 15 that really illustrates the truth of the heart of Christ for those who are lost. He loves the lost And so he gives a parable of the lost sheep. Um you probably heard that. There's a hundred sheep, ninety-nine are in the fold, but there's one lost, and so the shepherd goes looking for that sheep. Then there's a story of the lost son. We know No, that story, that's the story of the prodigal son. That illustrates God's rescuing love, God's receiving love. But there's one other parable here right in the middle. This is the parable of the lost Silver, we could say, or the lost coin. And let me give you a little historical background. When a man found a woman that he wanted to marry and he was a spouse to her, what he would do is he would give her her ten coins. And what she would do is she would take those coins and she would put them on a chain and she would wear that around her head or sometimes she would wear it around her neck And this was a symbol of her engagement to the one that she loved. It had financial value because the coin, the Greek word for the coin drachma, was a week's work. It's a lot of work And it had sentimental value because it was a gift from her espoused husband. And what happens in this story is the parable that Jesus gives. And she reaches for her chain to put it around her neck or perhaps even around her head. One of the two they would do. And there's one coin on that chain that is missing. Now If you were in her shoes, what would you think? Oh no. I've got to find this, especially before my espouse husband sees me. And keep in mind that in a Jewish wedding there were three s There was the contracting stage where the groom would go to the bride's father and he would negotiate a contract. He would have to pay her father a dowry, a wedding price. I don't know why we don't do that anymore. In fact I want to talk to my son in law after the service tonight. Of course I'm just kidding. But they would seal that that contract and and they would drink wine and then there was the second stage which was the claiming stage where she would stay with her father. He would go then and prepare a place for her. They were legally married at that moment And of course he would give her this gift of the coins and she would wear that. But she didn't know when he was coming. He would go and prepare a place for her, and she would be Waiting at some moment she knew he was coming, she wasn't exactly sure when, but it's sure enough on one evening perhaps he would come with his attendants, and the voice cried out Behold the bridegroom cometh, go ye out to meet him. And she would go to meet him. And then there would be the third stage, which was the celebrating stage, which was the wedding supper, where they had supper together, and it was a beautiful Ceremony, a beautiful time in her life. Now, here's the situation. He's coming to get her. She doesn't know when he's coming, and she's lost the coin. And she doesn't want to meet him that way So you can just imagine in the story, she is looking hard for this coin and keep in mind in Palestinian homes they didn't have windows and also the floor the floors were made of Dirt and they would put straw down to keep the dirt from stirring, to keep it from being so dusty. So just picture this in your mind. She's in a dark house. Uh the coin is just really small, you know, coins Back in first century Palestine, they were no bigger than a button, really, just a medium-sized button. Not like our coins today. So they were very small. And so she's sweeping around, she's looking And it you can imagine it's like trying to find a needle in a haystack. Finally she gets an idea and she lights a candle and she holds it down You can just almost picture her in your mind. She's on her hands and knees and she's got that candle and she's held it down to the ground and she's looking and she's sweeping through those bits of straw pieces. Look Looking diligently in every corner and every crevice. She's not giving up. She continues to look and Till finally in this parable she finds it. Wow, Eureka, she found it, and boy, when she finds it, she just rejoices. The Bible says that she calls together her friends and her neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found that coin that I lost. Now the people back in that society, they would be able to relate with her immediately about her dilemma. They understood the problem that she had. And so when she says by the way, called together, that's a a word that means an official summons. This is The party. She had a celebration. This was such a big deal to her that she had an official party and they celebrated together this this story. Of finding that one lost coin. You say, now how does that speak to us? Well, let me just give you three quick things here. Think about, first of all, in this story, what I want to call the soiled silver and that's a picture of humanity. You know that coin represents a lost soul. That represents me. That represents you. And what happened to that coin? It was Dislodged from its place. That's what happened to man. Basically, man was dislodged. Uh priest this morning on Adam. And originally we were intended to reign as kings, but sin caused us to be dislodged from our place. And then it was darkened. It fell down into the dark. And that speaks again of the lostness of mankind. Man, when he fell from his original place, landed spiritually in darkness. And the Bible speaks about that. John 3. 19 says, and this is the condemnation that light has come in the world, and men love darkness rather than light that we are in And so this represents sin and the problem With man today, all of mankind is that man is a sinner. That's why God sent a savior. He didn't send primarily an educator or a reformer or a philosopher. Man was lost in sin. And so that coin was in the dirt, in the mire, to and that speaks to us of the depravity of man, the sinfulness of Man. But then also that coin was dead. And what I mean by that is that that coin had no ability on its own to make its way back to its place of fallenness You know, the the concept of death in the Bible really is separation. When a person sins, you remember what Adam said, or God said to Adam, Adam, the day you eat that fruit, you will surely die. And when he ate that fruit, he He didn't die physically at that moment, but he died spiritually. Because he was separated from God at that moment. That's the concept of death. Spiritual separation from God. And if a person dies Physically, and they don't know Jesus, they'll die spiritually, or they're already dead spiritually, really, and they live physically away from God. That's the concept of death. this coin separated and this coin had no ability on its own to make its way back. You ever lose money and the money show up at your door saying, hey, I've been looking for you. That's never happened to me Doesn't have any ability to do that. And so it is here in this story. This coin was really dead. It was darkened, dislodged. It was dirty, it was dead. But let me tell you something else about that coin. It was dear. Very dear to the owner. That's why this woman went after it. It was so valuable to her. You know why God seeks after you and me because you're so valuable to him? Think about this with me. You know that coin, you know what that coin has on That coin has an image stamped on it. If we look at our coins today, they have a image of George Washington or Abraham Lincoln on it. But even in the first century, first century coins had images stamped on them. This is This is not anything new. When I was over in Israel, I ha found some coins, really small ones, and you can see on those coins the image of people stamped on it. I had first century coins that were minted But you can still see the image of either Antonius or the Hasmoneans. Or whoever that coin was in tribute to, the the image of that person is still on that coin, distorted though it may be. And that represents the soul of man. You know why you You are so valuable to God, and you know why? That He seeks after you because you were created in His image, and the image of God is stamped upon your soul That image may be somewhat distorted because of sin and depravity in mankind, but that image is there just the same. And God loves you You know why we love our children? Because they're kind of in our image, right? And God loves you because you were created in his image. That image is still there. It's distorted by sin, and yet it's there. God is looking after you, He's seeking after you. In fact, the Bible in this next part, I want you to think about the sweeping spouse. You see, the soiled silver is a picture of humanity, but the Sweeping spouse is a picture of Danny in that this woman is going after this coin. Do you know that as soon as man fell in the Garden of Eden, at that very moment God dispatched his plan to go after lost men. In the same chapter in Genesis 3 where man fell, we see the first promise of the gospel. We could call it the first promise of Christ Christmas. It's called in Genesis three fifteen the proto-evangelium, the first gospel, where God made this promise I will put enmity between thee and the woman And here God is promising to send his seed, the seed of the woman. And there's implications in that verse. of the virgin birth of Christ, he will send his Savior into this world to save man. And so, you see, how is it pictured here in this Story. Well remember, what does the woman do to find this one precious lost coin? She lights a candle and she holds that candle, and that candle pierces the darkness, and she He's able to find that coin. And friend, that is a picture of the Savior Jesus Christ coming into this world. He is the light of the world. And he did Pierced the darkness when he left heaven to come here to this sin-cursed earth. He was that light, and the Bible makes that very clear. Jesus spake in John 8:12 and said, I am the The light of the world. He that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. That's what Christmas is all about, dear friends. That's why the theme is the light of Christmas Christ is that light. And if you don't know the Lord Jesus, whether you realize it or not, spiritually you're dead, you're walking in darkness, and Jesus wants to be that light for you. He wants to give you Eternal life. He wants to give you salvation. That's why he came to seek and to save that which was lost. A picture of eternity. A picture of eternity. What happens when she finally finds that coin? She calls together her friends and neighbors and rejoices. And then Jesus says this: likewise I say unto you, there is Joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repents. Jesus and receive the light into their life. The Bible says there's rejoicing in heaven. In the presence of the angels. Well, who's in the presence of the angels? Well, God the Father and God the Son. Do you know that God rejoices over those who come to know him through Christ? Let me give you a beautiful verse about that. 3:17 says this: The Lord thy God in the midst of thee is mighty. He will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy, he will He will rest in his love. He will joy over thee with singing. You know what that says? When God finds you and brings you into salvation, he rejoices over you. And I think not only Is there the Father and the Son in heaven that rejoices, I think there are saints in heaven that when they see these things happen here on earth, I think they rejoice with exceeding great joy in heaven. One time I preached this concept, and I had a man in my church, not this church, it was another church that I pastored. And after I preached that concept, he uh by the way, he was a theologian from a very prominent seminary here in America. I won't But he came up to me afterward and he said, Oh, I'm very troubled that you would think that people in heaven know what goes on on earth and that there's rejoicing in heaven. He obviously was very Impressed with his own education. And I said, uh, why would that trouble you? Well, because I don't see that in scripture anywhere. And I said, Sir, have you ever read the book of Revelation? You know in Revelation chapter six there's a there's a uh a passage there that says that the saints that are in heaven come up to Jesus and say, Lord, how long is it going to be until you avenge us of our adversaries They're on earth. And the Lord is what does he say to him? Just take it easy. Just rest a little bit. It's going to happen. Be patient. And I said, How would those saints in heaven know to ask that question If they knew absolutely nothing that was going on on earth, how could they know to ask that question? Of course, the saints in heaven know what goes on here on earth And part they say, well, he they said, well, he's they're beholding the glory of Jesus. Well part of the glory of Jesus is the unfolding of redemption here on earth and having sinners come Come to know Jesus. You think Jesus will rejoice in heaven and won't tell other saints why? Why are you so happy? I can't tell you that right now. You can't know these things No, they all share in that joy together. And they see the uh they see the plan of salvation going out, and they see people coming to repent, and they rejoice, and Christ rejoices, and God the Father rejoices. There's great joy in heaven over one Drama of redemption to which he's looking to upon the earth right now. And right now God is seeking out. Why the birth of Christ, our Savior, there in Bethlehem on that night. So the question I want to ask you is do you know the Lord Jesus? Have you come to repentance? It's just like the song that we heard so beautifully, so movingly sung. I don't know about you, but I was trying not to cry down there on the front row. Trying to hold it back. I was so deeply touched because that's really the best thing you can do is give Jesus your heart. Just give him your heart. That's what he wants. And friend, you know what? That'll be the The greatest decision that you've ever made. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Father, we thank you for our Savior, your Son, that you sent here to this world the true light that lighteth every man We thank you, Father, that you have not withheld your only son. You spared not your only son, but you gave him to us, so that we could have Salvation. We could have redemption. We could be saved from the deadness, the darkness of this world to come to know you. And Lord, I pray that every soul here Tonight, under the sound of my voice, that they have that assurance in their heart that they know Jesus, that they have that true light. Moment they'll make that place where they sit a quiet place, a quiet altar where they are, and that they'll reach out to you in faith And receive that light into their heart. And may the darkness that is there flee. May it be replaced with the light of Christ. The light of rejoicing, the light of knowing that they have eternal life because of what Jesus did on the cross for them. And beloved, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I wouldn't want to do anything to embarrass him Anybody here. But I would be remiss if I didn't invite you at this moment to reach out and pray in faith and ask Jesus to come into your Heart. Or like the little boy saying, Give him your heart. The Bible says, Him that cometh unto me I will in no wise cast out. And if you come to Jesus in simple faith, he'll save you. Would you be willing to pray? Say, Lord Jesus, say these words in your heart. Lord Jesus, tonight I give you my heart. I ask you to save me. Make me a child. Come into my heart, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, then Just let us know after the service. We want to be able to encourage you in your faith. We want to be able to help you. Anybody here say, Yeah, that's my prayer? I don't want to embarrass you, but can I pray for you? Anybody here say yes, that's my prayer? Would you lift your hand Anybody in here? Say that's me. I want to know the Lord Jesus. And so Father, take these words and use them. Speak to hearts. We thank you for what We've heard tonight. Give us a beautiful time as we close out this service now. And Lord, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.