Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 2 Samuel, chapter number 1. 2 Samuel chapter 1. And this morning, I know that we've been doing a series on worship, and we're going to continue that next week, but this morning I thought, since this is Memorial Day weekend, that it would be appropriate to address this from the scripture. In 2 Samuel chapter 1, Memorial Day is a special time to remember our fallen heroes. And across the nation today, there are flags that are placed beside graves. And families remember the loved ones that never came home. It's a solemn reminder that freedom is never free. Someone sacrificed so that we can live in peace so that we can have the freedom to worship as we do today. Now, in many ways, 2 Samuel chapter 1 is Israel's Memorial Day chapter. And what's going on here in chapter one is that David stands in the shadow of a national tragedy. Israel's king has fallen. Jonathan, the beloved prince and friend of David, has also fallen. Mighty men on Mount Geboah have fallen, and the nation is grieving. And in this passage, David teaches us how God's people should respond when the mighty fall. It's also a great passage that teaches us how we should deal with sorrow in general How should we deal with the sorrow that comes when there are those that we miss? I'll be honest, there are times when I miss Pastor Johnson You know, some of you know he was a founding pastor here, and uh I learned under him and uh so many things and was uh proudly his janitor. my first job and then did all kind of other different things and there are times I wish that I could sit down and have a conversation with him. And I I I'll be honest, I miss m I miss my father. There I look back sometimes at a place where he would sit in this auditorium. I had the privilege of being his pastor for a few years. He was a hard guy to pastor, to be honest with you. I'm just teasing. I would give the world if I could just have another conversation with him. I know many of you feel the same way about the loved ones that you miss. There are times when waves of sorrow come over us The question is, what should we do when that happens? 2 Samuel chapter 1 records the moment that David learns of the death of King Saul. Now when you read these passages, if you read 1 Samuel chapter 31, and then you read 2 Samuel chapter 1 and you compare, what you find out is there are actually two accounts of Saul's death. In both accounts what takes place is that the Israelites flee before the Philistines at Mount Geboah. Saul and his three sons, one of them being Jonathan, all fall on the battlefield. In 1 Samuel 31, verse 3, it says, Saul was mortally wounded by the archers. And then Saul begged his armor bearer to kill him to finish him off. When the armor bearer refused to do that, Saul fell upon his own sword. And yet here in 2 Samuel chapter 1, there's an Amalekite that claims that he came along and he's the one who finished off Saul. And so whether the Amalekite was really making the story up, justifying favor with David, that he actually killed Saul or not. We're not really sure, but either way, this Amalekite brings the crown and the bracelets to David, expecting a reward. Instead what he found was judgment. David was not happy that he did not help the Lord's anointed, but rather said that he killed him. But David did not rejoice over Saul's death. This is one of the striking features of this chapter The man that uh thought that David would celebrate the death of Saul. After all, Saul had hunted David for years. Saul had driven him into the caves and into the wilderness. Saul had treated David like an enemy. Yet when David heard the news, the Bible says this, look down in verse number 11. And verse number twelve of chapter one of Second Samuel. Then David took hold on his clothes and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him. And they mourned and wept and fasted until even For Saul and for Jonathan, his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword. There was no celebration in Ziklag that day. There was only grief and sorrow and mourning for fallen warriors. And David understands something that our generation desperately needs to understand. A nation that forgets its fallen will eventually lose its gratitude for sacrifice itself. And so David composes a lamentation, a song to mourn over Saul and Jonathan. He did not want Israel to forget what took place there at Mount Geba against the enemy armies of the Philistines. And so he kind of has this time of remembrance, or time of remembering the fallen. And in many ways, that is what Memorial Day is meant to do. David's lament teaches us how we are to respond to the mighty when they fall. And so from this lamentation, there are six important truths that I want you to see Learn that we can about sorrow and remembrance and honoring the fallen. Here's the first one. Number one, recognize the value of proper sorrow Look at verse number 17 and notice where it says, And David lamented. David lamented. David understood there is a time for weeping. There is a time for sorrow. There's a time to give vent to your feelings. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes that there is a time to weep. Even though grief is bitter, we have to allow sorrow to run its natural course. The Bible says of Jesus that he was a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. So don't bottle up your feelings. Don't deny or repress pain. That can lead to problems. There's a benefit to grieving properly. There are times when you need to let the tears flow and let the heart feel the pain. And David calls upon all Israel to mourn with them He calls upon the sky to mourn. He calls upon nature and creation to grieve with him. Look in verse number twenty-one. Ye mountains of Geboah, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor fields of offerings. This was the place where Saul and Jonathan were killed. So he calls upon Mount Geboah to weep. And then look in verse number 24. Where it says, Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothe you in scarlet and with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. He calls on the daughters of Jerusalem to weep over Saul. Why? It was because of Saul that they were able to have such prosperity. It was because of his leadership and his sacrifice. And we need to remember that. The reason we're able to worship here today in freedom is because of the sacrifice of others. that have gone on before us, because of those that have served our country and those that have fallen. Sometimes people will say In trying to seek others, uh trying to seek comfort to comfort others, I should say, they'll say to someone who lost a loved one, don't cry or don't be sad, and that's not good advice David doesn't say to Israel, don't cry. David says to Israel, weep with me, cry with me. And that's important to see. It's an important thing to understand that in overcoming grief, we need to learn to share that grief with others. And that's what the body of Christ is for. That's what the church is for. What does the Bible tell us? We are to weep with those that weep And so it's okay to share your feelings, your emotions with others. Sometimes people that are grieving will shun others, and that will increase their isolation and their misery, but it's much healthier to seek To be around a group of others, to seek counsel from others. That's where our strength comes from. Groups help us by listening to our hurts and also by giving us encouragement and counsel. And when you cry over someone you lost, you actually do them honor. Again, look in verse number 17, where it says that And David lamented with this Lamentation. David is honoring Saul and his son Jonathan. And notice how he honors them. Look down in verse number 19. The beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places. The word for beauty here is a Hebrew word that can be mean one or two things. It can could be the word for glory. It also came to mean gazelle. And so it gives the image of a majestic deer uh who was a master of the rugged hills of Israel lying dead. But it could also mean glory in the sense that it's the glory of Saul's dynasty. One commentator wrote this, with a single word, David praised the Saul dynasty twice. And Memorial Day reminds us that some lives are worthy of our tears. Some sacrifices deserve remembrance. Notice the repetition of the phrase, how the mighty are fallen. We see it in verse 19. How are the mighty fallen? Look down in verse number 25. Again, how are the mighty fallen? And again in verse number 27, how are the mighty fallen? The word mighty here meaning great. And these are the words that echo across history. Every memorial day reminds us of the mighty men that have fallen, the mighty women, the brave women that have fallen, the soldiers that have fallen in battle and heroes. Some died on distant battlefields Some never came home. Some left behind grieving parents, spouses, and children. Memorial Day is not about glorifying war. It's about honoring sacrifice. And there's a value in paying loving tribute to those that you lose in debt. These are people that are worthy of our tears. But then there's secondly there's another thing that we learn in this, and that is remember that activity helps us bear sorrow Look at verse 18. It's a very interesting verse. Says this. And also he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. Behold, it is written in the book of Joshua. It's a very interesting verse. Some say that the lament, the song, is actually titled the bow. And when David says teach them the use of the bow, he's actually saying that teach the children this song. Let it be sung in Judah. Other interpreters say that this is not the name of the song, but yet what David is doing is he's giving instructions on things that need to be done in memory of Jonathan and David. Teach the children of Israel how to use the bow as in a weapon Uh and so it's either an uh to sing a song or long learn the song or to pick up and learn how to use the bow. Now which one is it Well, it's obvious that the interpret the uh translators of the King James Version favor this being a weapon that they need to learn to use. How do we know that? Well, because in verse 18, if you have a King James Version, what you see in italicized words is the use of, see it's an italicized the use of, that means it was added on there by the translators. So because that's the understanding of this verse that they see. And so it's not a title of a song according to the King James Translators. It's a military order from a new king. Now the great preacher Charles Haddon Spurgeon takes this to be the correct interpretation. This is what he wrote. He said, the translators have acted very properly in inserting the words the use of. For that is what the passage means. But if you read it without those words, the sense is still the same. He bade them teach the children of Judah the bow, that is to say, how to use the bow. Now I agree with Spurgeon that this is the proper way to see this verse. Now, why would David at this time give a military order like this? Why would he do that? I think David is doing something very practical, very helpful in the time of grief. He did not allow Israel to remain paralyzed by their sorrow. He instructed the men of Judah to learn how to use the bow. You see, the Philistines had mastered archery, and Israel did not. The very weapon that contributed to the death of Saul was to be the weapon that Israel must learn to use. David understood something very important. That sorrow must not be a time when you do nothing. When you just stagnate. There's a time to mourn, but there's also a time to rise and prepare and build and continue. Charles Spurgeon said that David gave this command as a remedy against despair. You know, some people when they suffer a great sorrow in their life, they have a tendency to shut themselves off from the world They isolate themselves. They hide away. They think about their affliction and their tragedy. They dwell constantly on it, and they do nothing. They nurse that sorrow. They grow bitter. Sometimes they get angry at God. They just withdraw from life in general. They really stop living. And that's not a good place to be. David teaches us that while sorrow must be felt, it cannot consume us. It cannot overwhelm us to the point where we just quit on life. And activity is one of the things that God uses as an instrument of healing in the life of those that are going through a time of sorrow. So Spursion wrote this, O mourner, get up from the couch of ease, shake yourself from the dust, O virgin daughter of Zion, sit not down upon the dunghill in your grief But bestir yourself lest you sink into blacker woe, and your bitterness become as wormwood and as gall. That is to say, don't sit around brooding, don't sit around nursing and indulging in that grief in that time of sorrow. Activity can distract the mind. That mind that would otherwise dwell on your deep sorrow. One of my favorite people of history is Theodore Roosevelt. And some of you may not know that he endured a time of great grief in his life. Theodore Roosevelt, for for some of you young children who don't know, he was a president of the United States a long time ago. But before he was a president, when he was in his twenties, he was a political figure on the rise in New York. And something happened that devastated him. On one day, his mother, who was still very active at 46 years old, she came down with a sickness. His mother and his wife that he had married not too long ago Both of them died on the same night in the same house of an illness at the same time. It crushed Theodore Roosevelt to where he wrote in his journal These words, the light of my life is gone. The light is gone from my life. And he put in his journal a big X. to mark that terrible day. What was his method of dealing with sorrow? Theodore Roosevelt got active. He went all the way out west. He got away from New York. He went to the Dakotas. He bought a ranch. He hunted, he became a cowboy. Uh he lived out in the wilderness, even though he had all kinds of money, he didn't have to do that. He determined that he would stay so active and so busy that sorrow would not get the best of him And he used adventure and activity to overcome his sorrow. And he would later say, black hair rarely sits behind the rider whose pace is fast enough. Sometimes one of the best things a grieving person can do is just continue faithfully serving the Lord. Get busy and active in doing the things of God. Not because sorrow disappears, but because purpose keeps sorrow from overwhelming us. But here's number three. Allow sorrow to make you better, not bitter. David encouraged the men of Judah to learn to use the bow. Why? Well, because Saul and Jonathan fell because of it. Saul's army in Israel in general were short of archers. They were not able to strike the Philistines at a long distance, but the Philistines knew how to use the bow at a long distance. And so the men of Israel needed to learn how to use this weapon. Why? To become a better warrior for God, to become a better soldier against the enemies of God. Israel had not yet learned how to shoot the bow. They had not developed skill with that. Really only Jonathan was the one that really learned how to use the bow. He was a great archer. But it was not a weapon of choice in general for the men of Judah. But the Philistines, they mastered the use of it. And in the battle it was the bow that took the life of Saul and Jonathan. Therefore, in order to ensure that they're not defeated again, they have to learn how to master this weapon. They have to learn how to use it. And the principle is this: David was saying, let sorrow motivate you to be better. Let it motivate you to be better. Isn't that how God uses sorrow in our life? He uses it to make us better. Tragedy in a way becomes our instruction. Someone wrote, I I walked him out with laughter. He chattered all the way, but left me none the wiser for all he had to say. But I walked a mile with sorrow, and ne'er a word, said he. But all the things I learned from him when sorrow walk with me. Sorrow is a great instructor. And sorrow can either harden us or it can sanctify us. And David wants the men of Israel to use the weapon. And God wants us to learn to be more sanctified. When we go through times of sorrow. Sorrow can have a negative effect on us if we let it, but it could also have a very, very positive effect. It could have a sanctifying effect. One of my favorite hymns is the the hymn, More Love to Thee, O Christ. It was written by a woman by the name of Elizabeth Prentice. She was the daughter of a preacher and she lived most of her life almost as an invalid. She scarcely knew Many hours without pain. She suffered pain all through her life. But the greatest pain that came to her life was when she lost an infant child. And then right on the heels of that, she lost another child One after another. And she plunged into despair. And after a while, as she grew close to the Lord, she wrote the hymn, More Love to Thee, O Christ. She focused on Christ. She let that sorrow do the sanctifying work in her life. One line in that hymn kind of stands out where she writes, let sorrow do its work. Send grief and pain. She understood that sorrow is a instrument in the hand of God to sanctify his peace. So let it make you better, not bitter. But here's number four. Honor the good in those we remember. Look at verse number 19. Again, David writes in verse 19, The beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places. How are the mighty fallen? And notice that when David laments Saul He focuses on only the good virtues and the actions of Saul. And this is again very remarkable because if you read the book of 1 Samuel, you'll find that Saul was not always a very good king. He had his share of faults. In fact, Saul on many occasions tried to kill David. You might remember that. When David was playing the harp in his presence, Saul picked up a javelin and threw it at David. There was a time where the Bible says Saul eyed David, the green-eyed monster of jealousy, as Shakespeare would say. He was jealous of David because they sang Saul slain his thousands, but David is tens of thousands. Saul had many failures. He pursued David in the wilderness unjustly, again, trying to seek his life But you would never know that when you read this chapter here, because David doesn't speak about any of those things. He doesn't dwell on any of it. He calls Saul the beauty of Israel. He calls Saul mighty. You see, David chooses to focus on all the good that Saul did. In verse 24, he talks about Saul's military success and how he provided stability. that permitted the Israelites to acquire wealth and agriculture and trade and conquest. He didn't want the people to forget that. And then in verse number 23, again he says, Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided. David honored Saul and Jonathan. He honored their courage, their leadership, their sacrifice for Israel. And again, Memorial Day teaches us to do the exact same thing. It's not a day to rehearse all the flaws of those who had fallen, or maybe the leaders of our country that have gone on already. A lot of times historians want to dwell on all of the negative and the faults But on a day like Memorial Day, we choose to remember the virtues. We choose to remember the good things. And that's what you should do really with all those that have gone on. Remember the good. Remember the blessing that they were It's a day to honor their sacrifice, their bravery, their loyalty, their courage, their service. David did that, and so must we. But then here's number five. Express your grief honestly before God. Look at verse number 26. David says this, I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me. This is the first time we see David using the first person to refer to himself here in this passage. It's not the daughters of Jerusalem who weep here. Now it's David who personally weeps here. And he writes out This expression of his emotions, honestly. The word distress here is a Hebrew word which means to be indulged, to be wrapped up in something, to lay siege to something. David is saying sorrow is laying siege to my heart. It's wrapping me up. I'm enveloped by this grief And day and so basically he's acknowledging that and he's writing it all out. Being a Christian doesn't mean to be stoic. God doesn't want us to hide our emotions and wear a happy face and wear a mask all the time. He wants you to come to him with complete honesty. He wants you to bring your sorrows to him. In Psalms we see this often. God invites us to bring our heart, our griefs, our sorrows to Him. Psalm 34, verse 15 Shows God as a loving father who watches over his children and he listens to their cries. Write down Psalm 34, verse 15. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous. And his ears are open unto their prayers. And then you go to Psalm 13 and Psalm 22 and Psalm 42 and Psalm 73 and you see God's people running to him in grief and confusion and God ministering to them so that by the time you get to the end of that psalm, their spirits are lifted. We see this often in the Psalms. I found it's good to keep a journal and write out your emotions honestly before the Lord. A while back I was dealing with a young man who was just overwhelmed with grief over the death of his father. And I counseled him, you know, just get a journal and read the Psalms each day, and then write down a verse that speaks to you, and then write down how you honestly feel. Write it out as a prayer unto the Lord and see what that does for you. See what it does for your soul. Because what you see in the book of Psalms is where examples of people coming to God, pouring their heart out to God And you see that at the beginning of the psalm, but by the time of the psalm ends, what you see is there is joy and rejoicing There. For example, in Psalm 13, verse 1, the writer writes, How long will thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? You ever go to the Lord in that kind of prayer? God, are you going to forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? And then he pours his heart out to the Lord, and then by the time you get down to verse number six, listen to what it says. I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me. Total reversal. Total reversal from sorrow to joy. And Psalm 56, verse 1, be merciful unto me, O God, for men would daily swallow me up. He fighting daily oppresses me. And then you go read on, and the psalmist writes, When I cry unto thee, thou shalt turn my enemies back. He said Thou tellest my wanderings. You put my tears into your bottle. Are they not in your book? And then by the time you get to the end, he writes, In God will I praise his word. In the Lord will I praise his word. I have put my trust in the Lord, I will not be afraid what man can do unto me. You see the difference? He pours his heart out Honestly before the Lord. And there's a transition that takes place. When you just bring it all to the Lord, you know what? In return, God will take your sorrow, and in return, He will give you joy. He will give you faith. He will give you strength. He will give you grace. So express your grief honestly before God. And then here's the last thing that I see. Refuse to dwell on defeating thoughts or negative thoughts. Look at verse number 20. Notice what David says. Tell it not in Gath. Publish it not in the streets of Ascalon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. The bitterness of the loss of Saul and Jonathan was too difficult to bear. Already there were reports that were going around about Saul's death and about the death of Jonathan. They were already being reported in the major cities of Gath and Ascalon. And remember that David is using poetic language here. He's not literally telling the people, don't publish it. Or refrain from announcing it, that's hardly likely. What he was telling them was not to dwell on the idea Of the Philistines rejoicing over the death of Saul and Jonathan. That thought of the enemies rejoicing over them was too difficult a thought to bear. Don't dwell on that. It's too much. The principle is don't dwell on negative thoughts in times of sorrow. Don't dwell on defeating thoughts in times of grief. Why? Because it will plunge you further into grief and into sorrow. It's not going to help you. And if we're not careful, that sorrow can turn into despair, and the mourning becomes hopeless. An author I really enjoy reading, he wrote this. Listen to what he wrote. To trust God in times of adversity is admittedly a hard thing to do. Trusting God is a matter of faith. And faith is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Only the Holy Spirit can make his word come alive in our hearts and create faith. But we can choose to look to him to do that. Or we can choose to be ruled by our feelings of anxiety and grief. And that's true. What do you choose? Do you choose to be ruled by your sorrow? Ruled by your grief? Or did he choose to put faith in God? Some of you know the name John Newton, the author of the hymn that we love, Amazing Grace. He watched his wife Die painfully of cancer over a period of two years. In his grief, he said that he could either surrender to hopeless sorrow Or allow God's promises to sustain him in that time. And in recounting those days, let me read to you what John Newton wrote. He said this, I believe it was about two or three months before her death. When I was walking up and down the room, offering disjointed prayers from a heart torn with distress, that the thought suddenly struck me with unusual force to this effect. The promises of God must be true. Surely the Lord will help me if only I am willing to be helped. Some people drown in sorrow because they're not willing to be helped. He said, The Lord will help me if I'm willing to be helped. And then he wrote, It occurred to me that we are often led to indulge in that unprofitable grief which both it is our duty in peace to resist to our utmost power. I love that expression. A lot of people indulge the grief. It's our duty to resist it with our utmost power. And then he said this, I instantly said, Lord, I am helpless indeed in myself, but I hope I am willing without reserve that thou shouldest help me. And that's the choice that he made. He chose not to indulge that sorrow, that grief, but rather to choose to trust by faith in the promises and grace of God. And that's a choice that everyone needs to make. Not whether or not we will grieve, we will grieve, but whether or not we will grieve without hope. We have hope as Christians. We have strength as Christians that comes from Almighty God. And so in this passage then David is memorializing these fallen soldiers, and in doing so, he's teaching us all valuable lessons. about how we deal with grief in our life and sorrow and how we deal with the fact that we miss those that are no longer with us and we honor the fallen. Recognize the value of proper sorrow. Remember that activity helps us bear sorrow. Allow sorrow to make you better, not bitter. Honor the good in those we remember. Express your grief honestly before the Lord and refuse to dwell on defeating thoughts. And on this Memorial Day weekend, we remember the honor and the sacrifice of those that have gone before us. It is deeply biblical. We see this in this passage. David honors fallen warriors, and so should we On February 3, 1943, during World War II, the ship the SS Dorchester was struck by a German torpedo in the icy waters of the North Atlantic. Hundreds of soldiers were thrown into panic and darkness. On board were four chaplains. And as the chaos spread, these four men calmed the frightened soldiers. They handed out life jackets. They prayed with the men. They guided men to safely. Eventually, however, they land they ran out of life jackets. And without hesitation, each chaplain removed his own life jacket and gave it to a soldier. And survivors later testified That the last sight of the four chaplains was of them standing together on a sinking ship, their arms linked together in prayer, as the vessel sleep slipped beneath the icy waters. Stories like that, they move us. They move us. You know why? Because God, there's something in us that God created that desires to honor sacrifice. and bravery. And that's what David did at Mount Geboah. And that's what America does on Memorial Day. But let it point us all to the ultimate sacrifice, the sacrifice of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. There's no greater sacrifice than that that was paid by our Lord Jesus. Not to give us some kind of a national or political freedom, but to give us freedom from our sin. Not to give us just temporary life here on earth, but to give us eternal life in heaven. There is no greater sacrifice than the sacrifice of Christ. Others died for the freedom of a nation. Christ died for the salvation of the world. And friend, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ, I want to encourage you here today to do that. That's why He came. He came to die for sinners like me. and like you, that we would hide in his work alone. Trust in what he did. Trust in Christ and Christ alone. Because he is the only way of eternal life and salvation. And the cross really stands forever as heaven's memorial to sacrificial love. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this special remembrance time. More than that, how we are grateful for our Lord Jesus, who on the cross took the sins of the world upon himself. And died for our sins and satisfied your wrath so that we're safe from the wrath to come. So that we can have eternal life. Salvation is that gift provided by your Son Jesus Christ and how we praise you for that. And we thank you, Lord, that others followed in that example. There are many in our country that have paid the ultimate sacrifice of their life. Greater love has no man than this, that a man laid down his life for his friend. And we give recognition and thanks and honor to those that followed the example of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ, I'm inviting you right now. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Would you make sure that you know Christ? Would you be absolutely certain what would happen if you left here today, got in an accident, God forbid your life was taken? Would you be absolutely certain that you would be in heaven with Jesus? Because you put your full faith in him, are you sure of that? If not, make sure of it right now. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Would you come to Jesus today In faith, would you call upon him? Jesus, save me, I'm a sinner. I have no righteousness of my own. None. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress, helpless look to thee for grace. Foul I to the fountain fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die. Come to Jesus for salvation. Father, thank you again for your word and the salvation we have in Christ. Bless this to every hearing heart we pray in Jesus name, Amen.