Would you take your Bibles tonight? And would you open to First Kings chapter 22? This is the last chapter in the book of 1 Kings that we come to, and we're going to be looking at the whole chapter tonight. And I want to just read one pat one verse with you from this passage as we get into it, verse number 34 of 1 Kings 22, where it says, A certain man drew a bow at a venture and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. You know, when I was a kid, my dad taught me At least he tried to teach me how to shoot a arrow out of a bow. Uh he was a hunter and he was pretty good at it. Um I quickly learned that there's a lot of skill in shooting an arrow. Now it's one thing to shoot an arrow out of a bow, it's another thing to actually hit your target. That's what's kind of hard. Robin Hood I am not. Just want you to know that. I never ever really learned to be proficient. with uh a bow and a arrow. I never seemed to hit what I was aiming at. In fact, after a while, I think my dad said you should probably just lay this down. You're done. I did hear about one man, however, how he uh he never missed whatever he shot at with his bow and arrow. It was just amazing. Um he always hit the bullseye. All over his property there were arrows sunk into uh bullseyes. There was one drawn on his His barn door and the arrow was right in the middle of the bullseye, one on the side of the shed, one on some trees all around, and someone came and asked him and said, That's amazing. How is it that you hit the bullseye every time? And he said, well it's just easy. He said, I fi I fire the arrow, and then wherever it lands, I draw a bullseye around it. So he was never really aiming at anything. This is the story tonight. What we're going to look at is the story of a nameless, aimless bowman. And one day he runs out onto the battlefield in the heat of battle, and at random he just pulls back on his bow and he releases the arrow. And really in a way he was shooting at nothing from his perspective. But when he shot that arrow at that precise moment, at just the right time he released the arrow, it holding it at just the right angle That arrow found its target. From his perspective, he was just shooting at nothing. But from God's perspective He was hitting exactly what God had preordained from his sovereign throne. And so really this nameless, aimless bowman reminds us that uh God's word always comes true. And that we had better take the word of God seriously, for he always fulfills his word. Now you might be asking, how does this story uh emphasize that. We're going to look at this story tonight. Really, in this chapter, it really revolves around three men and their responses to the revealed word of God. As God revealed his word to them, each had a different response. And remember, this is supporting a theme that really we we began with in the study of 1 Kings. One of the major themes that goes throughout the whole book. And that is the reliability and faithfulness of God's word. When God says something is going to happen, it happens, and God's word never fails. If you ever feel like God's word is going to fail, this story is for you. If you ever are tempted to doubt what God's Word says, this story is for you. If you have a tendency to not take what God says seriously Then this story is for you. So again, this revolves around three characters. We have Jehoshaphat He's a man who seeks God's word. Then we have Ahab, he's a man who scoffs at God's word. And then finally we have Micaiah, he's a man who suffers for it. So let's look at the first person, Jehoshaphat. Someone who is seeking for God's word. And we go back to verse number one. And under that, we're going to call this the consternation of Ahab. Look at verse 1. And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel. And it came to pass in the third year that Jehosaphat, the king of Judah, came down to the king of Israel Now remember in chapter twenty, when the evil Assyrian king came against Israel, God Through the prophet promised Ahab victory two times. Even though Ahab didn't deserve it, this is amazing mercy and grace from God And in the victory, rather than killing his enemy or taking him at least prisoner, what does Ahab do with King Ben-Hadad? He says, Oh, my brother. And he makes a covenant with him. And part of that covenant agreement is that Ben Haadad had to turn over all the cities that he captured from the Israelites. Well, three years have passed, and guess what? None of those cities has been turned over. He has not kept his word. Surprise, surprise. Ben Hadad is reneging on his deal. That's what happens when you bargain with an evil person. Don't expect them to fulfill their word. So three years passes, Ahab is a bit concerned about this, and he wants to go out and get these cities that he says are theirs. Now, during this time, the king of Judah, Jehoshaphat, has come down from Jerusalem to have a summit meeting there in Ahab's palace in Samaria And look down at verse number verse number three, where it says, and the king of Israel excuse me, I'm gonna have to do this There you go. Look at verse 3. And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that rameth in Gilead is ours. Hold on. Know that reigneth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria And look at verse 4. And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle to reign of Gilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as thou art. and my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses. So here at this summit meeting, King Ahab wants his cities back. And so he says to Jehoshaphat, the king of Israel, now they're kind of in alliance together. Hey, will you help me to do this? And what I want you to see the second part of this, I call this the character of Jehoshaphat. In verse number four, Jehoshaphat was willing, and he gives a very magnanimous response. Look, uh my people is as as is as your people My horses as thy horses, yes, we'll come together and we will do this together. But there's one thing that he wanted. He wanted to know what the Lord thought about it. He wanted a word from God. And here we see the character of Jehoshaphat, who is unlike Ahab. Jehoshaphat is a godly man. He cares about what God thinks. And he's brave enough to go into battle. And he's loyal enough to Help his brother, but he wants to know the will of the Lord. He wants to know the word of God. Well, this is not a problem for Ahab because he has four hundred state-sponsored prophets at his disposal Look down in verse number six. Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up. For the Lord shall deliver it into the hand of the king. Again, what a shock that these four hundred prophets all said, Oh yes, Ahab, go do what is in your heart. God is going to honor you. He's going to give this into your hand. Again, these are all state licensed and approved prophets. They give their opinion and they come with total agreement. Yes, go up. God is going to deliver it. They were really just a bunch of yes men. for King Ahab. Well Jehoshaphat knew there was something not right about this. When four hundred preachers agree on anything, that's cause for alarm By the way, there are still today so-called preachers that can be bought by the state and swayed away from the truth by popular opinion. So look what he says in verse 7. And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not a prophet of the Lord besides that we might inquire of him? I would like a second opinion here. Don't you have any other prophet of God that can give us a ruling on this? And look in verse 8. And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, there is yet one man. Makiah, the son of Imlah, by whom we may inquire of the Lord, but I hate him, for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, let not the king say so. Yeah, we have one prophet. I really don't like him. I hate to hear him preach. When he's done preaching, I never feel good about myself. He always prophesies bad towards me, but Jehoshaphat says, Come on, Ahab, let's just hear what he has to say. So in verse nine, they send for him. Verse nine, then the king of Israel called an official and said, Hasten hither, Meccah, the son of Imlah. But what I want you to see in this first part of this chapter is the character of Jehoshaphat that stands out. He sought the word of God. He valued the word of God. Any major decision that he wanted to make. He always sought counsel of the Lord. He wanted to see what God's word had to say about it. And that wasn't just in this story here. This was his usual practice. In fact, you might want to write down your margin, 2 Kings chapter 3, because we see the same thing. Jehoshaphat goes out to battle with the king of Israel, who at that time would be Joram. And in the middle of a difficult march, Jehoshaphat says again, is there a prophet of the Lord where we can hear from God? He was constantly seeking counsel from the Lord. He wanted to know the word of God This was a good and a godly king. In fact, notice the epitaph. Go fast forward. Looked up verse 41 of chapter 22 And notice what God says about him in verse 41. And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab, king of Israel. And Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old. And he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Azuba. Look at verse forty three. And he walked in all the way of Asa's father. He turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the Lord. Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away, for the people offered and burnt incense yet in high places. And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, his might that he showed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? Now, he wasn't a perfect man And the Bible is very clear to point out some of his faults. Remember, one of the ways that kings were judged by this writer was that did they pull down the high places? Jehoshaphat didn't do that. And he doesn't really thoroughly purge the land of the sodomites, we read in uh a few verses, uh verse forty-six. And also he has an alliance with uh Ahab. What are you doing making an e with a wicked king? And and later on a prophet's going to go and rebuke Jehoshaphat for doing that. Why are you making an alliance with someone who is wicked and he does not love the Lord. That's 2 Chronicles 192. Shouldest thou help the ungodly and love them that hate the Lord? But having said that, he wasn't a perfect man But what he did do was he sought the Lord. He sought the word of God. And he proved to be a godly king. He stood against a lot of the sinful practices in Israel. He stood against sexual immorality. He refused to compromise with some of these other practices and he was a good leader. A man like this would make an excellent leader in our society. I wish we had a Jehosaphat in Washington. I wish we had leaders that were like him that would seek the counsel of the Lord and big decisions. A guy like this makes an excellent father and husband because he'll Seek the Lord when it comes to making decisions for his family. He makes a good leader in the church because he'll help pray through matters when a big decision comes. We should seek to be like Jehoshaphat in this way. But here's the second one. Jehoshaphat was seeking God's word, but then number two is Ahab. He's the next character in the story. He's scoffing at God's word. Now he was not like Jehoshaphat at all. He couldn't care about the word of God. And despite the fact that the last two victories he had against the Syrians came through the Word of God, if you remember, the prophets came and said, God's going to give you victory. It was actually the word of God that guaranteed him victory in battle. None of that really seemed to matter for Ahab. He was not concerned about God's word. He wasn't concerned about God's will He was only concerned about his own will. He's like the Congressman Jerry Nadler who recently said, God's will is of no concern in this Congress. Before there was Congressman Nadler, there was Ahab who said, God's will is no concern of mine. I want to do what I want. And notice his response in verse, his response really in verse 8 shows us uh his attitude where he says he hates this prophet because he doesn't prophesy anything good. He doesn't want to hear the truth, especially if it's not good about him. But notice this, I want you to see the drama of the false prophets. They're waiting for Micaiah to come. Look at verse 10. And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, sat each on his throne. Having on their robes in a void place at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets prophesied before him. That is, they're out there in public. Kind of picture this in your mind. It's a public spectacle. They're sitting high on their thrones in their royal array, and they're waiting for Micaiah to be brought in. They're out there in front of them, the 400 prophets, and you know what they're doing? They're putting on a display before the king. Look at verse 11. And Zedekiah, the son of Chenanah, made him horns of iron. And he said, Thus saith the Lord, with thee shalt thou push the Syrians until thou hast consumed them. So here is Zedekiah, this false prophet, and he makes up horns of iron, and he begins to mimic the actions of a bull goring someone. And he's probably playfully doing against some of the other prophets. They're out there, you know, standing in front of him and he's pretending to gore them with these horns. Horns were used back in this day as a metaphor for a king's power. So you have two horns here and representing two kings, Ahab and Jehoshaphat, and like the might of the bull, they're going to push back the Assyrians and they're going to get victory. And it was all one big spectacle, one big drama. that all the prophets are putting on before the two kings. And this was entertaining to all the people. It surely had to have been while they were there. We see this drama by these false prophets, but I want you to see next is the declaration of the true prophet. Look at verse 13. And the messenger that was gone to call Makias spake unto him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets declared good unto the king with one mouth. Let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak that which is good. Here this messenger is bringing in Micaiah I think maybe he feels a little sorry for him. He knows he's about to go into the arena and have an audience with these kings. He knows how everything is going very well. Everyone's having a good time And he doesn't want this one prophet to spoil it. So he gives them some advice. Look, when you go in there, everyone's having such a good time. Just tell the king what he wants to hear. I mean, what's so hard about that? Don't ruin the party. You don't want to do that, do ya? But notice the response of a true prophet. Look at verse 14. And Micaiah said, As the Lord liveth, What the Lord saith unto me, that will I speak. Amen. Isn't that a great verse? That's a verse that every preacher should have marked in their Bible. What the Lord says unto me, that I will speak. It may not be pleasant, but I'm going to say it. It might not be prudent, but I'm going to say it. It might not be pleasing, but I'm going to say it It might lead me to go to jail. And by the way, it does here in this story. We'll see later on. But I'm going to say it. I'm not going to be intimidated by this king. Whatever the Lord tells me to say That's what I'm going to say. You know, there's a difference between a puppet and a prophet. A puppet has strings on him. A prophet does not. A prophet is a man of God who speaks the truth of God's word. It doesn't matter where the chips may fall, he is faithful to the truth of God's word. And that's what Micaiah was like. You know what we need a lot like preachers like Micaiah who will speak the word of God. So notice what happens in verse 15. So he came to the king, and the king said unto him, Makiah, shall we go against Ramoth Gilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered him, oh yeah, go, sure. Go and prosper, for the Lord will deliver it into the hand of the king. Now here he's being sarcastic. Here he's kind of mimicking the other prophets. He's having a little fun at the expense of this spectacle that's going on between all of these prophets and these kings and all the people. And we know he's being sarcastic. By the response that it gets from King Ahab in verse 16. Notice verse 16, and the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou tell me nothing but what is true, the name of the Lord? Here's the translation of that in the Hebrew. Stop kidding around. Stop playing around. Give me the truth. Tell me the honest truth. And so Micaiah is ready to do just that very thing. You want to hear the truth? Here's the truth. Look at verse 17. And he said. I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills as sheep that have not a shepherd. And the Lord said, These have no master, let them return every man to his house in peace. So there's the prophecy. Basically, Israel will be like sheep without a shepherd. You know what that means? Ahab is going to be killed in battle. And Israel will be Sheep without a shepherd. A shepherd was a common image for a king in this day. The king is going to die, the army is going to withdraw, they're going to go back to their homes, which means what? Failure of mission. They're not going to accomplish this. They're going to retreat and defeat. Every man will go back to his house. This is not what uh he was hoping to hear, and this did put a damper on the party, by the way. That was there. Look at verse 18. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, did I not tell thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil? See, I told you. He doesn't ever have anything good to say about me. Well, and the reason he never had anything good to say about him was because God never had anything good to say about him. because he was speaking the word of the Lord. But Ahab had heard enough. He refused to believe it. As far as he was concerned, the majority rules and the vote was four hundred to one. So he's going to go on with the plans that he has. And then He has Micaiah arrested. Drop down. We'll go back to some of these verses, but drop down to verse 26. And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah and carry him back to Ammon, the governor of the city, and to Joash, the king's son. Verse 27, and say, Thus saith the king, put this fellow in prison and feed him the bread of affliction and with water of affliction until I come in what? In peace. Put him in prison, take him down, he took him down to the mayor of the city, mayor's name was Ammon. Uh that guy there named uh Joash, the king's son, that's not actually a son, that's an official, uh someone acting it for the king, that's why he's called that. These officials take them and they he says put them in prison and give them meager rations, give them bread, give them water, give them just a little bit, just enough to keep them alive. Until I come back in what? Peace. What does that tell you about Ahab? He totally rejected what Micaiah said. No, I'm going to go into battle, and I'm going to come back in peace. He rejects the word of the Lord. He thinks he's going to be successful. And one final word from Micaiah, look in verse 28. And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, The Lord has not spoken by me. And then he turns to the crowd and says, hearken ye, oh ye people, every one of you. I love that If you come back in peace, that means, you know, that means God didn't really speak to me. And I want all the crowd to listen to this, to find out whether the word of the Lord will come true or not. Let everyone hear. If this king comes back in peace, then it's not the word of the Lord. We'll see what happens. It's almost like a challenge. Let's see if this is true. Let's see if he indeed does come back in Peace. But notice so notice the next thing. I call this the death of a foolish king. The next part is that Ahab goes, gets readies himself for battle. Look at verse 29. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat The king of Judah went up to Ramoth Gilead. He's about to go into battle. But Ahaph starts to feel a little bit uneasy about Micaiah's prophecy. I think he still hears him in his mind. If you return in peace, the Lord has not spoken it And Ahab knew that ancient warfare was a lot like the game of chess. You know, in the game of chess, what are you trying to do? You get the king, you win, right? Ancient warfare was like that Just get the king. Once you get him, the battle's over. And in fact, that was the strategy. Look at verse 31. But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains and that had ruled over his chariots, saying Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel. He said, Don't worry about the pawns. You go after the king. You find him on the battlefield. You go after him. So Ahab knows this. So back up to verse 30. He has his own plan. And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself and enter into the battle, but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into the battle. Now I can't imagine why in the world Jehoshaphat would agree to this. Look, you go ahead and put on your royal robes and go into battle, and I'm going to disguise myself. And I'm gonna go into battle. And you know, so what, Jehoshaphat, he's like a sitting duck, right? I mean if they see the a guy out there on the battlefield in royal robes, the Syrians are gonna think that it's Ahab. That's exactly what happens. Look at verse 32. And it came to pass when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him, and Jehoshaphat cried out. So that they see Jehoshaphat out there on the battlefield in his royal apparel, and they go after him. And but Jehoshaphat cries out in verse 33, and it came to pass when the captains of the chariots perceived That it was not the king of Israel that they turned back from pursuing him. They're got real close, almost ready to look to pounce and kill Jehoshaphat when he cries out and they say, hey, wait a minute That's not King Ahab. So they stopped pursuing him. And the question of the day on the battlefield at that point was: where is Ahab? Where is he? Ahab had succeeded in fooling the Syrian army because they didn't know where he was. They couldn't locate him. They couldn't follow their king's orders because They couldn't find Ahab on the battlefield. But now while Ahab may have fooled the Syrians, he did not fool God. So notice verse 34. Here comes our nameless, aimless bowman. Verse 34. And a certain man drew a bow at a venture. I can just picture this in my mind. Here's a guy running out on the battlefield. He's probably a private. This might even be his first battle. And he's looking around. He doesn't know exactly what to do. But he said, I'm going to fire this arrow, I'll tell you that. Might not have hit anything, but at least I'm gonna fire me an arrow. He pulls back, he fires the arrow. Launches from the bow, and it happens to hit Ahab. Look in verse number 34. It says, And a certain man drew a bow at adventure. And smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness. Wherefore he saith to the driver's chariot, Turn thy hand And carry me out of the host, for I am wounded. Think about that. This arrow hit in the crease of his armor. The only possible area it could hit and really give a mortal wound to King Ahab. It's just amazing this that this happened. You often hear me say God is sovereign, right? Or you hear me sometimes say God is exhaustively sovereign. If you want to know what I mean by that It's illustrated right here in this story. God is he sovereign over the flight of an arrow Think about all the contingencies that have to happen in order for this arrow to hit Ahab in the crease of his armor, right kill him. I mean think about it. He's riding in a chariot. He's not driving a chariot. He has a chariot driver. He's riding across the battlefield, right? In a chariot. And so you think about the action of this driver. I mean, he he chooses to go in a certain direction. And then think about the strength of the horses. The horses are running at a certain speed. And think about the action of the bowman, his decision to just pull back on the bowstring, he had to pull back at exactly the right point. He has to aim it at precisely the right angle. He has to release it at precisely the right time. And he launches that arrow, and then think about the wind. A little gust of wind could have knocked that arrow off course. God is sovereign over the chariot driver. He's sovereign over the horses. He's sovereign over the guy who fired the arrow. He's sovereign over the wind that carried the arrow to its target. God is exhaustively sovereign over all these things in order for all this to happen just like the Lord says. Now the Syrians, they called it a lucky shot. But the people in Israel knew better. They knew. They hear the words of the prophet Micaiah saying, if he returns in peace, then it wasn't the word of the Lord. Because when God says you're not coming back, guess what? You're not coming back in peace. The arrow of God's divine judgment always hits the bullseye. You better not ignore the word of God. You better not scoff at the word of God. God always fulfills his word And Ahab is carried away from the battle with a mortal wound. Look at verse thirty five. Let's let's pick up the story here. And the battle increased that day, and the king was stayed upon in his chariot against the Assyrians, and died at Eden. And the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city and every man to his own country. So the king died and was brought to Samaria, and they buried the king in Samaria, and one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood And they washed his armor according to the word of the Lord which he spake. Does that sound familiar? Do you remember in chapter 21 when he took Naboth's vineyard and Naboth was stoned? And he bled right at that very spot. And God through the prophet said, Thus saith the Lord, in the place where the dogs lick the blood of Naboth, shall the dogs lick thy blood. And that's exactly what happened. In that very spot, the dogs licked the blood of Ahab. Guess what? Micaiah said Israel would be like sheep without a shepherd. That exactly happened. They had no more king. He said the soldiers would go back to their homes. That's exactly what happens. The cry went out, every man to his home. Everything happened just like Micaiah had predicted. And Ahab's son took the throne. He wasn't much either. And in fact, if you want to fast forward, look at his epitaph, go down to verse 51. And Ahaziah, the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel and Samaria, the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. Verse fifty two, and he did evil in the sight of the Lord, and walked in all the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeha Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who made Israel. Ahaziah was just like his father, and he only reigned two years, and God judged him Israel was like a sheep, was like sheep without a shepherd. So what's the lesson from this? Very easy. Don't reject the word of God. Don't resist his will. You know what the Bible says for the world today? Repent and believe in Jesus. You better not reject that. And you better not resist what God is saying. You say I'm already saved. Well, God is calling upon you to obey Him, to keep short accounts with God, to confess your sin. Whatever it may be, whether it's big or whether it's small, you might look at it as small, but if it is against what God says, you better deal with it. You better take care of it. You better confess it and cleanse it. We shouldn't allow ourselves any small smoldering sin in our heart. We should cleanse ourselves from all sin and walk in righteousness as God calls us to to do. We have to be careful to not let Ahab's epitaph become our own. Where it says that Abab was did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. Now let me give you the last thing here. We looked at Jehoshaphat, he was seeking for God's word. Ahab was scoffing at God's word, but then think about Micaiah. He's suffering for God's word. Let me just say this. God calls upon us men and women to be like the prophet Micaiah. You know what? He heard the word of God. He believed it. And he obeyed it, and he refused to do anything except trust in what God said. And he was bold when he proclaimed it, and he stood on it, even to the point where he was willing to suffer for its truth. So go back, look back with me, go back to verse 19 again in chapter 22. And notice what he says. After this display is there. of this false prophet Zedekiah, and people are probably laughing and applauding. Makai is not impressed with all that. He gives his word. And then notice what he says in verse 19. And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the Lord I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. Micaiah was so convinced that the word of God was true. That he was willing to suffer for it. What convinced him? Well, we get a little insight here. In verse 19, it says, here's what Micaiah says: He said, I saw the Lord sitting on his throne. And all the hosts of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. You know, every once in a while in the Old Testament, God would allow one of his prophets to get a vision of what goes on. Behind the veil, in the invisible world, the heavenlies. Remember, God did that with Isaiah. Isaiah saw the Lord sitting on his throne high and lifted up and his train filled the temple and his seraphim said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. Isaiah saw that vision of God And it changed him forever. Well, here Micaiah, he sees this vision of God. He sees God on his throne. He sees God as sovereign. But what he sees is very interesting. He sees the Lord on his throne, but all the hosts of heaven standing by him on his right and on his left. Here are all the angels of heaven, we could say. On his right hand or on his left hand, and this particular passage here is what scholars call a divine counsel passage. You say, what does that mean? Because sometimes in the Old Testament, God We'll meet with his angels, his holy angels. And by the way, sometimes Satan will appear in there, maybe bring some of his cohorts. But they'll appear in what is called divine counsel. You might remember in the book of Job where it says that there was a day when the sons of God presented himself before the Lord, and Satan came among them. That was a divine counsel. The Bible teaches that every once in a while God will do that. Write down in your margin, Psalm 89, verse 7. God is greatly to be feared in the council of Now the King James might you translates this word saints, but the Old Testament word is Elohim. That word Elohim, when it's used, it's not always talking about God. You have to look at the context to see. how that word is being used. It can be for referring to angels, the divine spirit beings. God is greatly to be feared in the council of the Holy Ones, would be a good way to say that. Awesome above all those that are around them. In this divine council, God is awesome above all those that are there. Now some of you might be saying, well, now why does God need to meet in divine council with angels? Can't he make his own decisions and use his own wisdom? Well of course he can. He doesn't need the angels. For that matter, he doesn't need you or I. He doesn't need humans to get the gospel out. He could do it himself. But God gives us the privilege of being a part of fulfilling his divine will, and he does that with the angels. They meet in divine counsel. And notice what happens. He's giving us a description of what happened when God met in divine counsel. Look at verse 20. And the Lord said, Who shall persuade Ahab? That he may go up and fall at reign with Gilead. And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner, and verse 21, and there came forth a spirit, and stood before the Lord and said, I will persuade him Here's a spirit, obviously an evil spirit, who stands up and says, I will persuade Ahab in verse 22. And the Lord said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all the prophets, all his prophets. Notice they're Ahab's prophets, all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persuade him and prevail also, go forth and do so. Now therefore, behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets. And the Lord has spoken evil concerning thee. So God had decreed that Ahab Would die, would be punished. God was the primary cause where God says, He will die. And in divine counsel, God says, How are we going to accomplish this? And then there's one spirit, as we said, that says, I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of the prophets. Now, what's going on here? Theologians say this is an illustration of what they call secondary causes. In relation to accomplishing his will, here's a little bit of heavy theology before we close. Are you guys okay with that? You with me? In relation to God's decree, God is the primary cause, he's the ultimate cause. And Providence is God. Sovereignty is God planning out what's going to happen. Providence is putting his plan into action. And I'm just reading a bit here from the Westminster Confession, that great confession from which we get a lot of our Baptist confessions. And it says as he ordereth Then to fall out according to the nature of second causes, either necessarily, freely, or contingently. That is to say, that when God decrees that something will happen. that he will allow secondary causes, the nature of those secondary causes, to accomplish his overall It goes on to say like this: God in his ordinary providence maketh use of means. That is, he makes use of these secondary causes, yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. Now again, let me try to break this down, make sure you understand. God knows what will happen because he decrees it to happen. This and it's it will happen. Now that doesn't mean that God will force people to do things against their will. No. Or it doesn't mean that everything in the universe is moving by some immediate exercise of his divine power. No, God works out his purposes through the secondary causes, through the natural Decisions that we could say the free agency decisions of either humans or in this case angels or other things. We saw in the on the battlefield, you know, the driver chose to go the direction he wanted to. The the guy with the the bow decided to pull the back however he wanted to. He decided to release it however he wanted to. You know, none of that was forced upon them They did whatever they would normally do. But in the exercising of their free agency, they accomplished the sovereign decree of God. They say, well, there's a little bit of a mystery in there. Well, welcome to theology. Because all theology has a bit of that in it, doesn't it? I often say theology is not a problem-solving venture, it's a mystery-discerning venture. There are mysteries of the faith. A second cause is simply a cause caused by something else. It's used to distinguish between God as the ultimate cause of everything. And the other things that come to pass. Those other things are called secondary causes. Let me give you an illustration. What caused Joe Biden to be elected president of the United States in 2020? Who caused that? Well the Bible doctrine of providence says both God, God caused that, and the individual choices of millions of voters. So let me just say Joe Biden would not be president unless God ordained that it be. He's there because God ordained that it be. The Most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will. So he's there because God put him there, yet we could also say he's there because of the free agency of the voters, those millions of voters who voted. to put him there in the office. So in both cases, what we see is the ultimate cause, God, who decreed that it would happen. But we see the secondary cause of the American voters who served God's purpose. God ordains the means as well as the ends. Secondary causes really do shape what happens, but they do not operate outside of God's overarching decree or His will. Confused. So what we see here in this passage is God's ult who is the ultimate cause. God says Ahab will die. But the secondary Agency, the secondary cause, is an evil spirit who says, Well, I'll send a lying spirit into, or I'll be a lying spirit in the mouth of these false prophets. You know what that tells me? That God will even use the purposes of Satan and evil to accomplish his decree, his ultimate purpose, which always leads to good No wonder Micaiah was so sure it was going to happen. No wonder he was willing to stand on the Word of God. And boldly proclaim it. So look at verse 24. But Zedekiah, the son of China, went near And smote Micaiah on the cheek and said, Which way went the Spirit of the Lord from me to speak unto thee? So here he is abused. And his response, verse 25, and Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber thy self. In other words, the response is chilling. You'll find out When uh God's enemies come against Israel and you go to hide yourself for your very life in your closet. But here's the bottom line, and we have to close. God calls upon all of us to believe his word, to stand firmly on it. to be willing to suffer for it. And what I see here, Micaiah, is really, he's a picture of the Lord Jesus, isn't he? Jesus suffered. Later, you remember they smote Jesus and said, Who who who hit you? Prophesy, tell us who hit you. And Micaiah, he kept us cool. He committed himself to the Lord. That's exactly what Jesus would later do. In fact, this is really kind of prophetic about the Lord Jesus Christ. Micaiah didn't give what he wanted. He only spoke the words of God. You know, Jesus or in his ministry said, Look, I'm not telling you what I think. Everything I'm telling you is from the Father. I'm telling you what he said. I'm giving you the words from the Father. People abuse Jesus the way they abuse Micaiah, mocking his ability to prophesy. But like Micaiah, Jesus didn't retaliate. He simply rested in the truth of God's word And he paid for our salvation. He was willing to suffer. The Apostle Paul is the same way. Willing to suffer for truth. So let me just close it. By saying, may we always take God's word seriously. May we always obey what He tells us to do. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, thank you for this word and the reminder that we all need Sometimes if we're not careful, we can get so accustomed to coming to your house and hearing a sermon, hearing the word of God, and then just not really thinking deeply on it. Or maybe not even really taking it seriously. Letting it go through one ear and out the other without really internalizing what you're saying. Father, this story reminds us that it's a very serious thing to be given the Word of God on one hand, but it's even more serious how we respond to it. So, Father, may it instruct us, may it help us to be people of your word. May we value the Word of God. May we heed it, may we obey it, may we stand firmly on it, and if need be, may we be willing to suffer for it. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen