Well, it's good to be in God's house, isn't it? And I want you to take your Bibles. Open please to 1 Peter chapter 2. And as we continue our study through 1 Peter, tonight we're going to look at chapter 2, and we're going to look at really just two verses, verses 11 and 12. And I'm going to talk tonight about living the pilgrim life. Look at 1 Peter 2, verse 11. Dearly beloved. I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. So Peter reminds these believers to live like pilgrims. And that's really the message for us tonight. We need to learn to live the pilgrim's life. Now when I mean that, I don't mean that we should wear black pilgrim clothing dressing up like it's Thanksgiving. or a Thanksgiving play and speak Elizabethan English and call everybody thee and thou and thine. Uh that's certainly not what we're talking about here But the idea is that we're just passing through this life. We're pilgrims because this isn't our home, right? In fact the word pilgrim Uh you might want to know this. This is a a Latin word, the word P I L Pill. That prefix actually means through and grim is the word, the loot the root, which actually means land. So you put that together and it's through the land. And the reason they're called pilgrims is because they're traveling through the land. They're not at home in that land. They're traveling through that land. Someone has said that a Vagabond has no home A fugitive is running from home. A stranger is away from home, but a pilgrim is headed home. They're traveling towards their home. And that's really the whole biblical idea of being a pilgrim for the Christian. We are pilgrims. We sing the song, This World is not my home. I'm just passing through My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. And so you probably haven't heard too many sermons on this idea of the pilgrim. In fact, I I don't see many recent books written on this whole uh idea. Uh there's many old books about it, but nothing really recent about it, except I I did read a theology uh called pilgrim theology, but that that really is more of a systematic theology book with that name on it. I don't see too many books written about this whole d idea of us living as pilgrims here in this world. Now, we know that there is one famous book written about this idea. It's a book that has sold more copies in the English language than except the Bible. And that book is, you know what I'm talking about, Pilgrim's Progress. It's a wonderful book. And someone is, in fact, this morning coming out of church said, Man, I'm reading that, and I've gotten so much spiritual truth out of it, it's really blessed my heart. And it is a great book. But the the truth of the matter is, we don't think like this today. A pilgrim is someone that is thinking about their home. Constantly. And when I again I'm not talking about this earthly existence. I'm talking about that eternal home, that home in heaven. The pilgrim life isn't how much of us most of us view the Christian life. You know, we're focused more on the here and the now. A lot of times we come to church, we want a sermon that's going to help us in our marriage, it's going to help us raise our children or succeed in our career or overcome personal problems and help me just to be a fulfilled person in this life. And there's nothing wrong with uh sermons that address those topics. But that's more or less what people are looking for today. And they kind of think, well, you know, heaven is a nice extra. I want to just live a good life here, and then heaven, you know, that's kind of a bonus But you know, uh that's not the way a pilgrim lives. Uh we see it uh as uh our our heavenly home is something that we long for. that we love and we know that it's very real. There's a book written by Richard Baxter called The Saints Everlasting Rest. I probably have talked about this book before, but he develops this idea of a believer's meditating and thinking about their heavenly home. And the reason he wrote this book was because, and by the way, this book has been called Perhaps the Greatest Book Written on Heaven. It was written by this Puritan Richard Baxter. And the reason he wrote this book is because he himself was a man who was very frail in his body, and uh he suffered almost a total collapse at the young age of thirty-five. And so he was expecting to die young. And so he began to prepare his himself for leaving this world. And he began to meditate on heaven. He would search the scripture and meditate on the thoughts of heaven and the joys of heaven. And he wrote down all of these thoughts. Really, it was for his own benefit But he ended up putting it all together in a book, and it became uh his thoughts, his meditations on heaven became the basis for that book, The Saints Everlasting Rest. And in the book, he writes this one thing. He says That as Christians we should meditate on heaven for about a half hour each day that we live. And he says this. He said, for one of this recourse to heaven He said, thy soul is as a lamp not lit. In other words, he's saying if you're not thinking about your eternal home, your soul is like a lamp that is not lit. And by thinking about all the glories and the joys that God has laid up for us in heaven, it just kind of puts a fire in your soul. And so that's what the pilgrim life is all about. We hold loosely to the things of this world, knowing that it's not our home. Now Peter is reminding these believers about this one idea. Because you remember he's writing to believers that are going through a very difficult time. They're suffering persecution. Many of them were going without. Many of them have seen their loved ones have to suffer And one of the ways Peter addresses this issue of persevering through difficulty is the idea of looking beyond all this and looking at the hope that you have. Remember the theme of Peter is this idea of hope. And remember, hope is a certainty. And so he wants them to think about the certainty of heaven. So he reminds them that your pilgrims, again look in verse 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and Pilgrims, your pilgrims in this world. It was Ian Bounds who said, Earth is but a pilgrim's stay, a pilgrim's journey, a pilgrim's tent Heaven is a city permanent, God planned, God built, whose foundations are as stable as God's throne. So, Peter's talking then about living this pilgrim life. Now, if we're going to live a pilgrim life, what he's going to give us are three essentials that we have to have. To live as a pilgrim would live. Now, so let me give these to you. Here's the first one. Number one: to live like pilgrims, there is a worldview that we must adopt. There is a worldview that we must adopt. Again, in verse 11, dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Notice how he addresses them, strangers. and pilgrims. So he wants us to think of ourselves in these terms. He wants us to think of ourselves as pilgrims. That's the first thing that you have to do. I'm a pilgrim in this world, and I have to realize that. I have to remember that about myself. This has to be my worldview. Do you look at the world with a pilgrim worldview Now when I say worldview, I mean the way we look at the world, the way we see the world. I could say this, the glasses through which we view this world. You ever notice when you put on different color glasses, you see the world in a different way? And there's a sense in which People look at the world through their own, we could say, glasses, their own worldview, their own presuppositions or ideas. And as Christians, we have to have this pilgrim worldview. Someone said a worldview is the set of hinges on which all of our everyday thinking is doing thinking and doing, I should say, turns. Now, most of the world today, they live with this secular worldview. Now what do I mean by a secular worldview? Well, they see this material world as all that there is. And so most of the people today they're living for all the things that this world can offer uh you know, a better house, a better car, a better job, you know, uh all these things that the world can give. And they don't see there's anything beyond this. In fact, they might look at this world as a closed system. Everything is just the same as it is. We're living on this celestial ball in space. There is no real eternity. There's nothing outside of this existence that we know. And that's a secular worldview. In fact, the word secular is the Latin seculum, and it means literally that, this world. But now there are two Latin terms that mean world. There's mundum, which means this place, this actual place, and then there's seculum, which means time And so when a person has a secular worldview, what they're basically what I'm basically saying is they have a view that says, this is all that matters, the now, this time, right now, nothing beyond it Nothing beyond this present time really matters. And what they do is they take the word secular and they put an ism on it. Whenever you put an ism on a word, it turns it into a school of thought. Secularism. And secularism is the mindset of the average person today. And it's this idea, this overarching reality that all of life, every human value, all human existence must be understood and judged in the light of Right now, this present time. There's nothing really beyond it. There's only the now. In fact, in the Old Testament, how did Solomon phrase this kind of idea? He said, under the sun. Everything under the sun. There's only this horizontal, there's not really the vertical, and so they don't think about uh eternity, they don't think about anything beyond this normal under-the-sun living And friend, if that's the way people live, no wonder there's so much depression in the world. There's so much heartache And there's people that live and have they have no fulfillment. They have no real meaning. Now Peter is saying, look, as a Christian, we don't have that worldview. That's not the way we see the world. We don't see the world as a closed system. We don't see the world as this is the only thing that matters, the now, everything is judged in light of now. No, we have an eternal worldview. And that's why Peter says, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, because this world, again, we're just passing through it. There is something beyond all of this, something much greater than this world right now. And that is the heavenly hope that we all have, this living hope that Peter talks about To know that we have a home in heaven and how glorious and how wonderful heaven is going to be for the child of God. And so Peter says, dearly beloved, notice he uses the word beloved there. Eight times he uses this word in the two letters that he writes. He wants these believers to know that they are the objects of God's love. And he's also urging them to reciprocate that love through obedience He said that believers were not only blood, but strangers and pilgrims. Again, why? Because our citizenship isn't here. Our citizenship is in heaven. That's where we're we're are we going towards. That is our home. Write down Philippians 3. 20. For our conversation, that's the Greek word, polis, citizenship, for our citizenship is in heaven. From whence we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. That's our citizenship. It's heaven The old time preacher spoke of often this life as a pilgrimage. Again, we don't hear this much Vance Habner once said this. He said, We are not citizens of earth going to heaven. We are citizens of heaven passing through this earth. And so we don't love the world. We don't love the things of this world. We hold loosely to the things of this world because our citizenship is in heaven. It is such a great Now look at the word strangers there. This word literally means alongside the house. It refers to someone living as a foreigner in a strange land. And again, of course the word the term pilgrims It refers to a visitor making a brief stay, a sojourner passing through a country. And again, I look at this, I see this is a major motif in the scripture. You look at through the Old Testament. We see in Genesis 47 when Pharaoh asked the patriarch Jacob, he asked him how old he was, and Jacob said, This the days are the years of my pilgrimage. are one hundred and thirty years. The psalmist said in Psalm 119, I am a stranger, that is, I am a pilgrim on the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me. In other words, he's saying, Lord, your word is a map And your commandments are my chart and my guide. This is how I make it through, because I'm a pilgrim in this earth. This is why he loved the Word of God so much. You know that you're a pilgrim, and this is your map right here You've got to follow the guide if you're going to make it through this world. The writer of Hebrews said this. He said, by faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place Which he would receive as an inheritance, and he went out not knowing whither he was going. But it goes on to say, By faith he dwelt in the land of promise as a foreigner in a foreign country, dwelling in tents with Isaac. who is heirs of the same promise, for he waited for the city whose foundations, whose builder and maker is God. He went on to say, these all died in faith, not having received the promise, but seeing them afar off. And they confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims in the land. Many of our forefathers as believers lived in this world as pilgrims. And they had their heart and their mind set on that heavenly city, Jerusalem, that place that God has made for us. And so being a pilgrim is really a mindset, a worldview. That I I'm I'm in this world. I don't hate the world. I mean as far as the people in it, I love them, and I want to make this a better place having been here, but it's not my home. And the things that I have, that's all temporary. It's not permanent. And what I do have, it belongs to God anyway. But friend, my real home is in heaven. And I'm journeying toward that wonderful celestial place that is my focus. You know, and again, we don't think like this I I think today the way maybe our forefathers did And maybe one of the reasons for that is modern medicine. Now, let me be clear here. I thank God for modern medicine. Especially now when I'm battling a cold, you know. Thank God for all the medicines we have. Thank God for all the creativity that God has given me and his common grace. to subdue the curse of the earth and the diseases and all that. Thank God for these things. They're blessings from the Lord. But you know, because of that, people are living longer. But you know years ago, years and years ago, when people didn't have these blessings, they were looking at death Almost every year of their life, someone in their family was dying. And so this idea of death and this world as being temporary was more fixed on their mind. Because they didn't have these blessings that we have today. I read about the Puritan theologian John Owen. He lost ten of his eleven children before they reached adulthood. Imagine that. He lost ten of eleven. And his other daughter died as a young woman. And so Many of our forefathers in that time, they were looking at death all the time. And so it was much easier then to focus on heaven and the glories of heaven and knowing that this world is just a temporary place. But we have to realize this, that, you know, heaven is not the place of the dying. Heaven is the place of the living. This place is the place of the dying. Howard Hendrick said it like this: most people think that they are in the land of the living, headed towards the land of the dead. But the truth is, we're in the land of the dying, headed towards the land of the living. And that's so very true. And so it's really a matter of the way we think. And so if you're going to be a pilgrim, first of all, there must be a worldview that we must adopt. But here's the second thing. To live like a pilgrim, there is a worldview to adopt. But here's number two. To live like a pilgrim, there is a war to fight. There's a war that we must fight. Now look again in 1 Peter 2, verse 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. And so the word abstain here Literally means to hold away from. It's a present tense verb. Keep on continuing to abstain. This is a daily battle. that we have as Christians. This is a middle voice verb simply meaning that it's something that we must do ourselves. God calls upon us to abstain. This is our responsibility. So literally we could say it like this, to hold oneself back constantly from The lusts and the things of this world. And again, it's a daily, continual waging of war This is not a single battle. You don't fight this battle one time, get victory over it, and that's it. No, this is a military campaign. It is a lifelong struggle. That we fight against the fleshly lusts, which if we yield to will enslave us, and if we continue to yield to those things, it will ultimately destroy us. As believers. The phrase fleshly lust, this refers to strong cravings of our sin nature. Now, even though we have been transformed in Christ, we still remain in this spiritual battle. We still have to fight against the desires that would lead to sin. This sin nature we still have in us with the God that when we got saved, that sin nature left us, but it didn't. We still have it, and we still have to fight against it. And there's this inner pool constantly, and what we need is every day to abstain from these things, to constantly yield to the Lord To walk with him. But I want to tell you, dear friend, even though you walk with the Lord for years and years, the battle isn't over. The battle will not be over. until we get to heaven. George Mueller, you probably heard that name, a great man, a great man of prayer. He said this. He said, as an old man walking with God for years, this is what he prayed. Lord, don't let me become a wicked old man. You think, man, how could George Mueller pray that, this man who spent hours on his knees? Because he understood the propensity of his heart towards sin. It's true in all of us. Our old nature is not eradicated. It does not grow weaker as we grow older. It is still there. And we are in this war for the rest of our life And when we yield to the sins of the flesh, Galatians 5 talks about it, the um the product of yielding to the flesh is immorality, impurity, all types of things that are listed there. But in contrast We are to long for, remember Peter told us we're to long for the Word of God. We're to offer spiritual sacrifices unto the Lord. We saw that last time in 1 Peter chapter 2 That is to be the way that we live. The believer is to stay away from the strong cravings of a sin nature and to constantly wage war against the flesh. That's constantly waging war against us. Now I've said this before. The battle, it's a long battle, but you know where the battle is? It's all in the mind. It starts in your mind. That's where the battleground is And I said this before, and you'll hear me say it many times more. If you don't win the battle on the inside, if you don't win the battle in your thoughts and desires, then friend, you're going to lose. You've lost that battle It's only a matter of time before it's revealed, but it's there in the mind. Just write this verse down, 2 Corinthians 10, verses 4 and 5. I want to tell you, as a young believer, I memorize this verse Because I was taught that, you know, when temptation comes, then you need to have some verses of scripture ready. And so as a younger believer, I memorized this one passage of scripture, 2 Corinthians 10, 4 and 5. Listen to what it says. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ And you know the imagery that Paul's talking about here? That the mind is like an ancient city. You know a city back in Paul's day had a wall around it? And when the enemy wanted to take over that city, the city gates and doors were locked. The enemy would take ladders and throw up against the wall. And the enemy soldiers would try to come over those ladders into the city, open up the gates, let the enemy army in. And if you were a soldier standing on top of that wall and you saw a ladder come up against the wall, what would you do? You would cast that ladder down. You wouldn't let that enemy soldier get inside. This was the constant warfare that was going on. And this is the imagery Paul's using. An ancient city has a wall around it, and Satan is constantly trying to get inside of our mind. And how does he do that with lies, with sinful thoughts? We don't let those things stay in our mind. We cast them down. And then we bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the idea here. You're casting down these things. You don't let ungodly thoughts and desires reside in your heart, but you cast them down and you replace that with the word of God. We're bringing our thoughts into captivity. That's this whole idea here. And so, you know, a lot of times we hear people say, well, you know, the the word today that people use is addiction. There's all kinds of addictions. I have this addiction. I have this addiction Well, let me give you the biblical word. It's called being a slave. And Paul talks about it in Romans 6. And this is the principle that he gives in Romans 6. He says, you are a slave to Whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. And you know, when before you were saved, you were a slave to sin, but now that you're a Christian, you're to be a slave to righteousness. But now it's still possible as a Christian for you to be a slave to sin. You know how? If you yield yourself to sin, you're going to be a slave to sin. But you have the power to say no You have the Holy Spirit of God living inside of you, and you have been given the power to be a servant not of sin but of righteousness. Literally a slave to righteousness. You understand, as a Christian, you have the power to say no to sin? And to yield yourself to Christ and the righteousness. That's the whole idea. If you want to win this battle against lust and things, we have to constantly uh uh uh yield ourselves to christ this has to be something that we do purposefully every day we yield ourselves to christ we yield our mind to righteousness You just write down Romans six, verse sixteen to eighteen. He says, But God be thanked that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered to you Being then made free from sin, you became the servants of righteousness. So we now have this power to say no to sin. And to say yes to righteousness and Christ, you are to be a slave to righteousness. You have that power. Now, sometimes I hear believers say, well, you know, I'm bringing my sin to God. There's nowhere in the Bible that says as a Christian you're to do that. We already Jesus already took our sins on the cross, right? He already bore all of our sins on the cross. So you say, I'm struggling with sin, I'm gonna bring it to God. Look, you don't need to do that. You know what you need to do? Just stop doing it Just don't do it. Because you have the power to say no. Let me read you what Martin Lloyd-Jones said. He said, I do not know of a single scripture, and I speak advisedly. Which tells me to take my sin, the particular thing that gets me down to God in prayer, and ask him to deliver me from it, and then trust in faith that he will. Now the teaching is also often put like this. You must say to the man who is constantly defeated by a particular sin, I think your only hope is to take it to Christ, and Christ will take it from you. But what does the scripture say? To the man who finds himself constantly guilty of stealing, to such a man who sees something he likes and takes it? What does the scripture say? Let him that stole steal no more. Just that. Just stop doing it. And he goes on to mention all these other things. You have the power, and it's Satan who tells you that you don't, but you have the power to simply say no. I'm going to yield myself consciously, purposefully, continually, daily, diligently. I yield my mind, every part of me, to Christ. I'm going to be a slave not to sin, but I'm going to be a slave to righteousness. And friend, if you make that decision and do it, then God gives you that strength to do it. This is what Romans 6 says when it says, reckon yourselves dead to sin. and alive unto Christ and righteousness. So if you're going to be a pilgrim There is a worldview that you must adopt. There is a war to fight. But let me give you the third thing. If we're going to live like pilgrims, there is a walk to maintain. A walk to maintain. Now look again in 1 Peter chapter 2, look at verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Now the word conversation is talking about way of life or lifestyle. And it points to the overall flavor of our life. We're to have a conversation that is honest among the Gentiles. That is, they see our good deeds. Now, when the word Gentiles is used here, it's the Greek word ethnos. Which is where we get our English word ethnic from. But really, it's a general reference, and it's used many times in the New Testament to speak about those who don't know the Lord, those who are lost. So here Peter is talking about the lost world. And what he's saying is this if you're a Christian, you know the Lord, the lost should be able to see a pattern. A consistent pattern of good behavior in the life of a Christian. They should see that. Look at the word behold in verse number 12, that which they shall behold. That is, they observe. This word occurs only here and in chapter 3, verse 2 here in 1 Peter. And it has the idea of a long-term observation, reflection. How others see you, they watch you, they watch how you live, they watch how you treat your family They watch uh what uh things that you do, how you live. Do you know as Christians, you know, do you realize all your neighbors are watching you? Some of them saw you get into the car tonight, dressed up. And they know where you're going. They know you're going to church. They see you on Sunday morning. They watch your lifestyle. They watch everything that you do. They watch everything about you. And what the world should see in us is a pattern of good godly behavior. That's what Peter's talking about here. Missionaries who have gone to primitive cultures tell of how the natives would often come and stand and look in their open windows, just watching. These Christians watching everything they did. Now, we live here in America and people don't come into our windows and watch things, at least I don't think they do. But they're watching us. They're looking at our life. And Peter says, the world, when they had looks at you, they should see your good works. And what does it accomplish? What does it accomplish when the ungodly world, those who don't know Christ, look at our life and they see godly behavior and good works? Well, Peter says, first of all, it refutes slanderous accusations Again, look what he says in verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God on the day of visitation. This will refute whatever slanderous words are used against Christians. And did you know that? That's what the world loves to do. They love to slander Christianity. There's people out there. They're constantly looking for reasons to slander the church or to slander Christianity. And in Peter's day, that was especially true. In the city of Rome, where Nero hated Christianity, he hated Christians. There was all kinds of insults that were heaped, verbal insults and contempt used against the Christians In the first, second, and third centuries especially, and we again see that today. Did you know in the second century there was a man by the name of Justin Martyr? He was a man who at first didn't believe in God and then uh he began to study Bible prophecy and things began to happen and he was converted And he was so convinced of Christianity that he lived a godly, dedicated life, and he ended up dying as a martyr. That's why we call him Justin Martyr. But Justin Martyr was a very brilliant man, and he wrote A book in the second century called Apologia, which is the word that simply means a defense. And he was going to give it to the Emperor Pius. Because he was defending Christianity against these slanderous accusations that were being made. For example, did you know that in the second century it was said that Christians were a seditious group they were trying to upset the authority of the Roman Empire. That was one of the lies that went against them. Also they accused Christians of being cannibals. It was rumored that they would eat someone's body and drink someone's blood. That's because they didn't understand the Lord's Supper. And so there were these lies that were being said And basically, what Justin Martyr did in this book was he handled all of these accusations and he showed, he wrote how that they were not true. And at one point, he said to the emperor, he said, look at Christians, look at their life, and you'll see that they are the best citizens in Rome. There's no plot to try to overthrow your political system or structures. And they also call Christians atheists. You know why they call them atheists? Not because they didn't believe in Jesus. They believed in Jesus as the only Lord. They would not worship the other gods of Rome. So therefore they were called atheists because they didn't believe in the other gods of Rome. They only said that Jesus is Lord, not Caesar, but Jesus. And he was the only God. But again, Justin Martyr said, if you look at the lives of Christians, what you'll see are model citizens. Christians who practice civil obedience. He said we pay our taxes. He said we drive our carriage to speed limit. I'm not exactly sure he said that. But he was basically saying we live as Christians, we live good lives, obeying all the laws. And you know what? That was a persuasive argument. There is no argument against a godly life. And this is what Peter is saying here. When the world sees our lies, they see good and godly behavior, it refutes all of the evil speaking. But here's the second thing. It leads others to salvation. Look again in verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. What does Peter mean when he says the day of visitation? Now, this phrase is used in the Old Testament to speak about times when God would visit people either to judge or to bless. And we see this used when God visited the nation of Israel. Isaiah 10. 3 says he visited them that he would judge them for their sin. But then there were times when God would visit a person or a household to bless them. Now in the New Testament, whenever this word is used, it's used to speak about God's salvation. When the Lord visited someone. He was bringing salvation. And so this is how Peter's using it here. He's saying basically there's going to come a time when those who don't know the Lord are watching your godly life. And that life will have an impact. And one day, in the day of visitation, when they get saved, you know what they're going to do? They're going to glorify God. They're going to remember your life And how instrumental your life was in helping them to convince them that the gospel was really true. Let me tell you this story as we close. This was during World War II. There were some missionaries named Herb and Ruth Klingon. I think I'm pronouncing that right, Klingin. And they and their young son spent three years in a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines. And in his diary, Herb recorded that their captors murdered tortured and starved to death many of their fellow prisoners. In fact, there was one camp commandant named Konishi. He was hated, he was feared more than all the others. And Herb writes, Kenishi found an inventive way to abuse us even more. He increased, he wrote on this, he went on to say this, he increased the food ration, but gave us unhusked rice. Eating the rice with its razor-sharp outer shell would cause intestinal bleeding that would kill us in ours. Then he said this, we had no tools to remove the husk. And doing the job manually by pounding the grain and rolling it with a heavy stick consumed more calories than the rice would supply. So it was a death sentence for all internees, he wrote. Before death, before he and his wife and his son died. General Douglas MacArthur, you know the history, went there to the Philippines and he liberated those people from captivity. That very last day, Herb says, Kenishi had planned to gun down all of the remaining prisoners just before. I mean he was planning to do that, but before that happened, MacArthur liberated them. And then years later, Herb and Ruth learned that Kanishi had been found working as a groundskeeper at a Manila golf course. He was put on trial for war crimes, and he was hanged. Before his execution, he professed conversion to Christianity. And this is what he said. He was deeply affected by the testimony of Christian missionaries that he persecuted And God graciously visited Kanishi with salvation. That man who one time was a torturer, he saw the godly behavior of missionaries. That he once persecuted, and he said it was their lives that convinced him that the gospel was true. And he ultimately professed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he glorified God. Before he died over the lives of those Christians. And that's what Peter is saying here. When you live a godly life. When people finally come to know Christ, they will glorify God in the day of visitation. So, just in summary, then what is Peter telling us if you want to live like a pilgrim? There's a warfare, or excuse me, a worldview you have to adopt. You have to see yourself as a pilgrim in this world. There's a war that you have to fight every day. There is a walk that you must maintain This is God's calling to you to be radical, a radical way of life, to live as pilgrims in this world. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, I pray that you would help us to put into practice these things, Lord. May we see ourselves as pilgrims. May we really understand and know that this world is just temporary. We have an eternal home. All of us one day will go to that place that you're preparing for us. And Lord, we're just passing through this world. Help us, Lord, to maintain this perspective. Because, Lord, we know that we're the most useful in this world when we think most about the next world. And help us, Lord, to fight this war, this war against lusts and the sins of this world, that we we might maintain a godly walk before the world and glorify you. In your name in the day of visitation. Lord, let this be our testimony. Give us the strength to do these things. We pray in Jesus' precious, wonderful name. Amen.