Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to 2 Timothy as we continue our study in 2 Timothy here on Sunday nights? And I want you to go to chapter 2 and look at verse number 14. We're going to pick up there. And we'll be looking at chapter 2, verse 14, on down to uh verse 19. And tonight I want to talk about the use and the misuse of the Bible. Look at verse 14. Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers. Study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Now people use the Bible in all sorts of weird ways. I'm sure you've heard this story about a hundred times about the guy who was trying to find guidance and he wanted to use his Bible, so he he closed his eyes, he opened it at random, and then he put his finger down and it said, You just went out and hung himself. Look, I know you know this joke, I want a courtesy laugh out of everybody here tonight. Well, and uh he thought well that can't be right, so he tried again and then he put his finger down in the Bible and it said, Go and do thou likewise. And again he knew there had to be some mistake, so he tried one more time and this time when he put his finger down it says, What thou doest do quickly Thank you for that laugh. It can be dangerous to use the Bible in the wrong way. And we chuckle about that story, uh, and and it is funny, but really w the the bottom line is it's really not a laughing matter when we see people using the Bible in an improper way. In 2 Timothy 2, verse 14, Paul tells Timothy, he gives him a solemn charge, actually, here, to in the presence of the Lord. Where he says that they that misuse the Bible, it will lead to their ruin. Again in verse number 14 of these things, put them in remembrance. Charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit. The word where it it's talking about or to no profit, but it also can let me continue on here, but to the subverting of the hearers. The word subverting there is trophy. And it means ultimate spiritual ruin. And that is what Paul is talking about And he names two men here in this passage, Hymeneus and Philetus, who had gone astray from the truth, upsetting the faith of some, Paul says. With their misuse of the Bible. And so Paul is telling us here in this passage that while the misuse of the Bible can lead to ruin, it can lead to ungodliness, the proper use of scripture, however can lead to godliness and growth, spiritual growth. And so I want us to consider that just those two thoughts here tonight from this passage. um of Scripture. First of all, the misuse of the Bible leads to ungodliness. Look at verse number sixteen. But shun profane and vain babblings, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. When it says it'll lead to further ungodliness, you could literally translate that they will make you you uh they will make you make make progress, further progress in ungodliness. Now the false teachers in Ephesus claimed that their teaching would help to move them ahead. You know, if you listen to us, you're going to make real progress in the spiritual life. That's what all false teachers claim. And Paul responds to this by saying, yeah, you'll make progress all right, but it'll be progress in the wrong direction. It'll be progress in ungodliness. And to really drive home his point and to put fear into the hearts of the reader, he piles up some frightening words. Here in this passage. And verse number 14, where it he says to where it says, strive about words. Again, of these things, put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord, that they strive not about words to no prophet. That where it says strive not uh about words, that is actually one word in the Greek. It's kind of a compound word, logo, and A macho, macheo. Logo, macheo. Of course logo means words. Macheo is where we get the word macho. You know, this is someone who always wants to argue, always wants to quarrel. You know, macho words. Um, you know, always have to prove your point, you always have to be right. False teachers try to argue you into their way of thinking. And Paul says it's to no profit. That is, their words are useless, they're pointless, and it leads to the subverting or the catastrophe spiritually for some who listen and are influenced by that false teaching. And the Greek word again has the basic idea of over being overturned, overthrown, leading to spiritual ruin here. And notice verse number sixteen where it says, But sh shun profane and vain babblings. Why? For they will increase more unto more ungodliness. Their teaching, which comes from the misuse of the Bible. will increase ungodliness. And then drop down to verse 17. And their word will eat as does a canker. The word canker here is a Greek word, gogrena. It's where we get the word gangrene. Gangrene. Their words will spread like gangrene. In the ancient world this word was used to talk about cancer. It was used to talk about gangrene that both of which would s spread rapidly and are deadly. Even in our modern world, gangrene is one of the worst dangers that people can have. Because it spreads so quickly. If it's not treated promptly and carefully, it can lead to amputation or death. False religion and satanic lies spread fat That's Paul's whole point here. They spread much faster than the truth. Someone said that a lie runs around the world while the truth is tying its shoes. Because of the sinful heart of men is more ready to receive lies. It's more ready to receive falsehood than it is to receive the truth. And notice verse 18 here, who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is passed already and overthrown the faith of some. And so there are some who have already erred, which means to miss the mark. They've wandered away from the truth, and they are overthrowing the faith of some. So the improper use of the Bible is not a harmless activity. It can destroy lives. That's why James warns us in James 3. 1, you know, don't be so hasty to be a teacher of the word, knowing that we are going to incur a much stricter judgment. On the day of judgment, because I teach the word, I handle the word, I'm going to be judged more severely than anyone who doesn't Because what I'm handling here are the very words of God. And I have to be very careful that I rightly divide, and we'll talk about that. That I preach it the way the Bible says. I don't want to be guilty of putting words in God's mouth. Or teaching something that is not according to the scripture. And so Paul warns Timothy of these things. Put them in remembrance, Paul says, charging them before the Lord. A very serious issue. Now, Paul is going to give us here three ways that people can misuse the Bible. Three ways. Here's the first one. Number one, using the Bible for knowledge without obedience. Using the Bible for knowledge without obedience, we see a hint of this in verse number 14, where they're striving about words to know profit. A notorious characteristic of false teachers in Ephesus was how they like to display their knowledge, knowledge on superficial matters. Knowledge that did not lead to greater godliness. They were proud of being right on matters. And they loved to display their theological uh superiority so so so so called to some of the people that were there in the church. But is that the goal of learning God's Word? Is that why we learn God's word so we can be knowledgeable, so we can be smart, so you know we can have letters after our name and so on. Is that the reason? In 1 Timothy 1 5, Paul said the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith. Anytime you use the Bible to grow in knowledge Apart from godliness, you're headed for spiritual trouble. When you use the Bible just for knowledge without any intention or idea of applying that truth to your life, Then you're misusing the scripture. Why? Because Satan will use your spiritual pride and your supposed knowledge to bring you and others to destruction. Now this was a problem that Paul addressed in another place in 1 Corinthians. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 8 real quick. Let me give you illustration of this. 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And Paul is dealing with an issue in the Corinthian church of liberty. You remember that some of the Christians there in the church at Crom believed that it was okay for them to go to buy meat at the market and eat it. And there were other weaker brethren, we could call them, they had a weaker conscience, that did not think that going to the meat market and buying meat sacrificed to idols, that was the issue, the meat was sacrificed to idols, they didn't think that that was right. Perhaps they've been saved recently out of a pagan background, and for them to go and do that sort of thing would hurt their conscience. And Paul is always warning believers, don't ever go against your conscience. Always obey your conscience. You don't ever want to get into the pattern of ignoring your conscience. Why? Because that could lead to spiritual destruction. However, there were some in the church of Corinth that boasted about their knowledge. They boasted about their liberty. And they would quote slogans, all things are lawful for me. You know, and Paul would say, Yeah, but all things are not expedient. And another slogan they had is we have knowledge. We have knowledge. And that was kind of a arrogant thing to say. And so they would continue to eat the meat, even though it was uh causing other believers to stumble. And they would just say, Oh, you know, they just need to grow. We have knowledge. They don't know. They think that there's something behind all of those idols. We know that there's only one God. We know that that there the Bible talks about that. Only one God. All the others are no gods We have knowledge. And Paul says, well, yeah, we know. Look at verse 1. Now, as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge does what? Plus, but charity edifies. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. Paul's taking a shot here at those that are so proud of their knowledge. You think you know it all? Look at verse 3. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. And so, you know, uh he said, look at verse 4. And as concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice on idols, We know that an an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. But though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is one God the Father of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, we by him. Yeah, Paul says, yeah, yeah, we know that. Yeah, I get it. Good that you understand the Shema. It's good that you understand there is only one God. Yeah, I know that. You know that. However, look at verse 7. However, there's not in every man that knowledge. For some, with conscience of the idol, unto this hour, eat it as a thing offered to an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. And so what Paul says to these believers here is, look, yeah, you've got your knowledge, but if that's all you boast about, and you don't apply what you've learned, then your knowledge is causing others to go asham. Because what was what was the proper response for those who had knowledge to love their brother enough to limit their liberty so as not in any way to cause them to violate their conscience and make them go astray or become spiritually shipwrecked? You see, the proper application of learning the Word of God is love. We apply it and love others. So what did you have all this knowledge? If it doesn't translate into your actions and your attitudes and love for others, then it means nothing. It is no Good. And this is what Paul is saying to these believers here. Yeah, you have knowledge, but with this knowledge, you are hurting your other, your brother in Christ. And that's why Paul said, look, if eating meat causes my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world stands You know, if if eating meat causes any of my brethren to be offended, Paul said, I'll become a vegetarian. And that's what he was saying. I I will eat no meat. If I know that it'll cause my brother to stumble. You see, the right application of knowledge of God's Word is love. We love others. Using the Bible for knowledge without obedience is a misuse of the Bible. But here's number another one Paul mentions. Using the Bible for worldly ends. Look at verse 16. But shun profane and vain babblings, for they will increase more unto more ungodliness. The word profane here is a world that means worldly. In 1 Timothy 6. 20, he used the same phrase in reference to the opposing arguments of what is falsely called knowledge. And he may be talking about a different aspect of wrangling about words, but the word profane or whirly means permitted to be trod underfoot, hence profane, unhallowed. And so it has the nuance of trafficking lately in the things of God or using God and the Bible for worldly gain. Uh that's out there a lot. You know, you use the Bible to for your own benefit. This is rampant in American Christianity. This health, wealth, and prosperity gospel is the most blatant forms of this. But you also go to Christian bookstores, they're flooded with these self-help books with that that are have an approach from the Bible. They they give you a biblical perspective on how you can help yourself to get what you want in life rather than pleasing God, rather than growing in your sanctification, rather than growing in godliness. Here are some principles from the Bible so you can get what you want. You can have all the things that your heart desires. And those self-help books is really just using the Bible for worldly success. And this kind of false teaching is always popular. That's what spreads like gangrene. Because people love this sort of thing. It appeals to the flesh. And that's what Why people like this who teach these kind of things have such a big following. Some of the largest churches in America use the Bible to help people succeed in their worldly selfish goals. And by the way, don't judge a church by how big it is, but rather how sound is the teaching from the Word of God? And does it produce genuine godliness? And people who buy into this type of false teaching will often testify about how they have been helped. But anytime people are helped out of their troubles without learning to depend more upon God And more to submit more to the Lordship of Christ, that help is a superficial and temporary help Any help that comes from God teaches us to trust in Him more and to lean on Him more. And so Paul says, look, shun this. Shun this kind of teaching. Using the Bible for knowledge without obedience, using the Bible for worldly ends. But here's another way we sometimes misuse the Bible. Using the Bible to teach half-truths as truth. Look at verse 18. Talking about Hymeneus and Saletus, who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already and overthrow the faith of some. These men were not totally wrong. They were teaching a half-truth as if it were the whole truth. And this is Satan's method of using a Bible. They were teaching that the resurrection had already taken place. Well, yeah. And by the way, they could use some of Paul's letters to back up some of their views. Paul wrote often of the fact that Christ had risen from the dead and that we are risen with him, the Bible says. But he also taught that there was a future resurrection coming one day, a resurrection of the body, a truth which they denied. That in Greek philosophy was very unpopular because Greeks believed that the body was bad and the spirit was good. So the resurrection that these guys were talking about was a spiritual resurrection, not a physical one. Yeah, the resurrection had passed. Jesus had resurrected, but now and they also said the spiritual resurrection had also taken place. It's already done, it's already in the past. And they were teaching half-truths if it were the whole truth And again, they were subverting the faith of some. We know that this is a big deal because the Apostle Paul uh showed how important the truth of the resurrection was in 1 Corinthians 15, right? This is foundational to the Christian faith. So for them to blur this important doctrine was destructive. But that's always how false teachers entice people. They even have verses to back up their errors. They can show you from the Bible, quote unquote, that you know what they're saying is true, and they always prey on untaught people, people that are looking for something more, rather than being content in what God has done and is doing in your life. Let me just say this, you know, there's no quick fix spiritually for people. You know, sanctification is a lifelong process of walking with the Lord, learning the word, applying the truth, battling against sin. You know, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. It's a constant battle. You're not going to get some divine zap from heaven and know everything and be totally holy. Or get a second blessing. You know what the second blessing is? Understanding everything you got in the first blessing. And that takes a long time to do that. That's spiritual growth. But this is what false teachers do. They they uh they they they give you as if you're giving you the truth, but then they slip in error. If someone handed you a three a three dollar bill with a picture of Frank Sinakra on it, it wouldn't fool you, would it? When when the when people counterfeit money, it looks exactly like money. And when false teachers teach spiritual truth, it looks like it is straight from the Bible. But it's half-truth Being taught as the whole truth. There are several tests of sound doctrine that you need to keep in mind. First of all, does it honor God and exalt Jesus Christ as Savior? Sound doctrine always lifts God up. It always exalts the majesty and the holiness of God. It always exalts Jesus Christ as truly God and truly man, the Son of God. It never mischaracterizes Jesus. Number two, does it humble proud fallen sinners? Sound doctrine always brings sinners to the foot of the cross where they come to their end of their own pride and self-sufficiency. and find their source of satisfaction in the cross in Christ. Does it promote holiness? Sound doctrine always results in obedience to the word of God and progress in holy living. It leads to a genuine love for God. It leads to a genuine love for other people. That's what sound doctrine does. So be careful on how you use the Bible. Now, the rest of these verses here, Paul's going to talk about the proper use of the Bible. The misuse of the Bible, using the Bible for knowledge without obedience, using the Bible for worldly ends, using the Bible to teach half-truths. But here's the second part of the sermon, and that is this. The meaningful use of the Bible leads to godliness. It leads to godliness, and this is how we want to approach Scripture. The Bible wasn't written to satisfy our curiosity about the end times or fill our head with Facts, it was given to help us grow in godliness. Look at verse 15. Study To show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth This is such an important verse. What I want you to see from this is the proper manner of study. The verse tells us the manner in which we are to approach the Bible. Study is a spude. And it means to exert oneself, to endeavor, to give diligence. The New American Standard translates this, be diligent. The ESB translates it, do your best. And this word is an imperative in the Greek to command. Paul's commanding Timothy Be diligent. When it comes to the study of Scripture, when it comes to the Word of God, be diligent. And that applies to all of us as well. So many Christians are haphazard, lazy rather than diligent in their approach to God's Word. Do you have a systematic, diligent way in which you are reading the Word of God, studying God's word, and applying it to your own life? That's what God would require of all of us. And so um part of this is just motivation. We you know, people lack motivation. That's the key to learning. You ever been on an airplane and watch the passengers as the stewardess goes through, you know, the getting, you know, all the rules about you know what would happen in an emergency, you know. You know, a breathing apparatus will drop out and you know you have this thing in the front, you know, get it out and read it, and they go through all this and everyone there is there yawning, going, When are we going to take off? They're not motivated to learn any of that. But you'd let the pilot go over the speaker when they're mid-flight and say, ladies and gentlemen, we have a t terrible emergency, a crisis. We're going to have to make an emergency landing. Then let her give the instructions and see how well they listen. The issue is motivation. You need to have the proper motivation for learning. And uh what is the motivation for us to know that someday I will have to stand before God. I'm studying in order to be approved unto God. I know that one day I'll have to answer to the Lord. For the way that I study God's Word, and I need to realize that I live in the presence of God, and one day I will have to give an account to Him. So I have to be diligent to search out what the Scripture says. What it says about God, what it says about godly living, how I can teach that to others, God commands us to be still to be diligent. And again, this would be the second thing, the proper manner but the proper motive to show thyself approved unto God. Now the word approve is documus. It's the Greek word for approved. It means tested and found to be qualified. This was a word that was used in the ancient days. Um to talk about money that was not counterfeit. They uh in the ancient world there was no banking system as we see it today. When they made coins, they would melt precious metals, pour them into molds And then um they would smooth out the edge of the coin um when, you know, as it was warming, as it was getting colder. Um but some who were less than honest would rather than smooth out the edge of the coin they would shave it off so that the weight of the coin was less than what it said. And they would keep that metal and they would add up and they would basically be stealing. If a coin was found to be genuine, it earned the name Documents. Tested and found to be true. Tested and found to be qualified. This is the word that Paul uses here. We must study diligently that we may get the approval of God upon our life. But then I want you to see not only the proper manner and the proper motive, but then the proper method. Notice what it says, rightly dividing the word of truth. Now rightly dividing is literally in the Greek to cut it straight. Cut it straight. Now remember Paul is a tent maker, so he's using a tent maker's term here. He made tents out of goatskins. So when it came time to make the 10, he had to cut the highs properly so they would fit together properly. And this is the word here. Cut it straight. Cut it properly. And he's using this to refer to the Word of God, rightly handling the Word of truth. We have to cut it straight. That means we have to correctly interpret the scriptures. Simply every book of scripture has a message, a God-intended message that was intended to be understood Sometimes I hear people make a pious statement, Oh the Bible is so deep, I could never hope to understand it. Well then why does it why use it If you can't get to the right meaning of it, that's just an excuse for not, you know, wanting to use it. You don't want to use it because you don't want to be under the authority of it. Oh, we could never really this is what liberals say, oh we could never really come to the real bottom of what God means Really? Well, that's why he gave us the Bible. He gave us scripture so that we could understand. And the Bible is clear. It's not unclear. It's not hard to understand if you put a little effort into it. Now there are some passages that are harder than others. But It's not just one giant riddle, one mystical ancient book that you could never really fully understand. If that were true, it wouldn't do us any good whatsoever. God gives you teachers. He gives you the Holy Spirit. He gives you a mind and an intellect and logic so that you can use that as you study God's word. And there are rules to Interpreting the Bible. This is a branch of study. Okay, you're going to feel like you're in my seminary class now. I'm going to break off here into lecturing. No, I'm just kidding. But it's the word hermeneutics. You say hermeneu, what? Hermeneutics. This was uh this was the word is a Greek word. It came out of the Greek world. In Greek mythology, uh Hermenes was the method. that Zeus gave. He was responsible to interpret correctly and give the exact message that he so that idea there was kind of taken into this whole idea of hermeneutics. Hermeneutics is really the branch of study that is just simply the science of interpretation. It's the principles of interpretation. And they're very important for us to understand. I mean, we can't just bring our own interpretation into the Bible. We have to use the right method of interpreting Scripture so that we don't come up with a meaning that God never intended. And beloved, this happens all the time. This happens all the time. And a lot of preaching is just preachers saying, you know, hey, I got a good idea for a sermon. There's got to be a verse in here where I can use to back up my idea. Oh, here it is. Here's one. Here's a good one What they do is they take the verse out of context and they make that verse say something that God never intended for it to say, and that person has to appear before God one day. I don't ever want to have to be judged severely by God because I put words into God's mouth. Obviously it's preachers and teachers we grow. And there's been times where I've had to come back and say, hey, you know what? I was wrong on this. Um I I had to change my understanding because this is not what it really means here. You know, careful Bible study has ruined some of my best sermons. But I don't wanna I don't wanna say anything that the Bible doesn't say. So let me give you just a few quick principles here to look out for when you're interpreting the Bible. There's the principle of clarity. And what is that? That is, the find a clear meaning. There is one intended meaning to that original audience. That is what you are after. You know, what did it mean to the people that it was written to? And then once you find out what that meaning is, then you can apply it to your own life. What did it mean to them? And then therefore what does it mean now? And then what does it mean to me personally? But you have to get the understanding that there is one clear interpretation that was intended When the writer, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, wrote down those words. That's what God intended to communicate. That's what you are after. The number two is the principle of context. Context refers to that which goes before it, that which goes after it. Whenever you study a verse of the Bible, you always want to look at the whole context, the whole context of the whole book. You know, who wrote it and and why did he write it? And and you know, you need to get that that entire paragraph context, book context It's so very important that we do that. Look at what is before that verse. Look at what is after that verse. Look at around the surrounding material around that one text that you are talking about. You know, I don't really have any shows that I watch regularly. In fact, I don't have time to watch a lot of stuff to be honest with you. But I remember years ago there was this one show that I kind of got into for a little time. It was called Man vs. Wild. Anybody ever see that? A guy named Bear Grill. What a name for a guy in the wild. Bear Grill. You know. If that's the way you pronounce his last name. But But he would be dropped off in the most difficult places in the world, on the most difficult terrain on earth, and he would have just the clothes on his back, a canteen of water, a knife. And he would show you how to get out of that, how to how to survive in there. And um I always had this profound thought of I would die Wouldn't be able to do it. But I was fascinated by this guy. I could drop him off anywhere, give him a knife, give him a canteen, and you know, he he figures his way out. I remember on one particular show he was in the middle of the Everglades. He c he was looking in, I was trying to get a bearing on where he was and which way he should go. So you know what he did? He climbed up the tallest tree he could find, got all the way up there, was able to look out and look around. And then figure out which direction he was supposed to go. Because, you know, he got the context of the area. He looked behind him, he looked before him, he looked around him. And with that, he understood exactly where he was. Well, that's kind of an illustration of the principle of context. Now there are several kinds of context. There's a literary context. You know, why does this particular passage in this part of the book and what kind of literature is it is this Is this an epistle? Is this uh poetry? Old Testament Hebrew parallelism? Is it narrative? You know, you have to consider all of those things, the type of genre of scripture that it is And then, you know, again, why it has this certain place in the book. So you want to look at the literary literary context, the historical context. What at what point in history is this event happening? And what were the other things at that time that were also taking place that could give us an understanding of what's going on here? And also the cultural context. What culture are we talking about? Who are the people in this passage? Are they Egyptians? Is it Israel? Is it the Canaanites? And then you want to learn about all the culture behind that because different people groups have different cultures. You know, that's why we can see that Joseph when you know why his brothers didn't uh recognize Joseph. Well, because, you know, when they came to Egypt, they were I'm sure they were fully bearded like uh Palestinians. were back in that time. But Joseph, Egyptians uh believed, especially if you worked for Pharaoh, Pharaoh was considered to be a living God. And if you worked with him, you were working in his temple, all temple priests had to shave off all hair. And they also would take on all kinds of makeup. And they would wear these incredible headdresses. And so that kind of gives me an understanding why Joseph's brothers didn't recognize Joseph. I mean, you know, first of all it'd been a lot of years. Secondly, you know, he was shaved bald, wearing a headdress. And um I can just imagine when Joseph finally revealed himself to his brothers. By the way, he was speaking through a a translator. You know, but when he finally wanted to reveal himself to his brothers, what did he say to his brother, uh to the interpreter, you know, leave? And then here's Joseph and his Hebrew brothers. They're probably looking at each other like, how are we going to understand one another? And I can just imagine Joseph taking off the headdress, wiping off the makeup, and speaking in the Hebrew tongue, and a kiyosepha keikim, I am Joseph your brother. But if you understand the culture and the customs of people, it helps you to understand what's going on in a passage. Geographical context. What were the typographical features in that region when this was being written? And does the passage in any way refer to some of the geography there? That helps us to understand. Revelation where it says, you know, Jesus said, I would that thou were lukewarm, or excuse me, I would that thou were cold or hot, but since you're neither cold or hot, you're lukewarm, I'll spit you out of my mouth. Now I've heard that passage preached a lot of times by preachers saying, God would rather you be red hot or just ice cold. You know, God doesn't want you ice cold. All right. And what that means is uh did you know that in that region of Laodicea there uh there was a Colossae was known for its cold mineral springs. And did you know that right near Laodicea there was another city called Heropolis that was known for its hot springs? And did you know that Laodicea was one of the first cities that piped in water from both sides? And the problem with the hot water when it was piped in is when it got warm, it had just a sour taste and when people would Taste the water that was lukewarm, they would immediately spit it out. Archaeologists have found residual sulfur in some of those pipes that they made. back then. So the water was high in sulfur content. So when you understand the geography, it kind of helps you understand that passage a little bit better, right? In other words, the whole point is God would rather you be useful than not useful. We use hot water, we use cold water. We can't use lukewarm water, especially when it tastes bad. And so that's really the whole point there. But understand the geographical context, understand the theological context. When you're looking at a book, how much did this writer of scripture know What at what point is he in progressive revelation with regard to theology? This this kind of t incorporates the principle of progressive revelation into any book that you're actually studying at the time. And there's a lot more I can say about that, but here's the third principle, the principle of comparison. And what is that? You compare scripture with scripture. It's the analogy of scripture. Scripture interprets Scripture. Donald Gray Barnhouse used to say that you rarely have to go outside the Bible to explain anything in the Bible. And this principle is based on the conviction of the unity of Scripture. All the writers were inspired by the same Holy Spirit. And therefore the Bible has an incredible unity, although it was written sixteen over a period of sixteen hundred years by forty different authors from different backgrounds, nationalities, education levels, yet There's a unity that is inherent in the Bible because it was inspired by the same Holy Spirit. Therefore, we use Scripture to interpret Scripture. And then there's a fourth principle. You know, my father was excellent when it came to mechanics. He was a great mechanic. That gift slipped way past me. I didn't get that. You've heard me say if I'm on ever sitting in their car, please call 911. Because I promise you I'm not I'm not working on it. Um I did work on cars before. It's only because my father made me. Remember I told you Pastor sold me a build for fifty dollars. I I love that car. It was my first car. And it had a four-barrel carburetor back when cars had carburetors. But anyway, um And I remember, you know, I would tell my you know brothers, you know, man, I'd get on the exit on the beltway and I'd just floor it and I'd listen to them four barrels kicking and boy it was music to my ears. And one time my father by the way, don't ever do that. I was stupid. But uh and my father overheard that and he said, You're gonna blow that engine, boy. And when you blow that engine, you know, you're gonna change it. I'm like, I blow the engine, you know. Well sure enough I did it and guess what? I blew the engine. And I I called my father. He didn't even ask, you know, what was wrong. He said, where are you? He knew exactly what happened, got me, towed the car back, put it in the backyard. The next morning was a Saturday morning. So he comes into my room about four o'clock in the morning. I mean that's that's ungodly. And he uh he said, get up. I said, what what's going on? Is there a fire? Everything all right? He said, you're going to change that engine. I was like, what? I'm the worst mechanic in the world. And he took me out there and you know he stood over me all day long. And he showed me what tool. He would hand me the tools. He would say, Do this, do this, do this, do this, do this. All day long. And by the end of that day, and late into the evening, a new engine was put into that car. I did it. I did it and yet I didn't do it. Yeah, thank you. Thank you. But I promise you, if you ask me to ever do it again, you're in trouble. Because I don't remember anything that I did. But here's the whole point. I was consulting with someone who had the understanding of what tools to use and how to do it. And you know what? God has gifted the church with men who have gone on before us, who have studied the Word of God, who have left us books. that have given us tools that we can use and we can consult to help us understand the Bible. There's all kind of knowledge gaps that need to be filled in. And reference books like that and commentaries by good solid men can help us as we consult them. to come to the right meanings of passages of Scripture. I stand on the contribution of others, others more skilled than me, others who have made great contributions. to this work. But then let me give you the last principle here, the principle of companionship. Companionship. What does that mean? Well you have a companion. And what I mean by that is the Holy Spirit. You're not going to learn anything about the Bible if you don't have the help of the Holy Spirit. You have to have that sixth sense. The psalmist said, open thou mine eyes. that I might behold wondrous things out of thy law. And we see this in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. You are not going to understand spiritual truth unless it is spiritually employed. unless the Holy Spirit just opens your eyes and show you shows you what that means. And I want to tell you, beloved, that's the only reason I know anything. is because not because I'm smart, I'm not. I I I I am grateful that I have the Holy Spirit that has through the years opened my eyes to see truth. Some of the most incredible Bible students, scholars I ever met, never went to college or seminary. They just would get the Bible and they would pray and ask the Holy Spirit to show 'em and they knew the word of God because the Holy Spirit opened their eyes to spiritual truth. You can have all the other stuff, but if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you're not going to get it. And by the way, I've read some books by scholars. I would read them, I think, I don't think this guy's safe. Pretty smart, got a PhD, incredibly high IQ, but it just seems like spiritual truth has eluded him We have to have the help of the Holy Spirit in doing that. And then let me give you the last thing here. The proper manner, the proper motive, the proper method, but then finally the proper mission. And Paul mentions two things. Look at verse 19 and we're done. Nevertheless, the foundation of God stand ashore, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his. And let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. And I think Paul here alludes to two important goals as we study. Number one is assurance. The Lord knows them that are his. Bible study done right will give you assurance of your salvation, and you will grow in the knowledge. and in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that adds to your assurance of salvation. And the second thing is holiness. And let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Depart from iniquity. I want to be practically holy in my life. I struggle against sin, as all of us do. But this is the goal of getting into the Word of God. It as we learn Scripture. We become more sanctified. And we have a desire, a greater desire. I don't know about you, but I am so convicted so many times in the study of Scripture. And brought to contrition over issues in my own life where I have to cry out to the Lord for his mercy. And also with Bible study, it gives you a greater desire to be like Christ. That is our heart's desire. To be like Christ. And so a young man once studied violin under a world-renowned master. When his first big recital came, the crowd cheered after each number, but it seemed like this young performer was uh was dissatisfied Even after the final number, despite the applause, he seemed unhappy. And as he took his bows, he was watching an elderly man in the balcony. Finally, the elderly one smiled and nodded in approval. And immediately the young man beamed with joy. He was looking at the he wasn't looking for the approval of the crowd. He was looking for the approval of his master. And this is what we should be looking for. We should be living for God's approval. And we will be approved unto God as we use the Bible to grow in holiness. Let's bow for prayer together. And Father, thank you again for your word. I I don't have the words to express the treasure that it is. How many times, Lord, has it brought comfort to me in darkness? Light and darkness, comfort in a troubling time. It's given me direction in confusing times. Lord, thank you for your word. And Lord, it's through the word that we know you, that we Draw near to you. And so, Father, help us to be students of God's Word, using it not in the wrong way, but in the right way Studying it in a way that is diligent and a way that gains your approval. Help us, Lord, most of all, as we learn the Word of God to be more like Christ. Lord, that's what we want. And we want to glorify you, Lord, in this life. We want others to see Christ in us. We want other people to come to know Jesus Christ. So thank you for this treasure that you've given to us. So Lord, help us to be faithful. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.