Well it's good to see you here tonight. I ask you to take your Bibles and open to the New Testament letter of Galatians. I want you to look in Galatians, find Galatians chapter 5 and verse Verse 16 is where we will be dealing with tonight. Galatians 5, 16 down through verse 18. And This is a very important passage of scripture. The title of the sermon tonight is The fight for control. The fight for control. I heard of a woman who damaged her automobile and in In order to collect the insurance, she had to fill out a report about what happened. And she wrote, she said, I was backing my car out of the garage. I lost sight of the driveway and got on the lawn. Then she said I went across the lawn, through the hedge, knocked over a garbage can. then knocked over the mailbox, and then she said, and then I lost control. She probably lost control a little bit before that. There's a lot of people that have lost control and they don't even know it. The question we have to ask ourselves is, who is in control of your life? Someone or something is in control of your life. The question is who or what? Now, as believers, obviously we want to be people who are controlled by the Spirit of God, don't we? We want the Spirit of God to be in control of us. And this passage of Scripture is very helpful to teach us How to be spirit-led, spirit-controlled believers. Now remember when Paul writes this letter of Galatians, he's refuting some of the teaching of the Judaizers. You remember when Paul went to this region of Galatia on his first missionary journey and he preached the gospel and God blessed, there followed behind him a group of teachers who taught Really kind of tried to undo what Paul did. They taught that in order for a person to be saved, they have to first become uh a Jew They have to get to point A before they can get to point B. You have to practice the law. You have to submit to circumcision and all the rituals of the law. You have to do all that before you can become a Christian. And uh they taught not only do you need the law for salvation, but you also need the law for sanctification. Now, of course, Paul preached the gospel as the free gospel of grace There's nothing we can do that can add anything to the work of the Lord Jesus Christ or the work of the grace that He has done in the gospel. And we not only do we have freedom in Christ uh from the gospel, we have freedom in Christ to live without um all of the trappings and the rituals of the law. Now one of the accusations the Judaizers made against Paul is that the the gospel that Paul preached would lead to loose living. These legalistic Jews believe that without the law sin would run rampant. The only restrainer for sin they could conceive of in their mind was the law. They were not aware of the Holy Spirit. They were not aware of the work of the Spirit as the inward restrainer for the Christian. So what would happen if the law were taken away? These Judaizers argued that if the law were taken away, lawlessness and immorality would increase. They thought freedom from the law would just kind of burst the dam of the waters of sin and would drown everyone. So Paul is very careful to refute this idea and this argument. He does it in really in chapter 5 and chapter 6. Paul shows that Christian liberty doesn't mean that a Christian runs wild. That's not the case. Rather, the liberty of the gospel really it fulfills the law It serves others by love. Our freedom does not mean we indulge in the flesh. It doesn't mean we injure others. It doesn't mean we ignore the law. In fact, if you look in um chapter five, back up to verse thirteen. Notice what it says, for brethren ye have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. But by love serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And so the gospel actually, through the power of the Holy Spirit, fulfills in us all the demands of the law, and that really it all comes under one word, and that is love. It fulfills the law by giving us the power to love others the way we're supposed to love others. And so therefore the law is fulfilled in us by The Holy Spirit. How can the Christian free from the law keep from drowning his life and sin? Again, that's the question that Paul is entered attaining here. And in Galatians chapter 5, verse 16, he gives the answer. Look at verse 16. This I say then, walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Living in the power of the Spirit, Paul's going to show us, is really just basic to the Christian life. That's the theme of this verse. Walk in the. Spirit. We see it again in verse 25. Drop down to chapter 5, verse 25. If we live in the spirit, let us also walk in the spirit. When a person gets saved, the Holy Spirit comes to dwell in them and furnishes them with a new nature that is capable of empowering them to do all the things that God desires. All the things that God wants. We have been freed not to do whatever we want. We have been freed, and we have the liberty now to do whatever God wants. That's the whole point of Christian liberty. We've been free to do the will of God. We've been free to fulfill all the desires that God wants us to fulfill in His will. And so the key to this is to be controlled by the Spirit. That's the key. So I want you to just see three truths here tonight. If we would understand to be being controlled by the Spirit. Number one, think about the command that Paul gives us about walking in the Spirit. Again, look at verse 16. This I say then Walk in the Spirit. Now, I think this is a very important verse when understanding sanctification. Just as Jesus is the primary person behind our justification, even so the Holy Spirit is the primary person behind sanctification. A believer can no more sanctify himself than he could save himself. He cannot live the Christian life by his own resources any more than he could save himself by his own resources. We need the Holy Spirit in this matter of sanctification. But having said that, I think that the area of sanctification has been a greatly misunderstood area in the Christian life. What is sanctification? When I say sanctification, I'm talking about the process whereby God makes us more like Christ And less like the world. It is the process where God gives us victory over sin in our life by degrees as we continue to grow in Christ. We become more godly. We become less worldly. You understand that's the purpose and the process that God has for you now? Some people say, What's God doing in my life? He's trying to make you more like Jesus. Everything happens in your life, he's sanctifying you, he's making you less like the world, more like Christ. This is the battle that we have while we're in the flesh, this sanctification process. One of my favorite verses in reference to this is 1 John 3. 9. You might want to write that verse down where it says, Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin, for his seed remaineth in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. Now when you read that verse you might think, well if I'm saved, I don't sin anymore. That's not what he means when he says does not commit sin. That's present, indicative of active. Does not continue to practice sin as an unbroken pattern in their life The idea is that if you're truly saved, you're not going to just continue to live in sin just like before you got saved. No, you're going to have a process taking place in you, a process of victory over sin, a process of becoming more righteous. and being less like the world. It's like he compares it here in this verse to a seed. God's seed abides in him. God has planted in you when you got saved the seed of righteousness. You ever notice what happens when you plant a seed? Ideally, it begins to grow. Not when I plant a seed, because I can't really grow anything, but when you plant a seed, it begins to sprout and then it begins to grow. And it grows more and more as time goes by. When I think of this verse, I I I constantly reverse revert back to we were growing up, we planted a grapevine in our backyard. And it began to grow and every spring and summer it got bigger and bigger and bigger. And pretty soon, after years of that thing growing, it kind of just took over the whole backyard. I mean it was it was hard sometimes. You couldn't even hardly see the fence. It had climbed up all around the fence. It began to take over that whole yard. There's a sense that when you got saved, God planted in you the seed of righteousness, and with each passing year in your Christian life, righteousness should be on the increase. And victory over sin you get by degrees. Sinning and victory over sin, sinning should be on the decrease. The victory over sin should be on the increase. There's more righteousness being manifested in your life. and less sin. This is the process of sanctification. But in this process, the thing that I think where it confuses people is how much of that is what we do, how much of it is what God does. And in my years of studying over this issue of sanctification, I have found that there are two extreme views of sanctification that people hold to in churches. Number one is the view that downplays human effort. And, you know, I can still hear about conferences where this idea, this view of sanctification is promoted. It's the idea that the believer is supposed to be passive in this process of sanctification. There's really not a whole lot you can do. This is that idea. That is they say, you know, you ever hear the expression, just let go and let God Or they call it the deeper Christian life. Conferences like the Keswick um conferences that really originated in England England that that really um promotes this idea of sanctification where that really all you have to do is just let God do it all. According to this idea, you exert no energy or effort Human effort is feeble in this process of sanctification. It only really hinders the work of God. And so this view believes that Christians have to just fully surrender to the Holy Spirit, and that's all. You're never to exert your own personal effort. And you hear this motto, I can't, but he can. Well, there's a lot of truth in that. However The sanctified Christian life is a lot more than just saying, God, here I am, do your work. It's all up to you. There's nothing really I can do. That's the quietist view. And this view came out of the 17th century. The quietists were mystics who believed in a one-time surrender. to God would initiate this whole thing of God beginning to sanctify you. This view kind of influenced the Quakers. And then even today, again, there's still evangelical Christians that kind of take on this view of sanctification where that basically it doesn't really require anything on our part. But then there's the other extreme. That's one extreme. God, here I am. You do whatever you're going to do. But then the other extreme is the extreme that overplays human effort. One view says really there's no human effort. It's really not up to me. It's all up to God. Then there's the other extreme that says it's all human effort. You have to work hard. You have to practice on your own extreme self-discipline. You have to be aggressive in your own Bible study and your own prayer and rigid standards. This is the total opposite end of the spectrum, where you have to develop a list of do's and don'ts for every little area of the Christian life. And so they carry around a list of resolutions that is bigger than the Encyclopædia Britannica, of things that you can do and you can't do And so while the one view downplays human effort, the pietus view kind of overplays human effort, the quietist view is passive and laid back, whereas the pietist view is active and diligent. The quietists, if you're not careful, you can become totally irresponsible, apathetic, and then the pietists can be seduced by pride and legalism. and boast in his own ability to produce righteousness in his life. You say, which which one is the correct view? Which one is right? Well, I think the answer is in the scripture. The scripture presents a perfect balance between these two things. It is up to us. We do have to do our part, but at the same time we also have to depend upon God and realize God is the one who does this. It's really two sides of the same coin. If we hold to one view and let go of the other, we drift off in the air. We have to hold on to each ideas that we it takes um we do have to depend upon God we do have to trust in God but we also have to exert energy we have to do our part Both of those things are true. Let me give you an example. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Just go there in your Bible. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And look down in verse number 12. First Thessalonians 5, 12. Look what it says. And here's Paul, and he writes, and he says, We beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves. And we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient to all. See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit, despise not prophesying, that's talking about preaching. Don't despise preaching. Just wanted to say that. Prove all things Hold fast to that which is good. Abstain from all appearance of evil. Boy, that's a whole list of things there, is it not? I mean he's just gone down the whole list here. Look at verse 23. And the very God of peace, what? Sanctify you holy. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. You read that first part and you say, oh, there we have it. Paul is a Pietist. He believes it's all on our part. This is all emphasizing human effort. These are all the things that we have to do. Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, quench not the spirit, prove all things. He goes down the list of these disciplines. But then look at verse 24. Oh, by the way, faith was he that called you, he also will do it. He'll do it all You get that? That's comforting to know. After you read that whole list, here's all these things I have to do. And then Paul reminds you, oh by the way, God's going to do all this. And so there's it's both, isn't it? God gives us things that we must do. There are spiritual disciplines that we must enact in our own life. But while we're doing that, we also have to remember, by the way, we're also dependent upon the power of the Holy Spirit to do all of this. Paul said this in 1 Corinthians 15, 10. By the grace of God I am what I am. Paul says, whatever I am, whatever you see, it's all by the grace of God. But then he says this. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. Okay, Paul, so you're the one who did all of this, right? Paul says, it's by the grace of God I am what I am. But then Paul says, But that grace wasn't bestowed on me in vain, because I worked harder than anyone. I enacted all these spiritual things in my life. So it's you, Paul? Then he goes back and says, Yet not I, but the grace of God. So he sounds pretty confused there in that verse, doesn't he? He keeps going back and forth. It's all by the grace of God, and yet I labored hard, I labored abundantly, and yet I know it's not I, but the grace of God. It's both. And so we see this tension here in this area of sanctification. We have to realize that both of these things are true. Now with that in mind, go back to Galatians. Look in chapter 5, look at verse number 17, because Paul is going to give us here kind of and distilled in this one verse. Some things that will help us. And I want you to see our part, the engagement of the walk, where it says in verse 16, walk in the spirit. This is the first part. This is our part This is an imperative from God. And you know what God is commanding you to do tonight? He's commanding you to walk in the spirit. This is not a suggestion. As I said, it's imperative. God says you take the initiative, you walk in the spirit Walk begins with the first step. We are to put forth energy. God is saying to you tonight, take the first step, walk in the spirit. If holy living was entirely the responsibility of God, we wouldn't need this command. But God says, you walk in the Spirit. Its presence implies our own effort is involved in this process. This is a present-tense verb, which means continual action. This means day by day. This is not a one-time momentary thing. This is a daily, constant process where each day of our life we have to make a decision to walk in the Spirit. One person wrote this, I like what he said. He said, The Christian is not to sit on the sidelines, as it were, and simply watch the Holy Spirit do battle for him. He is called to consider himself to be dead to sin, but alive to God in Christ Jesus To refuse to let sin reign in his mortal body, to resist presenting the members of his body as instruments to unrighteousness, and rather to present them as instruments of God. We have to do our part What did Paul say to Philippians? Work out your own salvation. God has given you this salvation, He's worked it in you. Now you work it out. You do your part. You walk in the Spirit. That's our part. But then notice the energy of the walk. He says, walk, that's command, but in the spirit. So right there we also see that at the same time we must be dependent upon God and his power. It's walking in the Spirit. It's depending on the Holy Spirit. Yeah, I'm exerting my own energy here. But at the same time, I am completely dependent upon the Holy Spirit to help me in this whole thing And so we could say that walking in the Spirit is our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability in our life. And so we have to consciously make the effort Of walking in the Spirit, asking God for the help of the Holy Spirit each day in our life And I think sometimes the Christian life, if you're not careful, it can become a burden. It bec can become a drudgery if you're trying to do everything on your own. I want to tell you something, beloved. I can't live the Christian life. I can't do it. It has to be God who does it in me and through me. But that doesn't mean I just sit back and say, okay, God, here I am. You do your thing. No, I've got to do my part, but I've got to be totally surrendered and dependent upon the Spirit Oswald Chambers, who was famous for the book My Utmost for His High His Highest, kind of battled this. He had at one point in his Christian life a sense of barrenness in his own spiritual walk. And uh He wrote this. He said, I was getting desperate. And uh he said I I did not know what I did want. He said, but I knew that if the what I had was all of Christianity there was He said, I I knew that there was had to be something lacking until he saw the verse in Luke 11, 13, where Jesus said, If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him. And this wasn't to a lost person. This is to a believer. God says he will give you the help of the Holy Spirit. He will give you the Holy Spirit to help you. The Holy Spirit is not a reward for our faithfulness. The Holy Spirit is a gift for our weakness. And when he realized that it's through the power of the Holy Spirit that he needed to live and depend upon, that that whole verse just changed his life. In fact, when he died many years later on his tombstone was really a kind of a decorative Bible with the pages open to Luke uh 1113. And so there are times in the Christian life where we must consciously claim the help and the power of the Holy Spirit as we begin to walk, we walk in The Spirit. Someone said if if God pulled the Holy Spirit out of the church today in America, 95% of what we do would just continue on without a hiccup. With with with with no stoppage. Because we're doing what we do in our own power, not in the power of the Holy Spirit. So we see the engagement of the walk, the energy of the walk, but then I want you to see the effect of the walk. Notice what he says. Walk in the spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. The result is we will not, if we focus on walking in the spirit, Then we're not going to fulfill the lust of the flesh. If we just focus on doing that, then the Holy Spirit will give us the power to live above the flesh to give us victory over sin. You see, most Christians get this reverse. We think like this. If I don't if I just don't fulfill the desires of the flesh Then God will grant me the power to walk in the Spirit. In fact, I think the legalist thinks that way. If I can just follow my list of do's and don'ts, And not fulfill the lust of the flesh, then as a reward, God will give me his spirit. He will grant me the power of the spirit. And so for them the spirit-filled Christian life is I gotta quit doing this and stop doing this and I gotta do this and do this, and if I do all that God will give me the power of the Holy Spirit. But let me tell you something, beloved. If I in my own strength could do all of that, I wouldn't need the power of the Holy Spirit. Again, the Holy Spirit is not a reward for your faithfulness. The Holy Spirit is a gift for your It's the exact opposite. We are to depend upon the Holy Spirit. We are to focus on walking in the Spirit. And as we do that, you know what happens as a result? The effect is we will not fulfill the lust of the flesh. That won't happen. And so it's the exact opposite as some people think It doesn't it start it's God. We see the same principle in Romans 13, 14. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to regard it in its lust. And so this is the command Now I want you to see the second thing, the conflict. I call this warring in the spirit. Look at verse 17. For the flesh lust against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these are contrary one to another, so that ye cannot do the things that you would. And so what makes the command so challenging is the presence of this conflict. So notice the reality of the conflict. This verse makes it very clear that the spirit spirit-controlled life is not a matter of a matter of passive surrender. Can't be. Why? Because there's a conflict. We're in constant battle. And where's the battle? It's with the flesh. And that's what Paul says here, for the flesh, and when he uses the word flesh here, he's not referring to our body. Flesh is used in a theological sense to refer to that part of man that is easily attacked by temptation, that is susceptible to sin. That's the humanness part of us. For example, Paul said this in Romans 4. 1, what shall we say then that our father that Abraham, our father, as pertaining to the flesh, has found? When he uses the word flesh there, he uses it to refer to Abraham's humanness, that part of him that was susceptible to sin. So he was asking this, did Abraham make himself righteous? Was it his flesh? What did his flesh produce? Nothing. His flesh couldn't do anything And this is what he's talking about here. In this matter of sanctification, your flesh can't do anything to help you. And I think sometimes when we take this Pietist view of sanctification, what people are doing is they're putting the flesh in the driver's seat. And expecting the flesh to sanctify them. Friend, that will never happen. Paul said this: look in Galatians 3. 3. Look in Galatians 3. 3. Let me show you this. Are you so foolish having begun in the Spirit? Are you now made perfect by the flesh? And here again, flesh refers to the futile effort of trying to accomplish holiness on your own. That's that feudal. There's a fine line between spiritual disciplines and then using the flesh to try to accomplish holiness with just your own effort and the flesh. And I have seen certain systems of sanctification. I'm talking about even in good solid churches that are fundamental, Bible-believing, where the whole process of sanctification takes place with these outward rules that you obey, and this goes far beyond just spiritual disciplines. It is trying to use the flesh to bring about holiness and righteousness in your life. And I want to tell you something, beloved, that never works. And when you put the flesh in control, you're going to get what the flesh produces. And that's not good. Paul gives a list of what the flesh can do later on in chapter number five. And so It's not just depending upon the flesh. We see the definition of the flesh, but also the desire of the flesh. And the idea of lust here is just a strong desire, and it suggests the desire to be in control. So the flesh is struggling against the spirit to dominate the believer. And notice the results of the conflict. Look again in verse 17. For the flesh lust against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, and these st these are contrary one to another, so that you cannot do the things that you would. That's the results. The flesh doesn't allow you to do the things that you want to do and need to do as a believer. So if the flesh is in control, that's the problem. And so I don't pray as I ought. The flesh won't allow that. I don't read the Word of God as I ought. I don't pursue holiness and do those other things as I ought. Even though we are new creatures, We still have this flesh, this principle of the sin nature inside of us, and Paul talks about that in Romans 7. And I don't think I need to go back there because we just went through Romans, right? Romans 7. Of course you say, well that was a half a year ago, Pastor. But it's that same principle that Paul talks about. Paul says, I know that in me, that is in my flesh dwells no good thing. For to will is present. I want to do the right thing, but how to perform that? I don't have the strength in the flesh to do that. It be it comes through the Holy Spirit. So let me give you the third thing quickly here. We see the command Walk in the spirit. We see the conflict. There's warring that goes on because the flesh is there and there's where the battle lies. And we have to get victory over the flesh. But I want you to see number three the conquest Winning in the Spirit. Look in verse 18. But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. And remember, he's refuting the teaching of Judaizers. who taught that you must obey the law. They emphasize human effort and the law. And what Paul says is you're not under the law. That is you're not living by the flesh. We can say it like this, when you are led by the Spirit, you don't live by the flesh. In other words, the phrase under the law is another way of saying living according to The flesh. So you are led by the Spirit. Now, this is a little bit more than walking in the Spirit. This is allowing the Holy Spirit just to lead you. The idea here is that the Holy Spirit is our divine guide. He's the one that will basically take control. We don't need to pray for the Spirit's leading because He's already doing that. What we need to do is we need to just follow his leading. We need to simply obey the Spirit. You know why? Because the Spirit is stronger than the flesh. That's what I call the might of the Spirit. Every time the flesh starts doing its own thing, the Spirit begins to combat against the flesh. It's good to know that our flesh is being countered by the Spirit, by His power. And we should recognize then that victory is always available for us as believers. So there's the might of the Spirit. The Spirit is much stronger. We already kind of start out with the winning edge there because we have the power of the Spirit in us. But then I called the mortification of the Spirit. The Spirit kills the flesh. The Spirit puts the flesh to death in us. As we are walking in the Spirit, we're being led by the Spirit, automatically the Holy Spirit begins to mortify those evil desires, those sinful things inside of us. In fact, there's a parallel verse. Go ahead and go to Romans chapter 8, look in verse number 12. Look in Romans chapter 8, look in verse 12. Notice what it says there. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh. That is to say, you don't know your flesh anything, Paul says. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. Verse 13, but if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Mortification takes place by the Holy Spirit And he automatically puts to death sin in us. That is what has to happen. Anybody here want victory over sin in your life? You want the sin inside of you to die, then that is done by the Spirit. The Spirit puts to death Sin in you. And what we mean by put to death is, let me tell you what it's not. It's not final elimination. He's not talking about sinless perfection. The Bible tells us we're going to be struggling with this battle until the Lord calls us home, until we're made perfect in heaven. It's not pretending that sin is removed. That's another thing that sometimes people try to say is uh uh you know, this work of sanctification when you know, there's a group out there called perfectionists that believe that if you pray long enough and hard enough, the sin nature will be eradicated and then they claim to have the sin nature removed from them, but all they do really is they just cover up their sin. Many, many do that. It's not covering sins up. It's not occasional conquests to sin. It's not substituting one sin for another. Some people view that as a sanctification. It's not outwardly conforming while ignoring inward corruption. We have to realize that the battle is on the inside, so we have to win the battle inwardly with sin. It's not repressing your sin. What is it? It is killing. It is the Spirit of God killing those sins inside of you, allowing the Holy Spirit to do that process of putting sin to death. That's exactly what the word mortification means. putting to death those sins in us. There's a beautiful parallel in the Old Testament Remember the story of Saul? God came to Saul one day in 1 Samuel chapter 15 and said, Saul, I want you to utterly destroy the Amalekites. This was a warring tribe that had attacked Israel as they were on their way to the Promised Land. And you know how evil this group of people were? When they attacked Israel, they didn't attack them head on. They went behind them in the parade that was marching through the land. And you know who was on the end of the parade? It was the older, elderly, weak people. That were at the end of the line. And when Amalek attacked Israel, they attacked that group. They attacked the weak, the infirmed, and they killed them. And this angered God And God said to Saul, many years later, Saul, in order to fulfill the promise made to Moses, I want you to utterly Just wipe out the Amalekites. This is a judgment from God. And God gave that command to Saul. And you remember the story that Saul went out and he didn't completely obey what God said What did he do? He saved a few prisoners for himself. And he saved the animals. God said, wipe out everything. Don't let anything live. No. People, animals, nothing. At that point, Saul was God's sword of judgment against the Amalekites. And Saul didn't listen to God. And later on, Samuel came to meet him after the battle. And you remember that discussion that took place there in 1 Samuel chapter 15. Here comes Samuel and Saul says, Oh, I've performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel the prophet says, Well then how come I can hear the bleeding of sheep? How come I can hear the lowing of oxen? And who are these people? And you remember Saul's response, oh yeah, you know what? We're going to sacrifice all those animals to God. They're all going to die eventually. I just thought it'd be a good idea to have a great big sacrifice. And these people that he left alive, you know who that was for the benefit of? Saul himself. These were trophies of the battle. This is where Saul could glory in what he had done. And you remember that Samuel got angry. And Samuel said to him, God, because you've rejected the word of the Lord, God has rejected you. And then Samuel approached the king of the Amalekites, whose name was Agag, and he said to, and King Agag, he's thinking the battle's over with. And so he kind of says some pleasant kind words to Samuel. Surely the pain of the battle is past. Surely the pain of death is over with. Oh, let's be friends now. And you remember what happened in that story? Samuel takes a sword, and the Bible says he cuts King Agag to pieces. So much for that discussion. Can you imagine the shock of the people that are there? I mean he did he just no takes no prisoner approach. He he hacks him to pieces. Now I bring up that story because it's such a great illustration of how we are to deal with sin in us. You see, because there is an Amalekite living inside of you called King Agag. And you know what he likes to do? He likes to say kind things to you. That's the flesh. He likes to remind you that the pain is over with and oh, let's be friends. Sin is always kind trying to make an agreement with you, speaking kind words to you, wants to be good to you. And you know our approach needs to be like that of Samuel who will make no peace whatsoever with the enemy. But we need to take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and we need to allow the Word of God to completely put to death sin inside of us. We need to have that same mentality that Samuel had there in the Old Testament Because you know one thing about those Amalekites, they'll just keep rising up. You know, later on it's interesting if you read the uh the story, the Amalekites pop up again, and they basically take uh David's uh family captive And then we see him again at the end of 1 Samuel, when Saul's in battle and he's wounded, and along comes an Amalekite, and you know what the Amalekite does to Saul? Kills him. You see. Saul was merciful to Amalek, but Amalek was not merciful to Saul. And friend, it's the same thing with sin and us. If you are merciful to your sins, your sins will not be merciful to you. We have to have that same spirit of Samuel and take the word of God and put sin to death in us. And this is what the Spirit leads the believer to do. If you walk in the Spirit, you allow the Holy Spirit to have control. And you And you're listening to the leading of the Holy Spirit, you'll take the word of God in your heart and in your mind, and you will put sin to death. This has to be done constantly It has to be done diligently. The Bible says in Romans 8. 13, mortify. That's imperative. That's continual action. It has to be done daily, present tense. You might have victory over sin today, but you might not get it tomorrow if you're not putting sin to death. Daily, decisively, the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 7. 1, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh. We have to do it defiantly, just like King uh just like Samuel did to King Agag, use the sword to hack to pieces. sin in us. Say, let me give you some suggestions on how we do that. Number one, just commit God's word to memory. That's part of the spiritual disciplines that you need to have. Commit God's word to memory Meditate on God's word, because if you're doing that, sin is dying inside of you. And then here's another thing. Focus your heart on Christ. Keep Christ in the center of your thoughts. John Owen wrote this: focus your expectations of Christ upon the reality of his death and resurrection. Act then in faith on the death of Christ, expecting its power in your life. Conform to it in your spirit. And then another practical thing is just commune with God in prayer. Continually seek God in prayer. And then here's another thing: just abstain from fleshly lusts. You know how you put sin to death, you just don't do it. You see, that sounds so simplistic. Yeah, I know. But somewhere along the line, we bought this lie that when sin rises, when the temptation comes You know, we have no choice. We have to no. You have the ability and power by the Holy Spirit just to say, no. No, I'm not going to do that. And when you say no, you know what you're doing? You're putting sin to death. You have, by the might of the Holy Spirit. The power to just say no. I'm not going to do that. Abstain from fleshly lust. You allow the Holy Spirit to have control, you will abstain from fleshly lusts So, again, the question: who's in control in your life? Is it the flesh or is it the spirit? I want to be under the control of the Holy Spirit. And I want to win this war against sin and have Christ conform to me. I know that's your desire too. If you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you will want to pursue holiness in your life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Prayer. As your head is bowed, just ask yourself the question, who's in control in my life? Am I allowing myself to be led of the Spirit of God? Am I yielding to the Holy Spirit Am I doing my part? I need to enact spiritual disciplines, but I need to do that while I'm dependent completely upon the power of the Spirit in me to help me. We're to work out our salvation, but we also realize it is God who works in us, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So would you just take a minute tonight there and just talk to the Lord? Maybe there's a warfare going on inside of you. Maybe there's a besetting sin that's got you down. Just ask the Holy Spirit to put to death sin in you. As you war in the Spirit, let the Holy Spirit be in control. And if you walk in the Spirit, those sins will be mortified and put to death. Father, do your thorough, gracious work in us. Help us to remember that to live a godly life, it's not just something that happens overnight. It's a continual process of allowing you to have full control Of putting to death sin in us as we pursue you in our life. Help us, Lord, to walk in the Spirit. And we pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.