Would you take your Bibles this morning? Open to Hebrews chapter 11. About a last year I was in this chapter, and uh we are I want to finish up chapter eleven. And I want us to deal today, Lord willing, with verse 32 down to verse number 40 as we continue to talk about this great chapter in the Bible. And I wanted to study Hebrews chapter 11 with you here on Sunday morning because my hope and desire was that it would encourage you in your faith. It would make your faith stronger. And I hope that's what the Lord is doing. Now today we look at the last paragraph in this chapter that some have called God's Hall of Fame, because as you know, if you've been with us, this writer of Hebrews goes through many Old Testament characters and shows how that in each instance. They were people of faith. And remember, this is the message that he's trying to impart to us. In Hebrews 10, 38, remember the verse says, the just shall live by faith. And he's trying to prove beyond any shadow of a doubt that people in the Old Testament live by faith just like we do. They look forward to the cross, whereas we look back on the cross. They look forward in faith, we look backward in faith. And they live each day of their life in faith. They live by faith, they walk by faith, and as we're going to see, some of them died by faith. Now, as we come here to the last section of Hebrews chapter 11, it forces us to ask one question, and that would be this: what kind of faith do you have? Or we could say, how strong is your faith? Is it a superficial faith? Is it a mature faith You see, when people talk about faith today, people they love to talk about the great exploits that faith will accomplish. They like to talk about the great things that faith does. But what I almost never hear is the other side of faith, or should I say, the others side of faith. Because if you look at this passage of scripture here in Hebrews, you're going to find out that the first part of the list of names that it gives talks about the great exploits that people were able to accomplish because of their faith. Look in verse number 32. And what shall I say more? More say, for the time will fail me to tell of Gideon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jepha, of David also, and Samuel And of the prophets who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions, quenched the violence of fire Escaped the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong. Waxed valiant and fight. And turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Verse 35. Women received their dead, raised to life again. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Now, if the passage stopped in verse number thirty-six Or verse 35 there, we would all say, sign me up. That's the kind of faith I want to have. I want mountain-moving faith. But I want to tell you, beloved, it doesn't end there. What we almost never read is the others of the passage. In fact, verse 36 starts with that dreaded phrase, and others. These are the words that some of us might not like. Look at the other side. Look at verse 36. And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yet moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawed asunder, they were tempted, were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented. of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and in caves of the earth. So think about these others. Well we look at this list and we say, well there must have been something wrong with this group They must not have had faith, or somehow their faith failed. There are people today who preach a word of faith gospel, which is a false gospel. Which uh they say they would people like that would probably say of these people, well, they just simply didn't have enough faith. The reason God didn't deliver these is because they didn't believe in miracles. They're cessationists. They didn't name it and claim it. And so the reason that this second group uh didn't get miracles from God is because it was their own fault. They had a bad, weak faith. Is that true? No, it's not. Because look down in verse 39. God gives them all a report card. And these all Having obtained a good report through faith. What did God say about that second group? As well as the first group. They got a good report. They got an A on their report card too. Things didn't happen for them the way they the the the people on the first part of the list. Did they escape? No, they did not. They had to endure. Did they see great miracles? No. Did God answer their prayers? No. Not the way that they wanted God to You see, friends, some escaped by faith and others endured by faith. But did they have less faith? No. They all had the same Great. You see, in reality, their faith didn't fail. And I want to tell you something something, friends. Sometimes it takes more faith to endure than it does to escape. I think it takes greater faith to walk in the valley than to move the mountain. I think it takes a more mature faith. And so I want to speak to you today about your faith. How strong is it? How mature is it? And I want you to see three things from this verses, three important marks of mature faith, and I pray that God will help us. That who we we might be in this room here this morning, people who might be in that other's crowd. I know that there's Some here today and God's done great things for you, but what about others where God didn't really answer the way that we wanted? So notice these three lessons. Number one, if you're taking notes, write down. Mature faith succeeds by God's power. Now we admit this, we know this. This is the first part of this passage here. Mature faith succeeds by God's power. If you look at this group, the first group mentioned by the writer, they all did great exploits. But really it was God who did the exploits. They simply had faith in God He mentions in this first group Old Testament judges and kings and prophets. And then he says, Time would fail me to tell, and he just goes on. But what he's saying is, look, I have a longer list than this. I can tell you more than just these who did egg a great exploits by faith. He didn't want to strain the reader's patience. He said, I can tell you a whole lot more about this. You know sometimes preachers say that You know, I got a whole lot more I can say on this point, but I'm gonna move on. Actually they don't have another word on that point. They have not a thought in their head, but they say that anyway And the writer is saying, look, I have a whole lot more, and he really did. He could talk a lot more about people like this. But he said, I just want to give you a summary. Now, there are two things I noticed about this first group. Number one, they were ordinary weak people. Sometimes we had the tendency to look at people in the Bible as if they were superhuman. As if they didn't have the flaws and weaknesses that we have. And friend, that's just not true. Look at this list. It starts out with Gideon. You remember Gideon? You say, oh, he was a mighty man of valor. Yet when God found him, he was hiding behind the wine press, shivering and shaking. Look on the list, Barak. You said, well Barak, he was a great king and had a great victory. Well if you read about Barak in the book of Judges, you'll find That uh he really wasn't a very brave person at all. In fact he went to the prophetess Deborah and said, I want you to come into battle with me. Deborah was an old woman. That would be like asking your grandmother to join you in a street fight I'm not going to go into battle unless you come with me. And she said, Well, I'll go, but a woman will carry the honor off this battlefield, not a man. He was kind of a cowardly person. And then Samson, we all know his problems. He was a man given to lust and anger. And then Jephthah is another name mentioned in a moment of weakness and fear. He offered his daughter in human sacrifice, if you can imagine that. In fact, the whole book of Judges really is about failed leadership. There was nothing superhuman about these people. They were weak, they were flawed, they were ordinary people, and then there's David, who was one of the kings. He was a man after God's own heart, but we don't need to spend time talking about his failures because we know he failed. And then there's Samuel and the prophets. These were ordinary people. And I want to tell you something, friend, when we read this list, it should encourage us with the fact that God uses imperfect, sinful people. That encourages me. Because that's what I am. Like when preacher said, God can make straight licks with crooked sticks. Because that's all we are. He all all he has to work with are sinners. These were normal people, these were ordinary, weak people. But here's the second thing I learned about them. They learn to tap into God's power by faith. Look at the phrase in verse 34. Where it says, out of weakness were made strong. They had this one thing in common. They all recognized their weakness, and they laid hold of God's strength, and they did it through faith Someone said weakness is strength when you give it to God, when you confess it. They recognize their weakness, they confess their weakness, and they learn to lay hold of God through faith. I want to tell you something, friend, without Jesus we can do nothing. The Apostle Paul, who on the surface seemed to be a very confident, powerful man, even he confessed and he said, not that we are adequate in and of ourselves. Paul said, I don't feel any adequate adequacy whatsoever. Our adequacy comes from God. You see, it really wasn't these people that did the mighty exploits. It was God who did it. You see, faith, sometimes I hear people say, well, faith is a mighty force. No, God is a mighty force. Faith is simply the instrument. God is the object. Faith in and of itself can do nothing. It's what you have faith in or who you have faith in You know, I can have a bucket. A bucket really won't help me unless I put that bucket into a well and pull up the cool water. That bucket then becomes an instrument that gives me something. That's what faith is. Faith in and of itself can do nothing, but it can tap into the power of God. And that's what these people learn to do. They learn to tap into the power of God. And by the way, that's exactly what the writer wants us to learn. He wants us to learn to live by faith. He wants us to learn to completely depend upon God. And when these people learned to tap into God's power, these ordinary people became strong through God. Kingdoms were subdued, promises were obtained, the mouths of lions were shut. They passed through fire unhurt. They won impossible wars. They did great things. In short, however, it was God who did it all. And Fred, I want you to tell you that God is able to do great things when you put your faith in Him. Amen That's point number one. Mature faith succeeds by God's power. We know our weakness, we recognize our weakness, we tap into the mighty power of God through the vehicle called faith. But here's point number two. Number two, mature faith submits to God's plan. Submits to God's plan. Because I want to tell you, beloved, sometimes God's ways are mysterious. Not everyone subdues kingdoms By faith, some escaped, and as I said before, others had to endure. You see, having faith in God doesn't always give you the results that you're looking for Some mothers received their children, other mothers didn't. Some were delivered, but some were tortured and imprisoned. Some were released, others were ridiculed, and they were scorned. And again, I believe it takes greater faith to endure the valley than to move the mountain. Notice what it says about them again in verse 36 and others had a trial of cruel mockings and scourging. Some were scourged. The word here actually means beating with a whip, like our Lord Jesus suffered. Others were stoned. It says, the Bible says that Zechariah the prophet was stoned. Remember the story of Stephen? He was stoned. If you remember in the book of Acts, Stephen, when he preached the sermon, he was, the people got so angry at him, they threw stones, they threw rocks at him. And he became the first martyr of the church. You say, well, you know, Stephen, he he just didn't have the faith. He wasn't filled with the Holy Spirit. Oh no, the Bible says that Stephen was a man filled up with faith and the Holy Spirit. Peter, he got up and preached. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. When Peter preached, 3,000 people got saved. He got 3,000 souls. Stephen, when he got up and preached in the power of the Holy Spirit, he got 3,000 stones. You might get one or the other. Both things can happen, you see. Remember when Peter was in prison, the church prayed for God to release Peter? And I think you remember that story in the book of Acts where miraculously his shackles fell off, the doors of the prison opened, the Greek word there is automatos, they opened automatically. I like to joke that it was the first automatic doors ever Because they just opened up automatically. And Peter just walked out of the prison, walked to the house where the people were praying, knocked on the door, little girl entered the door. And she said to the people praying, it's Peter. And they said, be quiet. We're praying for Peter to be released. One of the funniest stories in the Bible. God miraculously delivered Peter, but if you read the book of Acts, you're also going to find that James was also in prison. And they prayed for James to be released. And James wasn't released. In fact, what happened to James? James was beheaded. God took his life. He was a martyr. You say, did Peter have more faith than James? No. He didn't. It was just that God had a different plan. It certainly wasn't the plan of the church for James to be martyred. It wasn't James's plan. He was praying for release. Certainly wasn't the plan for James's mom, if you remember when uh the mother of James and John went to Jesus and said, Lord, exalt my son, let one sit on the right hand and another on the left. Her plan for her son was for him to be exalted, not executed. But it didn't happen the way she wanted it. And it didn't happen the way the church wanted it. And my question to you this morning is this. When you pray for something and God doesn't give you the answer, in fact, he might give you the opposite answer, something that you never expected, are you just going to quit on God? Are you going to walk away? Mature faith will submit to the sovereign purposes and plans of God. Some were stoned, some were sold and sunder. Sunder, it says in verse 37. Can you imagine being put in a log and sold in two? That's exactly what happened to Isaiah according to tradition King Manasseh put the prophet that he hated in a hollow tree, and they saw the tree down. Can you imagine being cut in two by a cross-cut saw? And then it says in verse 37, some were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, and tormented, you know. Uh when it says they wandered in skins, do you know that the ancients used to make fun out of torturing godly people and part of what they would do is they would sew them in animal skins and and and wild dogs would attack them. In the Roman Coliseum, they would put them in animal skins and throw them the lions and so on. It's just you think about the way some of art spiritual forefathers were treated. Uh over in London when I was over there, I love to visit some of the places that uh that really Speak to me about Christian history. And there's a place over there called Smithfield, and it was a place where bloody Mary burned at the stake over 200 godly preachers. 200 preachers burned at the stake. It says in verse number 35 that there were some who did not accept deliverance. Now don't tell me these people did not love God. Don't tell me that the people in this group did not have faith in God. They had so much faith. That there were some who refused to accept deliverance. You know what that means? All they would have had to do is say, you know, I renounce Jesus. I reject Jesus. And they would have been set free. They would have let them go home But they refuse to do that. They would not compromise. I'm gonna tell you something, friend, that takes a strong faith. Where they said, I will not compromise. I in London went to the grave one time of John Bunyan. He's there in a place called uh Bunhill Field Cemetery. He was a Baptist preacher. He was thrown in jail in Bedford because he would not compromise. And they came to him and said, We will let you out of jail if you just refuse never to preach. again, and he refused deliverance. He said, I will not. He stayed in jail. And it was in jail, by the way, where he wrote the book that we all know very well, Pilgrim's Progress. They would not accept deliverance, the Bible says. Mature faith not only succeeds by God's power, mature faith submits to God's plan. So the question to you is, do you still have faith in God when God's plan is not what you want? Not what you would have. Let me tell you something, friends. Don't get your theology from your circumstances. Get your theology from the Bible. Because I want to tell you something. If you look at your circumstances, you might be tempted to think. Or you might be tempted to believe the devil's lie, the devil might say to you, you know, God doesn't love you. Look at your circumstance. Friend, get your theology from the Bible. God does love you. His plan for you might not be what you think, but it doesn't mean he doesn't love you. Remember in John 11, the Bible says this very clearly in John 11, 5. Now Jesus loved Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, Jesus loved Lazarus. But then it also says that Lazarus was sick, and Jesus delayed going to heal him. And the Bible says Lazarus died, and then Jesus said this Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead and I'm glad. What? What did you say, Jesus? Lazarus is dead and I'm glad. That seems to be a contradiction. Jesus loves Lazarus. Yet he's dead and Jesus is glad. You see, Mary and Martha, if they had their eyes on their circumstances, they would have thought Jesus doesn't love Lazarus. He let him die. No, Jesus does love Lazarus. He just had a different plan for him. You see, Mary and Martha's plan was for healing from a sickness, but Jesus' plan was a resurrection. He had a different plan. That's why I say, don't get your theology from your circumstances. Get your theology from the Bible. And I'm here to tell you, beloved, based on the authority of the Word of God, it does not matter what you're going through right now. God loves you. He loves you. And don't give up your faith when things don't go your way. We have to learn to live with the other side of faith. Let me give you another verse, Romans 8:35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness? You see, friend, when distress and persecution and peril and all these things come, don't you let the devil tell you that God doesn't love you. He loves you. If you lose your job, the devil's gonna say God doesn't love you. If you get a bad report back from the doctor, the devil is gonna say God doesn't love you. But Paul reminds us that none of these things separate us from the love of God. God loves us. But we have to remember, friend, God doesn't always deliver. He doesn't always give us the great exploits. Sometimes he'll tell us to endure. And that's just his plan. It doesn't mean that he has abandoned us It just means that he has a plan. And you know what? Mature faith says, okay, God, I trust you. All right, I I I I can't see your hand. But I trust your heart. I don't understand what I'm going through, but I I trust you. I know that you know what you're doing. And that's mature faith. When we were over in England, we had the opportunity, some of you know we lost our infant granddaughter, Abby and Will, lost their infant baby. We went to the grave to visit, part of what we wanted to do. When we uh walked to the grave, uh we got to the graveyard, we we actually we we had a difficult time finding the grave because the cemetery was so ill kept. And obviously there were some men who ran over some of the markers and knocked them out of place. And we couldn't find the gray spot. It was kind of distressing. We knew the general area, but we couldn't find it. And Abby began to cry, and so did Carolyn. And I prayed and I said, Lord, show us. the spot. You know where it is. And in just a minute, Abby goes, here it is. And she brushed away some some grass and some leaves, and there it was. Aren't you grateful for the little answers to prayer that God gives you? The kind mercies of the Lord. And I was thinking while we were walking out, I thought, Lord, of all the women who are aborting babies and mothers who are not taking care of their babies. Why couldn't we just have her? And my next thought was, but God, I trust you. I trust you. I don't understand it. But I trust you. I know that you know what you're doing. And I want to tell you something, friend. I'm not the best Christian in this room. Some of you have gone through much worse than we have. You have gone through painful experiences. I want to tell you, friend, based on the authority of the Word of God, God loves you. And I can't give you the answers to some of the questions that you have, but I know this. You can trust God. You can trust God He knows what he's doing. You see, what we need in our faith is an if-not clause. You say, what's an if-not clause? You remember that story in the Old Testament of the three Hebrew children? And King Nebuchadnezzar had this image and he said to them, Bow down. They said, We're not going to bow. And the king said, Well, I'm going to give you one more chance. And they their response was, listen to what they said. They said, we're not careful to answer thee in this matter. We're not worried about answering you, King. If it be so, our God, whom we serve, is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us, O King. But if not, Be it known unto thee, we will not worship thy gods. I love that. We know we we believe God has power and He can deliver us from this flame. We know He's able, we believe He will But if he doesn't, we still trust him. If he doesn't, we're still not going to worship your dirty image. Now I love that. That's a if-not cause And your faith. Now I want to ask you, do you have an if-not clause in your faith? You say, God, I'll serve you. But if things don't go my way, The things I expect to happen don't expect don't happen. If not, I'm still going to serve you. I'm still going to trust you. That's what Job said, though he slayed me, yet will I trust him. So are you willing to let God be God? Are you willing to have an if-not clause in your faith? Are you willing to dwell among the others? in this list. Habakkuk 3. 17, although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall the fruit be in the vines. The labor of the olive shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat, the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there be no herd in the stalls. Here's the if not clause. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. And that's mature faith Mature faith succeeds by God's power. Mature faith submits to God's plan. But here's the last thing quickly. Mature faith stands on God's promises. It stands on God's promises. Look at verse 39 real quick. And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise. God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. Now notice it says, receive not the promise singular. You see, these Old Testament saints, they received the fulfillment of promises plural. There are many promises that they claimed and God gave them, but there was one overall promise singular that they did not see the fulfillment of. And what was that? This was the promise of the coming Christ. They didn't see that fulfilled. And yet they still believed. Even though they couldn't see it? You see, remember what we said faith is? Faith makes the future unknown a present reality. Faith is the substance of things hoped for. Faith gives us substance even though we can't see it. We might not have any evidence of it. Faith helps us to believe, and we see the future as if it's happening right now because we believe We have faith. And they believed in God's promise, even though they did not see it fulfilled, the writer says, having received not the promise. They still believed. Like I said, they look forward to Christ. We look back on him. You see, we have a better thing. And we're all together in this, Old Testament Saints and New Testament Saints, we're all together in this, yet we had something better. Because we look back at the fulfillment. Their faith was greater because they looked forward to it and they believed it. And they knew it to be true. You see, that's what mature faith does. Mature faith stands on the promises of God. That's why I tell you, friend, you can trust God. You can trust this word. And I'm here to tell you heaven is as real as earth. More real. You say, how have you seen it? No. I've seen it here in the IFA through the IFA. It's real. These promises are true, and mature faith stands on the promises of God. So again, friend, I ask you, how strong is your Faith. And would you be willing, if you haven't already, to put your faith in that Messiah as your only way of salvation and trust him Live by the promises of God. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for your word It's a reflection of who you are. It's true. It's right. And Lord, we know we can trust you. There's no doubt we know that Lord you do all things well. And Lord, when sometimes things don't go the way we would like them to go, and we don't escape. The trial. And we have to endure. Lord, remind us of these people here, these Old Testament saints, who got an A on their report card because they learn to endure And they ha and they we're going to serve you no matter what. And to trust you no matter what. Lord, give us this kind of faith. And how many people here would say that's my prayer that I would be that kind of person to have that kind of strong faith in my Lord? Just pray for me, preacher, today. Pray for me. Maybe you're here today and you've never trusted Christ. Friend, can I invite you to do the greatest thing you could ever do is put your faith in the risen Christ who died for you, who took all of your sins upon himself? And when he died on the cross, he paid your sin debt. And there's only one way to heaven, it's through the work of Christ, what he did. Not through your works or my works, it's the works of Christ. Putting your faith in him. If you haven't done that, please today do it. And you know what? It's not hard. It's a simple prayer. God be merciful to me a sinner and save me. I'm trusting Jesus today for my salvation. Friend, pray that. Reach out in faith and He'll save you. He'll forgive you for your sins. He'll give you eternal life. He will give you a new life. But you can trust him for that. Have you here say, Preacher, would you pray for me? That's my prayer. I'm putting my faith today in the risen Christ for salvation Would you pray for me? I don't want to embarrass you, friend, but I want to pray for you if that's you here today. Father, again, take these words to hearing hearts and use them for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name Just name Amen