Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Acts? Uh we are continuing our series on uh the doc on uh the uh Echoes from Puritan pulpits, and tonight I want to talk about a book that was written by the Puritan Thomas Watson called The Doctrine of Repentance. So look at Acts chapter 26 and verse no uh uh verse 20, and that's really what this his whole book The book of Thomas Watson is based on this one verse of Scripture. As we've seen as with the case of many other Puritans, they take one verse and they just meditate on it and and they they kind of bring it through other verses of scripture in the Bible and and just kind of build a whole uh series of sermons on uh just a small passage of scripture and they were very great at doing this. These were men who were godly men who had tremendous theological minds. And tonight we're this is uh by again Thomas Watson. I uh we've mentioned him before But he was one of the most beloved Puritan pastors in London. He was known for his eloquence and his wit and a deep piety. He served as minister at Saint Stephen's uh uh Wal Walbrook Church. I've been there And uh on a few occasions. But he was a pastor there during the time of what was called the Great Ejection. You may have heard me talk about this, but there was a time in England when uh ministers were thrown out of their pulpits because they refused to conform to the common book of prayer. And for that reason Watson lost his uh his ministry at that particular church, but he s it didn't keep him from preaching. He went out and he began to preach in wherever he could have a gathering, whether that would be in private homes or in fields, he would declare the same gospel and build people up in the faith And it was out of that season of persecution that this work came, this work about repentance, because Watson was very concerned about the nation. He saw in his country a national spiritual decline And this is what caused him to really think about this uh this whole doctrine of repentance. He thought that there was a lot of shallowedness, there was a lot of outward religion, but he didn't sense a real genuine true repentance of heart And he questioned the salvation of many people that claimed to be in Christ and yet they saw no real genuine fruits of repentance. And so he saw that they had religion but lacking in repentance. And he thought that this is necessary. And so this is why he focused so much on this one message. And so I want to talk about what Watson said and kind of weave in some of the ideas also that I've learned about this idea and some of the things actually I've learned from Thomas Watson by reading this book and helping me to understand the biblical idea of what is real repentance. So first of all, let's look at the topic, the message of repentance. Look in Acts chapter 26, verse number 20. um where it tells us this, but show showed first unto them them of Damascus uh and at Jerusalem and throughout all the coast of Judea and then to the Gentiles that they should repent and turn to God and do works meet for repentance. Again, this is the passage that Thomas Watson fixed upon. And this is Paul's testimony before Agrippa. And this reveals the need for repentance. This is something that is universal. It's not just for one group of people, but it's needful for all. Whether they be Jew or Gentile, whether they be city dwellers or villagers, the same message should be preached to everyone, and that is the message of repentance. And Watson insisted that this is the threshold of salvation. This is the way a person comes into the kingdom by showing genuine, true repentance. Now he's understands correctly that faith and repentance, although they are distinct, they are also inseparable. As you heard me say, faith and repentance are two sides of the same coin. In faith we receive Jesus Christ. We believe on Jesus. In repentance, we renounce sin. We turn from sin So that's happening at the same time. You're believing on Jesus, but at the same time, as the quality of that faith is genuine, you are turning from sin. You are turning to Christ. And that is a message that is so needed today because it's not really preached upon much. Or repentance has been redefined to kind of water down to uh to where a person could have this kind of easy believism. All you have to do is pray a prayer, say you believe in Jesus and and that's it, you're going to heaven, even though there's no real genuine fruit of repentance in their life. And that is a problem. Dr. Henry Ironside in 1937 wrote a book called Accept Your Repent. And this is what he said in the book, quote, the doctrine of repentance is the missing note in many otherwise orthodox and fundamentally sound circles today. And that's very, very true. If it was true in 1937, it's especially true today. We could say the same thing. And one reason for this is because it has been misunderstood. The whole idea of repentance is misunderstood. In fact, there's a large seminary here in the U. S. where the entire organization teaches that repentance has no part in the gospel. It has no part in the gospel. And it's treated as if repentance, if you if you say that repentance is required, then you're adding a work to salvation. They basically teach that It undermines the doctrine of justification by faith. All you need is faith, but you don't need repentance. And that is uh something that is being taught in a lot of places. Uh no repentance necessary. Now that's ironic Since John the Baptist came preaching repentance. Let me just give you a few verses here. In Matthew 3 and verse 1, it says, In those days came John the Baptist preaching in the wilderness of Judea, saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And then he says in verse uh chapter three, verse eight, bring fruit in keeping with repentance. It's also important to note that Jesus began his earthly ministry by preaching repentance. In fact, did you know the very first word of the first sermon that Jesus ever preached in his public ministry. You want to guess what it is? Repent. First word of the first sermon that he preached in Matthew 4 Matthew chapter 4, verse 17. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And then in Matthew 9, verse 13, he says this, for I'm not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And so Jesus began his whole earthly ministry by emphasizing this need for repentance. And he also ends his earthly ministry by doing the same. In the book of Luke, chapter twenty-four, on the Sunday of his resurrection, you remember Jesus met with the disciples on the road to Emmaus. That was Sunday morning. And then if you keep on in Luke chapter 24, in fact, why don't you just turn there? In Luke chapter 24, he met with some of his disciples on Sunday morning and gave them the word of God. And then he met with them on Sunday night. He had a Sunday evening service. That's why we have a Sunday morning, Sunday evening. And in the Sunday evening service, notice what it says in Luke chapter 24, down in verse number forty-five. Then he opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, and verse forty-six. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it beh behooved Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead on the third day. And verse forty seven, and that repentance and remission of sin should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And so he's referring to the spread of the what? Spread of the gospel. This the gospel needs to be spread. And how does Jesus summarize this? Repentance needs to be preached. Because the gospel, the message of the gospel is inseparably linked with repentance. Repentance is just a synonymous term that speaks about the gospel That's how Jesus speaks about it right here. When he sent out his disciples, he told his disciples very specifically, when you go out I want you to preach repentance. We see this in Mark chapter 6, verse number 12. And they went out and preached that men should repent. And we also see that in justification is equal to repentance in Scripture. In Luke chapter 15, verse number seven, he said, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in the heaven. Shall be in heaven over one sinner that what? That repents. There's joy in heaven. Why? Because a sinner has been saved. And how is that summarized? Well, they repented They repentant and so being saved, being justified, being forgiven is synonymous with a person who has repented of their sin. A person who is saved is equal to someone who has repented. And in Romans chapter 2, verse number 4, We see that, and by the way, in Romans, what is the whole theme of Romans? It's all about justification, right? It's all about justification. In Romans chapter 2, verse 4, it says this, that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. So Paul is equating justification with repentance in the book of Romans. And we can go on. Peter does the same thing. In 2 Peter 3, verse number 9. The Lord is not slacking certainly his promise, as some men count slackness, but his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance And we can go on all the way through the New Testament. Fifty times the word repent or repentance is used in the writings of Paul to the Romans, to the Corinthians, to Timothy. And by the writer of Hebrew, Hebrews, it's used by Peter as well. It's used ten times in the book of Revelation, written by John. And all in the New Testament, it appears more than 60 times in the New Testament as the emphasis of the message of the gospel. And so it's a serious thing to me that the church today is not preaching repentance It's a missing word. It's something that's not emphasized when we're giving the gospel that a person needs to turn from their sin and turn to Christ. It was A. W. Tozer who said this, and I believe he's right. He said, I think there is little doubt that the teaching of salvation without repentance has lowered the moral standards of the church and has produced a multitude of deceived religious professors Who erroneously believe themselves to be saved when in fact they are still in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity And again, I think he's right. This is the very center of the gospel. This is the core of the message of the gospel. So we have to understand repentance then. So, write down number two. Here's the second heading. Not only the message of repentance, but the meaning. The meaning. Again, as we go back to the text verse, that they should repent and turn to God. So Thomas Watson helps us by defining what this is. What is it to repent? Well, first of all, let me tell you what it's not. It's not just getting caught. There are a lot of people that um that that uh are sorry because they were caught in their sins, but they're not repented because of the offense that they did against the Holy God. I mean this is this is Achan in the Old Testament, right? In Joshua chapter seven, when he took of the accursed thing and um And and basically it brought a curse down upon Israel and God started to to to s have an investigation and they cast lots. First of all, they they had uh they they cast lots according to the tribes, and then they cast lots according to the clan, and then down to the family. You can just imagine them casting lots. Is it this tribe? No, this tribe, no, this tribe, no, it's this tribe And then the clans, one clan at a time, this clan, this clan, no. And Achan there he's there the whole time. He knows he's done wrong. And finally he gets down to the family of Aiken, and right when they're about to cast lots into his family, and they're going to find out it's him, Achan steps forward and says, I got something I want to confess. We ever do that? Uh I I've done that. You guys you guys look so holy tonight. I remember when I was a kid. I I uh we had these these these beds, these bunk beds, and there was this little knob that had you had to have a wooden knob on it in order for the bunk beds to be used, and sometimes when they were down on their own, that knob was exposed. And I took a I took a pair of flyers and I sawed it down to nothing, which ruined the ability to use the bunk beds. And and of course, when my mother found out about this, she said, who did this? And I looked around innocently at my brothers like which one of you could possibly have done this? And then um I remember when my father got home and he started asking everyone. And then it it was very obvious that none of them had done it, that it was me, and then I heard him climbing up the steps, boom, boom, boom, coming up the steps I saw my doorknob turn and I jumped off the bed and opened the door. I said, Dad, I I'd like to confess something to you. That's an Aiken-like confession, right? That's not genuine repentance. That's you trying to get out of any punishment. And that's not what the Bible speaks about when it talks about repentance. So what is repentance? Well, repentance, says Thomas Watson, has three has several elements to it, but it's really a discovery of the evil of sin, a mourning that we have committed, a resolution to forsake it It's a it's a change. It's not only just a change of mind, but it goes deeper than that. It goes to the heart and it goes to the very the uh will. Well you've heard me talk about faith, how faith has three elements to it, but there's no surprise to us that repentance also has those same three elements to it in order for it to be genuine repentance. First of all It's the mind. It's intellectual. The word repentance is meta noie is the Greek word. Noie is the word for knowledge or the mind. uh meta to change or we could say to change the thinking to change the understanding and so first it starts in the mind There's a change in the mind and the attitude towards sin. There's a change in the mind and your attitude towards God, towards righteousness. But it starts there in the mind. It's a change in your thinking. We see this in the story of the prodigal son. The Bible says that he came to himself. He started thinking differently. It starts there. He saw himself as a sinner and nothing but a sinner. And before a person can come to Christ, he must first come to himself Like the publican who went to the temple and he prayed, God be merciful to me, not just a sinner, but it's articular there in the Greek, the sinner. He saw himself as a sinner. There has to be an understanding about sin. And there has to be an understanding in your mind about the Savior But it doesn't stop there. It goes deeper than that. It goes down into the heart. There's an emotional element to it because it includes the mind, but it also there is a A change of affections, a change of emotions towards sin and towards Christ, and towards righteousness. Thomas Watson said this, the eye is made both for seeing and weeping. Sin must first be seen before it can be wept for. So we understand sin, we understand how bad it is, it's an offense against God, our mind changes about ourselves, we know we're sinners, we know God is holy, but then it also brings with it a deep contrition in our heart Like the psalmist who said in Psalm thirty-eight, verse eighteen, I will be sorry for my sin. It's a sorrow. That comes with it. Jesus, remember when he pronounced woe upon the unrepentant cities in Galilee? He had been there, he had done miracles, he had preached the message of the gospel, and and and nothing had happened. And Jesus pronounces a woe. And listen to what he said. Woe unto you, Corazon. Woe unto you, Beseida. For if the mighty works done in you had been done entire in Sidon, they would have repented long ago. Listen to this, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. Jesus was describing true true repentance. And according to Jesus, what did true repentance involve? A deep sorrow. Sackcloth and ashes, that's an expression of a deep sorrow. Jesus said, if they heard this message, they would have repented or repented with deep sorrow in sackcloth and ashes. And so when someone repents, there will be an anguish in their soul. There will be a sorrow over sin in their life Thomas Watson wrote this quote, The sorrow for sin is not superficial. He says it is a holy agony. It is called in Scripture a breaking of the heart. The sacrifices of God are a broken and a contrite heart, a rending of the heart, as the scripture says, a sorrow that is a real sorrow. It's not the sorrow of hypocrites that lie, they disfigure their faces, they make a sour face, but their sorrow goes no further, writes Watson, like to do that wets the leaf, but it does not soak to the root There's such a thing as having some kind of a sorrow over sin, but it's not a real genuine sorrow. It is a superficial sorrow. It is an outward sorrow. Like Ahab's repentance was outward, it was a show. His garments were rent, but his spirit was not rent. That's superficial. Godly sorrow goes deep. It's like a vein, says Thomas Watson, which bleeds inwardly. It's a sorrow for heart sins. It's grieving over the offense, not just again the punishment of it or the discomfort that comes from it. But it's a grieving over the offense and that you have grieved a holy God. It is a lamenting of your heart sins. before the Lord. Thomas Watson again wrote this, a man may be sorry yet not repent, as a thief is sorry when he is taken, not because he stole. But because he has to pay the penalty. Hypocrites grieve only for the bitter consequence of sin. And there are people in Scripture again that we can point to that show this kind of superficial sorrow that's not real, like Judas, who Felt remorse for betraying Jesus, but yet uh it wasn't a genuine repentance. He was not converted. The Bible says Esau found no place for repentance, though he sought it with tears. And so it's a genuine deep sorrow for the offense. But also it goes deeper than that. The mind, the emotions, but also the will, the volitional element of it. It involves a turning. from that sin, forsaking that sin, and turning to Christ. It is a redirecting of the will Again, quoting Watson here and defining this, he says, repentance is the grace of God's Spirit, whereby a sinner is inwardly humbled and visibly reformed. You can see that they've turned away from that sin. That they're no longer walking in that same direction, that there's been a change, and it's visible to everyone. That the repentance that they are showing is as notorious as their sinful life was. And people see that visible change. It's more than just regret. And let me just emphasize this is a work of God's grace. Watson warned that No man can repent by nature. That is in and of ourself. We can't do this on our own. We don't have the capacity to do this on our own. This is something that we need to do We we need to repent, we need to seek repentance, and yet we also need to realize it's something that only God can do in us. God has to grant us repentance. And so we have to realize that is a it's a gift of God It is something that God gives. You say, where do you get that? Well there are several passages in the scripture. Just write down Acts chapter 5, verse 31, where it says, Him hath God exalted with it his right hand to be a prince and a savior. For to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. This is something that God must And then Acts chapter 11, verse 18, when they heard these things, they fell silent and they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also God has granted repentance which leads to life. Again, it is something that God gave them. God granted them true repentance. In 2 Timothy 2 25 Where it says that the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle to all men. Why? That God would grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. And so the scripture is clear. It is something that is done by the Spirit of God. It is a grace of the Spirit. It is a gift of God. It is something that God must do. Yet, here's the other side of it. It's a duty of man. On the other hand, God commands it. He said, now wait a minute, how if God gives it, how can he command it? Well, that's just what the Bible says. On one hand, it's a gift. On the other hand, you are commanded to repent. In fact, God calls upon all men everywhere to what? To repent. You are responsible to repent before God. And if you don't, you'll be judged for it. So while it is a gift of God, it is also a duty of man. You say, well, I don't I don't understand how that reconciles. Well, neither do I. I don't feel the need to reconcile them. I just believe that both of these things are true. And I think that when you're dealing with sin in your life, you need to ask God to give you a genuine repentance in your heart. Pray for that genuine repentance that comes from God. But it is a command. Again, Acts 3:19, repent you therefore and be converted that your sins may be blotted out. when the times of refreshing come from the presence of the Lord. Again the word repent here is an imperative mood in the Greek, a command. And in Acts 2. 38, Peter said unto them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ. for the remission of sins. And then Paul before King Agrippa, here in Acts chapter 26, where we we saw this passage already. But if you look at the context of it, he's standing before King Agrippa and he is saying that he's commanding repentance. The Bible pleads with sinners to repent. Did you know the Bible commands you to mourn? Write down James chapter 4, verse 8. Draw near to God, he will draw near to you. This is all about turning to the Lord. This is all about salvation. Draw near to God. He will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Be purified in your hearts, you double-minded. Be miserable and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning. Let your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves in the presence of God and he will exalt you. That is all a clear uh demonstration and understanding of what repentance looks like. That's what it looks like. You're drawing near to God. You're mourning over your sin. So if it's a gift of God and yet it's also commanded, what role do we play? Again, I just want to remind you, this is another one of those areas in theology that where you see both the sovereignty side and the responsibility side That both of these things are true, concurrently true. It is a work of God, it is a responsibility of man. And again, there's a mystery here that I can't quite figure out. There's that tension between man's responsibility and divine sovereignty, but I see it in so many places in Scripture. And so, but it's but both of these things are true. All I know is that it's the gift of God, and if he doesn't grant it to you, you're not going to get it, but it's also to do to your man, you better repent. You better repent. And my it's that's my duty is to preach that you must repent before the Lord. Now, God will use all kind of means to bring about repentance in a person's life. What will he do? Well, first of all, there's the preaching of the Word. The very gospel itself calls for repentance. The very Word of God tells us to do this. And we see this again all throughout scripture. Peter, on the day of Pentecost, got up and preached, and it brought repentance to the people. In the book of Jonah, Jonah preached the message of judgment on Nineveh, and the people of Nineveh repented. It was the preaching of the word that brought that. So it's the word of God that does it. Paul went to Thessalonica, this city that was infested with idolatry, and he preached the gospel. And Paul says they turned to God from idols. To serve the living and the true God. They believed the message of the gospel, they turned from their idols. There was a genuine work of repentance that took place there. It was the result of Paul preaching the word. So God will use his word to give genuine repentance to a person, but also the pa the goodness and patience of God. You know what else should cause people to repent, the fact that God is so good and he's patient with us? I'm so glad that God is patient. The Bible says in Romans 2, knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. In 2 Peter, again, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. But is long-suffering, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so the patience and goodness of God is something that when a person really understands that, that should drive them to repentance. But also the chastisements of God. You know what God will use to bring about repentance? Punishment. God will uh call his people unto himself. He will punish them in order to bring about repentance. Revelation 3. 19. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Be zealous therefore and repent. But then another thing God will use is what I call the loving servants of God. And again a verse I referred to before, but in 2 Timothy 2 24, the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach Patience and meekness of instructing those that oppose themselves, if per adventure God will give them repentance according to the acknowledging of the truth. You know, my job as a servant of the Lord is not to argue with you. I'm not going to argue you into the kingdom. Alright, the word strive here is the word macho-mai in the Greek. It's where we get the word macho man. Some of you remember that song? Don't raise your hand. That a seventies song, you know, macho man. And uh this whole idea, the concept of a macho man as someone who, you know, doesn't take anything off of anyone, they're ready to fight at the drop of a hat You know, and the the word here is that that's not the servant of the Lord. He's not argumentative. He's not out there trying to fight people or argue people into the kingdom. What is he doing? He just is graciously and gently teaching skillfully the truth of God's word. Why? Because that's what God uses to bring repentance to people It's not my disposition. It's not my anger. It's just me simply, graciously, gently, explaining to you the truth, knowing that if it were not for the grace of God, I could be in your same shoes. But I'm just going to graciously show you the truth of Scripture to where there's it's it's irreversible, there's no way to get out of it. This is the truth, and once you see that, that's what God will use to bring repentance to a person's heart. But then there's also the difficult providences of God. God will use difficulty to get people to repent. Look at look in Luke chapter 13 real quick. Just flip over there. And we'll just take a quick look at this. Uh Jesus was asked about something that took place, um, a tragedy. Luke records that some people reported to Jesus about Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifice. Look in Luke 13, verse 1. And there were present at the season at that season, some that told him that it's Jesus of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. So evidently we don't know anything more about this this event than what is told to us right here. There's no record of this in the writings of other Jewish historians. We just know that something happened where Pilate murdered some Jewish people when they were at worship. uh bringing a sacrifice. And we we know from history that Pilate was very cruel. And apparently he sent some of his troops to break up this gathering that that were deemed deemed dangerous and it led to bloodshed And so these soldiers slaughtered those that were giving a sacrifice, and the blood of these slaughtered people mingled with the people that were giving the blood of the sacrifice. And you and you talk about brutality and the abuse of power. And they bring this to Jesus. And they tell Jesus about this Look what how did Jesus respond? Look at verse 2. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the rest of the Galileans, because they suffered such things? Do you think that they were worse sinners than anybody else? Because that was the theology back then. If bad things happen to you, it must be because you're a worse sinner than others. But that's simply not true. In this fallen world, bad things happen. And Jesus kind of debunks this idea when he says, I tell you, nay. They weren't any more sinners than anyone else. But then look what he says right after that in verse number three. Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Jesus doesn't get philosophical. He doesn't try to give an answer to explain the presence of evil. He doesn't try to talk about this injustice here. What does he do? He becomes very evangelistic and he basically says this You don't know when some tragedy might befall you. You better be ready for that. And the only way you can be ready for that is how? Is to make sure that you've repented. Repent This could happen to you. And later on he talks about a tower that falls. And eighteen people were killed when a tower falls. And again in verse 4 he says, You think that they were sinners above men that dwell in Jerusalem? I tell you, nay, verse five, but except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Tragedies, bad things that happen, should cause us to evaluate life and how fragile it is, how brief it is, how death is sure, and we better we better be ready. We better repent. So God will use tragedies like this to do what? To get people to think to do what? To bring about repentance in a person's life. And so God will use means. He'll use things to do this. So we see the message of repentance. We see the meaning of it. But then here's number three, the marks of it. The marks. Again in Acts chapter 26, verse 20. This is where Thomas Watson focuses on this section of the verse where it says, and do works meet for repentance. And Watson delighted to unfold what he called the anatomy of repentance. He identifies six ingredients of genuine Repentance. This is what he calls the spiritual anatomy of a renewed heart. And what are they? And I'll just give them to you quickly so we don't have too much time. But first of all, the sight of sin. You have to see it You know, a lot of people, they don't see sin. There are a lot of people that say, oh yeah, I'm a Christian, but they've never come to grips with their sin and how sinful it is before a holy God. And friend, you're not going to get saved until you first understand that you need to be saved because of your sin. There has to be the sight of sin. Watson says, before a man can come to Christ, he must first come to himself. Repentance begins with the opening of one's eyes to sin's reality. You have to see it first. And that's why in presenting the gospel, the very first thing that you have to do is show a person the seriousness of sin, that they are a sinner. Uh a lot of times gospel presentations start with the love of God. And God is a God of love, and thank God for that. But the love of God doesn't do anything to bring real repentance to a person's heart. It almost gives a sinner this idea like God owes me this. And what they need to see is that God is holy and he judges sin and that they are a sinner before God and they have to see that. There has to be the seeing of sin. But then there has to be sorrow for sin. As we had already said, sorrow is a part of it. And this is another one of the ingredients that Thomas Watson gives. He says Christ turns the water of tears into wine. He warns against a counterfeit sorrow. He says, Tears for outward loss are not repentance, unless they flow from eyes that have seen Christ. And so there is that holy agony that we talked about. And then there's a third ingredient, that is confession of sin. The sight of sin, a sorrow for sin, the confession of sin. Watson writes this: He that hides his sin shall not prosper. God seals not pardon with a false tongue. There has to be the true confession. Before God. It is me, Lord. It's not using an excuse. It's not the parents that you gave me. Or like Adam in the garden, the woman that you gave me. Or, you know, uh that's what we like to do in society today, rather than everyone we we we we make everyone a victim. It's not your fault. It's all these other circumstances that are involved. And so therefore, there's no real genuine confession in saying, you know what the problem is? The problem is not my parents, it's not my background, it's not my environment, the problem is me I'm the sinner. It's my sinful heart. And you confess that, a true confession agrees with God about your condition and God's verdict on that condition. There has to be that genuine, true confession over sin. Confession must be voluntary. Watson says it must come as water out of a spring freely. Confession must be with uh a resentment against the sin, uh, and confession must be sincere. Our hearts must go along with our confessions, he says. In true confession, a man particularizes his sin. He says that a wicked man may acknowledge his sins in general, but a man truly repentant will acknowledge his sins in particular. And he'll be sorry over those particular sins and mourn and agonize over those particular sins. And this leads to the next thing, a shame for sins, says Watson. In Watson's words, blushing is the color of virtue, he says. The humble penitent blushes as much for his pride as for his other sins. There has to be the shame for that sin, and then the next element is a hatred. for the sin. The sin that you once cherished, the sin that you once loved, now you hate it. A loathing. A divine loathing. for that sin. And then finally, the last thing he says, if that's a part of it, is turning from it. It's just a simple turning. A complete walking away from it. That's part of the works me for repentance. Not only do you hate the sin now, you turn from it, and then you're out to make restitution for anything, any damage that that sin may have caused. And you show an a uh a an outward despising of that former sin. You've you're changed. You don't talk like you did before. You don't have the same habits. The desires reflect the heart of a new man, says Watson. That's the marks of someone who is genuinely repentant before the Lord. And then finally, let me talk about the motivation for repentance. Watson pointed to two great motives for repentance. First of all, there's the sight of God's mercy. When you see God's mercy, he says the repenting sinner is a prodigal returning to a forgiving father. He taught that it's not only fear of hell that leads to repentance, but love for the God who welcomes the contrite. You'll see both of those things. There should be a fear of divine judgment in hell But at the same time, there's also going to be this love for a God who is so merciful and so ready to forgive you. God's mercy, said Watson, is the strongest motive to repent and not to sin. So you have to have the sight of God's mercy. And then he said the other great motivation or motive for true repentance, he says, is the cross of Christ. Looking at the cross of Christ and seeing that on the cross Jesus took all of your sins. Every drop of Christ's blood preaches repentance, says Watson. To see the wounds of the Savior is to hate the sin that caused them The cross both humbles and it heals. And so true repentance is not born from legal fear, but from an evangelical love. It is when we see God's kindness in Christ that our hearts truly are broken and melt, and we turn to God. And this is what Thomas Watson called the very, very gate of heaven. And let me just close with this tonight. I'm going to end with where he ended. He ended his book, The Doctrine of Repentance, with a plea that has this urgency to it. And I want to just read this to you tonight, and that'll be the end. But he said this, do not think it enough to confess sin. But labor to forsake it. Do not be content to shed tears, but strive to shed sin. The true penitent is never done repenting till he be done sinning. And that is so very true. We don't just repent once. We live it constantly in our life. It is a way of life for those who know the Lord. We are living in a continual state of repentance towards God. And so Paul's word to Agrippa is God's word to all of us tonight, and that is repent and turn to the Lord. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, just take a moment there and reflect upon what you've heard and just spend a minute there just praying. Ask God to give you a genuine repentance in your heart for sin. This is the most important thing. Again, it's not it's we need the help of God. It's a grace from God that we see our sin. That we come to terms with who we are, that we see God's mercy in Christ, that we look to the cross, and that we turn to the Lord. As Watson said, repentance is the doorway to life. You simply step through it and you find Christ waiting there, waiting there for you when you genuinely come to Him. And so, Father, thank you for this important doctrine for a man like Thomas Watson, who so many years ago did the church and the world a great service. By writing this book and by focusing on this all-important message that has been passed over and lost in many places, and yet is so central to the gospel. Lord, help us to realize the importance of it. Lord, give us genuine repentance in our own heart, and help us to preach that message to everyone so that they can step through that door and have life. And we pray in Jesus' name Amen.