Here on Wednesday night, we are studying the book of Joshua. And I want you to look in chapter nine tonight. Chapter nine. And uh we'll pick up there in this great chapter here. While you're finding that, I remember in science class The teacher teaching us that uh there's differences in chemicals, and there are some chemicals that look just like water, but they're not water They have they're transparent, they're clear, and they're in a glass, and you can look at it and say, that's water. But actually it's not. For instance, there's one chemical called hydrochloric acid. And it looks exactly like water. And the chemical elements, of course, for water are H2O, but the chemical elements for hydrochloric acid are H2SO4. And so the teacher had a little poem that they had us memorize to warn us about not everything looks like, or never not everything is as it looks like. And the phone goes like this, shed a tear for Jimmy Brown. Poor Jimmy is no more. For what he thought was H2O was H2S04. And the whole idea is looks can be deceiving. And there's an old saying that all that glitters is not gold. And so really that's what we're going to learn about here in this passage tonight. And uh in chapter nine, I want you to look with me in verse one. It came to pass when all the kings which were on this side of Jordan in the hills and in the valleys and in the coast of the Great Sea over against Lebanon The Hittite and the Amorite and the Canaanite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusites heard thereof that they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel with one accord. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done unto Jericho and Ai, they did work wildily, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors And took old so old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles, old and ram and bound up, and old shoes and clouded upon their feet, and old garments upon them And all the bread of their provision was dry and moldy. And they went to Joshua unto the camp of Gilgal and said unto him and to the men of Israel, We become from afar Now therefore make ye a league with us. And the men of Israel said unto the Hivites, Peradventure ye dwell among us, and how shall we make a league with you? And they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye and from whence come ye? And they said unto him, From a very far country. Thy servants shall come, because of the name of the Lord thy God, for we have heard the fame of him and all that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites that were beyond Jordan, to Sihon, the king of Heshbon, and to Ag the king of Bashin. which was at Ashkeroth. Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spake to us, saying, Take victuals with you for the journey. And go to meet them and say unto them, We are your servants. Now therefore make ye a league with us. This is our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to come go unto you But now, behold, it is dry, and it is moldy. And these bottles of wine which were filled with or were new, and behold, they be rent. And these our garments and our shoes are become old by reason of the very long journey. And the men took of their victuals and asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. And Joshua made a peace with them and made a league with them to let them live. And the princes of the congregation swear unto them. Now the title of my sermon tonight is The Devil's Moldy Bread. The devil's moly bread. And this is on a story here about deception. You know, one of the ways I know that the Bible is God's word is it's so very honest with the record of the people that are in it, with the record of its heroes I know this is not a book just written by a man, because if it was just written by a man it would be a glory report of all men. And yet the Bible is very careful to point out not only the victories But also the failures of some of its heroes. Why? Why does the Bible do that? Well, because it can help us. I don't know about you, but I don't live from victory to victory. Every once in a while I'll make a mistake And I'll make a failure. And I need to know that there's other people that traveled that same road and had failed, and yet the Lord was able to help them through their failures. And we're going to see this is a story about this very thing. Joshua and Israel made a mistake. And it's recorded here for us to learn. Now, so I want you to see three things tonight in our passage. Number one, First of all, notice the deception of the enemy. If you're taking notes, just write down the deception of the enemy. Someone said when faith is weak, deception grows strong. Perhaps Joshua and Israel basking in the last victory they had had not fully relied upon the Lord the way they should. And you remember one of the themes throughout Joshua is the the Lord will fight the battle. If they obey the Lord and rely upon the Lord, God will fight the battle And perhaps after the glow of that victory, they were not relying upon the Lord the way they should, because they're going are about to be deceived. And what we see here in this passage are some parallels. I think the way the Gibeonites deceive Joshua is also the way that Satan still deceives. Now notice their deceitful Lord. Look again in verse one. It came to pass that all the kings which were on this side of Jordan in the in the hills and the valleys and in all the coasts of the Great Sea Over against Lebanon, and then he mentions all the ice. I won't read them again. But look in verse 2. That they gathered themselves together to fight with Joshua and with Israel with one accord. Now here the Gibeonites sensed an opportunity. You know why? Because here all these k kings of the of the Canaanites uh that were mentioned here had all come together in one big confederacy. The Bible says they came together in one accord. When Gibeon heard about Joshua, or excuse me, about Jericho and Ai, they said, man, we've got to do something. And we need to strike. And they said, here's our opportunity. You know why? Because Joshua and Israel will be preoccupied. With this now they're going to worry about this confederacy, this mighty coming together. And notice in verse 2 where it says they came together in one accord at the end of verse So that as all these Canaanites come together in total unity, they learn to set aside their petty little differences and come together to fight. You know, the church can learn a lesson from the Canaanites here. They all come together in one accord. Now Gibeon is located just 25 miles from Israel. And Gibeon was on Joshua's list to be destroyed. But the Gibeonites knew something. Did you know, according to Deuteronomy 20, that there's a stipulation in the law there that Joshua and Israel can make peace with peoples and cities that are outside, just outside the border of the Promised Land in Israel. And somehow the Gibeonites knew about this law. They knew this part of the Scripture and the Word of God. And since they knew it, they were going to use it on their own behalf. By the way, did you know the enemy knows the word of God and knows how to use it against you? Satan knows how to use Scripture against God's people. We see Satan quoting Scripture when he came to tempt the Lord Jesus Christ. This is exactly what the Gibeonites do. And so the Gibeonites knew that Joshua and Israel would be preoccupied or distracted with this big confederacy, and they knew this stipulation and the law of Moses and Deuteronomy And so they knew it was just the right time to pull off their little ruse. And friend, again, I say that part of deception that Satan uses against God's people is all in timing. He knows exactly the right time to strike. Remember the story of Job, all these things happen, all these things happen, and finally his wife comes and says, curse God and die. Right at the wrong time. But it was Satan's right time. And so we see their deceitful Lord. But also notice their deceitful look. Look in verse number three. And uh when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard What Joshua had done to Jericho and Ai, they did work widely and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and they took old sacks upon their asses and wine bottles old and rent and bound up And old shoes clouded upon their feet and old garments upon them, and all the bread of their provision was dry and moldy. That is, we see their deceitful look. They pretend to be ambassadors They pretend to be an official delegation, come to a from a foreign land, come to make peace with Joshua. And so they have old stacks upon their animals. I can just see those old tattered leather saddlebags that are with them filled with dust. Notice they didn't use horses, they used donkeys because donkeys were better for long distance travel. And then they had these wine bottles. You know, back in that day a wine bottle was just an animal skin, and they would put new wine in that wine bottle and after a while when it began to ferment inside, that skin would expand and expand until finally it reached its limit. And you know what happened next? The wine bottle would rent and sometimes the wine would pour out. And then they would take those and discard them. Or They would sew them back up and use them again. And so here they have wine bottles that are rent and bound up, all to give the illusion. That these are old, they had been on a long journey. They wore old ragged clothes. They used dry and moldy bread. Again, all of this to give an appearance. As if they had been traveling a long, long way to Joshua. Again, I say, you know, this is a parallel. Satan is a master of masquerade. He knows exactly the right look to give. The Bible says that he's an angel of light. Some of his false apostles and deceitful workers at work in this world, you know what, they dress so swallow, they look so good. One time I heard a preacher say, sometimes you can tell a false apostle by their hairstyle. It's so outlandish You know, if they have a really outlandish hairstyle, run for your life. Just kidding. Um But you understand the point. Satan's servants look so good. And And this is exactly what's happening here. They just give this ruse. You know, it's easy to identify Satan when he's roaring like a lion, but when he slithers like a serpent. That's when it's a little bit harder. And so we see their deceitful look. But then I want you to write down also their deceitful lies. Look in verse 6. And they went to Joshua unto the men of Gilgal and said unto him And to the men of Israel, We be from a far from a far country. Now therefore make ye a league with us. And the men of Israel said unto the Hivites, and the pertenting ye dwell among us, How shall we make a league with you? And they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye? And from whence come ye? And he said unto them, From a very far country, thy servants are come, because of the name of the Lord thy God. Now, Satan is the father of lies, and he knows how to teach his children how to lie. And what we see here in this story is not just one lie, but several lies. You know why? Because a lie has no legs. It can't stand on its own. It has to have other lies to support it. And so when a person tells a lie, they have to tell a bunch of lies to cover up for the first lie. And so we see a bunch of lies. Here's line number one, verse six, where it says, We be from a far country. That's the first lie. They were not from a far country. They were 25 miles away. They were neighbors. Here's line number two, look in verse 8. And they said unto Joshua, we are thy servants. They're not their servants, they are their enemies. Friend, Satan wants you to believe that he's your friend, that he's your servant. And friend, he's not, he's your enemy. In Genesis 3, Satan was giving Eve the impression that he was trying to help her. Oh, God's withholding from you. He doesn't want you to know good and evil. He doesn't want you to have wisdom. And so I'm here to help you. I am your friend. Here's line number three. Look in verse nine. And they said unto him, we're from a far country, thy servants shall come because of the name of the Lord thy God. For we have heard of the fame of him. That's another lie. They were not there because of the name of God. They were not there to worship God. They were there to save their own skin. All they were doing was saying exactly what Joshua wanted to hear, and they knew what he wanted to hear. And so they were using lies for their own purpose. You ever notice how folks still do that here in America, lying to help them out? Here's some famous lies. The check is in the mail. I'll start my diet tomorrow. We service what we sell. Here's another one. Money cheerfully refunded. One size fits all. Your luggage isn't lost, it's only misplaced. And then this hurts me more than it hurts you. And here's another one. Your table will be ready in a few minutes. Lysa, help us out. Here's the fourth lie. Look again in verse nine. Look at verse the latter part of verse nine. For we have heard of the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt, and all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites that were beyond Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Ag king of Bashin. which was that ashtarot. Now, you say, where's the lie there? The lie is not what they said. It's not in what they said. It's in what they didn't say. Notice they say nothing about Jericho and Ai when they're reporting to Joshua. Why? Well, because you know back in that day news travels very, very slow And if they're from a far country, they would not have heard of Jericho and Ai at that time. So they're very careful to report, oh, we heard about what happened in Egypt, and we heard about what happened to the kings on the other side of the Jordan. But they said nothing about Jericho and Ai. They were omitting that part because they knew that uh that would be You say, well, did they really know about Jericho and Ai? Look back in verse 3. And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done unto Jericho and Ai, of course they knew. But they didn't mention it. You know, you can lie with words or without words. Truth is not only violated is not only violated by falsehood, It can be equally outraged by silence. John Ruskin wrote this, the essence of lying is in deception, not in words. A lie may be told by silence, by equivocation, by accent on a syllable, by a glance of the eye, attaching a particular significance to a sentence. All these kinds of lies are worse and baser by many degrees Than a lie plainly worded. And one of the ways that Satan loves to lie is he'll give you half the truth, but not all the truth They'll be silent about the other half. And so it's these are the lies. So we see their deceitful lure. Their deceitful look, their deceitful lies. But then that next their deceitful logic. Look in verse number eleven again where it says Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spake to us, saying, Take victuals with you for the journey, and go to meet them, and say unto them, We are your servants, therefore now make ye a league with us This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go unto you. But now, behold, it is dry, and it is moldy. And these bottles of wine which we filled were new, and behold, they be rent. And these are garments and our shoes are become old by reason of the very long journey. And the men took of their victuals And so they're just saying here, look, look for yourself. And judge for yourself, Joshua. Judge for yourself, elders. Look at our clothes. Look how tattered they are. Look at this moldy bread. Look at the look at our wineskin. Use your own discernment here and make a logical decision. You know, Satan He just wants you to rely upon your own reason. You know why? Because he'll just feed you false information. And then he'll say, now you make the judgment Use your own logic, use your own reason, have it your way. People don't have to sell out to Satan. He doesn't really need that. He just wants you to do things your own way. Just as long as you're not doing them God's way. And just figure it out on your own. Just as long as you're not asking the Lord. But I want to tell you something, friend, without the Lord, we don't know God's way. The Bible says in Jeremiah 10, 23, O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself. It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. We don't know the way of God in and of ourself. We have to have the help of the Lord. We don't know our own way. Now, let me just be clear. This doesn't mean that we don't use our own reason or our common sense or logic. We're not going to those things out. God gave us a brain to think. He gave us uh common sense. We use all those things. We use all the empirical ways of learning and discerning. But friend, if that's all you have, then you don't know the way of God. We need to use all of those God-given things, but friend, beyond that, we need to look to God and we need to pray to God and we need to be dependent upon God for God to show us his way. And so we're not saying throw out reason, throw out thinking, throw out common sense. No. Use all those things, but friend, we need to use them under the control and the leading of the Spirit of Almighty God. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. And lean not unto thine own understanding. It doesn't say throw your understanding out, but don't just lean on your understanding only. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. So we see number one the deception of the enemy. But now write down number two the decision of the elders. The decision of the elders. Because now this decision was not solely upon Joshua. It seems like all the elders came together to make it, but I'm sure Joshua had veto power. But friend, this is a foolish decision. It's a foolish decision. And let me ask you a question. Don't raise your hand, because we all could ever make a foolish decision. We're going to see here the anatomy of a foolish decision. How did they make it? First of all, it was a prompt Decision. It was quick, right on the spot. We don't read anything here of Joshua taking time of waiting. They just make the decision right there. No time elapsed. Nothing. Listen, friend, be careful about making a quick decision. Especially if it has Great ramifications. In fact, don't be forced into a quick decision. If it's God's will today, it'll be God's will tomorrow, and it'll be God's will next week. Be careful. In fact, Moses warned them, or um told them, be careful not to make a treaty with those who live in the land where you are going It would be a snare among you. Moses gave them those words in Exodus 34, 12. The Bible says, whoever believes will not act hastily in Isaiah 28 verse 16. But in their haste they made a prompt decision. But number two, put this down, it was a presumptuous decision Look at verse 14, where it says, and the men took of their victuals. What does that mean? Well, this means they ate the bread offered to them by the Gibeonites. Now, Frank, can you imagine eating moldy bread? All these elders ate the moldy bread. I love fresh bread. I love Pimera bread. This is not a commercial. But friend, I hate moldy bread. I hate dry bread. And here are these men. I can just see them choking this down. They took of their victuals. Why did they eat? Well, there's two reasons that have been offered by scholars. Some believe this was a covenant meal. that whenever you made a covenant, treaty, agreement with a foreign power, there was always a meal that was there. Thus that's why they brought the bread and the wine, because they were to have a meal together. And so by eating the meal together, they were making a covenant. together with the Gibeonites. Others say well no, they were just inspecting uh the bread just to find out if it was really indeed moldy and They were just trying to get affirmation. Either way you look at it, the bottom line is they ate the bread and they swallowed the ruse, hook line and sinker. They fell right into the hands of these Gibeonites And when they did, they made a major mistake. Donald Campbell writes this. He says they trusted evidence that was highly questionable. Envoys with power to conclude treaties with other nations should have substantial credentials. It was foolish for Joshua not to demand such credentials. And the Bible says in the book of Proverbs, the simple believes every word. And so they just didn't look for any more credentials. They didn't question them any further. I mean, if this was an authentic delegation, there would have probably been more. They probably would have been smart enough to bring a change of clothes to make a good impression. Or if it was a real delegation and and probably smart enough to bring extra provision um and to make even fresh bread But they didn't take any of those things into consideration. They simply asked two questions in verse 8. Joshua said, Who are you and from whence come ye? And those were the only questions that he asked. And so this was a prompt decision. It was a presumptuous decision. But I want you to see also it was a prayerless decision. Look again in verse 14. And the men took of their victuals and asked not counsel at the mouth of the Lord. And there's the big mistake. You ever notice in studying Joshua the only time they got into trouble is when they didn't seek God, when they didn't ask the Lord You remember in Joshua 7, they fell into the peril of perilousness and decided to go after Ai without asking God. And here they're making the same mistake. They're not seeking God. Now this is would have been easy to do. You remember the high priest had on uh in his breastplate a little pocket with two stones, Urim and Thummin. You remember that? And you remember that's how they found out that Achan had taken of the accursed thing. They would cast the lots. Is it this tribe? No. This tribe, yes. This house, yes. This man, yes. The lot fell upon Achan All Joshua and the elders had to do is take those stones, or have the high priest take the stones, cast a lot, and said, Lord, should we make an agreement with these men? It's that simple. But they didn't seek the counsel of the Lord. They didn't pray about it. And they suffered. Now I want to tell you that the lesson for all of us is this. Pray about everything. Pray about everything. Even the seemingly no-brainer decisions. Oh, this is a no-brainer. Look at these guys. Uh this is and you know we got a big confederate uh of of all these tr uh Canaanites coming together, we could use some friends. Against all these enemies. This is just the right thing to do. No, pray about every decision that you make. The Bible says, and everything by prayer and supplication. So this was a prompt decision This was a presumptuous decision. This was a prayerless decision. But then I want you to write down another thing, friend. This was a permanent decision. Because it was unalterable. Look in verse 15. And Joshua made peace with them and made a league with them to let them live, and the princes of the congregation swear unto them. And so this was, uh they were swearing then, they were taking upon the name of the Lord. And so they made a permanent decision. Now notice there's no conditions in this. Joshua didn't say, Well now, we will make a league with you, provided that all the information you gave us is true. And if it's not Then this is no longer binding. This is a conditional agreement. He didn't say that. Remember when the spies went into Jericho and Rahab said, Have mercy upon my house, and they said, We will. But now know that know this. Anyone outside of your house, we're we're not liable for them. We're not we don't have to fulfill our oath if they step outside the house. As long as they stay in. That was a conditional agreement that they made. And here, Joshua, they could have done the same thing. They could have said, well, if if everything you're telling us is true Then we will make a league with you, however, if we find it not to be true, forget it. He doesn't do that He makes a permanent, unconditional, life-altering decision right there. No release from it. Now let me show you the third thing. Not only the deception of the enemy and the decision of the elders, but then write down number three the discovery of the error. The discovery of the error because they it doesn't Not too much time passes before they find out about it. Look at verse 16. It came to pass at the end of three days, after they had made a league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbors. That they dwell among them. Can you imagine they're starting to get reports? Remember those guys that came from a far country? Guess what It's not as far as we thought it was. And they begin to check it out. In verse 17, the children of Israel journeyed and came unto their cities on the third day. Now the cities were Gibeon. And and and Kepharah and B Erat and Kerjeth Jiram and the children of Israel smoke them not. Because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel, and all the congregation murmured against the princes. They in verse 17 they journey, they come to these Gibeonite cities, and they said, Oh no. What have we done? Now I want you to notice that this brought contention, the contention that it brought immediately, because there was a murmuring going on by the people. They were angry at these princes. I want to tell you something, bad decisions will cause murmuring among people. I I notice sometimes I get myself into a lot of trouble by some of the decisions I make. It causes a murmuring among the people. Sometimes we make our own trouble. And so and by the way, why did the the people grumble? What's the big deal? Well because it would cost them First of all, it cost them financially. Just think about because of this covenant that was made, that the soldiers that would normally take the plunder of these defeated cities as a a means of of the their own sustenance and wealth. Now all of that was gone. It cost them financially, but also it had the potential to cost them spiritually, because being their neighbors, these Canaanites then could be a thorn in their flesh, worshiping their false idols, leading them away from the Lord. Moses gave them stern warnings not to compromise or make uh agreements with people right there in the land for this very, very reason. So in verse 18, the children of Israel, they want to kill them Because of their deception. They say, let's just kill them, but the elders say, we can't do that. We made an agreement. And so they would not allow them to kill Look in verse 19. But the princes said unto all the congregation, We have sworn unto them by the Lord God of Israel. Now therefore we may not touch them This we will do to them. We will even let them live. Let wrath be upon us because of the oath which we swear unto them. They knew that God takes oaths seriously. They said, we can't touch them. We gotta let them live. Now we have to give these leaders credit for being men of their word. To violate that oath would have been to take the holy name of God in vain, and this would have brought divine judgment. And so we see, first of all, the contention. That it brought immediately, but then also write down the curse it brought eventually. Now we don't see this immediately here in Joshua, but did you know 400 years later, fast forward 400 years on down the history of Israel, under the reign of Saul. And the Bible says in 2 Samuel 21 that Saul in his zeal, he killed some of the Gimeonites. He violated this oath that had been made 400 years previous. And because of what Saul did, Israel experienced a famine for three years. A three-year famine from God because of this. And then when they went to the Lord and tried to find out why has this famine come, why this judgment, the Lord made it very clear because Saul violated the the the oath that was made by Joshua. And in that story, if you sometime you might want to read it, uh because of that, they come to the Gibeonites and say, what how can we make this right? How can we uh make the record correct and and do justly? And the giving I said, give us some of the sons of Saul that we may hang them. It cost seven sons of Saul in order for that to be made right. So it brought a curse And so we see the contention it brought immediately, the curse that it brought eventually. But then I want you to write down number three, the comfort it brought providentially. Now what I what I want you to see in this story is it doesn't end on a negative note. It actually ends on a positive note. And that's just like our God. You know, he can take all the bad things and make them good. God's able to turn things around. And we see that at the end of this story here. Look in verse 22. And Joshua called for them, and he spake unto them, saying, Wherefore have you beguiled us, saying, We are from afar, very far from you, and that you dwell uh when you dwell among us. Now therefore ye are cursed, and there shall none of you be free from being Bondmen and hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God. And they answered Joshua and said, Because it was certainly told thy servants How the Lord thy God commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you, therefore we were sore afraid for our lives because of you, and have done this thing. And now behold, we are in thine hand. As it seemeth good and right unto thee to do, unto us do, and so did he unto them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they slew them not. And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawlers of water For the congregation and for the altar of the Lord, even unto this day, in the place which he should choose. So you know what Joshua and the princes of Israel say to the Gibeonites? Because you've done this You're going to be servants of the house of the Lord all the rest of your days. What a sentence. You're going to be servants. In fact, you're going to be hewers of wood and drawers of water. Now think about it. If you have a uh a tabernacle with uh a brazen altar and you're constantly giving sacrifices, what do you need a lot of? You need a lot of wood. You have a bronze lavyn there where priests need to cleanse themselves and they need to keep that water flowing and keep it clear. What do you need a lot of? You need a lot of water And so they need someone to cut the wood and bring the wood. They need someone to draw the water and bring the water. And if you have a lot of sacrifices, you need a lot of it. And so that they said to the Gimeonites, you're going to do this. This will be your task from here on out. Now you know what happened as a result of that? These Gibeonites, by being close to the house of the Lord, you know what? They learned to worship Yahweh God. They put away their false idols, they put away their false religion, they learned to fear and reverence God, and this meant then that they were no longer a threat to Israel with their idolatry And their false worship. In fact, what you're going to find if you trace the history of Israel, what you'll find is that the Gibeonites at times are more faithful than the Israelites. What you'll find is that they are there. They are faithful. During the wars of Israel, they're right there by their side. They're faithful. Later on, they're called the Nephonim, which means the given ones. That's because they were so given, so committed to the house of the Lord. And did you note when the Lord divided up the land, he gave a certain section of it to the Levites and Aaron? One of the cities was Gibeon And that city became a city where the Lord's name became associated with that city. You know why Because they did all the work for the tabernacle. And so you know what David did 400 years later? David put the tabernacle in the city of Gibeon. Put it in that very city. That meant that the Ark of the Covenant was there. That's where people went to worship, right there in Gibeon. Did you know that at least one of David's mighty men, those are the men that were closest to David in battle, was a Gibeonite And do you remember Solomon when he became king and he went out and he offered a thousand sacrifices? You know where he did it? He did it in Gibeon. And you remember the Lord appeared to Solomon and said, Solomon, ask what you want. And he said, Lord, I don't know how to go out and come in. I'm just a child. Give me wisdom. You know where that happened? It happened to Gibeon in that very, very city. And then much later, when the children of Israel are carried off into captivity, guess who goes with them? Gibeonites. And when they're released to come back. They're listed in the book of Nehemiah and other places that the Gimeonites came back with them. And when Nehemiah wanted to build the wall, guess who was there to help them? The Gibeonites were there. In fact, in Ezra 2. 43, it records that the Gibeonites even replaced the Levites in the temple service because they were so faithful. You say, what's the lesson in all this? I'll tell you the lesson. God's able to turn a curse into a blessing. God is able to take our bad decisions, even the foolish Decisions that we make, if we just give them and yield them over to the Lord, you know, in time, God can turn that whole thing around. And God can make it a blessing. For us, if we just trust him, if we just look to him. So we see the deception of the enemy, the decision of the elders, the discovery of the error. But now let me just give you just a few thoughts and we're done. I'm just going to just read them off. Number one, always be slow in making big decisions. Number two, don't depend solely upon the counsel of man. It's good to get man's counsel, but here all the elders are wrong. And it's okay to have good, wise men, but friend, God's leading takes precedent over all of that. Number three, always keep your word. Even if it costs you. Number four, don't depend upon your own reasoning alone. Use common sense, but look to the Lord. The Bible says he that trusteth his own heart is a fool. Always, always, always pray for direction. And then here's the last thought I would give you tonight. If you have already made a bad decision, you say, man, I'm here. I feel like I had made a bad decision. Well repent, ask God's forgiveness, and then you know what? Commit it to the Lord. And then trust him. Then trust him. He can turn curses into blessings. I remember one time I was asked to preach at a seminary chapel and then lecture in a few classes, and I did that, and after it was over, a professor came up to me and he said, I want to have coffee with you. And I said, sure. We went out and sat and talked, and he talked about the Lord's leading in his life. And he told me a story I won't forget. He said this. He said, and he was talking about a mistake that he made He was talking about an error. He made a decision. And he knew later on it was the wrong decision. And it caused him to get discouraged. And it caused him to be down. And he thought he had blown it with regard to his life and ministry. And he said, it just caused him to go into a tailspin. And he said one day he was with his friends and he got in his car to drive home. And while he was driving home, he took a wrong turn. And he stayed on that road and he couldn't and he knew that he had taken a wrong turn. And he couldn't remember how to get home. He had missed the road. And so he just said, I'm just going to stay on this road and see where it takes me And he said he stayed on that road and he said, you know what happened? That road automatically intersected with the right road, and I was, before I knew it, I was right back on the right road that I should have been on. And he said, in that moment, God spoke to him. And God said, if you'll trust me, he said, I'll put you back on the right road. As if you had never made a wrong decision in the first place. If you'll just trust me, I'll put you on the right road. And our God is just like that. He'll put us right back on the right road if we trust him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we thank you for your word and for how practical it is for us. We all need this, Lord. We need because, you know, Lord, sometimes we're tempted to eat the devil's moldy bread when we could have the fresh bread of heaven So Lord, keep us in the center of your will. And Lord, when we do make a mistake and get deceived, Lord, help us to trust you, to turn to you, to look to you, to put us back on the right road. We pray all this in Jesus' precious name, Amen