Much. Would you take God's word tonight? Would you open please to first Timothy chapter four? As you know we've been studying this letter And I hope it's uh been something that's been feeding your heart and soul. And tonight we're gonna we're gonna look at uh verses thirteen down to verse sixteen, and I want to talk about the priority of God's Word. As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of grace, I love hearing stories of the past and how God blessed our church from the very beginning. I love the story that Pastor Johnson used to tell. about the original building when it was bought and how that when they went in there were two pulpits and he took one one pulpit and he removed it and put the other pulpit right in the front center of the church Because from the very beginning he wanted the Word of God to be central. The preaching of the Word of God was to be a priority in the worship of the church. I think it would surprise us perhaps to know that in most churches in America the Word of God is not the priority. That there are other things. Many people come to church in churches all over the uh the country and they don't even bother bringing their Bible with them. Uh and uh and because the reason for that is because the Bible really isn't used much in the worship service And that lack of emphasis on Scripture implies several wrong attitudes about the Word of God. First of all, um It it really is an attitude that some people have that perhaps maybe the Bible is not all it claims to be, that maybe the Bible is just another religious book. Well let me just tell you, beloved, that the Word of God is not just another religious book. It is the only inspired word of God. And if you wanna um you know See that for yourself. I challenge you to just compare the Bible to other holy books. Uh if you ever read from other the some of these other books and then compare that with the Bible, it'll you'll see, you know, very clearly And other and almost innately you'll see that the Bible has a sense of authority, an aura of authority, and a ring of truth to it that the other holy books do not have. I was reading this week the testimony of a scientist, a man by the name of Hugh Ross, who came to faith in Christ because he compared reading uh other holy books and the Bible. And he kind of gives his testimony. He talks about growing up in Canada and he came from a non-religious home. And had a early age he was studying um s science and uh he says even by the age of seven seven he was devouring physics books. Who who devours physics books when you're seven years old But he said he decided to to be a scientist and make astronomy his career. And he said in the next several years, he was convinced by studying science that the universe had a beginning and thus a beginner. And but he also um felt like that um a lot of the religions out there um were man-made religions And uh he thought that if there was a God that he would and he did write a book, that the that book that he wrote would be in harmony with historical facts and scientific facts as we know it. And so he determined that he was going to on his own begin to read all the books of religions and then rele uh read the the Bible and then make a comparison. And this is what he said. He said, If God the Creator had spoken through any of these books, and he says, and I thought perhaps he had not, his authorship would be obvious, the communication would be perfectly true. He said, I reason then, if men invent a religion, their teachings would reflect human error. But if the Creator communicates, his message will be error-free and just as consistent as the facts of nature. He says, so I use the facts of history and science to test each of the quote-unquote holy books. And so he says he went out to begin to read these books and he says initially his task was easy. He said because, you know, he could find that some of the holy books that he read were immediately at odds with science and they were at odds with the facts of He also says he noted that the writing style in most of those quote-unquote holy books were very esoteric, mysterious, very inconsistent, he said, with the character of the creator, the creator he studied through science And so he said his task was pretty easy. Let me just read you what he goes on to say. He said my task was easy until I dusted off the Bible. that the Gideons had given me several years earlier as part of their distribution program in public schools. He said, I found the Bible different. It was simple, direct, specific. I was amazed at the quantity of historical and scientific or i. e. testable material that it included at the detail and the detail of this material He said the first page of the Bible caught my attention. Not only did its author correctly describe the major events in the creation of life on earth. But he placed those events in the scientifically correct order and properly identified the Earth's initial conditions He says, for the next year and a half, I spent about an hour a day searching the Bible for scientific and historical inaccuracies He said, I finally had to admit that it was free of error and that this perfect accuracy could only come from the Creator Himself. He found out by reading that the Bible stood alone. He went on to say, my only rational option was to trust the Bible's authority. To know that it was the Word of God. And later on, this scientist received Jesus Christ as a Savior. It's no surprise that he went on to trust Jesus as his Savior and Lord. And now he gives testimony to the fact that the Bible is the word of God. It's unlike any other holy book. It is the only were uh revealed word of God. And so um a lot of people they don't they just treat the Bible as if it's some other Holy book, friend, it is not. It is the very word of God. But also it shows a lack of reverence for Scripture. You know the Bible says God has exalted his word above his name. And Psalm 138, verse 2, it says this, for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name. And God's name is who he is. And yet God has exalted his word above his name. Now we don't worship the Bible, beloved. We worship God. But how do we learn about God? The only way we can learn of God is through His revealed word. In fact, really, there's two ways to learn about God. One is through natural revelation. And the Bible speaks about this in Psalm nineteen. Read that Psalm, and you'll find the first six verses speaks about God revealing his glory in the heavens. The heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament shows his handiwork. But then the next few verses after verse 6, Psalm 19, verses 7 to 14, shows where God reveals himself in the scripture. God reveals his glory in the sky. God reveals his gospel in the scripture. And so God reveals himself through special revelation. Thank God for natural revelation. We can look out and see the beauty of this world. We can see the wisdom of God. We can see the power of God. We could see the uh the love of God and that all of creation gives of its of its wealth to us for our benefit. We see his power, his wisdom, his beauty, his love by looking at creation. But natural revelation is limited. There are certain things that we can't know just by looking into nature. We need more revelation, and so God has given us his word. On my desk is a book that someone gave me called The Gospel in the Stars. It was written by a Lutheran minister named Joseph Seiss. And the whole thesis of the book is that you can look up into the stars and see the gospel. That's the whole idea behind the book. In fact, this was written back at the early 20th century. D. James Kennedy, the late D. James Kennedy, a wonderful preacher, he kind of agreed with the thesis of the book. And the whole idea is that the Bible tells us that God has named all the stars, the hosts of heaven, from the very beginning. The stars served as signs. And that man in his corruption and his sin got it all wrong, and man, looking up into the sky, saw the zodiac signs and came up with all types of ideas that were wrong. But if you look at the skies correctly, the idea is that in the skies, rather than seeing the zodiac signs, you can see the plan of redemption written in the stars. That's the whole thesis of the book. And so basically, man corrupted the signs given in the sky, but if you look at it correctly, what you see there is redemption and the gospel. Now I understand the thesis of the book, but just let me say I respectfully disagree. I can study the stars all night long and beloved not see the gospel there. Sorry. I don't see the gospel written into the sky. In fact, I don't even see the zodiac signs. I don't see what they see. You know, I see a bunch of stars shining brightly. All right. I don't know how they connect all the dots. I can't figure all that out But God never created the stars in the sky to communicate the gospel. The heavens declare the glory of God. That's natural revelation. But God's special revelation, the scriptures declares the gospel of God. If people could look up into the sky and see the gospel, we don't see it need to send missionaries around the world. Alright? But that's just simply not true. Again, I don't I don't mean to make light, but that is not the purpose of natural revelation. We need something more than God's revelation in the sky. We need the scripture. And that's what we that's why we value, that's why we reverence the Word of God, because it is in God's special revelation that we learn about who God is. And we learn the holiness of God. And we also learn about the love of God. And we learn that God's holiness is offended by man's sin and it must be satisfied. And that Jesus Christ came to be the propitiation for our sins. The gospel reveals God's love and his holiness. We see the gospel there. That's why we reverence the Word of God. We show it due respect because it teaches us of God and His plan of salvation. But I think the fact that also people don't really put a priority on the Word of God is because there's a lack of desire for God's Word. People don't emphasize scripture, they leave their Bible behind simply because they're really not concerned about learning the depth of scripture. There's no real hunger For the word of God. And if I see someone who claims to be a Christian and there's no desire to learn God's word, I have to question whether they're truly a Christian What does Peter say? As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word that ye may grow thereby. When a newborn baby doesn't desire milk, there's something wrong there. And when a person who claims to be a Christian doesn't desire to know God's word or doesn't hunger for the word of God, then there has to be a problem. When you lose your physical hunger, it's because you're not well And the same can be said spiritually. There should be that that desire to be fed. You know, the Bible is compared to food, it's compared to milk, it's compared to meat, it's compared to bread, it's called honey. You know, Job said this, neither have I gone from the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. Now, with all that said, Paul is writing to Timothy here, and remember the whole theme of 1 Timothy is how to behave in the house of God, how we are to act, how we are to conduct ourselves. That's the theme. And here Paul is going to emphasize to Timothy to make the Word of God a priority in God's house. Look at verse number 13. Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Now, what I want you to see from our passage here are four ways that we make God's word a priority in the church. This is what Paul again is saying to Timothy. Timothy, make God's word the priority. And here's the first way that we do it. Number one, read scripture publicly. This is what he's saying here. Give attendance to reading. Give attendance is one word in the Greek. It means to continue with close attention and devotion. This is an imperative, a command, present tense, continually read the scriptures publicly. The practice of reading the scripture out loud in the congregation is something that has been practiced by God's people from the very beginning. Let me give you a few verses here. Exodus 24, 7. And he took the book of the covenant and read in the audience of the people, and they all and and and they said, All that the Lord has said, we will do And be obedient. Here, from the very beginning, Moses is reading the Word of God in public to the people. Deuteronomy 30, 111, when all Israel has come to appear before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose Thou shalt read this law before all Israel in their hearing. When all the people come together for worship, what are you to do? You're to read this law. And their hearing. Joshua 8 35. And there was not a word of all that Moses commanded which Joshua read not before all the congregation of Israel. And this is that time where Where Joshua put half of the tribes of Israel on Mount Gerizam and half the tribes on Mount Evol, and he was down in the valley below. Archaeologists say that that's a natural kind of a theater The the the acoustics there in that area is natural. You can stand in the valley below Mount Shechem, or excuse me, in Shechem below uh in between Mount Ebo and Mount Gerizam and be heard on both sides. So you can imagine in your mind the uh all of Israel on the sides of the mountain, and Joshua is in the valley below, and the law of God is being read And when they read all the blessings, everyone on Mount Gerizam says Amen. And when he reads all the curses, all those on Mount Eval say Amen. But this was one huge public Reading of Scripture to all of the people that were there. We see this in 2 Kings 23 Two, and the king went up to into the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great. And he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the Lord. This was a time in the nation of Israel. Where God's word was lost. Remember Josiah wants to remodel the temple, and they while they're doing that, they find the law of God in the house of the Lord. What's that imply? That for years they had forgotten it. And now that they found it, they assemble all the people together, and once again publicly, the word of God is read. And we can go on. There are more passages in the Old Testament that talk about this, but we also see it in the New Testament. In fact Colossians four sixteen, Paul said this, and when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. In other words Paul is commanding that his letters be read out loud. Take them to these churches, read it out loud. First Thessalonians 5 27, I charge you before the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren. Now all of that demonstrates that this was all a part of worship, all the way from the very beginning, the public reading of Scripture. And I have a suspicion that in the contemporary church, this is something that's kind of neglected. We don't read, just simply read the scripture. We've forgotten the value of just reading publicly. the Word of God. In Paul's day the challenge was the people didn't have a copy of the Bible, so when they came together for worship, they had to listen carefully because that was the only scripture they were going to hear was a scripture that was read in the worship service, and many people would try to write their own copy of God's Word. That's why we have so many thousands of Greek manuscripts today, because people would write copies of their own of the letters that were written by the apostles. And so for them, hearing the scripture read was very crucial. It was very necessary when they came to the house of the Lord. Now the challenge in our day is not like that, because you know why? We got scripture all over the place. I mean, if you have a phone, you have several um hundreds of versions literally I mean I can download a app, I have downloaded an app from Logos and I had just every literally every English version right here at my disposal. I have versions in other languages. We have Bibles everywhere. You can get a copy of the scripture anywhere. And I think that this is a blessing. At least where we are in the US, I know that in other places of the world that I go, they don't have that blessing. I remember one time I was in Africa and I had brought two suitcases full of the bot full of Bibles And I was getting ready to teach this big class, and I wasn't thinking, and I said, oh, by the way, I have a Bible up here if anybody needs one. And there was a mighty rush of people. That ran to the front, literally pushed me back to the chalkboard, you know, grabbing these Bibles until they were all gone. I've never seen anything like it. You know, I I I just did not think that there would be this desperate rush for these You know, Bibles. But that's how dumb I was. You know, I was thinking like an American thing. You know, we have them all over. But I was in a place where people did not have a copy of Scripture. They did not have their own Bible. And there are other places like that in the world. But the challenge for us today is that we take it for granted. And we and when we come to God's house and the word of God is read, we listen half-heartedly. And there's not that reverence for the worship of God, the reading of the Word of God, the listening of the Word of God. We just don't treat it as reverently as we should, quite frankly. I think that sometimes when people come to church, they come like they're going to a ballgame. And they get up and there's all kind of rustling around and moving around and every little thing. Let me tell you something. Unless it's emergency, please sit still. Especially when the Word of God is being preached, not because I'm preaching it, because I'm a nobody, but God's Word is everything. And we need to we need to treat it with reverence. We need to listen when it's read, we need to listen when it's preached. Again, this is not self-serving, not because I'm doing it, because it is the very Word of God. And we need to get back to the simple reading, public reading of Scripture. You know, when I was over in Korea, I was honored to meet with uh the former president and CEO of LG. Um he's net he's retired from that. I didn't know that that was a Korea-based company, by the way. And I told him, I said, I have an LGTV, by the way. He said, Oh, thank you very much. Come some the da, thank you very much. But uh and and uh I also met with the uh ambassador to Thailand, the former ambassador of Thailand that represented South Korea. Both of these men now are co-presidents of a foundation called Grace and Mercy Foundation. It's a Christian foundation. And what they want to do is they they support the homeless. They want to help. They want to give. They're out there trying to really make a difference in the world. But Part of their foundation is they're starting a program called Prose. I was very interested. They were telling me all about this. You say, what is prose? Prose is an acrostic that stands for this: the public reading of Scripture. And the whole idea is that they get groups together just for one purpose, to hear the scripture read publicly. What a novel idea. And their whole verse that they base it on is this verse that we just read, 1 Timothy 4. 13, till I come, give attendance to reading. And I said, so what's the bot what's the bottom line? He says, well, we just bring groups together and we we let someone take five minutes and give the context of the passage. or the book that's going to be read and people sit for twenty or twenty-five minutes and just hear a dramatization It's it's reading of scripture, but it's done by professionals, and it's read very well, and they have s maybe some you know background noises and things that kind of put you there in the setting, but it's done very professionally, and it's just simply listening to The Word of God being read. Again, what a novel thing. And after they hear it read for about 20 or 25 minutes, people in the group just simply talk about what they've heard It's just, and they call it prose, the public reading of Scripture. And they said, we we do this because we have the conviction that the church has gotten away from this one simple thing. And we're encouraging churches to get together and just simply do this. And you know what I think they're right? I think we've gotten away from just simply reading the scripture publicly. So God's word needs to be a priority in the church. Read Scripture publicly, but here's number two. Preach Scripture clearly. Look again in verse 13. Till I come, give attendance to reading. And then notice the next phrase to exhortation. This term includes the exposition and application of Scripture. The passage that was just read. Give attention to reading, to exhortation, and then notice the next word, doctrine, and that that again is just simply teaching After you read the passage of Scripture, you just simply teach it, preach it, you expound it, you make it clear, you do it in a way where people can You explain what is read and you do it in a way where people can understand it. And again, this is because the the power is in the message of Scripture itself. If if we just understand what it says and the Holy Spirit helps us do that when we come to God's house ready to hear. Then we apply truth to life, and that's what changes us more into the image of Jesus Christ. So read scripture and then make it clear what it's saying. Just say what it means. Now, let me show you a pattern of this. Go into the Old Testament, go to the book of Nehemiah, and go to Nehemiah chapter 8 The book of Nehemiah, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Nehemiah. Alright. No, I'm just kidding. It's between Ezra and Esther. Go to the book of Nehemiah between the two e-books and uh Nehemiah chapter 8 is where I want us to look because it's a great passage of scripture. You know that Nehemiah was called by God to go back and rebuild the walls of Jerusalem because the people were going to be released from exile. They were going to go back and repatriate the land of Israel. But Nehemiah was also very concerned that there would be a spiritual renewal among God's people that were back in Jerusalem. So he calls in Ezra to lead this movement. Ezra is a spiritual leader, and what he does is he has this great assembly of people in front of him. That's where we find it here in Ezra, or excuse me, Nehemiah chapter 8. And from the pulpit, he is going to kind of Lead a revival and where does it start? It starts with simply reading the scripture. He simply reads God's word. Now, so notice this. We see the reading of it. Look in chapter 8, look in verse 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. So here's this assembly at the Watergate. This was a square on the east side of the city of Jerusalem. Archaeologists have discovered a uh this open area here, remnants of the gate. This was the Watergate was one of the centers of the city there. This was an appropriate place for a large crowd of people to gather together. And notice it says in verse 1 that they gather themselves together as one man into the street. That is, there's a unity of purpose here. The people are coming together. There's a desire to hear the Word of God. There's an excitement in the air about hearing the Word of God. And notice that this is a request from the people. They say to Ezra, bring the book. Bring the book. That is all the people are requesting this in verse number one. The they there in verse one is the people. Now remember in this day the people didn't have a copy of the Word of God, so they wanted to hear What the word said. And so the priests had the scrolls and they read it. Look at verse number two, where it says, And as are the priests brought the law before the congregation both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. And so picture in your mind here, families are gathered together. All those that could understand, as soon as a a child was able to understand, they were part of this, and they were there hearing the word of God read. And look at verse number three, and he read therein before the street that was Before the water gate, from the morning until when? Midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. From morning until midday. So um it seems like that service was longer than one hour to me, maybe That was a long time. Morning till midday. That's probably about from eight to twelve, maybe. Four hours. Would that be fair to say that? Let's just say three. All right. That's still a long service there. He read from dawn until noon day. Um, you know, I just kind of reference this because, you know, if if I start going over at twelve, I see people getting antsy. Getting up and starting to walk out, you know, and that sort of thing. You know, we're too busy, folks. You need to settle down, relax. All right. Whatever's in the oven will be fine. If it needs to burn, let it burn. You know You need to get to the restaurant before someone else. Look, just relax. Don't get antsy, you know. And notice in verse 3 it says, the people were attentive. Oh, that's great. Here's a long service and they didn't daydream. They didn't fall asleep. They were attentive, listening and t attentively. And notice that there was a reverence here. And verse 4 says, Azure the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose. The whole they made this big pulpit Where Ezra could be above the people. That was the whole purpose of it. And he reads the word of God to them. Look at verse 5. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people. For he was above all the people. He was here on this big pulpit. And when he opened it, all the people did what? Stood up. They all stood up. Now think about that. From dawn until midday, they stood up. Um and then here's Ezra, and he's reading the Word of God, and they're standing there the whole time. Think about that. I want everyone to stand up for the rest of this service. Come on, everybody, get up. No, I'm just kidding. For for all that time, they're just standing there. Why did they stand up? It was out of reverence for God's Word. It was out of respect and reverence for the Word of God, what they were hearing. Now some scholars estimate there were anywhere between thirty to fifty thousand people here at this assembly. That's a that's a good number of people And they believed what Ezra was giving them. This was, again, reverence and respect for God's word. They believed that they were hearing the very word of God. Later in the New Testament, Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, he said, this, in chapter 2, verse 13, For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye receive the Word of God, Which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believed And notice in verse 6, Ezra, after he opens the word and reads it, he blesses the people. Verse 6, and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen. With lifting up their hands, and they bowed their heads, and they worshiped the Lord with their faces to the ground. And so here is the reading of God's word. Here is the reverence that they had for the Word of God. But then there's what I call the revealing of God's Word, because in verses 7 and 8. What it describes are Levites who were there who helped the people to understand what they were reading. In verse 7, where it says that the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. Verse 8, so they read in the book of the law of God distinctly, and then watch this, and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. And so these were people that were there helping them to understand what they were hearing from the Word of God. Now Sometimes a faith theological seminar, I'll teach a class on expository preaching. Um in fact when I was in India and did that pastor seminar with about 60 pastors. The whole seminar was teaching them on expository preaching how to dig into scripture and give clearly the word of God I think aga that's what the churches need. But a verse that I use, it's kind of like the uh The verse that I use is right here in Nehemiah 8. 8. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Because that's really what expository preaching is. It's really right there in verse 8. It's just giving the sense, giving the understanding, giving the insight, causing them to understand. And there's some gaps of knowledge that have to be filled in. That's really what expository preaching is. It's just uh giving the context, making it clear, filling in all the gaps that people might have so that when they walk away they say, you know what, I understand this now. No. I got it. Because that's what God will use and the Holy Spirit will use in the hearts and lives of the people. Now you have to remember that These are people that just came out of exile. They came back to Jerusalem. And if the scripture were read, no doubt it was done in Hebrew. And some of the people perhaps were rusty in their understanding of Hebrew, or maybe there are certain things they didn't get or grasp, and that's why they were there. They were there to fill in those gaps of knowledge. And help them to fully, clearly understand what God's Word says. And that's really the job of a preacher, pastor I tell you know students all the time that's what homiletics means. Homiletics comes from two words, homo the same, letics to say, to say the same thing. Preaching is simply saying the same thing that God said I'm telling you what God said here in the scripture. I'm so thankful I said this last week. It's not my job to come up with a message. God's already given the message. I have to just simply give it to you and help you to understand what God has already said. You see, the church is not mine. It doesn't belong to any man. It belongs to Jesus Christ. He's the Lord of the church. And guess what? The Lord of the church wants to speak to his people. And he's able to do that when the word of God is made clear to his people, because that is how God speaks to his church. He speaks through the Word of God. There are some sections of the Bible that are difficult to grasp, so God has given to the church pastors, teachers to help them understand and apply the Word of God. to their heart and to their life. And that again is what I simply do is just simply make the scripture clear. Make God's word clear and you'll be blessed when it it you understand it. I think it was Mark Twain that said, you know, um it w he said it wasn't the sections of the Bible that he couldn't understand that troubled him. It's what he did understand that troubled him And again, if it troubles you, so be it. But as long as you understand what God says in His Word, that's why we have to get the meaning of the scripture right. It always irritates me when people say, well, that's your interpretation, but my interpretation is this. Listen, there's only one interpretation Alright? Only one. God had an intended meaning. You don't get to you choose your own interpretation of Scripture Because you're adding things to the Bible that God never intended. There's one clear meaning that we need to get at in the scripture, and that is the job of the pastor, teacher. to get at that clear meaning and for you to again to understand what that is. We don't have the uh liberty of saying, well this is what I think it means or this is what I say it means. It doesn't really matter what you think or say The question is, is what does God say? What did God intend to say in this passage? Alright? Clear enough on that? So let me just move on here. How do we make God's word a priority? We read Scripture publicly. We preach Scripture clearly. But here's number three. Meditate on Scripture diligently. Look at verse 15. Meditate on these things. Give thyself wholly to them. That thy propheting may appear to all. Meditate means to give serious consideration. Just it's the idea of continue to think about it. Meditating on God's word is so very, very important. Um because that's how we get it in into us. You know. Um I hear Christians all the time say, well, you know, I read through the Bible in a year, uh you know, I I did that, that's great, I'm glad you have that plan, you should do it But the question is not how many times have you been through the Bible, but how many times has the Bible been through you? Do you get it into your heart? Get it into your soul. Meditation is I call it spiritually digesting what the Word of God says. You know, what digestion is to the body, meditation is to the soul. And so it's not enough to come and just hear a sermon and then walk away and never think about it ever again. Or just, you know, let it go. Think about what God's word says and meditate on it. Again, this is a verse that you know very well, Joshua 1, 8. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. So there's three parts of this command. He says talk about it. When he says shall not depart out of that mouth, what he means is don't stop talking about scripture. Just continue to talk about the Word of God, you know, and then talk about it, think about it, meditate day and night Again, this is rolling it over in your mind again and again and again and again. That's what meditation means. Thinking about it over and over. And then also the word here is really also used to talk about a musical notation, like a song that plays over and over and over again. You know, also it's a word that means a pleasant reflection. But the whole idea is rolling it over in your mind, thinking about it continually, constantly. Why do we do that? So that we'll act upon it When you meditate, it becomes part of who you are, and then you begin to act it out. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Why? That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. You do the things that you think about Is that not true? The things that we think about, soon we begin to do. And the more you think about God's word and obedience to it, that is the key to you doing it The mind is such a powerful thing. What does the Bible say? As a man thinketh in his heart what? So is he. You are what you think about. And so when you think about God's word, it becomes a part of who you are. And so that's what meditation is. And Paul says to Timothy, look. Meditate on these things. Give yourself wholly to them, that your propheting might appear to all. But then this leads to the final point. We read scripture publicly, we preach scripture clearly, we meditate on scripture diligently, but here's number four, we practice scripture continually. And in verse 16, take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt Both save thyself and them that hear thee. So continue is the idea of continue in activity. For in doing this, you do these things. You act on these things. So the emphasis here is on doing, practicing. This is what it's all about. What does the Bible say in James? We're not just to come and be hearers of the word. But we're to be doers. There are a lot of people that just come in here and that's it. And uh they they they come to church and they listen to the sermon the same way they listen to a news broadcast. You know, after it's over, it's over. But we're not to just be hearers. We're to be doers. You know, in fact the word here, hearer, is translated actually means an auditor Or an to be or to audit is the idea there. You know, in and our seminary classes, if a person doesn't want to uh uh take a class for uh um a grade or, you know, actually try to get a degree, or they don't want to take all the tests and quizzes and do all the reading. They can just come and listen and not do anything else but just listen to the lecture. You know what they call that? Auditing the class They don't have to take any of the tests. They don't have to do any of the reading. They don't have to, you know, take the final exam. They just come and listen. That's it. And walk away. You know. And that's what the word hearer here means And some people come to church like that. They're auditors of the Christian life. They don't intend to be tested. They don't intend to actually do anything about it. They just want to come and hear. And James says, look, that's not what God's people are. In fact, not to repeat myself, but I feel like I'm a broken record sometime up here. What is the mark of a true believer? Obedience. That you live out what Scripture says. And that's James' whole point. You know, if you're a forgetful hearer and you're not a doer, then you've deceived yourself. Because God's people are those who put to practice what the Word of God says. So don't just come and listen and hear, and that's it. You have to Practice Scripture continually. So again, the whole point that Paul's giving to Timothy, look, make God's word a priority. Is God's word a priority? Is it a priority here? I thank God that when this church was started, it was started with the right priority, that God's word was to be central. The preaching of the word was to be preeminent. And that not only that, but we practice what it says. We obey what it says. That needs to be true in the church. That needs to be true in every life. And every life personally. Charles Fergion used to say that on the Bibles of some so-called Christians, there's enough dust on the cover that you can write in the words damnation. Pretty pretty pretty strong there. But he's right. May that never be said of us. May we put God's word in its rightful place. May we make it a priority. in our life. Let let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we uh we thank you for the word of God. And I ask you, Lord, that you would give us this great desire to learn it even more. Father, if One sign that I see in Scripture of backsliding is when we lose our excitement of the Word of God. And Lord, may that never be said of us. Because we know that it is through the scripture that we get to know you. This is the mirror that reflects your glory. And when we open the pages of this wonderful word of God, we see your glory reflected. And we grow into the new levels of glory. We grow spiritually. And so Lord, help it to be a priority in our own life. Help it to be a the the priority here in the church. May we always be the pillar and the ground of the truth. And so Lord, speak to hearts, and may we be people of the book. May we be like the Brian searching the scriptures continually to see whether these things are so. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name