If you take God's word tonight, please open to the book of Matthew, chapter 26. As you know, we are looking at the Passover at the Passion Week of Christ. uh in scripture. And we come now to a passage in Matthew chapter 26. And um so look at verse number one. And it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these things, he said to his disciples, Ye know that after two days is the feast of the Passover, and the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. Years ago when I was in London in England, I went to a place called Smithfield. Smithfield is a place where many preachers and Christians were burned at the stake under the reign of Queen Mary, who was called Bloody Mary because of all the people that she killed, she was trying to re-establish the Catholic faith in England at that time, and so thus many Protestants were burned at the state On in 1555, as part of her campaign, she arranged for a preacher by the name of John Philpot to be burned at the state And when the sentence was pronounced, Phil Pot basically said, I'm ready. He said, God get grant me strength and a joyful resurrection. And Philpot walked to the place of execution on his own. He didn't have to be dragged there. And when they brought him to the stake, he reached down, he knelt down, and then he kissed the stake on which he would be burned. Uh because he knew that that stake w would take him into the presence of his Savior. What a what a way to die. Now he could have saved his life if he simply renounced what he believed, renounced the the the doctrine about Jesus Christ. But here's a man who was faithful in the hour of trial. Not many people can be faithful like that And I have to ask myself a the question, what will I be that faithful to Jesus Christ during the hour of trial I think Matthew chapter 26 kind of forces us to ask that one question. Now, as I said, you know, we're studying the week of passion. Remember on Sunday night, la last Sunday night we talked about the triumphal entry which happened on Sunday, and we mentioned that briefly this morning, but this morning we also talked about what took place on Monday and Tuesday, and that was when the Lord cleansed the temple, and then he cursed the fig tree, and then on Tuesday he had a dispute with the religious leaders. And during that time Jesus gave three parables as we talked about this This morning, each of those parables was designed to show that he had divine authority. And and then also uh when you get to chapter twenty-three of Matthew That's one big long chapter where Jesus denounces the religious leaders. He talks about their hypocrisy and he pronounces woe on the scribes and the Pharisees. And then when you get to Matthew chapter 24 and chapter 25, this is where Jesus gives his great Mount Olivet discourse where he talks about his second coming and all those things that will be involved in the end days. And so that's all on Tuesday. That's a busy day for Jesus. All that took place on Tuesday. We uh on Wednesday, Jesus uh again he's staying in Bethany, he's going from Bethany back to Jerusalem and each day And then when we get to chapter 26, the events that are mentioned here in this chapter take place on Wednesday, Thursday, and then early, early Friday. when Jesus is uh is arrested. And so the these these events are now moving along. It's moving to a climax Uh chapter 26 of Matthew is a very long chapter. There's 72 verses in this one chapter because again it's describing all these events that are going to take place on Wednesday, Thursday, and then just early Friday But if I could summarize this chapter into one word, it would be this word, preparation. Preparation. Because this chapter is all about Jesus preparing for the greatest event that will take place thus far. in redemptive history and that is his crucifixion on the cross. Jesus becoming a t the atonement for our sins. And so Jesus prepares the disciples by telling them that in a few days I'm going to be crucified. And then also the woman in Bethany prepares Jesus for his death by anointing him with ointment. Judas prepares to betray Jesus by meeting with the chief priests, and they decide upon a price to betray Jesus. And then the disciples prepare for the Passover meal where where the Last Supper will take place and Jesus will institute the Lord's Supper there. And then also Jesus will prepare himself to go to the cross by praying in the Garden of Gethsemane. And these are all the things that take place here in chapter 26. Also there These these things take place in three different locations. In verses one to sixteen, the things that take place there are at a place called Bethany. And verses seventeen to thirty All the things that take place there are in the upper room. And then from verses 31 down to verse 56, it's at the Garden of Gethsemane. So three different locations in chapter twenty-six. But another way to view this chapter is through the lens of faithfulness to Christ. And what stood out to me as I studied this chapter was the different responses to this hour of trial. uh went that Jesus faced, the different responses from people around him during this crucial hour This was Jesus' hour. This was his time of trial. In fact, in verse 18 of chapter 26, Jesus says, My time is at hand. Again, this is the climax of all redemptive history. The Lamb of God is about to be sacrificed. And so this narrative reveals the many reactions of people as Jesus prepares to go to the cross. And again, I think it forces me to ask the question to myself and maybe to you as well. Would I remain faithful to Jesus during critical hours of trial? Well, so let us look at the different responses. Let's look at these events and let's look at the different responses from different people as these events begin to unfold and Jesus moves closer to First of all, there's the religious leaders. And this teaches me that some will plot against Jesus. Look in verse number one again. When it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these things, that is everything I was telling you about, all the parables, all the uh the denouncing the the the sc the scribes and the Pharisees, his discourse on the Mount Olive, all that was finished. Jesus says to his disciples, verse 2, you know that after two days is the feast of the Passover, and the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. Again, this is Wednesday now. Jesus here speaks of his own demise. In these first two verses, he tells us what's going to happen. He tells the disciples what's going to happen. And what this indicates is that Jesus is in complete control. He knows exactly what's going on here. Everything is happening according to the divine timetable. Everything is right on schedule. In fact, he already told his disciples three times before that he was going to the cross to be crucified. He already told them about that. He's been trying to prepare them for this event for a while. But here he says it again. Up until this time there were so many people who sought to kill Jesus, but they were unable to do it. Why? Because his time had not yet come. And God the Father would not allow that. The Jewish leaders have been plotting his death. They've been plotting his death soon after he began his public ministry because he was such an offense to their religion. But they were never able to fulfill their intention. But now the hour has come. And uh just to show you how true these words are, Matthew then, in the very next verses almost as if to say, you know, Jesus these words were prophetic, begins to describe what's taking place. Look at verse three. Then assembled together the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people under the place of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas. And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. But they said, not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people. And so right when Jesus says this, right after that, Matthew says, hey, by the way, these religious leaders assemble together at the house of a man. who was named Caiaphas. Now, according to Josephus, the Jewish historian, this high priest, his full name was Joseph Caiaphas He was treacherous, he was deceitful, he was connizing. Every passage in the New Testament where it mentions him is shows where he was seeking the death of Jesus The Sanhedrin were assembled together there at the house of Caiaphas for one purpose. They wanted to know how they could get their hands on Jesus. They wanted to know how they could kill him. This this group, they just want to get rid of him. They just want to get rid of Christ. They just want him out of the way because he's such a disruption to their lives. He's such a disruption to their false religion, their empty religion And uh besides that, they don't want to submit to his authority, as we saw earlier. But and but they also saw the popularity of Jesus. They saw that the people really, really um were uh you know i I I should say I shouldn't say love them, but love Christ, but he was very very well known. Because we know a lot of people their their faith was superficial, and yet there were so many people that just seemed to ad admire Jesus and so they were very careful how They wanted to grab Christ, they wanted to uh somehow get their hands on him, but they wanted to wait until after the Passover There were about upwards of one million people in Jerusalem at that at this time. If they didn't take them secretly, maybe a riot would break out among the people And so they were trying to figure out how they could get their hands on the Lord. And by the way, the world is still plotting against Christ even today. Especially around these times when we have these kind of celebrations where we celebrate the the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Always you see these on TV, there's always a backlash of all these documentaries that try to tell you that Jesus wasn't who he said he was. And uh all these attacks against the person and the nature of Christ. And we shouldn't be surprised at that because the Bible says the kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. So this doesn't surprise us. So the religious leaders are plotting against him. But then there's another scene that we see here. The woman in Bethany, and we see this in verses 6 down to verse 13. And this reminds me that some will worship him. The next scene. Put right after this scene is such a contrast. In the first scene, it's such a dark scene. These guys are coming together, figuring out how they could kill Christ. But in the next scene, it's total opposite. Again, this is on Wednesday. Here's a woman that steps forward and she demonstrates loving worship to Christ. This is the kind of worship Jesus deserves. So notice the expression of worship. Look down at verse 6. Now, when Jesus was in Bethany and the house of Simon the leper. So again, Jesus is in Bethany here, which is not far from Jerusalem, near the Mount of Olives. He was invited to the home of Simon the leper for supper. Why, well, Jesus had healed Simon of his leprosy, and in gratitude for that deliverance, Simon has Jesus over for a meal. Now in John's gospel we learn that also at this supper there was Mary that was there, there was Martha, and there was also Lazarus who was there. And look at verse 7. There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment and poured it on his head as he sat at meat. So during the supper a woman, Matthew doesn't identify her. John's gospel, however, tells us that this woman's name was Mary. This was Mary who was there. She came to Jesus. She had an alabaster vial. This was like a little bottle that would have a thin neck on it Whether you would they would keep costly perfume. And Jesus was uh was reclined. You have to remember back then when they would eat, well, you know, today we we pull up a chair to the table, but that's not the way they would do it back then. They would have pillows uh uh on the floor around a U-shaped type table and when you ate you would recline on your elbow. Normally you would be leaning down, kind of leaning back, reclining on your elbow and eating with, you know, your one one hand was you know, putting the food to your mouth, the other hand you were reclining on the elbow, and that was kind of a real relaxed way of eating. And so while Jesus was There at the table and he was doing having supper with the rest, the Bible tells us that this woman, uh, she anoints Jesus. Verse 7 again, having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at me. Now why did she do this? Anointing was was really an important custom for uh guests. In fact, when you had someone over to your home for a meal, you there was always two things you would do. A servant would normally wash the person's feet, and then there would be someone that would anoint them with with this ointment, anoint them with oil. We could kind of compare it to cologne You know, just anoint them with this oil. Remember in Psalm 23 where the psalmist said, Thou anointest my head with what? Oil. He was talking about a banquet there, a feast. And I'm the special guest of the Lord at this banquet, and he anoints my head with oil, because that was the custom at that time. But what she does is very unprecedented. She doesn't just take a little bit and anoint him with this costly ointment. She takes the whole bottle of this imported perfume worth over a year's wage. And she pours all of it on Jesus. She didn't pour some of it on him. She didn't pour a third of it, or half of it, or three-quarters of it. She poured all of it on the Lord Jesus. Spurgy said that the beauty of this woman's act consisted in this, that it was all for Christ. All of this was for Christ. And no doubt when she poured This this perfume on Jesus, this ointment, the whole house then exploded with this beautiful fragrance. And in this symbolic gesture of poor pouring this ointment on Jesus, she was saying, There has never been any one more important than Jesus. Again, you know, when a person, a guest would come to your home, the more important they were, the better you treated them, the more you would anoint them. And by pouring the whole bottle on Jesus, she was saying, there's never been anyone more worthy, more important. Than Jesus Christ. And in this gesture, she's basically saying that she believes that Jesus is the Son of God. She believes that He's the Savior. She worships Him. And by the way, when we combine this of this this uh event, if we look at the other gospels and kind of pull from them to see put all the pieces together, what happened? We learned that she anointed not only his head, but also his feet. And then she wiped his feet with her hair. That's according to the the Gospels. The Bible says a woman's hair is her what? Is her glory, right? And so she surrendered her glory to the Lord, and she worshipped him with the precious gift that she brought. This was an act of love and devotion, an incredible act of worship on the part of this woman. And she's basically saying, just like I I break this alabaster vial. She kind of broke the thin neck and poured it all out. She's basically saying, I am broken and I am pouring out my whole self before you I'm giving my whole self to you in worship. That's what worship is all about. It's all about we giving our whole self, our whole being, over to the Lord. And that's what she does. But also another thing about anointing was anointing was would take place before burial. In this day, Jews would anoint someone before their burial. The body was anointed with uh perfumes and oils and spices before it was placed into a grave. So after a person died and before they were buried, they were anointed with all these costly perfumes and spices. And that would kind of cover up kind of the corruption that took place. And she accepted the fact that he was going to die. She had listened to Jesus' words. She knew what the Lord said was going to happen. She knew that he was going to die, that he was going to be buried. She also knew that he was going to come out of that grave After three days she believed his words. Some believe that this Mary was the same Mary that was the brother of Lazarus. Jesus had resurrected her brother Lazarus. If Jesus can raise Lazarus from the dead, he can certainly come out of that grave, right? And so she knew all that. And so she thought that his body would not need the traditional care after death, where you take all these ointments and you put it on the body, because his body would not see corruption. So instead of anointing his body after death, she anoints his body before death. Why waste the perfume after death? His body won't need it then. Why not use it as an act of worship before he dies? So in an act of faith, an act of loving out adoration and worship. She anoints Jesus with this costly perfume. It is all used up for Jesus. There's nothing left but a broken bottle. All of it's for him. And the question we need to ask ourselves, are we willing to give all for Jesus? All. Now, we see the expression of worship. But on the heels of it, we have to look at this expression of waste. Look at verse number eight. But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? The response of the disciples was surprising. So obviously they're there at dinner too. And when they see this They understand the value of this perfume. They know how costly it is. They knew how expensive. And so they say, to what purpose is this? I mean, this seemed like a waste. Look at verse number nine. For this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor. I mean we could have sold this ointment and we could have taken the money and we could have used it for the poor. What better use for the money? The one behind this was really Judas, according to John's Gospel. He was the one who investigated who basically instigated, I should say, this response. Uh, you know, oh we could we could have used this money and given it to poor people. Well the only poor person he was thinking about was himself. You say, how do you know that? Well write down in your margin John 12, 6. He said this talking about Judas. He said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having ch having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put in it. How'd you like to have a treasure that helped himself to the treasury whenever he wanted to? And that's what Judas was. Judas would help himself, and when he saw this costly ointment, he was thinking, oh man, I wish I'd have had that money I could have used that for myself. And Jesus rebukes them in verse 10. And when Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she has wrought a good work upon me. For ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always. For in that she hath poured disointment on my body. She did it for my burial Worship is the highest, most supreme service a Christian can offer to Jesus. Nothing that you pour out at the feet of Jesus is a waste. And so we see then this beautiful, beautiful act of worship by Mary, uh of poor of giving her all So we see the religious leaders and they're plotting against Jesus. We see this beautiful act of worship for Mary and Bethany, and she worships him. But then we see another character that comes on the scene in chapter 26, and that's Judas. And this reminds us that some will betray Christ. This is the next scene that takes place. This is at the Passover now. Now we have to fast forward. Now we're here on Thursday. This is Thursday. Look at verse 14 Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went unto the chief priests, and said unto them, What will ye give me that I will deliver him unto you? And they coveted with him for thirty pieces of silver. So, before the Passover meal, this is uh this is Thursday morning, and Judas goes to These uh gathering together these religious leaders, the Sanhedrin. Perhaps they're still at the house of Caiaphas, and he knows they're there, and he goes there for the specific purpose of negotiating a price. For Jesus. How he can help them put Jesus into their hands. And they settle on a price. The Bible says that they do it for thirty pieces of silver, verse 15 We see this. So from that moment on Judas was looking for an opportunity To betray Jesus, to put him into the hands of these men. Look at verse 16. From that time he sought opportunity to betray him. Judas was called to be one of Christ's disciples. He was named an apostle like the others. According to Matthew chapter 10, verses 1 to 4, he received power to heal. And he probably used that power. What does that tell us? A sign that you're truly a believer is not your ability to do miracles. Because Judas could do them. But what's the proof positive that you are a true disciple of Jesus Christ? Obedience Loyalty to Christ, obedience to his word. Remember what Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount? He said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he who does what? The will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name cast out devils? Here will some will come before the Lord and say, Hey, wait a minute. I had the power of God on my life. I was able to do all these things. That's not a sign that you're a true child of God He said, then when I profess unto them, I never knew you depart from me. Judas is an illustration of that very thing here. He was associated with Christ, but he was never a true believer. Uh and so this is this is a fearful thing. Like many professing Christians today, Judas was in a group of believers and he associated with believers but he was not really one of them at all So we see then the preparation and look at verse 17. Now the first day of the feast of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the Passover? And so now they're getting the upper room ready for the Passover. In verse 18, he said, Go into the city to such a man and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them, and they made ready the Passover. Now when even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And verse 21, and as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you that one of you shall betray me. So they get the room ready for the Passover meal. Jesus is sitting down with them at the Passover meal, and here we have the prediction. They're having an enjoyable meal. They're probably having a good time together. Uh you ever you ever have a meal together, everyone's having a good time, and then someone says, you know, there's something we gotta talk about? Kind of changes the mood in the room. Everybody gets silent. And you're thinking, do we have to do this right now? We have to talk about this. Well, this was the time. This was the time that Jesus had to bring this up in verse 21, when he says, Verily I say unto you that one of you shall betray me, the word betray, paradidomai, literally to turn over. to hand over, like delivering a prisoner over to the authorities. Again, this was all in keeping with God's divine timetable. This was the time to bring it up. And this grieved the disciples when Jesus Jesus told him this. Look at verse 22. And they were exceedingly sorrowful. And began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? They began with their own self-evaluation. Lord, is it I? Maybe this is where we get the origin of examining ourselves at the Lord's Supper. They were they were examining their own heart. They began to say, Lord, is it I? They never suspected Judas. I mean you don't suspect the treasurer, right? I mean the guy you trust to hold the money You don't suspect someone like that. And so they began to discuss among themselves who it was, but they don't suspect you Judas I imagine they may have been talking or pointing fingers to each other. You know, at one point they were talking about who was the greatest. Now they're talking about who's the guiltiest. And then they asked Jesus, you know, Lord, you know, is it I? And then look at verse 23. This really doesn't help much, but he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. Well they all put their hand in the dish. I mean they're still wondering, Lord, can it be me? So part of the Passover meal was that they would take pieces of unleavened bread and bitter herbs and they would dip it into this dish which was a with a mixture of of fruits and and fruit sauces and nuts. And uh but again all of them have kind of put their hand into the dish there. But look at verse number twenty-four. I call this the uh um the the uh prophecy, then the Son of Man goeth as it is written of him, but woe unto him, woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had been good for that man if he had not been born. So Jesus puts his betrayal into divine perspective when he says, the Son of Man goeth as it is written of him. Goeth here means to die. It is written, it is prophesied, the Son of Man is going to die, therefore he needs to be betrayed. This has all been written down in Scripture aforetime. But woe unto that man to whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It'd been better for that person that he not been born. And here Jesus is quoting from Psalm 41. 9. It was a record in the Old Testament prophecy that the Messiah would be betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. Later in John, Jesus prayed. He said, Lord, Father, I've kept all of them except one who is the son of perdition that the scripture might be fulfilled. And so this betrayal had been written in The pages of divine prophecy from beforehand. God would use Judas to accomplish his Purpose. Now this leads some people to reason and say, Well now wait a minute, this was already prophesied by God that Judas would do this. That means that He shouldn't be held accountable for this because God said it was going to happen all the way back and this was all part of God's plan, his sovereign plan. That makes Judas not responsible, right? Wrong Judas did what he wanted to do. Judas did what he chose to do of his own free agency, yet what Judas chose to do was according to God's plan. And he was guilty. This is again another illustration of where the sovereignty of God and the free agency of men were they're both equally true in this passage, and how they work out together, I'm I'm not really sure. I just know this. This was prophesied, this was predicted, and ages past that this that Jesus would be betrayed, and Judas he chose to do what he did out of his own evil heart And yet what he chose to do fulfilled the plan of God, and he was held accountable for the choice that he made. He was responsible for that choice, and yet at the same time It was the fulfillment of prophecy. And so he's accountable. That's why Jesus says in verse twenty-four, Woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed it'd be better for him that he not been born. And so we see this idea of concurrence right here. But then look at verse 25. Then Judas which betrayed him answered and said, Master, is it I Now he wanted to blend in. Everybody was saying, is it I, is it I, is it I? Judas said, Well I better play along here. Master, is it I? What a hypocritical thing. He had already accepted the money. He had already made the deal with the religious leaders. That was already settled. And Jesus responds, thou hast said. That is to say, you've said it with your own mouth, Judas You've just condemned yourself. And some of the other disciples probably didn't hear that exchange because Peter will ask John to question Jesus more about it. John was very close to Jesus, the one who leaned on Jesus. You know, at the at the supper, John said, I'm the one who leaned on Jesus' breath. So evidently he was leaning back and Jesus was right there. So he was seated right next to him. And so So Jesus basically uh identifies Judas with those words here And Judas goes out and he betrays Jesus. In fact, in John 13, 27, it says, after the Sop, Satan entered into him. That is, after Judas took the unleavened bread and dipped it. The Bible says Satan entered into him. And then Jesus said to him, What thou doest, do quickly, and he left to betray Jesus. Some will betray him Sad to say there are many people in churches like Judas. They they they they look the same, they they seem like they're trustworthy, uh they blend in well, but their heart is not for Christ. Christ. They have other reasons to be a part of the group. They have their own agenda. And they're a branch, but they're not connected to That's why the scripture warns us all repeatedly to examine ourselves to make sure that we are in the faith. But then here's the last group. So we see the religious leaders, they're plotting against Jesus. Mary and Bethany, she's worshiping him. Judas, he's plotting and planning to betray him and does betray him. But then we see the disciples, and here we see them failing the Lord. We see this in verses 26 down to verse 35. After Judas leaves the Lord, the Lord institutes what we now know as the Lord's Supper. It was the Passover meal, but now Jesus is instituting out of that the Lord's Supper. In verse 27, And he took the cup and he gave thanks and he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, for this is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many by the remission, for the remission of sins So he he gives thanks. The Bible says in verse 27 the word thanks here is Eucharisto, where we get the word Eucharist. That's why some people call the Lord's sufferer the Eucharist. And verse 28 he said, This is my blood of the New Testament, shed for the remission of sins. And so here is this Last Supper. Jesus is kind of shutting down the old covenant. With all the Old Testament feasts and shadows, and he ushers in the new covenant with his own blood that will be shed. And then we see after that the song. Look at verse number 30. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out into the Mount of Olives. This is the hill overlooking Jerusalem, so they could look down and see the city. And Jesus, knowing what was to come, wanted again to prepare his disciples. He wanted to warn them. about what was going on. So this is what I call the stumbling. Look at verse number thirty one. Then said Jesus unto them All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. The word offended here is scandalizo, where we get the word scandal. Or to fall away. It actually means a snare or a stumbling block. It was always used kind of metaphorically that way in the New Testament. Jesus was saying, look, you're going to stumble tonight. You're going to fall. He knew that they would be afraid to associate him during that hour of trial Jesus knew his disciples were going to desert him. And so he quotes from an Old Testament prophet. He's quoting here from Zechariah 13:7: I will strike down the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. And so just as the betrayal of Judas was prophesied in Scripture, even so the failure of the disciples during this hour trial, that was also prophesied in Scripture. In fact, in a short time after this, Jesus will be arrested in the Garden of Gethsemane. And the disciples, you know what? You know what happens to them? They scatter. Just like the Bible says. The Bible says in verse 56, then all the disciples forsook him and fled. But here Jesus warns them about it, and then I call this the shock. They're in shock to hear this. Jesus knows what they're made of. By the way, He knows what you're made of, what I'm made of. He knows what we're going to do. He knows better than we do what we will do. And when they fail the Lord, it doesn't surprise them. It doesn't surprise them when we fail them because he knows that we're dust. He knows our frame. Now Peter comes along. And look at verse 33. And Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. Here Peter again finds it necessary to correct Jesus on a few things. Lord, I'm not like the rest of these guys. Are you going to put me in the same level as these other guys? Come on, Lord, you know me. I I I'm I'm a c I'm a cut above these guys. You know that. Though all these others are gonna stumble. I I I believe you, Lord, when you say these other guys are gonna fall away. I I really believe that But not me. Surely you don't mean me. I mean you talk about pride here. Not only is Peter expressing his own self-confidence and presumption, he's correcting Jesus It takes a lot of gumption to correct Jesus and then to go against the scripture which already prophesied. That this was going to happen. Peter knew better than all of them. This is the worst form of pride. Peter says, I cannot fail. I'm too strong for this. Spurgeon says, he who thinks himself so much stronger than his brethren is the very man who will prove to be weaker than any of them. And notice Jesus' response And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice. What did Jesus mean be when he said, before the cock crow? Well Jesus would be arrested that night. Actually it would be early Friday morning. He'll be taken to trial and condemned. So this would happen happened during the night hours. It's late Thursday night. They kind of make their way up to the Garden of Gethsemane. I should say down to the Garden of Gethsemane. If they're on the Mount of Olives, they're kind of coming down. And by this time, uh it's it's earlier in the morning hours. Actually, it's probably around twelve midnight when they're at the Mount of Olives. And then um so and just and Jesus was probably saying this to them right around midnight And he's saying to Peter, Peter, in just a few hours before the cock shall crow, you're going to deny me three times. In just a few hours, Peter, you're going to deny me. Now most people think that a rooster crows at dawn when the sun comes up right at dawn. And I want to tell you that that's not true. I can tell you this by experience. I remember once I was in Africa preaching in Uganda, and I was staying in this place, this this place they put me, it was not five-star, and um And uh right outside my window was a rooster. And I want you to know that Every morning at three o'clock, he went off. And he went off for three hours. From three to six. I mean if I had a gun I I didn't know how to turn that alarm clock off. A rooster doesn't crow right at dawn. He he starts a lot earlier. Did you know that the Jews divided the night into four parts? There was evening. Evening was six till nine. And then midnight was from 9 to 12. And then there was the cock crow, they called it. That was from 12 to 3 a. m. And then there was from the morning was from 3 a. m. to 6 a. m. So here Jesus is saying, you know, if it's twelve midnight when he tells them that, he said, look, before this section of time is up, before the cockro is up, you're going to deny me three times Again, that had to be a shock to Peter. Peter didn't want to believe it. Look at verse number 35. And Peter said to him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. And likewise also said all the disciples. The disciples this night were about to learn a very valuable lesson. They were about to learn how weak they really were. That's a good lesson for all of us to learn. How weak we really are. Two great knowledges, the knowledge of God and the knowledge of yourself. And they're about to learn something about themselves. You know what we need to learn? We don't have the strength. We can't remain faithful in the hour of trial on our own. And the moment we think we can do it, you know what? We're done. We won't be able to do it. We need his help, or we'll surely fail. Without him, we can do nothing. Without him, we will surely fall. So we have to recognize our weakness, and when we recognize our weakness, that's strength. Because then we learn to depend upon the Lord. I'm so glad that Jesus doesn't cast us aside when we fail. But yet he remains faithful even though we are not faithful. And that's another beautiful thing that this whole chapter brings out. Even though the disciples are faithless, Jesus remains faithful. And he always will be. It's with them we come to the Garden of Gethsemane in verse 36 Where he tells the disciples, you know, sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him verse thirty-seven Peter and his two sons of Zebedee, and became sorrowful, very heavy. And verse 38, then saith he unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. And so here they come to this beautiful garden. filled with olive trees. In fact, Gethsemane is a word that actually means olive press. This garden would probably have walls around it with a gate and An olive press there, no doubt. And this was a place where uh Jesus goes to pray. And he takes with him Peter, James, and John. And the Bible says he's sorrowful. This is deep grief. The word actually means sorrow surrounded by sorrow. This is a difficult time for Jesus. The Bible says in Luke 22, 44, that he sweat drops of blood as he prayed. That's intense prayer that Jesus prays. And look at verse number verse 39. Which says, and he went a little farther and he fell on his face and prayed, saying, Oh my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from thee. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt You know, when I read this verse as a younger believer, it first seemed to me like Jesus was reluctant to do this. And it dawned on me in studying this is that this was simply the right response of holiness. He was completely holy. And here he is going to bear the cup of sin of the whole world. This is the natural response of holiness to sin, to shrink back from sin. We would expect that from someone who is completely holy. This doesn't show any weakness in Christ. It shows strength because he was determined, despite that, he was determined to do the will of God because he said, nevertheless, what? Not my will. But thine be done. What this reveals is the absolute, total, complete determination of Jesus to do the Father's will and go to the cross, despite the fact that bearing sin was This a holy person bearing sin was something that was a horrible thing. A horrible thought, and yet he was absolutely committed He doesn't shrink back from obeying the Father. He doesn't shrink back from loving us. He doesn't shrink back from fulfilling the plan of redemption. He shrinks back from the idea of carrying all the sin and being separated in that moment of time from the Father. Which is again a response we would expect from someone who's completely holy. Look at verse 40. Jesus asked the disciples to pray, but when he comes out, he finds them asleep. And then in verses 42 to verse 44, he prays and he finds them asleep the second time and then a third time. And so again, we see the weakness of the disciples over against the faithfulness. And so, again, there's a lot more I could say, but we need to wrap it up. And by the way, we're gonna on f uh Friday, we'll get into what happens early Friday morning and then that day of course when our Lord is crucified on Good Friday. But this is up until this point, this is now Thursday into early Friday morning. Jesus is at the Garden of Gethsemane. He's praying, and while he's there at the Garden of Gethsemane, another event is going to happen. They're going to come and they're going to arrest Jesus there in the garden. And we'll talk about that on Good Friday. and uh kind of finish the passion week uh on Easter. Let's let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, as we again we come before you, Lord, we we just thank and praise you for your faithfulness. Lord, in all that you do for us. And we see in these beautiful narratives in the Gospels, Lord, how you just remain faithful to the task. Of being our sin bearer. And how all things, Lord, were according Father, according to your divine timetable, this whole week. So that we could have salvation, so that we could be forgiven for our sins and have eternal life. It's it Lord Father, it just amazes us to see your beautiful plan of redemption come to pass. How we thank you for Jesus. Thank you, Lord, for the cross. Thank you, Lord, that he was willing to be our sin bearer. And Lord, may we never think lightly. In fact, every day that passes we sh should be drawn into even more wonder, love, and praise that we're saved. And that Christ bore our sins. May we stay focused on the cross May we, like the Apostle Paul, boast in nothing except the cross. God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray in his precious, wonderful name. Amen.