This is a passage I'm sure you know very well. But I want to Preach to you out of this again, and I want to talk about the comfort of his coming. The comfort of his coming. Our Lord Jesus Christ is coming again. And it's a comfort to know that. And I want to tell you why. I love the doctrine of the second coming of Jesus Christ. I love it because God the Father loves it. He has much to say in the Bible about the second coming. In the Bible, this doctrine is not incidental, friend. It is fundamental. There are two chords that run through the Bible. There is the scarlet cord of blood redemption and there is the golden cord of Christ's second coming. From beginning to end, it speaks about the second coming of Christ. I love it because the early church loved it. You know, early church Christians often spoke to one another about the second coming of Jesus Christ. They were comforted by it. I think it was um Alexander McLaren said that they were not looking for a cleft in the ground called a grave. They were looking for a cleft in the sky called glory. They were not looking for the undertaker. They were looking for the what? It was Alexander McLaren that first said that, the great Spottish, uh Scottish expositor. I love the doctor of the Second Company because Satan hates it. Because I want to tell you something, dear friend, when Jesus Christ returns again, Satan is going to get the longest prison sentence on record. And I hope it's with hard labor. I love it because Satan hates it. So we are on a collision course with destiny and we dare not be ignorant of the truth of the second coming. Now the signs of this coming are all around us. If you read in the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus lists the signs of his coming. He calls them the birth pains. When a woman is having birth pains, what does that tell you? A baby's coming. And Jesus said, All around us are the birth pains of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And friend, it's happening all around us. I'm not looking for a sign anymore, I'm listening for a shout. Behold, the bridegroom comes. Go ye out to meet him. And the last prayer of the Bible is this, even so come Lord Jesus. He can come, friend, at any moment. At any moment. Before we finish this Sunday. I would be okay with that. Before we finish this service, Jesus could dismiss this service for us. Before I finish this sermon, he could come. Before I finish this sentence. Jesus can come at any moment. So friend, with all that in mind, I want you to look in First Thessalonians chapter four Because in this passage here, the Apostle Paul writes about the second coming. And let me give you a little background in this letter to the Thessalonians. went to this city, it's recorded in the book of Acts, chapter 17. An incredible thing happened there as Paul came preaching the gospel. He only spent three week weeks there, and the Bible says on three Sabbaths he was teaching and preaching out of the word and and there was just a revival that took place there. Many believers got saved and came to know the Lord Jesus Christ and there was a dramatic turn. But you know, right there close to Thesmonica was a mountain called Mount Olympus. That was the supposed resident of the Greek gods. if you believe Greek mythology. And uh and so many people were given over to idolatry in that region because they believed in those idols. But look in First Thessalonians chapter one real quick as I introduce the letter to you. When Paul came there preaching the word of God, uh notice what happened to them. Look at verse eight, for from you sounded out the word of the Lord Not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God were to spread abroad, so that we need not speak any uh to speak anything. For they themselves show of us what manner of energy we had unto you. Listen to this, how that ye turned to God from idols to serve the living. And the true God in verse 10 is away for his son from heaven. When Paul preached the word of God, they heard the gospel, they were saved, and you know what happened? They made a dramatic turn. And by the way, that's what the word repentance means, isn't it? You just you're headed this way down the road and you hear the gospel and suddenly you turn from sin in the world and you turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul said of these Thessalonians, they turn to God from their idols. And so God did a mighty work, so much so that people all over Macedonia and the early part of the the world there They heard about what was happening there. Paul said, from you sounded out the word of God. That word sounded out there is where we get our word. The Greek word is where we get our word echo. From you echoed out The Word of God. You know, there was a major highway that went through Thessalonica called the Ignatian Way, and people would just travel through that city. And they would hear what was going on, and no matter where they went, east or west, they were telling the world about something was happening there. Because they had received the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, friends, when you receive Jesus, people should see a change. And others should know about it. That's what happened here with these believers. But however, there was a problem. Because Paul taught them about the doctrine of the second coming, but many of them became confused about that. You see, they knew Jesus was coming. And they were watching for his coming, they were waiting for his coming, but in that time, many of their loved ones had died And so that caused some of them to despair. You know why? Because they thought that perhaps their loved ones would miss the second coming of Jesus. And so they were in despair. Look in chapter 4, look in verse number 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant. Brethren. Now, when Paul says ignorance there, he's not being mean. He's just saying you just don't know. I don't want you to be unknowing about the truth. You know, a lot of times we despair simply because we don't know what the Bible says And Paul is going to replace their ignorance with education in the Word of God. Someone said education is costly, but ignorance is far more costly. And so Paul is going to teach them about the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now with that in mind, I want you just to see two basic truths. that he's going to give them that will bring comfort to them, and I pray that God will use it to bring comfort to you today. through the power of his Holy Spirit. Here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down. Number one, the evidence that affirms his coming. Just write that down. The evidence that affirms his coming. Look in chapter 4 and look again at verse number 13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. that you sorrow not, even as others which have no hope. Look at verse 14. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with them. Now, how can we know with certainty that Jesus is coming back? How can we know that? You know, people say, well, preacher, I hear you talk about the coming of Christ. How can you know that? I'll tell you how we can know it, friend. Just write down his saving work, his resurrection. Look at verse 4. If we believe that Jesus died and rose again. That word it there, you might want to just circle that. We can literally say it like this, since we believe. Since we believe the gospel, since we believe that Jesus died and rose again. You see, here's the point. The resurrection of Jesus is the foundation of my certainty that he's coming back again. Now, friend, I don't know about you, but I believe Jesus came out of that grave, don't you? And that is the foundation since I know that he came out of that grave. This is Paul's logic here. I know that he's going to come again. The resurrection is proof of his return. The same God who raised his son Jesus from the dead, one day, friend, is going to raise all of us out of the grave. That is, if we die before Jesus comes. He will raise all of us out of the grave. You see, you know, sometimes when you talk about the the the return of the Lord, you know, people they kind of give you a kind of a sympathetic smile. Oh yeah, I know you believe that. But you know all that's just supernatural they say. Well, the resurrection was supernatural. And friend, the the second coming is supernatural. It is in the Bible, and you can't get it out. Did you know that in the Old Testament Israel had a feast called the Feast of the First Fruits? You know what they would do there? They would go into the field and they would take a sheath of the grain that had ripened first. And they would take that sheath and they would bring it to the altar and lay it on the altar, and it was their way of s thanking God for what was to come. Later on they would go and celebrate the bounty. But you see, the first fruits was a sign that the harvest was going to come Now the Bible says this in 1 Corinthians 5 22, for as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive, but every man after his order, listen to this, Christ the first fruits Afterward, they that are Christ at his coming. Do you see it? Christ is the first fruits of the resurrection. And now we're going to be the main harvest. And when will that happen? At the second coming of Jesus. You know when Jesus comes again? He rips open the skies and it comes. You know what's going to happen to those that are in the grave that are, the Bible says, asleep in Jesus And the reason the Bible calls it sleep is because just as sleep has its waking, death will have its resurrection if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. And and the Bible says they're going to be taken out of the graves. Let me tell you something, friend, every graveyard is going to look like a plow field. Because those that are asleep in Jesus, the Bible says God is going to raise them from the dead. And you see, our salvation is not complete until that happens. You know, we're saved, we're justified now, and then we're being sanctified. One day we will be glorified. You see, our salvation will not be complete until that step of glorification happens. And when will that happen? That will happen when Jesus Christ comes again. So we see, first of all, then his saving work But then also write down his sure word. Look again in verse 15. But for this we say unto you, by the what? The word of the Lord. How do I know? Jesus is coming again because of his saving work. The resurrection is proof of his return. But also, friend, we have his sure word. You see, this inspired word, that's how I know It tells me that Jesus is coming. Did you know that one-third of all the Bible speaks about the second coming of Jesus Christ? The Old Testament and the New Testament end with this promise, He is coming again. uh liberal theologians say, well you can't get that out of the Bible, and another preacher snapped back and he said, that's right, it's in the Bible, and you can't get it out. It's in there and you can't get it out. It's just there, friends. So there is the evidence that affirms his coming. But then write down number two. There are the events that accompany his coming. You say, what's going to happen when Jesus comes? Look at verse 16. For the Lord Himself Shall descend from heaven. Just mark that. Think about this. The majesty of his return. The Lord Himself is going to come. Now there are certain theologians who try to explain away the second coming. They say, well, that's talking about when the Holy Spirit comes. at Pentecost. That's what this is referring to. Or they say some say it's when you die, or some say it's uh an event in history. And they're trying to explain this away. But now listen. The Bible says this in Acts 1. 11, this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. You say what are you saying? Well let me ask you a question. How did Jesus go to heaven? How did he ascend? He ascended literally, physically, bodily. How's Jesus going to come again when he comes? Literally, physically, bodily. The Lord Himself is going to come. Isn't that wonderful? And no, listen, Jesus himself is going to come to receive you and to receive me. There is the majesty of his return, but also mark down the miracle of our resurrection. Look at verse 16, for the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, and the voice of the archangel with a trumpet of God. And notice this, and the dead in Christ shall rise First. Now the word prevent in verse 15 shall not prevent them is a word we can say proceed. In other words, those who are asleep in Jesus, they're going to go first. And then the rest of us who are alive and remain. And so God is going to bring with him. And so this is the resurrection of God's people. We're going to have a resurrection day, dear friend, one day when Jesus Christ returns. This body may be laid in the grave. Our soul will be as Jesus in heaven. But one day when Jesus comes back, those saints in heaven will will kind of be there with them, and then there'll there'll be a resurrection and body and soul will be reunited, we'll get a brand new, glorified body at that time. So friend, when this body one day is laid into the grave It's just a shell, it ain't me. Someone wrote on a tombstone about a man named Mr. Pease. He was a fine Christian. But they wrote on the tombstone, this ain't Pease, it's just the pod. Pease shout out and went to God And that's that's good theology there, dear friend. I'm not sure about putting it on a tombstone like that. But that's good theology Now, look at look in 1 Corinthians, and let me just give you a little bit more insight. Now we're we're preaching through 1 Corinthians on Sunday night, so we're going to get here eventually. But I want you to see just a little bit about what's going to happen. Look at 1 Corinthians 15 and look down at verse number 35. Because this is a question that many people ask about the resurrection. But some men will say, how are the dead raised up? 1 Corinthians 15, 35. And with what body do they come? Now, this is a question that comes up often, and people ask me that same question. Preacher, how is this going to happen? How is the resurrection going to take place? A lot of times people have trouble understanding that concept Some people think in terms of reincarnation, when you that's not true. And some people think in terms of reconstruction, you know, God is going to take the various elements. of our body and he's going to kind of put them all back together, you know, kind of like a divine plastic surgeon, you know, or me or remodeling, they think, in terms like that. What happens, however, if a body is cremated? Sometimes people ask me, is cremation wrong? What happens when a person is cremated? Or what happens if the body is dissolved in acid? Or what happens if the body is thrown into the sea and is eaten by the fish? How is God going to claim the various elements at the resurrection? I love this story about Roger Williams. He's the founder of Rhode Island and he was a Baptist preacher and he really wasn't liked very much when he was alive And so when he died, they took and they buried him outside of town. But later on in history, you know, history kind of venerates people later on, and people wanted to go and see the grave of Roger Williams Well the the the uh the people of the town decided, let's get together and let's make a decision about digging that body up and bringing it in town because we're losing all this tourist trade by people going outside of town So they said, well, let's dig up the grave of Roger Williams, move them in town, give him a nice monument, and so they decided to do that. And so when they went to excavate and they dug up the grave of Roger Williams, they found That he was in a wooden coffin and a nearby apple tree spreading out its roots, seeking nourishment, broke into that wooden coffin of Roger Williams. and used his decaying body to make apples on the tree. You ever you ever sing a song I Wish I Were Apple Hanging on a Tree? Well that literally happened to Roger Williams. Someone come along and eat that apple. Now some people will say, how is the various elements going to be claimed? when the resurrection takes place. How is that going to happen? This is some of the questions that were floating around in Corinth. Look again in verse 35, but some will say, how are the dead raised up? How's God going to do that at the end? And you know the Apostle Paul, he's such a great teacher. And you know basically how he answers that question question is saying, you know what? The illustrations of the resurrection are all around you. They're all around you. You know, that's why I love springtime. Springtime in itself is nature saying there is a resurrection Everything comes back to life. And the Apostle Paul is saying, listen, if you want to understand resurrection truth, just look at a seed. He uses a illustration of agriculture. Look in verse number 36, thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be. But bare grain, it may be a chance of wheat or some other grain. Paul says, you know what? Think about a seed when it's planted into the ground. What do you get back? You don't get back the same seed, do you? No. What happens when that seed is planted into the ground, that outer shell dies and decays and out of that shell comes life more beautiful, more glorious. You know when that shell dies, there's a little genetic code that God the Creator put inside that seed and that code is released. And then new matter is organized around that beautiful genetic code. And what you get back is not that same seed, but a beautiful body. that is much more glorious than what you had before. You see, that seed has in it a continuing life principle. And by the way, did you know as a Christian, you have the same thing? You have a continuing life principle. Jesus says, Whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. So you have that same thing. And so, uh, friend, listen, when the resurrection happens, uh, I'm not going to get back the same shell. I'm going to get back something more beautiful, more glorious. You know, scientists tell us that we get a new body every seven years anyway. Cells are constantly dying and being recreated. I mean, look at yourself in the mirror. Are you the same person as you were seven years ago? I know that I'm not. This is not the same body I had seven years ago. And that our bodies are constantly being remade with new cells around the genetic code that God has put within us Just write down Psalm 139, verse 16. Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being imperfect. And in thy book All my members were written when in continuance were fashioned when as yet there was none of them. You know, this DNA thing that scientists talk about, friend, that's in the Bible. God said it was in my book, your makeup. It's in the book of God. And we're going to get a brand new glorified body organized around that genetic code that God has given all of us. It won't be the same body, but we'll be the same person. But we'll have a brand new body. And so Paul says, if you want to understand resurrection truth, just look at a seed. Notice how it's planted. And out of it comes life more beautiful, more glorious. But also, he uses a biological illustration. He talks about skin. Look in verse number 39. All flesh is not the same flesh There is one kind of flesh of men, another of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. Paul's saying, you know, if you want to understand the resurrection, what your body's going to be like, just look out into the field. Notice the animals. They don't all have the same bodies A bird has a certain body designed by the Creator to live in the heavens, in the sky. A fish has a skin and a body designed to live under water An animal has a body designed to live in the field? You see, there are different bodies created for different environments. By the way, this is amazing that Paul knew this. You would have to be a biologist with a microscope in hand to know the difference between the protoplasm of fish and of birds and of animals. Yeah, Paul knew that. You say, how did Paul know that? Because the Bible is the inspired word of God. And the Creator told him that. That's how he knew. And he said, you know, all bodies are different. Look at the rest of it in verse 40. There are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial. But the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. In other words, this body that we have here, this is a terrestrial body, and that simply means a body that's earth earthly or designed to live on the earth, you are a terrestrial. But one day God's going to give you a celestial body. What's that? That's a body designed to live in the heavens. So that glorified body is going to be a celestial body And the Bible says the glory of the terrestrial is one, but the glory of the celestial is another. In other words, if you think this earthly body is beautiful, wait till you get your heavenly body. It's going to be so much more beautiful. Paul says, Look at the animals. You see illustrations of the resurrection. Look up into the sky. Look at the stars. Look at verse 41. There is the glor one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the stars, for one star differed from another in glory. This is an illustration from the sky, the stars Astrology. Paul says, just look up into the sky. Look up in a dark night. What do you see? Some stars shine brighter than others. That's the way it's going to be in the resurrection. When you get your new body. You're going to shine with the glory of God. Now, friend, I can't prove this. I just, it's a theory of mine. That when God created Adam and put him in the garden, he was clothed with the glory of God. And when Adam sinned, God took that glory. And Adam knew that he was naked. And he was ashamed. And that glory was lost. One day that glory we're going to get back. And one day when we get this new body, it's going to shine with the glory of God. Some will shine brighter than others. Some will shine like a star in the sky. Some will shine like the sun at noonday. You say, how we know how we're going to shine? Friend, it's according to your faithfulness to Jesus here on earth. That's how you'll shine that day. When you get your brand new glorified body. You see, this body that we have here, we have no glory with it. It's a body of humiliation. One day we're going to get a body of exaltation Did you know what a diamond is? A diamond is just made of carbon. That's all it is. You know what coal is made of? Carbon. Same thing. You see, coal is carbon in humiliation. A diamond is carbon in exaltation. And one day we're going to get a celestial body, and this carbon will be exchanged for a diamond. And we're going to shine with a greater glory in that day. A brand new, beautiful, glorified body. Friend, that's an incredible time. I heard about a man who lived in the country all his life, and he had never been to the big city, had never seen a skyscraper. One day he and his wife and his son decided to go to the city, so they they they got into their horse and wagon. This was kind of uh a ways back and they decided to ride into the city. And he went he saw he saw a huge skyscraper. He had never seen one before. He said, I want to go check that thing out. His wife went somewhere to shop. And he went in that skyscraper. He went into the lobby. He saw the elevator doors. He had never seen an elevator, didn't know what it was. He saw the doors open up, he saw this dear precious old woman about 90 years old hobble onto that elevator. He saw the doors close He saw the dial go all the way up this way and all the way back that way. He saw the doors open off and off walked this beautiful, gorgeous woman. He stood there and looked at that. He couldn't figure it out. Finally he said to his son, son, you wait here, I'm gonna go get your mom and run her through that thing Now you say, how how are we going to be changed? Listen, friend, I don't know how, I just know it's going to happen When Jesus Christ comes again, we're going to get that brand new glorified body. Someone say, Will we know each other then? Friend, we're going to be a whole lot smarter then than we are now. And we will know each other like we never have before. And then finally, look at verse 47. He uses the illustration of Adam, verse 47. The first man is of the earth, earthy. The second man is the Lord from heaven. As the earthy, such are they also that are earthy, and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are In other words, he's saying, you know, you can look at Adam and you can look at Jesus and his glorified body. The first Adam is of the earth. The second Adam, Jesus, is of heaven. You say, what are we going to be like? We're going to be just like Jesus. You want to know what the first uh what the main harvest is going to be like, look at the first fruits. You want to know what you're going to be like, your body's going to be like. Look at Jesus and his glorified body, friend. All that he could do. That's what we're going to be like. And you know, we can't answer all questions. The Bible says it um it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know this. When he appears, we're going to be just like him. Just like the Lord Jesus Christ. And so there is the miracle of our resurrection. There's the majesty of his return. There's the miracle of our resurrection. Friend, there's the mystery of the rapture. Go back to 1 Thessalonians 4. And notice in another event that he mentions here, 1 Thessalonians 4 Verse 17. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord. The Lord is going to come back He's gonna there's a there's gonna be a great petching away. He's gonna, we're gonna be caught up, the Bible says, in verse 17. And this is what we call the rapture. Now the word rapture is not found in the Bible, but that's okay. Neither is the word sovereignty or trinity, but it's there. And this is talking about the time when the Lord is going to catch us away, he's going to take us unto himself. That's the rapture. And friend, there's going to be the the wonderful marvel of our reunion. Look again where it says in verse 17. And so shall we be with the Lord, ever be with the Lord. And all of us will be there together. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And that he says in verse 18, wherefore comfort one another with these words. You see, there's going to be a wonderful reunion. You know our loved ones that are already in heaven We're going to be reunited with them in that time. Body and soul together. What a beautiful, wonderful reunion there's going to be there in that time. Dr. R. G. Lee is a great Baptist preacher, and he tells about the time when he uh his he asked his mother when he was just a boy, he said, Moms, when was your f uh your the greatest day that you ever had? What's the best day you ever had? And she said, let me tell you when it when it was. She said, your grandfather, my father, went off to war in the Civil War. And word got back that we lost him, that he died. He said, I she said, I uh never saw my mother cry, but I could hear her at night crying. And she said, one day we were on the porch and we were stringing beans and we saw a soldier coming down the old river road. She said, you know, that that wasn't unusual. That happened. But as he got closer, she said, I saw my mother jump up. And run. And then she said, I ran after her as fast as I could. And she said, I saw my mother fall into the arm. Not arms, but arm. One of the arms of her father was taken during the Civil War. And she said, and we hugged there together, and we cried, and we laughed, and we wept. And she said the happiest day of my life, the greatest day, was when my father came home from the war. It was a wonderful reunion. And RG U R. G. Lee used to love to tell that illustration. But then he would always end it by saying this, my mother's happiest day is nothing compared to the day that we're all going to have. When one day Jesus comes back and there's a glorious reunion. All of our loved ones that have gone on to be with Jesus, they're all going to be there. There's going to be a wonderful reunion. Oh friend, what a day that's going to be. There may be some people here. You may be missing your loved one. But let me tell you something, friend. There's going to be a great reunion coming It's coming. It's not that far off. You just hang in there. You be faithful to Jesus. One day there's going to be a reunion day. You know, I'll close with this. My grandfather, my uh father's father, many years ago when he was sick in the hospital, I went to visit him and he kind of had dementia. And I remember going to see him, and I I was concerned about his salvation, and I began to witness to him, and he uh he didn't recognize me. And and of course that hurt. I was, you know, just a young man, and I went home and I prayed, and I said, Lord, I I really want to be able to share Christ with them. Please give me that opportunity. So I went back to the hospital the next day. And uh went in to see him. And you know he was walking around the hallway. So I kind of got him by the arm, took him to his room, we sat down on the bed. I didn't really know how to talk to him. I didn't know if he really knew who I was. But then he looked at me, he was very clear-eyed, and he said, Jerry, I want to know how to be born again. So I said, okay, Grandpa, let me let me tell you how. So I took my Bible, very clearly, showed him the gospel. And if he would just put his trust in Jesus, he could be saved. And you know what? He prayed, and he got saved. That was the last conversation I had with him. And that old dear man, body wasting away, white hair, you know what I'm gonna see him again. Brand new glorified body. Beautiful young man I'll see. And I'll know him and he'll know me. We'll know each other then. And it's going to be a wonderful reunion. And friend, that's the hope. that we have in Jesus Christ. And the Bible says, wherefore comfort one another with these words. Let's remember these things. Let it inspire us. Let it be a comfort to us, the hope that we have in Jesus. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, take these words and Lord bring them to our hearts in a very real way. And Lord, let there be comfort in the hearts of those. There may be some here that are sorrowing over a lost loved one. And I pray, Lord, that this truth will bring such a comfort. We have so much living to do because we know Jesus. We know there's going to be a great reunion when our Lord comes back, and we know he's coming back. Just as sure. Lord Jesus, as you came out of that grave, we know that you're coming again. And so, Lord, we thank you for this hope. The hope of every child of God. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you this morning, do you have that hope, friend? Do you have that hope Because the Lord Jesus Christ is offering it to you right now. He's offering you salvation. It's free. It's not cheap. He paid for it with his life, but it's free. And it's a gift. And if you're willing to come to Jesus today by faith, then put your faith in Jesus. Friend, you can have the hope of eternal life, the hope of the resurrection, the hope of life hereafter How many of you say that's what I want? I want to know Jesus. I want to be saved. Would you can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand? Let me pray for you, friend. No one here is gonna uh embarrass you We all want you to know Jesus if you don't know him. So can I pray for you? If anyone here says, I'm not sure of my salvation. But I want to make sure. Alright. Then for us as believers I pray that God the Holy Spirit will take this truth of his coming and so rivet it in your heart that it'll bring so much comfort. Maybe some here today. You just need this comfort. I pray God will give it to you today, dear friend. Father, take these words and use them for your glory. Let them build the hearts of those who may be sorrowing here today. Use it, Lord, for your glory, for their blessing, for their good. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.