Thank you so much. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians. We are in a study in Ephesians and we're dealing with this section specifically about the armor of God. So look in Ephesians chapter 6 and look at verse number 10. And when you find that, would you please stand for the reading of God's Word? Read a few verses together with you. Ephesians chapter 6, starting at verse number 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your word and thank you for the instruction that you give us to stand in this world against all of the evil influences and the attacks of Satan which we face on a daily basis. We're grateful, Lord, you haven't left us alone, but you've given us equipment. You've given us power that comes from you. So Lord, help us to understand it. And may we uh uh give our attention to the Word of God now. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Growing up I loved to watch these wildlife documentaries. You ever like to watch those? On one documentary there was a a couple that was walking through Lion Country with a native guide. And they were totally unarmed. But the guy that was with them said, look, when if you're charged by a lion, you must not move. He said, You must stand there and gaze at the big cat. That was the strategy. Sure enough, as the three of them were walking along, a lion noticed them and charged them with a roar. And they stood their ground. And the lion halted yards away. The lion then backed up and charged again. And they stood their ground again. And this happened a repeated number of times. But the three that were together there just continued to stand until finally the lion gave up and he rejoined the pride. The Bible teaches us that Satan is like a roaring lion. And our guide is the Bible, the Word of God. And our guide teaches us that the best response to the devil when he charges at us like a lion is to stand This is the central idea that Paul gives us here in these verses that we just read. Three times Paul commands us to stand. We see it in verse number 11, to stand against the wells of the devil. We see it in verse 13 that you might be able to withstand in the evil day, having done a lot of stand. And then we see it in verse 14, stand therefore. Now the word for stand here, the Greek word, is the exact same Greek word that is used in James 4. 7 where it says, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Exact same Greek word, stand So when we stand against the devil, we are actively resisting his attacks. Now, in order for us to stand effectively against the devil, we need some armor. We need some help. And God has not left us alone. God has given us some armor that we can use, and we are to put on the armor of God. That's what we just read in verse number 11. Put on the whole armor of God. And if you've been with us on our study, you know that the word put on here, I said is a Greek word in duo, and it is an air tense verb, which means that you put it on once and you leave it on It's not like equipment that you put on or a uniform that you put on and you take off, you know, if as if you're dressing up for a football game and you put on all your equipment, then you take it off after it's over. No. With the believer, the armor is something that you put on once and you keep it on. You continually wear this armor. It is the believer's lifelong companion, and it is what gives you the divine power for each moment. There are six pieces of armor that we just read about here. Paul commands us to put on the whole armor, that is, put on all these pieces. Each one is very important, and we have to understand the purpose behind each piece of armor. And so that's why we want to look at each of the six pieces. Now last week we looked at the belt of truth and we said that it served several purposes. First of all, it would it would secure the soldier's loose garments, he would take his tunic and he would gird it in above that leather belt. that made it to where he was ready for battle. We also said that it was provided a measure of protection for the midsection, which was according to the ancient thought really the seat of of of emotion or the seat of affection. It was also a place where a soldier could keep his sword This belt was a place where he could hang his sword, but it was also a place where it could secure other pieces of the armor. You had to have a a good belt in order for the breastplate to be secured. Uh it was also a place as we say where you can hang your sword, but also other rations and other essential items Now, the belts of truth we said, truth meant not just objective truth of Scripture, of course it includes that, but more importantly, it's truthfulness. It is walking in truth. It is walking in integrity. It symbolizes the need to hold fast to what is true. It is foundational on what we said would is What is foundational for our life is a life of integrity where we are living out the truth in our life. There's absolute total truthfulness in our life. And that leads us to the next piece of equipment, the next piece of armor. Again in verse number fourteen, the latter portion, it says, having on the breastplate of righteousness. So what is this piece of armor about, and why do we need this to stand against the wiles of the devil? I want again to address this topic under three headings. First of all, the adversary Napoleon said, knowing your enemy is half the battle. So in order to understand this piece of armor, we have to understand how Satan attacks. What are some of his dangerous wiles? What is one of them? One of them specifically is just write down the accuser. Satan is called the accuser. In the Old Testament, the word Satan is actually a transliteration of the Hebrew word Satan, which means accuser. In fact, when the word is used in the books of Job and Zechariah, it reads in the Hebrew, Hasatan, which we could say the accuser. And so really Satan is not a name, it is really a position or a title, or we could say really an activity. He is the accuser. Satan accuses God before men. In the book of Genesis, chapter 3, Satan slithers into the Garden of Eden in the form of a serpent. You can almost hear the hiss of the serpent when he says to Eve, Hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? Satan caused Adam and Eve to question the goodness of God. He accused God of holding out on Adam and Eve. Oh, God doesn't want you to have real wisdom or knowledge. That's why he doesn't want you eating of that, the fruit of that tree. For God doth know that in the day you eat thereof, your eyes shall be open, ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil. Satan was essentially saying, you know, God doesn't want you to have good things. And by the way, this is what Satan still does today. He still still tries to convince people that God is not good. And if he can get you to believe that, then friend, he's got you. That's why James, when he was addressing the issue of temptation, said this. He said in James 1:16 and 17, Do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, from the Father of lights. With whom there is no veritableness, neither shadow of turning. The way we resist that temptation is to know that God doesn't withhold from us, He's the giver of every good and perfect gift. But also Satan accuses men before God. In the Garden of Eden, he accused God before man. But the next time we see him is in the book of Job where he accuses man before God. Satan appears in the council meeting of heaven to accuse Job before God. The Bible says, and if you want to look at it in Job, you can, in Job chapter 1, verse number 7, God kind of puts Satan on record. And where it says this, and the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. So basically in verse 7 here, Satan brags, you know, I've been walking up and down in the earth to and fro. And the translation of that is I'm I'm I'm having it easy. I'm accomplishing whatever I want. My kingdom is advancing. There's no one who is a threat to me. I'm having my will in every person's heart and life. There's no one standing against me. This is really an accusation against the church. Where are your godly people? No one's standing against me. I'm able to do whatever I want. Where are the people standing for truth? Where is your people, God? He was accusing the people of God. Now how does God respond? Look at in verse Job chapter 1, verse 8, he says this, and the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth? A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. My servant Job, there's none like him. Wow, what an incredible thing. God says, Look, have you thought about Job? You said no one stands. What about Job? He fears God. He turns away from evil. And Satan responds by accusing Job. And listen to what he says in Job 1. 9. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Yeah, doesn't he fear God for nothing? I mean, you know, the reason he's doing this, the reason he worships you, is because look at all the things that you're giving him, God I mean you buy your worshipers. I mean if you didn't give him all that stuff, he wouldn't worship you. I mean, look at all you bless them with. No wonder he worships you. What is Satan doing here? He's accusing Job of being a superficial follower. Job's not real. His faith is superficial. And if you take away all of that, what will happen is you'll find out that he's a superficial follower. Again in Job one verse ten, Hast not thou made a hedge about him, about a his house, about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands and the his substances increase in the land, but put forth now thine hand and touch all that he hath. He will curse thee to thy faith. If you just allow me to get at him, if you withdraw your protection and you let me take away all of that stuff, we'll find out what happens. And again, that's an accusation. Now we know the rest of the story. God grants Job permission or Satan permission, rather. Satan takes Job's wealth, he takes his health, he takes his ten children. But Satan didn't take Job's wife, he knew to leave her. Because she said to him One time it says that she said, Do you still retain your integrity? Curse God and die. That's exactly what Satan wanted Job to do, was to curse God. But Job didn't curse God. The Bible says in Job chapter 1, verse 21, and he said, Naked came out I out of my mother's womb, naked shall I return thither. The Lord has given, the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. So here Satan was accusing man before God. He accuses God to man in Genesis 3. He accuses man to God in Job chapter one, and then later on we see him in Matthew chapter four accusing the God man. He accuses Jesus Christ. This is the record the temptation of Jesus in the wilderness And Jesus says, look, if you're the Son of God, demonstrate it. I mean, throw yourself down. I mean, they were at the pinnacle of the southeastern corner of the temple. I've been there. And you can kind of look down and probably went down about a hundred feet in Jesus' day. There were worshippers gathering there getting ready to come in. Satan was up there with Jesus and said, Look, throw yourself down. If you're really the son of God, God the Father will protect you. He won't allow your You you're you to be dashed against the stones and he even quotes scripture. Do you know Satan can quote Scripture? He quotes from Psalm 91, 11, and 12. Of course he misapplies the passage. to encourage Jesus to throw himself down. And the accusation there was, where's your faith, Jesus? Don't you believe that the Father will take care of you? And of course, Jesus quotes Scripture correctly in Deuteronomy 6, verse 16. And after three attempts with Jesus, the Bible says Satan leaves, which means Jesus won. But we need to recognize then Satan, one of Satan's key modes of attack is accusation. Accusation. And by the way, this is the attack. Satan is still doing that. And this is what he does to believers today. The Bible says in Revelation 12:10, he is the accuser of the brethren. Do you know Satan is accusing you today? He's coming at you today. And how does he do that? He attacks you by accusing you. He plants doubts into your mind. He wants to rob you of peace and joy. Sometimes Christians will ask me the question: can Satan put thoughts into the mind of a Christian? What does the Bible say? Just listen to John 13, verse number 2. And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him. Did you get that? Where did Judas get the idea to betray Jesus? The Bible says that this was a thought that Satan put into the mind of Judas Now Satan didn't make Judas do that. Satan just put the thought into his mind and the sinful nature of Judas did the rest of it But yes, Satan can and does put thoughts into the mind. Sometimes the Bible uses the word mind and heart simultaneously. uh or or I should say synonymously to say that it's really the same thing. He'll put some a thought into our heart or our mind. And this is what Satan does. He still puts thoughts into the minds and hearts of believers, but they're in the form of accusations. These are internal whispers. And again, what's he trying to do? He's trying to instill guilt. He's trying to instill doubt and shame, ultimately driving you away from God. That's really what he wants. To drive you away from the Lord. Satan constantly reminds believers of their past sins and failures. He'll make you focus on your past mistakes and weaknesses. He'll tell you that you are unworthy. that you have no holiness, that you have no ability to worship God and serve God. Now sometimes again believers will ask me the question, what's the difference between Holy Spirit conviction and satanic accusation. Well, here's the key difference. The Holy Spirit will convict us of present sins that we have not yet confessed. But Satan loves to accuse you of past sins that have already been forgiven in Jesus Christ. He points to past sins. The devil enjoys accusing us about things that God has already forgiven. And he does it through our feelings, he does it through our memory. He he does it by causing us to dwell upon our past sins so that we feel so guilty. And we feel such shame. We feel like we can't pray. We can't worship God. We can't go to God. These guilt feelings about our past rise up and Satan uses them to condemn us and it chokes off our joy, it drains away our faith It cuts away our assurance. It robs us of the inner peace that we should have as children of God. It leaves us confused and depressed. That's exactly what Satan's doing. He wants you to have doubt. He wants you to have fear He wants you to doubt that God can forgive your sins. He wants you to doubt God's love. What he's trying to do basically, he's trying to put you into a state of self-condemnation. Of condemnation. He tells you how guilty you are. Again, he shames you. He's constantly pointing a fiery finger into your face, telling you how unworthy that you are. Oh, you're not good enough to pray. And you have these thoughts, why would God even hear my prayers? All the sins that I've done. He makes you feel like, you know, I've committed all these sins. One more sin isn't going to hurt anything. You may as well go out and do other sins because look at all the sins you've already done. How do we fight against these accusations that Satan is constantly giving us? That's where the armor comes in. God has given us a piece of armor that we put on that protects us from all of these accusations. Again, notice verse 14, the latter portion, having put on the breastplate of Righteousness. You see, you won't be able to withstand these attacks from Satan unless you're wearing this piece of armor, the breastplate of righteousness. Now what is the breastplate? Let's talk about that. After a soldier would buckle on his belt, he would then fasten the breastplate to that belt around his chest. And in Rome, this was called the Lorica Segmentata. It was kind of an ancient version of a bulletproof vest It was typically made of bronze or iron. It was basically overlapping pieces of metal with leather straps. It would cover the front and the back of the of the soldier. It would go from the neck all the way down to just above the thighs. It was kind of in the shape of a human torso, so it would cover really the trunk of the body or the thorax, if you will. In fact, the Greek word that is used here for breastplate is the Greek word thorax. And so it was put on to protect the vital organs. It would protect the heart and all the other vital organs that are there in that part of the human body. Especially the heart. Now, again, in the Bible, the heart really represents the mind and the will. Proverbs 23, verse 7, for as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. No Roman soldier would go into battle without his breastplate. It protected him not only from the spear and the sword, but also from the fiery arrows coming from the enemy. I mean he wouldn't be able to defend himself without wearing the breastplate. And so the child of God, Paul's looking at a Roman soldier, I think, while he's dictating this or and he's looking at that breastplate and he says, you know, for the child of God, the breastplate metaphorically, is the is righteousness. It's righteousness. Now here's the second question we have to ask ourselves. What does he mean by righteousness? What kind of righteousness is Paul talking about here? Because in the Bible there are several Definitions are types of righteousness. First of all, there's self-righteousness. What is this? This is when a person thinks their own righteousness is good enough Many people feel that they are righteous before God. They feel that their own works will eventually help them to find favor with God Paul felt this way before he met Jesus. In Philippians chapter three, he's kind of recounting his old religious resume and he says, look, if anybody thinks they're self-righteous or if their righteousness will get 'em merit with God. I thought that way and I was willing to compete with anybody in that. And then he goes on to s to state his religious resume that was very impressive He had religiously, rigorously kept the law from his youth. He was counting on his own efforts to please God until one day on the road to Damascus, Paul learned. when he met Jesus that his righteousness was useless. Paul would later say of all his self-righteousness, he said, I now count that that as dung. What is the word dung? Strong word. Human way. Scubala is the Greek word there. Excrement. The scripture makes it very clear that all man's righteousness is never good enough to please God. All our righteousness is as filthy rags, the Bible says. Paul says in Romans 3:10, there is none righteous, no, not one. Self-righteousness is definitely not what Paul's talking about here. Really, for you to get saved, you've got to lay aside all your self-righteousness. In fact, when the Holy Spirit convicts you so that you can get saved, the first thing he does is convict you of righteousness or we could say the lack of righteousness that you have. The fact that you have no righteousness that can satisfy a holy God. We're convicted of that. We put aside our empty self-righteousness. But there's a second kind of righteousness in the Bible. That's imputed righteousness. What is this? Very simply, it is the righteousness of Christ put on our account. This is called the doctrine of infutation. The Bible says, without righteousness no man shall see God. We can't get to heaven without being righteous. You say, well that's a problem because if there's none righteous and we can't get to heaven without righteousness, that means none of us are going to get to heaven. That's right, not on your own, you're not You have to be given a righteousness that is not yours. An alien righteousness, as some call it. When Christ came to this earth, he lived among men. He lived a perfectly righteous life. He obeyed all the law. He was sinless. He was perfect. On the cross, Jesus took all of our sins. All of our sins were placed on Jesus. He paid the sin debt. But when you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you're ready for this? All of his righteousness is transferred to your account. You're given the righteousness of Christ. That's called imputed righteousness. Imputation simply means it's predated to you. All of the righteousness of Christ is now predated to you. When God looks at you now because you put your faith in Christ, He looks at you, He sees the righteousness of Christ, not our righteousness. So it's all imputed to us. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for he hath made him, Christ, who knew no sin, to be sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. God credits to the account of the believer the righteousness of Christ. And then again, God sees them, sees me for now on the rest of my life. He sees me wrapped, clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Isn't that a wonderful thing? I don't know of a more beautiful truth than that. When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, dressed in his righteousness alone. Faultless to stand before the throne. It's not my righteousness, but it's the righteousness of Christ. But then there's a third kind of righteousness, and that's imparted righteousness. This is a different from imputed, and yet they're related. Imparted righteousness is distinct. In that imparted righteousness is the imputed righteousness is what is accredited to our account. It's the righteousness of Christ accredited to us when we place our faith in Christ. But again, God does something else when we get saved. This is also wonderful. He gives us an ability and a power to live a righteous life. Imparted righteousness is actually produced in us by the Holy Spirit. It is a righteousness that is infused in us by the gracious work of. God, it's again it's a work of the power of the Holy Spirit. It gives us power to strive for holiness. This works alongside this imparted righteousness works alongside imputed righteousness. You ever hear of someone getting an iron infusion? Maybe someone that They don't have enough iron in their blood, so they'll go to the doctor and he'll give them an IV and they'll just infuse iron in them and suddenly where they're weak, now they're strong. It's a beautiful illustration of imparted righteousness. We don't have the strength to live a godly, holy, righteous life, and so God infuses into us his power so that we can live righteously. That's an imparted righteousness. Another way we can illustrate this is with the seed. I love to say it like this, you know, when I was growing up. In a backyard, my dad planted a grapevine, and uh year after year it would blossom and and sprout and bring forth grapes, and but that grapevine would take over the yard more and more every year. It took over the whole fence. Then it started taking over the whole yard. And one spring I looked out into the backyard. I could barely see the yard. All I could see is that grapevine climbing up all over the place. You see, when you get saved, God plants in you the seed of righteousness. And the longer you're in Christ, the more He is sanctifying you. The more righteousness is growing up in you until one day when God looks down from heaven, he says, You know what, I can't really see much of Jerry. I see more of that righteousness that I put in him That's imparted righteousness. That's sanctification. What a again a blessing that is. Now the question that we have to ask ourselves is this. When Paul is talking about the breastplate of righteousness, is he talking about imputed righteousness or is he talking about imparted righteousness. And just let me say that scholars and preachers and commentators are really divided on this. They really have different opinions. In fact there are three views on this. The first view is that the righteousness that Paul's talking about in this is imputed righteousness. And then the second view is that, well no, what Paul's talking about here is imparted righteousness. Imputed righteousness is the righteousness Christ provides. Imparted righteousness is the is the righteousness the Spirit produces in us. This is talking about imparted righteousness. But then there's a third view. And the third view says Paul's talking about both. Now, let me ask you, what do you think? What do you think he's talking about? And if some of you are looking at me like, would you just please give us the answer here? Give me a straight answer. It reminds me of the person who was talking to a Christian trying to get their view and said, What do you believe? He says, Well, I believe what my pastor believes. Well, what does your pastor believe? My pastor believes what my church believes. What is your pastor in church and you believe? Well, we all believe the same thing. So what is this? I believe that the correct view here is the third view. I think that what Paul is referring to here is not only imputed righteousness, yes, but also imparted righteousness. And part of the reason for that is I don't think you divide these two I think they come together. So this gets to the third part of the sermon. We talked about the adversary and the armor. Let me talk to you about the application. How do we apply this? To the accusations that when Satan comes to attack us and to try to put us in a place of self-condemnation, well, first of all, think with me about the breastplate of imputed righteousness. the righteousness Christ provides for us. So here comes Satan. He attacks you He points to your sins. He points to the past. He says you're hopeless. He tells you how guilty you are Shames you. He heaps upon you all the guilt of your iniquity. You're not worthy to pray. You're such an unworthy sinner How do we respond? Again, this is where we put on the breastplate of imputed righteousness. You see, you see what the devil's trying to do? He's trying to get us to focus on ourselves. And friend, when I look at myself, you know what? I have to agree with them. You know what? I'm I'm a wretch. I'm a sinner. There's nothing good about me. And if I focus on myself I'm gonna surely lose. I can't focus on myself. Martin Luther, the one who sparked the Reformation, had a dream. He was very vivid about the spiritual warfare that he had against Satan, and he had a dream one night. And he was he he saw at the foot of his bed an image that he thought was the devil himself. And the devil had a scroll, and on that scroll was a list of all the sins that Luther had committed And Luther admitted that they the list was accurate, and the devil was reading those sins one at a time, each time pointing a fiery finger at Luther saying you're guilty. Condemning him, accusing him, saying, what hope do you have of heaven? And Luther said in his dream he felt that at that very moment his soul was slipping into hell. But then just then Jesus intervened. And Jesus said, tell the devil to unroll the rest of the scroll. And Luther commanded the devil, unroll the rest of the scroll. I command you in the name of Jesus to unroll the rest of the scroll. And reluctantly the devil unrolled it, and printed across the bottom of that scroll in crimson ink were the words This entire account of Martin Luther is paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. We remind Satan that yes, we are unworthy. Yes, we are sinners. But we are clothed in the righteousness of Christ. That's the breastplate of righteousness. Look, when I look at myself, I cannot comprehend how I can be saved. But when I look at Christ, I cannot comprehend how I can be lost. Because it is his righteousness that covers me. So don't look at yourself when Satan accuses you. Look at Christ and look at what he has done. It's not about my righteousness or the lack thereof. It's all about Christ. We remind the devil of the imputed righteousness of Christ. Martin Luther went on to write this, and I want you to see this quote here. So when the devil throws your sins in your face and declares that you deserve death and hell, tell him this. I admit that I deserve death and hell. What of it? For I know one who suffered and made satisfaction on my behalf. His name is Jesus Christ, Son of God. Where he is, there where and where he is, there I also shall be, shall be also. The old hymn says it well. Well may the accuser roar of sins that I have done. I know them all, and thousands more. Jehovah knoweth none. So let me ask you: have you done this? Have you put on the breastplate of imputed righteousness? If you have it, you won't be able to stand against the accusations of the devil. Have you looked to Christ for your righteousness? Because that is the only righteousness that can satisfy the Father. But let's also think about the breastplate of imparted righteousness. This is the righteousness that the Spirit produces in us This is where we have to recognize that God has given us the power to live a righteous life. And when Satan makes his accusations, we have to remind the devil not only of what God has done for us, but what God is doing in us We can say to the devil, look, devil, I'm standing in the righteousness of Christ, but I also want to remind you that God is not finished with me yet. God's still working in me. We never separate imputed righteousness from imparted righteousness because wherever there is justification, there will also be taking place sanctification. The work of the Spirit of God is going on in your life. One is the root, the other is the fruit. The righteousness produced by the Spirit always follows the righteousness provided by the Savior. When you're saved, God begins working in you. He is conforming you. He is sanctifying you. He is making you more like the Lord Jesus Christ. But remember I told you we have to do our part. There's a theology out there that says, you know, we don't have to do anything with regard to our sanctification. No, that's that's not correct. You have to do your part. And you have to work out of you what God has put in you. Remember Philippians 2, 12? Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God which worketh in you. Sanctification is our responsibility, but remember it's our response to His ability. God has given us the power. He's downloaded righteousness in us. He's put the seed of righteousness in us. But you know what? We got to work it out We gotta do our part. You can't just say, well here I am, God, sanctify me. No, you gotta put on the breastplate of righteousness. You have to put off the former life. You have to put on the new man. Look in Ephesians 4. 22 and verse 24 real quick. Just flip back That you put off concerning the former conversation, the former lifestyle, the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind, that you put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. So when Satan comes accusing us, we remind them that we're standing in the righteousness of Christ, but it doesn't end there. You remind them that we are committed to living. uh a sanctified life, a righteous life. We're partakers of the divine nature, therefore we have to give all effort That's what Peter said, remember? Giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue and the virtue knowledge, and the knowledge temperance, and the temperance patience. To patience, godliness, and to godliness, brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. What is that? That is God has made us partakers of the divine nature. Now we're gonna work it all out and we're gonna do our part We're going to practice spiritual disciplines in our life because this is all part of the process of sanctification, of imparted righteousness. And by the way, when you don't do that, and when you allow sin to dwell in your heart and life, what you're doing is you're making yourself a target for the devil. That's what Paul meant in Ephesians 4. 27 when he says, Neither give place to the devil, or we could translate that, stop giving the devil an opportunity. And how do we do that? We do that when we practice some of the sins that are listed there when we're not pursuing holiness When we're not committed to complete obedience to the word of God, when we're not practicing righteousness, we make ourselves a target for Satan. Remember who you are in Jesus Christ and live out that identity in your life. Remember, God has given you the power. He's planted righteousness in you. But cast yourself on him every day. Ask for his help. Be diligent to practice spiritual disciplines in your life. Prayer, the word of God, worshiping together, being faithful, and all of that. That's all the spiritual disciplines that you need to practice in order to be all that God has called you to be. That's putting on the breastplate of righteousness. Just know this, we're living in lying country, beloved. We don't have any weapons that can stand against the devil. Man-made weapons, I should say. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal. They're not fleshly. They're not man-made. Philosophy isn't going to help you in this battle It's the word of God. And when the devil charges at you, your guide, the word of God, says, stand. Stand. But here we've given you something to help you out. It's called the breastplate of righteousness. Stand in the imputed righteousness of Christ. And put on the imparted righteousness produced in you by the Holy Spirit. And sure, you know what we need to do? We need to preach the gospel to ourselves every day. We need to go back to the gospel every day and remind us ourselves of what we have in Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your truth, the truth of your word. Wonderful it is. And Lord, how we need it. We feel these attacks every day, Lord. Satan doesn't leave us alone. Especially, Lord, when there are believers that are trying to walk in righteousness, Satan comes at them, wants them to feel the guilt of their sin. And Lord Satan is right. We are sinners. We're guilty. We have sinned against you. We are not righteous because there are none righteous. No, not one. And Father, how we thank you that in your mercy you sent Jesus Christ to this earth to be our righteousness. to take our sins upon himself. Lord, it's hard to even conceive in our mind all that took place at the cross. That the pure, innocent, holy Son of God, the righteous one, would take all of our sins and upon himself and absorb the wrath, the holy wrath of the Father. And then in return, when we put our faith in that finished work, give us his righteousness. I don't know of a more precious gift than that, Father. And I pray, Lord, that everyone that is here today under the sound of my voice has by faith come to Christ, put their faith in the finished work of Christ, and has received his perfect righteousness on their account. I pray, Lord, that every person here knows that they are standing in the righteousness of Christ, that they put on the breastplate of righteousness. And for those that are doubting, Lord, may they settle that right now, right here. May they come to Jesus in faith. And if the heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, what where are you? What is your standing right now? If Satan comes and accuses you, can you run to the imputed righteousness of Christ? Can you point to Christ and say, I'm in him? I'm wrapped in his righteousness. You have no way to get to me. You see, the the breastplate of the righteousness, imputed righteousness of Christ cannot be penetrated by the accusations of Satan. So friend, do you know Jesus? If you have it, would you right now reach out in faith and say, Jesus, I trust you this very moment to be my Savior, my righteousness. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart today we pray in Jesus' name. Amen