Would you stand please in the reading of God's Word, 1 Peter 3, verses 18 to 22? 1 Peter 3, 18 to 22, and we're gonna I'm gonna read this passage if you'll honor God's word with me 1 Peter 3, verses 18 to 22. Says in verse 18, For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. That he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. By which also he went and preached unto the Spirits in prison. which sometime were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was of preparing, were in few, that is, eight souls were saved by water The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Who has gone into heaven is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. This is God's word. Let's bow for prayer. So Father, we thank you for your eternal word. And I pray that you'll help me, Lord, to preach your word. I cast myself upon you for your help. for the help of the Holy Spirit to make your word clear. And may you use it and bless the lives of your people, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Now, on Sunday nights here at Grace, I've been preaching through 1 Peter. I was studying this passage, and I thought, you know, this is something that I want to share with the whole church here on Sunday morning. And I want to confess to you and ask for your forgiveness in advance for the fact that I'm not going to finish this sermon this morning. There's so much here in this passage that there's no way to do it in just a half hour or 25 minutes. And so I'm going to preach the first part of this this morning, and I'm going to finish the rest of it tonight So if you want to hear the rest of it, you have to come back tonight. But I want to talk about the threefold victory of Christ. That's what Peter is talking about here. He's talking about the victory of the Lord Jesus Christ and the fact that we get to share in that victory. And how that should be a great encouragement to us and to any believers who may be going through a time of suffering. You know, we have enemies. Did you know that you have an enemy if you're a Christian? There are at least three enemies that Peter talks about here. There's the enemy of sin, there's the enemy of Satan, and the enemy of death. And when Jesus died on the cross, he won for us a threefold victory: victory over sin, victory over Satan, and victory over death, and giving us the great salvation that we have. But just know in advance that this passage here from verses 18 down to verse 22 is a very difficult passage in the New Testament. In fact, there are some who would argue that of all the passages in the New Testament These verses are the most difficult to understand and to interpret correctly. I remember when I was in seminary, I took a class on the general epistles and 1 and 2 Peter, my professor Dr. Easley, who taught us that class, who is also my Greek professor, a very brilliant man who's written many books. Told the students there that that very thing that this passage here is one of the most difficult passages in the New Testament to get right in your interpretation. In fact, he said there are basically six different interpretations to this passage as to what it might mean. And then he gave the students the uh the responsibility of coming up with an interpretation and then sharing it to the class. And I remember it was my turn, I had the opportunity to give my interpretation of this whole passage And when I was giving it there were some students who were, you know, kind of railing on it, thinking it was kind of far out there. And Dr. Easley got up and said, I think Jerry is right I I know that sounds self-serving. I don't mean for it to be. I actually want you to know what a brilliant pastor you have here this morning I don't mean for it to be that, but uh so I'm going to share with you a little bit of what I shared there. But the main point that Peter is trying to get across here this morning in this passage is living victoriously in the midst of suffering. That's the general idea. Some of the details are some of the things that interpreters fight over. But the big point, the overall point, is that you can live victorious in the midst of your suffering. Whatever suffering you might be in. Now throughout this epistle, Peter points to Christ as the model on how to suffer. And w sometimes when Peter points to the cross, he points to the cross with an evangelistic purpose in mind that people would trust Christ. But there are times throughout the epistle that when Peter points to the cross, he doesn't have an evangelistic purpose in mind. He's pointing to the cross as a model on how to suffer. And while you're going through suffering, you can be victorious just like Christ was victorious in his sufferings And that's really the the whole the whole overall point. You have to remember that Peter is writing to people in the midst of difficult circumstances. The people to whom Peter is writing are people that are going through great suffering in their life. And if I would ask you this morning that one question, are you suffering? We would probably get a lot of hands going up. You may be going through some trial, some difficulty, some suffering in your life, and it's not without purpose. Peter even says that, for you've been called to this purpose to follow in the footsteps of Christ. Christ suffered. Do you think that we could be followers of Christ and not suffer? Do you think the disciple is greater than his master? Of course not. If Christ suffered, then we also will suffer. And we have to follow in his footsteps. In fact, Peter says that. And look in chapter two, look down in verse number twenty-one. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. If Christ suffered, you will too. So when we are suffering, we need to keep our eyes firmly fixed on Christ. And look at the cross. And so, really, what I want to do this morning is for us to go to the cross by faith in our mind's eye and see the sufferings of Christ and see how his suffering can encourage us. But the again the overall point is clear. Christ is our example. He was triumphant in the midst of his suffering. And what happened to him later? Later, he was vindicated. And that pattern is true also in the life of the believer. Since Christ bore witness through his suffering and was vindicated, we too can bear witness in the midst of our sufferings and will ultimately be vindicated. And when Jesus Christ returns, he will bestow upon those believers who have suffered and who have persevered and who have borne witness of Christ in their sufferings. He will bestow upon them great glory and praise and honor at the second coming of Christ. And so in suffering, we're not just simply to maintain We are to be triumphant. We're to be victorious. That's the message. So this sermon has three points. I'm only going to get to one. And the really the points are Christ was triumphant, Christ was victorious and sin-bearing, and we see that in verse number 18. And then Christ was victorious over Satan. We're going to see that later tonight. And Christ was also victorious concerning Satan Salvation. But the first point is that Christ was victorious in sin bearing. Look in verse number 18 again. For Christ also has once suffered for sins The just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. And so I want you to see three things about the suffering of Christ as our sin bearer. When Jesus died on the cross, when he suffered on the cross and died for sins, He was not doing that just as a martyr or an example of God's love, although we do see the love of God on the cross. God's love was demonstrated with the death of Christ on the cross. But the main purpose for the death of Christ on the cross was that He was our substitute, He was our sin bearer And that's the very first thing I want you to see that Christ's suffering was vicarious. Look at the word also again in verse 18. For Christ also has once suffered. It's as if he's saying to the believers, your suffering Well, you know what? Christ also suffered. He suffered. But the key thing is why he suffered in verse 18. He suffered for sins. He was our substitute. He was our sin bearer. The great theologian Karl Barth once said that one of the most important Greek words in the New Testament is the Greek word hooper, which simply means in the behalf of Or instead of. We see that word often used throughout the New Testament, but nowhere is it more important than in this area of Christ being our sin bearer. He suffered on behalf of us. Or instead of us, he we were the ones that should have borne the penalty for sin, but it was Christ who was our sinbearer and that's what the word means vicarious. Vicarious means uh we so identify with Christ, Christ so identifies with us That he he has done it on behalf of us. We're one with him in that sense where uh his victory is ours, his death was for our behalf. You ever notice we we kind of live vicariously through our sports teams, you know that? When uh a sport a sports team or when the Baltimore Ravens win, you know what we say? We say, well we won. You mean we you weren't out there on the field. You weren't doing anything. Yet we so identify with our team that when they win we say, we won. Now it's funny when they lose we say well they lost. We don't say we lost. We say they lost. We don't like to be identified with losers. But we say we won. And friend, there's a sense in which we are so identified with Christ that on the cross, when he died for sin and won the victory over sin, we can as believers say, We won. Because Christ was our sin bearer, he took our sins upon himself, but by doing so he suffered greatly. And that's Peter's point here. Look again. For Christ has once suffered. Look at the word once, haypox. He suffered for sin one time. Never to do it again. Christ will never be re-crucified, even though there are some religions that teach whenever they participate in a certain worship ritual that Christ again is being crucified, friend, that is simply not true. Christ suffered once for sin on the cross. But notice for sins, he was again our sin bearer. He wasn't suffering for his own sins. Peter said in 1 Peter 2, 21 Or 222, he committed no sin. He was holy. He was absolutely holy in thought, in motive, and deed. He was the sinless Savior. And so when he suffered, he suffered vicariously. As my sin bearer, is your sin bearer. Notice where it says, the just for the unjust. The just, that's Jesus. The unjust, that's Jerry, that's me. And you can put your name in there. He suffered for, Jesus suffered for you and died for you. He paid the ultimate price with his death on the cross. You see, God who is holy. How many believe that God is holy today? And a holy God must punish sin. He cannot allow sin to go unpunished. Not one half of one sin will ever go unpunished. But I also believe that God is a God of love. And you know what? He didn't want to punish you. But someone had to be punished. Someone had to pay the sin debt, someone had to bear the penalty of sin, and so God sent his son Jesus, and the Bible says all of our sins were laid upon him. It says in Isaiah 53 that he shall see the travail of his soul. And be satisfied. God the Father looked down and he saw the suffering of Christ for sin on the cross, and his holy wrath for sin was satisfied because of what Christ did. He paid that sin debt. And that's why salvation is a gift. Because this the debt was paid for. The holiness of God was satisfied And now the love of God offers salvation to anyone who would receive Jesus Christ, who would receive his finished work on the cross, who died on your behalf at Calvary. If you put your faith in that finished work of Christ, then you can have salvation. Christ's suffering was vicarious, but also here's the second thing: Christ's suffering was vicious. Vicious. You say, why did Christ have to suffer so? Because sin is so heinous. No one ever, I want you to think about the sufferings of Christ with me today. No one suffered like Jesus suffered. No one The Bible says, speaking of Christ, there's no sorrow like my sorrow. Friends, salvation is free, but it's not cheap. It costs God His son. And Jesus being 100% God and 100% man had a body, soul, and spirit. And when Jesus suffered, he suffered in his body and his soul and his spirit. Every part of him was involved in that passion in the suffering for sin. For example, Jesus suffered in his body. The Bible is very clear about this in the Gospels, and we don't have time to go into too much detail, but if you read the Gospels, you'll find some of the physical suffering that Jesus had to bear. For example, they played with him the game of the kings. This is recorded in Matthew 27, where the soldiers, and by the way, this game is etched in certain floors and instructures in Jerusalem, even to this day When I was over in Israel I saw the place where Pilate's hall would have been and the Via Delorosa, the trail that Jesus would have taken bearing the cross on his back to that place called Calvary. And did you know that Eshton the floor Is this game of the kings where the soldiers would get into a circle and they would put Jesus in the center? And they would blindfold him, and one would hit him with their fist with all their might, jarring his teeth, another would take a club and beat him over the head, another one they would push him around, another one would grab his beard and rip it out And the Bible says by the time they were done with that, that his visage was so marred that he barely looked like a man when his face Again in Isaiah 52, 14, it gives the prophecy, As many as were astonished at thee. His visage was so marred more than any man, his form more than the sons of man. And then they submitted Jesus. uh subjected him to the scourging. And again, I don't have time to get into all the details, but they did it of course with a cat of nine tails. That is a uh a leather whip It had a lam a handle about twelve inches long. It was called a phylactrum. It had nine leather ends on the on it. And sometimes there were sewn in that leather bone and glass to rip off the flesh. And one person would begin at the front and start from the neck down. And another uh torturer would begin at the back and start from the heel up. And they would whip a person within an inch of their life. And they say that if you walked away from a scourging, you really didn't walk, you crawled away. if you did anything. They scourged our Lord Jesus. They threw the cross on his back and made him bear that cross down the Via Della Rosa to the way of Calvary, but he was so weak he couldn't bear the cross, as you know, and and someone had to be compelled to carry that cross for him. And of course then they crucified our Lord Jesus. Jesus suffered physically, I believe, like no other person. But he also suffered psychologically. He suffered in his soul. He had a soul. I believe that in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus said, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful unto death. The Bible says that he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood. Because he was praying so fervently there in the garden. Because he knew what was to come. He knew that he would be the sin-bearer. And it wouldn't be just physical suffering, but he would suffer in his soul, knowing that he would have to experience separation from the Father. He knew what was to come. I think in his whole lifetime, every thorn that he saw reminded him of Calvary. Every nail that he drove into the wood reminded him of Calvary. Every timber beam that he ever carried reminded him that one day he would carry the cross and carry the sin of mankind. And he was in such agony in the garden that the Bible says he sweat great drops of blood Jesus suffered physically, he suffered psychologically, he suffered spiritually. Because again, on the cross, what did he say? There was the cry of dereliction on the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And why did Jesus say that? It was because at that moment on the cross he was bearing the sin of the world There was spiritual suffering there in that he was separated from the Father. He wasn't separated from the Trinity. He was always part of the Trinity. But what separation did he experience? The separation of fellowship that he had with the Father. That's the only time that has ever happened in eternal history that there was a separation of fellowship, and it came at that moment when God the Father looked at his son and Jesus became, as it were, the subject or the The the sight of God the Father's loathing because he was bearing sin. And God the Father turned away, and Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Jesus in a finite period of time suffered what you and I would suffer in an infinite period of time. Right there on the cross. We could say it like this Jesus who is infinite. suffered in a finite period of time, what you and I being infinite would suffer, or excuse me, being finite would suffer in an infinite period of time. All of the eternities were compressed upon Jesus. All of the hells were placed upon Jesus that people would suffer for sin. And at that moment, Jesus was suffering unspeakable. Sorrow and pain and suffering when he bore our sins on the cross, the just for the unjust And that's what Peter is pointing to. And by the way, on the cross, what did Jesus say? It is finished to telesi. It's done. I love that word. It's such a rich word. It's really a word that was used by servants back in that day. When a servant would complete a task, he would go to his master and say, Tatelastai, it's finished. And Jesus was saying, uh and and giving that word, he was saying to the Father, I finished the task that you gave me to bear sin. It was an artist's word. When an artist would put the final strokes on a canvas, he would step back and look at that. portrait that he painted and he would say to telescai it's done. And there's a sense in which on the cross the beautiful portrait of redemption was finally completed, the final strokes to this beautiful portrait of redemption. was made by Christ. And he said it is finished. It was a merchant's word. When someone would pay something, they would write on a receipt to telesty. And Jesus was saying the price for sin was paid for. It was a priest's word. When the priest would go into the Holy of Holies, he would go to the brazen altar, an animal. would be slain, the blood would be put into a basin. He would take that blood. He would go past the altar of incense into the Holy of Holies, and he would sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat. He would come back out All the way out to the outer door where people were waiting, and he would say to the waiting crowd, To tell us thy it is finished. And when Jesus died on the cross and he said those words, he was saying that the cross was not only the brazen altar But it was also the mercy seat where the wrath of God was satisfied. And so Jesus' suffering was vicarious, his suffering was vicious. But here's the third thing I want you to see Jesus' suffering was victorious. Because look what it says again in verse 18. For Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh. But quickened by the Spirit. You see, he died, but that's not the end of the story. His body died, but his spirit was alive. He was put to death in the flesh. But he was quickened by the Spirit. Sometimes people ask, well, if Jesus was God, how could God die? Well, the answer to that question is very simple: God didn't die. The humanity of Jesus died. His divine nature did not die. His body died He died in his humanity. Put to death in the flesh means that his physical life ceased. He died in his body There are some people who like to dispute the resurrection and that like to say, well, you know, on the cross, Jesus never really did die. He just simply fainted, and when they put him in that cool tomb, he revived And we're supposed to believe that nonsense. That he was able somehow in a weakened condition to move the stone, overpower sixteen guards, walk into Jerusalem and say, hey, everything is fine. I resurrected. That's ridiculous. Peter makes it very clear here that he died. Christ died. The Roman soldiers when they went by the cross. And they began to break the legs of the two men beside Christ, one on one side, one on the other. Why did they do that? Because when you're on the cross, in order uh to die quickly, you would they would want you to suffocate And the way you got breath is you would push up with your legs and grab some breath. If they wanted you to die quickly, they would break your legs so you can no longer use your legs to push up And the people would suffocate and die. And they were going to and they broke the legs of the thieves that died beside Christ, but when they came to Christ, they didn't break his legs, the Bible saith says, fulfilling prophecy. Why? Because he had already died The Roman soldiers saw that. But that's not the end of it. Look again what it says. But quickened by the Spirit. What does that mean? There are two possible interpretations, and the scholars are divided. We could say made alive by the Spirit. There are some that believe that this is referring to the resurrection, that the Holy Spirit made him alive again, brought him back to life. Now we know that Jesus did physically resurrect. There's no question about that. The question is, is that what Peter's referring to here? There's a second view That is, this could refer to Christ's spirit. While his body died, his spirit was alive And it was doing something else, which I think is the right interpretation. You see, that's what Peter's doing here. He's contrasting what happened in his body. As to what happened in his spirit. His spirit was alive. And guess what? It says he went somewhere. Look at verse 19. By which also He went and preached unto the spirits in prison. So what happened? Jesus' body Died, was laid into a tomb, but his spirit, which was alive, went and preached unto the spirits in prison. During that three days when Jesus was in the tomb, his spirit was alive. Now when it says he went and preached unto the spirits, this is where a lot of different interpretations come into play here. This is where it becomes a bit difficult. Who are these spirits? Where is this prison? And I'm going to save you a lot of the details. If you want a little more details, you'll have to come back tonight. But let me give you the summary of what he's saying here. I think that the spirits here are referring to angelic spirits. The Bible never uses spirits to describe the souls of dead men. This is talking about Angels. Now there are two kinds of angels. There are heavenly angels and there are fallen angels. And out of the fallen angels, there are two kinds of fallen angels. There are those that are bound and those that are free. I think this is referring to fallen angels, demonic spirits that because of the heinous sin that they committed were already put in a place of prison. To be held unto the judgment of the great day. And they were held there. And when they saw Jesus die on the cross, they were thinking that this was a victory for them. You know, Satan has always tried to hinder Christ. He tried to hinder his coming, but once Christ came, he wanted him to die. He wanted him out of the way. But what Satan didn't realize was the death of Christ was his undoing. The death of Christ didn't mean defeat for Jesus, it meant defeat for Satan and his words. And I imagine that when Jesus died on the cross All those demonic spirits that were in that prison, they were having a holiday. They were filled with joy. They thought that they had won the victory. They were having a party. But someone came to the party and interrupted it. It was Jesus who came to prison. And notice to that prison, notice what it says. He preached unto the spirits in prison. Now look at that word preach there. It's not the normal word Evangelion. He's not preaching the gospel. And it's not the word logos to preach the word, it is the word caruso, which the word caruso means to proclaim a victory. So where did Jesus go? He descended to that prison and to those spirits that were there in that prison. Who felt in some way that they were victorious, he announced to them that he was victorious over sin and Satan and death. And he proclaimed victory That's Peter's whole point. He's pointing to the victory of Christ in the midst of his suffering. And let me fast forward, look in verse 22. Who has gone into heaven? And is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and towers be made subject unto him Now where is Christ? He ascended into heaven. He is at the right hand of God the Father, and all things are in subjection to him. He was completely victorious in the midst of his suffering. And this is Peter's point here. He's saying to the believers, now again, remember. Peter's writing to believers who are going through suffering, and the message is: look, don't be afraid of suffering. . . You know why? It was through the suffering of Christ that he was victorious. Victory came through suffering. Exaltation and vindication came through suffering. And if you're faithful, you know what? You can be victorious in your sufferings. And one day God will vindicate you, just like he vindicated Christ, who is now in heaven, seated at the right hand of the Father. And so what does Peter do here in this passage? He says to the believer, look at the cross. Look at Christ. I know you're suffering. But look at the sufferings of your Savior. And notice how that he suffered not for himself, but on the behalf of others And he was victorious through that suffering. And now he's vindicated and exalted. And you can suffer. And you know what? Even your suffering, you can bless others. And one day God will vindicate you as well. Look at Christ and follow in his example. If you don't know the Lord Jesus, I. Urge you to look at the cross today, see him high and lifted up, see him dying for your sin. Come to him and receive him as your Lord and Savior. If you're a Christian and you're suffering, I say go to the cross and look at Jesus and see his sufferings. And see how victorious he was. And how now that he's vindicated by God, and you can have that same glory and blessing. The greater the cross, the greater the crown. The heavier the cross, the more beautiful the crown that one day the Lord will give you. And again, to those who don't know Christ, come to the cross today. There is a nightclub in Chicago and the name of that nightclub club is called the Gates of Hell. And right down the street from that nightclub is a church called Calvary. And one day a visitor came to Chicago wanting to go to this famous nightclub, the gates of hell. So he saw a policeman there on the corner and he went to the policeman and he said, Sir, can you tell me how I can get to the gates of hell And the policeman said, Absolutely, you have to go down here and bypass Calvary and you'll come to the gates of hell. Let me tell you something, dear friend, you might arrive at the gates of hell, but you can't arrive there without bypassing Calvary. And I urge you, don't bypass Calvary. Go to the cross and see our Savior high and lifted up for you. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your sufferings. We know that you did that for us. You didn't have to come to this world to die, but you did. And now, Lord, today we come to that cross, we look by faith, we look back through time, we kneel, as it were, at the cross, and again we see you high and lifted up. Dying as our sin bearer, taking the penalty of sin upon yourself. And Father, we thank you for sending your Son. And Lord Jesus, we bless you and we thank you. And I pray that today if there's someone here that's never put their faith in the finished work of the cross at Calvary for their own salvation, that today they would make that decision. They would come to the cross for salvation. And Lord, for those who are believers, who are going through some kind of trial and some suffering in their life, that they would go to the cross and find encouragement from the Savior. on how to suffer and be victorious and know that one day there will be a future glory that we inherit because of this. May they be encouraged by that With heads brought and eyes closed. How many are believers here today? And you say, man, that's what I need. I need to look at Christ and be encouraged by his sufferings for my own life. And today I come to the cross. Finding encouragement and strength for my own suffering. And I ask God to give me the strength to be victorious. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand and say, that's me? Come to the cross today. I kneel as it were God bless you, dear friend. God sees you. Maybe you're here and you've never been to the cross for salvation. And that's my invitation to you. In fact The Bible says that the gospel is not just an invitation, it's a command. God is commanding you to come to the cross, to see his son, to repent, turn from your sin, turn to Christ. Call upon him as your Savior. If that's your prayer, would you lift your hand and say, Pray for me? I'm coming today to the cross and salvation. God bless you, dear friend. Who else? God bless you. Would you be willing to pray this prayer in your heart? You don't have to pray it out loud. Pray it right there where you are. Ask Jesus to save you. Would you just say this prayer, Lord Jesus? I'm a sinner. I know it. But you are my sin bearer. You took my sins upon yourself. You paid the penalty of God's wrath for my sin. And I'm putting my faith in your finished work. And my prayers that you save me today, Lord Jesus. Cleanse me of my sin. And my dear friend, if you just pray that in your heart, save me, Lord Jesus. He will save you today. He'll give you eternal life in heaven.