And would you take your Bibles and open please to the book of Hebrews, chapter number 12, and I want us to look at verses 14 down to verse 17. And as you're finding that, let me remind you that our study of the book of Hebrews, we learned that this book is a book of exhortation. And this is the emphasis of the writer that we make progress in the Christian life. And Hebrews 6. 1 says this, let us go on unto perfection. Now that doesn't mean that we can reach sinless perfection But that word perfection actually means maturity. And the idea is that God wants us to be all that we can be as we mature in Christ. Reminds me of that old army commercial. You ever see it? Be all you can be and join the army. You know? With all due respect to the army. The only way you can really be all that you can be is by God. It's not the army that does it, it's by it's God who does it. And the power that works in our lives, that makes us all that we can be, is called the grace of God. And that's why the writer gives us a warning. And verses fourteen and verse fifteen, would you look there and read this with me? I'll read and you follow along. Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and thereby many be defiled. Now some people have read the expression in verse 15 where it says, fail of the grace of God. And from that, they have taught the mistaken idea that a believer can fall away from God's grace and lose their salvation. And let me just say that they're half right. They're half right. Uh let me be very clear. First of all, a believer can never lose their salvation. You say, well, you're going to preach on that old Baptist doctrine, once saved, always saved, right? Well, it's not a Baptist doctrine, beloved. It's a Bible doctrine I can't s understand how anyone can read Romans 8 and say that a believer can lose their salvation. I just don't understand that. You know, God means what he says. And in Romans 8. 1, the Bible says, there is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And when God says no condemnation, he means it. Friend, that's how I know that I'm not going to lose my salvation. God doesn't condemn us. The grace that saves us is the grace that keeps us. Salvation is not me holding on to God, it's God holding on to me. If my salvation were me holding on to God, I would lose it for sure. But salvation is God holding on to me. My security in Christ is based on that. 1 Peter 1 verse 5 says, we are kept by the power of God. Beloved, we in our own strength could not hold on to what we in our own strength could never attain to begin with. It's not according to us. We're in God's hands. And so friend, you're in better hands than all state. John chapter 10, verse 27, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand My father which gave them me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. So when the writer in Hebrews says that we can fail of the grace of God, he's not talking about us losing our salvation. He's talking about us losing out on our salvation. You see, there's a sense in which a believer can fall from God's grace in this sense that they miss out on the blessings that God has intended for us in his grace. You can't lose your salvation, but again, you can miss the blessings that God has in salvation. You know, many times when we think about the grace of God, we think of salvation and we should, but God's grace and salvation is not all there is. That's not the end of God's grace, that's only the beginning of it You see, we are saved by grace, but God's grace enriches us with so many more blessings. It is the grace of God that carries us along through this life. Friend, I can't make it without God's grace. I'm saved by God's grace, but I want to tell you something else. I'm sustained by God's grace. It's God's grace that converts us. It is God's grace that conforms us. It is God's grace that will ultimately complete us. And beloved, we need the grace of God every day of our life. John Newton understood this, and the great hymn that we sing, we love to sing amazing grace. For remember the line, 'Twas grace that brought me safe thus far? And you know the rest of it, and grace will what? Lead me home. God's grace saves us, but God's grace carries us through this life. We all have dangers, toils, and snares. We all have difficulties in this life And we only make it through grace. Now the word grace is the Greek word caris, which has the idea of bestowing a gift. It carries with it the idea of love and kindness and favor, because you give away gifts to those you love. But it has a little bit deeper understanding than that in the New Testament. It also carries with it the idea of the operation of God and the heart of man. Jonathan Edwards, that great theologian. said it like this. He said grace is diverse kinds of influence of God's Spirit on the heart of men, or diverse fruits and effects of that influence. And I believe he's right. Another great scholar, Sphero Zodiatis, the Greek scholar, said this: Grace is like God's power generator, and we are like the conduits which carry his power to its intended purposes by the Holy Spirit. But what I want you to see is it's the grace of God that continues to operate in our heart. Another man said this grace is the dynamic quality of God that gives us the desire and power to obey Him. It's God's grace that enables us and uh and places in our heart that desire to please the Lord and to serve the Lord. Philippians 2. 13, write this verse down. For it is God who works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So I want you to understand that. We need the grace of God all the time. We are saved by grace. We are strengthened by grace. God said to Paul, My grace is sufficient for you. We are sanctified by grace. That grace that saves us. Titus says this. It teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts. We serve by grace. Peter said we we minister according to the manifold grace of God. God gives us the grace to do all of these things. Any good thing you see in me, any good thing in us, it's all by the grace of God of Almighty God. Paul said this, I am what I am, but by the grace of God I am what I am. But now listen, there is a sense in which a believer can fail of the grace of God. Look at the word fail there again in verse 16 of chapter 12. This is a word that means to come short of Or to fail to reach. It's the same word that you choose in Romans 6. 23. For all have sinned and come short. Of the glory of God. And so this is a warning that the writer of Hebrews is giving us by the influence and power of the Holy Spirit. The word of God is inspired by the Holy Spirit. This is God that is warning us. And the warning is don't come short of the grace of God in your life. He's not talking to unbelievers here He's talking to believers. Don't miss out on the mighty working of God in your life. Don't miss the grace of God. What a tragedy it would be To get to the end of your Christian life and to realize you missed out on blessing after blessing of God's grace. Friend, I don't want to miss any of God's grace in my life. I don't want to miss out. I heard of a man that was on an ocean liner. He was coming to America. It took all he had to save just to pay for that ticket to get a uh a trip to America. And when he got to his cabin, he pretty much stayed there. He brought some crackers and cheese to eat on the trip. He didn't have any more money. He used all his money to buy the ticket. And every once in a while he'd walk out on deck and he'd see people eating lavish dinners and and and having fun and all those activities, but he just went back back downstate in his cabin. And it was a long trip to America. And finally when they reached America, he was getting off the ship. The captain was greeting everyone as they were getting off. And the cat he c walked by the captain. The captain said, Man, you look terrible. The guy almost starved to death He said you look terrible. He said, Well, you know, I took all the money I had just to buy this ticket. I didn't have any extra for the meals. The captain said, Don't you realize that when you bought the ticket, everything else on board is free? You you have access to everything because of that ticket. And that's a good illustration sometimes of Christians. You know what? When you get saved, you're on the good ship, Grace. You're headed to heaven. But there are some Christians on the shift that are about to starve to death because they're missing out on the grace of God and their life. Don't miss out on any of the blessings that God has for you. And so this is the message that the writer is giving us here. Don't Miss the grace of God. Now, how can we miss it? And what I want you to see are three dangers that he mentions here that we need to avoid so that we don't miss out on God's grace. And here's the first thing, if you're taking notes, write down the danger of a wrong direction. Look again at verse 14. Follow peace with all men and holiness. Now to avoid failure, We need to give careful attention to the direction of our lives. You see, I can tell you the condition of your spiritual life by the direction that you take And again, the book of Hebrews is all about the right direction. Remember, one of the key illustrations are the Jews in the wilderness, how they left Egypt and they were on their way to the promised land and they got sidetracked. Because they took a wrong direction. Now look at the word follow in verse 14. It means it literally pursue. It's a strong word. We're to give total attention and focus to these things. This is what Jesus meant when he referred to the eye. If your eye be evil, your whole body is filled with Whatever you focus on, that is what your heart attends to. And here he's telling us you need to focus on these two things. Number one, peace. Peace. In verse 14, follow peace with all men. And so this is focuses on my human relationship. It should be the desire of every believer to be a source of peace, not conflict. You know, uh I was saying Wednesday night, we're talking about this very thing, and one of the things I said is that we live in a world where it's just an angry world, it seems like Everyone's angry. Everyone's hostile. There's no peace. Friend, we're not to be like that as God's children. We are to pursue peace. Let the world see the peace of God in us. And this is talking about in all our human relationships, Jesus said, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. There's no excuse for a Christian to be unkind or rude or hostile to anyone else. We need to pursue Peace, the Bible says. Romans 12, 18, write that verse down. If it be possible, as much as lie in you, live peaceably with all men. As much as is possible You know, some people are not easy to be at peace with. You can do all you just put turn this on and I'll try to stay in front of it. He don't want to hear this. Now if this mic goes out, you're going to have to listen. I'm just going to shout at you the rest of the Rest of the sermon. There are some people, no matter what you do, they're not going to be at peace. And you say, what do you do about that? Well, the Bible says if it be possible, as much as lie in you, live peaceably. If I can't be at peace with someone, I just saturate them with my absence I just stay away. There's some people you have to do that with. The Bible says, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing. I'm not going to rail, I'm not going to get into argument. I'm going to do as much as I can. To live at peace. I heard about Lady Astor one time, she said to Winston Churchill, she said, if I were your wife, I would put arsenic in your tea. And Winston Churchill said, if I were your husband, I would drink it. That's not living peaceably The Bible says we don't render evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary-wise blessing. I'm going to try to bless those around me. And so the writer says, pursue peace, but then pursue holiness. Look again in verse 14. Follow peace with all men and Holiness. Now, holiness has to do with our relationship towards God. And how important is holiness? Well, without it, you can't see God. Now, the the writer is writing the Hebrews, they understood holiness and how important it is for them. They understood the Old Testament book of Leviticus. Unholy people cannot be in God's presence. Well that's a problem because none of us are holy. How are we going to see God? You see, that's what salvation does. You understand that when you're saved, salvation makes you holy Holy in God's sight. You see, there's two types of holiness. There's positional holiness, and then there's practical. First, let me talk to you about positional holiness. We get this the moment we put our faith in Jesus Christ. Did you know the moment that you put your faith in what Christ did for you, the Bible says God declares you holy in his sight? He declares you holy. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. For he hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. God makes us righteous because of what Jesus did for us. That's salvation. My sin, all the bliss of this glorious thought My sin, not in part, but the whole, is what, nailed to the cross. I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. You know what that's called? That's called the imputed righteousness of Christ. Because the moment you get saved and I get saved God takes all of our sin. Just think about it like this. There's two ledger sheets in heaven. One has my name at the top. One has Jesus' name at the top. My ledger sheet doesn't look so good. It's got one sin after another after another, sin upon sin upon sin. And the lecturesheet of Jesus as righteousness, holiness, one righteous deed after another, after another. He's sinless. I'm sinful. You know what happens at salvation? God takes and he raises my name at the top of the ledger and he puts Jesus' name there. And he takes the name of Jesus at the top of his ledger and he puts my name there. You know what happens? God gives me all of the righteousness of Christ. Jesus takes all of my sin. And that's why it's called the imputed righteousness of Christ. And that's why Jesus died on the cross and not me. I should have. I deserve to die. I deserve the wrath of God. But Jesus took it for me Isn't that amazing to think about? That's the positional holiness that the Bible speaks about. So when God looks at me now, he sees a holy person because Jesus gave me his righteousness. That's what the word saint means. So you're looking this morning at Saint Jerry here at the pulpit. And it's all because, not because I'm any good, it's all because it's the holiness of Jesus. It's the righteousness of Christ. That's positional holiness. But then there's practical holiness. And what is practical holiness? It's bringing my position up to uh my practice, I should say, up to my position. That's God declared me holy. Now I need to live it out. I use this illustration. At the wedding altar, the the preacher says, Now I declare you husband and wife. That is a legal declaration. They are declared one. But they the rest of their life begin to live out that oneness. They begin to live more and more in that oneness. I thought I knew it what what it was like to be declared one, but in all these years I've been married, we become more and more one. We are making our practice commensurate with our position. You see, God at salvation declares you holy. Now, practically, you need to pursue that. And that comes with all the things that we do, spending time in God's Word, spending time in prayer, being in public worship, confessing our sins to God, our relationships to others Witnessing for the Lord Jesus Christ, all those things makes us practically holy. Second Corinthians 7. 1. Have ye therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh. and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. So I want to ask you, is that the direction of your life? Because the writer says you need to be careful that you don't miss God's grace by pursuing wrong things. We should pursue peace. We should pursue holiness. But down right down number two. There's the danger of a wrong direction, then the danger of what I call a danger of a wrong disposition. Look at verse 15. Looking diligently. Lest any man fail the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Now there's a warning here about the danger of Bitterness. And bitterness is a matter of one's disposition. You ever meet someone that's just filled with bitterness? Someone said one cup of sweet water will never spill out bitterness, no matter how hard it's jostled And bitterness reveals where we are. The Bible says, let all bitterness and wrath and anger be put away from you. The writer says, Look, don't allow bitterness to dwell in you. If you do, you miss God's grace. in your life. Now bitterness only hurts in two areas. First of all, ourselves. And verse 15, notice where he says, springing up trouble you. It will trouble you. Someone said bitterness is a corrosive acid that eats its own container. It's like drinking poisoning expecting your enemy to die. It's only going to hurt you. There's so many people that are harboring grudges and unforgiveness, and it develops into bitterness in their own heart. And it isn't hurting the other person. They don't even know that you feel that way in many cases for some people. It only hurts you. But then it hurts others. Look in verse 15. It says, Spring you up and trouble you, and thereby, notice the next thing, many be defiled, and it's contagious. It spreads, it grows. It's kind of like the flu. It's just contagious, you know. You know, what are it's called a root. What do roots do? Roots are constantly seeking to spread out, right? They're constantly seeking nourishment, spreading through the dirt. And friend, no matter how much you nurse a grudge, it's not going to get better. It's only going to spread. And when it does, it will bear fruit. What's the fruit of it? Anger, hostility, violent actions. And you and I have both heard on the news these terrible, awful reports. of people that in anger take a gun and go into a a public place and they begin to just shoot people. You say, what's that the result of? That's just bitterness in a person's heart. Bitterness is just eating them up. And it's it's hurting others as well. And by the way, if when you when you allow yourself to get bitter, you're gonna hurt those you love around you. You you might be bitter at your enemy, but it's really the ones that you love are going to be the ones that are going to be hurt around you because of that bitterness. And so what's the solution to that? It's just simple forgiveness. Not taught on this in our Sunday school, but forgiveness is really for a believer, our normal pattern of forgiveness is just unconditional forgiveness. Now there are times when our forgiveness has to be conditional, and the Bible is very clear about that. But the normal pattern of a Christian is we just forgive. If someone does something against me, I just forgive them I write it off. The Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. And if it's an insult against me, if it's a public or flagrant insult, I'm just going to let it go. I'm just going to forgive. That's the default mode of the Christian. Again, the Bible says in Proverbs 10:12, hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses. And so I'm just going to let it go. Now the only other option is just to let it fester and get angry and get bitter. And friend, that's only going to hurt me. And it'll hurt some others that I love, but I'll tell you the worst thing, it I'll miss the grace of God in my life if I harbor that bitterness. So let it go. Let that bitterness go. And so there's the danger of a wrong direction. There's the danger of a wrong disposition. But let me give you the third thing here quickly. There's the danger of a wrong decision. Look at verse 16. Here's another warning. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright For you know that how that afterwards, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Now, the decisions we make have a great deal to do with whether or not God's grace works in our life. You think about it. Your life and my life is the sum total of the decisions that we make. And some decisions will cause you to lose out on the grace of God. And again, this is what the writer is warning us about. If you make bad decisions. You'll miss God's grace. Now, Esau is the example that he uses. Esau from the Old Testament. He's forever an example of a man who made a really, really bad decision. And because of that, he missed out on the grace of God. And in fact, the Bible uses two words to describe him. We already saw it in verse 16, where it says In verse 16, he was a profane person, and that is a word that simply means uh the word that literally means outside the temple, or we could call it an ungodly person, someone who lives a life without God. Who doesn't give any value to godly things or spiritual things? And then it calls him a fornicator, and this is because he chose to gratify his flesh over the spirit. Now you remember Esau? Remember what he did? Let me remind you. Think about, first of all, the birthright that he sold. Look again in verse 16. It says, For who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. And by the way, this story is recorded in Genesis 27. One day Esau was out hunting. You remember in the Bible it says Esau was a man of the field. He loved to hunt. Jacob was more kind of a mama's boy, I guess you would say. He learned to stay home and cook. And Esau was out hunting, and one day he came home from hunting and he was famished. And Jacob was cooking stew, the Bible calls it red stew, and uh Esau came in and he said, Man, give me some of that. And Jacob said, It'll cost you. Esau said what? He said, Give me sell me your birthright, and I'll give you some of this stew. And Esau said, Well, you know, my birthright's not going to help me if I'm dead. I'm starving to death. And so he sold his birthright, the Bible says for a bowl of stew. I think it was chili. Bible calls it red stew. And you s I I I just think you're not going to give away your birthright unless it's chili, right? And Jacob won all the contests on the chili cook-alls, so he had the best chili in all Palestine. And here's what Esau did. Esau did not value spiritual things because what's a birthright? That's not only all the temporal blessings, the material blessings that come with being the firstborn, but it's also spiritual blessings This is a spiritual privilege to have the blessings of the firstborn. And so what did he do? He sold his future on the altar of the immediate In order to gratify his own flesh, he sold away his whole future. And the Bible says for one morsel of me. And he would come to regret that later. The Bible says, what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? And I want to tell you, beloved, there are people that still do that today. sacrifice the immediate, or excuse me, sacrifice their future on the altar of the immediate. And they'll make a decision to gratify the flesh today and sell away the grace of God for tomorrow. That's a bad decision. Notice the birthright he saw, but notice the blessing he saw. Look at verse 17. For ye know how that afterwards, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. This is later when Isaac was giving away their blessings. Esau wanted it. He uh regretted. That he sold his birthright. And of course, Jacob went a step further with trickery. He he uh basically secured the blessing of the firstborn. And Esau wanted it all back. He regretted it, and the Bible says he found no place of repentance, even though he sought it with tears. And I think what that means there is that Isaac would not change his mind, even though Esau came in tears. And he said, Oh, I made a bad mistake. And yet he would not find his father to change his mind. You see, the tears of adulthood cannot undo the foolish choices of youth And so that's why it's important to make the right decision. But here's the lesson: don't miss God's grace. Don't miss out on it. That's the important lesson that we have here. You see, friend, God's grace is sufficient. Let me remind you, God's grace never ever runs out. You can't miss it because God's ever going to run out of it But you can miss it by the things that you do, the decisions that you make. And since we need God's grace each day, you don't want to make these mistakes I want all of the grace that God has for me. All of the grace that God has for me. Let's bow for prayer together. And I just want to ask you with heads bowed and eyes closed. Friend, do you want God's grace in your life? And my friend First invitation would be to those who've perhaps never trusted Jesus as their Savior. You get God's grace by salvation, by putting your faith in what Christ has done for you. And if you haven't done that, I'm inviting you right now to do it. In fact, God commands you to do it. The Bible says God commands all men everywhere to repent. Friend, turn from your sin and turn to Christ. Without holiness, you can't see God, and you're not holy, and neither am I. But God will impute to our account the righteousness of Christ. When we put our faith in Him. Would you do that today? Would you pray right where you are and say, Lord Jesus, save me? I come to you turning from my sin, asking for forgiveness I place my faith in the risen Christ. And friend, God will make you holy. And then one day He'll take you to heaven If you put your faith in him. And it may it may be that you're hearing you're a Christian and you're in danger of missing out on God's grace. Maybe there's some areas in your life that God's spoken to you about. And God's saying, turn away from that. Maybe there's some bitterness that you need to root out. And forgive. Maybe there's some decision you're on the verge of making that would cause you to miss God's grace in your life, and God's saying, don't do that. Whatever it is, friend, would you just allow God to speak to your heart through His Word today? And would you go to Him in prayer and say, God, I need all of your grace. I want all of it Just take a moment there and talk to God in prayer. Ask God to pour out His grace unto you today. And so Father, thank you for your grace, how it is so rich, so sufficient, so abundant. May no one leave here today without knowing Jesus as their Savior. May no Christian leave here today, missing the grace of God in their life. Pour out your grace unto us, Lord, and help us. And we pray in Jesus' precious, holy, righteous name. Amen.