Take your Bibles tonight, open to the first chapter of the book of Psalms. As you know, on Wednesday night we've been looking at some of these uh psalms, and I pray that it's been a blessing to you. I want you to look at a very well-known Psalm tonight. uh Psalm 1. And tonight I want to talk about the the life that God blesses. Psalm 1. Let me just read these verses for you. Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night And she he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. The ungodly are not so, but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous, but the way of the ungodly shall Now many times when we pray, we pray and we say, Lord, bless me. But perhaps a better prayer would be to say, Lord, make me blessable. Because I'm convinced that God wants to bless us. God's not up in heaven looking down reluctantly and yielding over blessings only because we plead for Him to do it. He is a God who wants to bless us, and he wants to bless us abundantly. Just write down Psalm 35, verse 27. Let the Lord be magnified, which has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant. We magnify, we love our Lord for many reasons, but one of the reasons we do is because he takes great pleasure in your prosperity and my prosperity. He wants you to prosper. He wants you to be blessed. He wants you to be happy. In fact, look at the last sentence in verse number six, the last sentence of this or the last verse here Actually, I'm sorry, verse number three, the last sentence in verse three, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper But then the contrast is actually in verse number six where it says of the ungodly, whatsoever he does will perish. And God doesn't want our our us to perish. He doesn't want our our works to perish. God wants us to prosper. And so God says whatever this person does is going to prosper. Think about that. Think about if you had that kind of mighty touch on your life, that whatever you put your hand to God just seemed to prosper it. God just seemed to bless it. Whatever we turn to, or put our hand to, rather, turns to gold. Do you know anybody like that? When I think of that, I think of the the character in the Old Testament by the name of Joseph. The Bible says that the Lord was with Joseph, and the Bible says he was a prosperous man. Think about that. Now the Bible gives that That little epitaph about him, that little description about him, not when he was in Pharaoh's court, but while he was in the palace or in the prison. uh before he got to the palace. He was already prospering. So prosperity doesn't necessarily talk about material prosperity and financial prosperity, although the Lord certainly does do that for us, doesn't he? He blesses us, he gives us what we have. And we're so very grateful for that. But the kind of prosperity that he gives here is a little bit more than that. It's being blessed in every area of a person's life. It's God blessing every area, every part. And really the word prosper in verse number three is a word that's used 53 times in the Old Testament, and it's translated success or successful. God wants you to be successful in every area of your life. Now, how would you like to have that? And by the way, the word blessed also means happy. Oh, how happy. God wants you to be happy. God wants you to be blessed in every part and every area of your life. And this psalm here basically tells us how we can do that, how we can have a life that God blesses. And so let me show you here in this passage four distinguishing marks, we could say, of a life that God blesses. The person that God blesses, first of all, is separated from the world. Look in verse number one again. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. The person that God blesses is a person that has learned to say no to the world and to realize that to be a part of the world system is not necessarily or doesn't really bless. And you know why that is? Because the Bible tells us in the New Testament. that the world is passing away and the lust thereof. What does it tell us? Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. Because if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And then, of course, he defines what the world is, for all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh And the lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And then he says the world is in the process, we could say literally the Greek verb there, is in the process of passing away But the contrast is, he who does the will of God what? Abides forever. I remember when I was over in Israel, uh many things that I saw, I've been over there several times, as you know, and One time we went to uh the winter palace of Herod the Great. This is the Herod that was known for all the building projects there. This was the hair the great that put to death the two year old child uh male children and uh s in the little town of Bethlehem He had a winter palace in Jericho. This is not the same Jericho as the Old Testament. Most people don't realize there are three Jerichos over there. There's the Old Testament Jericho, then the New Testament Jericho, and then of course the modern city. This is the New Testament Jericho And we were over there looking at the ruins of his palace, his winter palace. And what I didn't realize until I was there is that you can look up from his winter palace and you can see a mountain And they call that the Mount of Temptation. You know why? Because that was the very mountain where Satan brought Jesus. And you remember one of the temptations that Satan gave to Jesus? He said All the the kingdoms all these kingdoms, the kingdoms of the world will I give you if you'll just bow down and what and worship me And you know when he was on that mount, by the way, if you could just go back in the time of Jesus, uh if you would look out over the plain from that mount, you would see beautiful buildings. You would see buildings that that were um built by some of the best engineers and builders that Rome could uh could give Herod the great who was a builder. And I imagine in Jesus' day if you were standing on that mountain looking out over that plain there, there would be a lot of houses, a lot of homes, a lot of beauty And this was Satan's temptation of Jesus. Listen, you don't have to go to the cross, just bow down and worship me, and I'll give you all these kingdoms of the world. And you remember what Jesus said? Jesus said, you know, don't tempt the Lord your God. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. And now All that area, that plane, is nothing but ruins. It is a in fact it's a garbage dump. In fact, when I had to walk there through to get to the winter palace, I had to I had to hold my nose because you had to walk through a garbage dump. And that's a to me a beautiful illustration of that's which way the world is going. Back then it was all beautiful. Back then Satan was pointing to it and saying, you can have all of this. But Jesus was wise enough to know, to see into the future, that the world is turning to nothing. But the one who does the will of God abides forever. There's a garbage dump there now. That's not much. And Jesus followed the will of his father. And so you can see that Jesus made a wise choice there. But that's a great example for all of us This world, the reason we don't really get connected into this world is because even though it looks glamorous and beautiful right now It's going to end in nothing. The Bible says the world is coming to nothing. The world is passing away, is in the process of passing away. But the one who does the will of God abides forever And we see this in the life of Solomon. Remember, Solomon had the world. He said, in Ecclesiastes 2, verse 10, I withheld not my heart from any joy. You know what that is? That's the lust of the flesh. Whatever his flesh wanted, he got. He said, Whatsoever my eyes desired, I kept not from them, in verse ten of chapter two. Whatever I saw, if I wanted it, I could get it. He had enough wealth to do that And then he said this, there was no one greater than me in Jerusalem. That's the pride of life. He literally had the world. He had the lust of the flesh. He had the lust of the eyes. He had the pride of life. He had everything that the world could offer. And you said, well, he must have been a very happy man. No, because in Ecclesiastes chapter 2 verse 17, he said, therefore I hated life. I hated life. You know why? Because the world is not enough. It's not enough to fill your heart because you were created to enjoy God. And to be satisfied by God. And nothing can replace that. And this man who has a blessed life, this person who has a blessed life, has learned to say no to the world And in fact, look again in verse number one, it says, Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. He rejects the world's advice. He doesn't walk in the counsel of the ungodly. The Christian life is compared to a walk. And it begins with a step of faith and trusting in Christ and then growing in that and growing in the light And we continue to grow in that as we walk by faith. And a man who really is trusting in God, he doesn't need the advice of the world. And so this man rejects the world's advice. Remember what Paul said about the wisdom of the world? You know that we read about the church at Corinth. They had a lot of problems. You know what their ultimate problem was? You know what the really the underlying problem was? That really caused all the other problems was that they trusted in man's wisdom. They love Greek wisdom. And Paul had to redirect them. And so in chapter 1 and chapter 2 in 1 Corinthians, he points to the cross. You know why? Because that's where God's wisdom starts. And it's so much superior to the wisdom of the world. You see, real wisdom doesn't come from laying on a couch and getting advice from a psychiatrist. Now, if you're a psychiatrist here tonight, I have nothing against you, okay? And I appreciate what you're trying to do, but I want to tell you this: that for a child of God, the wisdom that we need doesn't come from laying on a couch, it comes from kneeling at the cross. That's where the Paul says the wisdom comes from. Not the wisdom of this world, Paul said, which comes to naught Which comes to nothing. Our wisdom begins with Christ. And so this man, he rejects the world's advice, but also notice he rejects the world's actions. Look again in verse 1. Walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor stands in the way of the of sinners. We go from walking to standing, notice. Standing is the idea of abiding, or we could say a pattern of life. It is doing what others do, standing where they stand. I remember when I first got saved as a teenager, I still stood with some of my friends, and one of the things I had to learn to do was I had to separate from them because I couldn't stand where they stood anymore. I couldn't do the things that they did. And that's why the Bible says to us as children of God, wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. This man rejects the world's advice. He rejects the world's attitudes or excuse me, actions, and then number three, he rejects the world's attitudes. Look again in verse 1. Blessed is a man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. And I think sit here is used figuratively of a place of influence and power To be scornful just simply means to be critical, to be bitter, an attitude of rebellion, a lack of reverence, to ridicule holy things. The ungodly, they kind of use their mouth to tear down and the ridicule. The Bible says there's no fear of God before their eyes I'm constantly amazed at some of the things I hear coming across the uh the television of ungodly people and how they will blaspheme God. Some of it makes me cringe, I'm sure it does you as well. There's no fear of God there. We're living in an age of rage that has a terrible attitude. But the man who is blessed by God, he rejects the world's attitudes He will not have that kind of an attitude. Now, I want you to notice here that there's a progression. There's walking. This is what we think. There's standing. This is where we are. There's sitting. This is what we become And this man, he will reject all of that. Now you notice that there's a progression. I think it's we see this in the New Testament. The Bible says in James that we're not to be spotted by the world. And then James also says that we shouldn't have friendship with the world. And then finally he says, Romans says, don't be conformed to this world. And then 1 Corinthians 11 says, you'll be condemned with the world if you do. So notice the progression there? That's the way the world works. It comes into us a little bit at a time, a little bit at a time, trying to conform us. And so this man has learned that there's no value there. And so he is separated from the world in his attitudes, in his actions, and their advice. He doesn't need it. He's learned to look to the Lord and depend upon God. But now here's the second thing. Number one, he's separated From the world. But number two, here's the second thing. He's saturated by the word. Look at verse 2. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. So notice this is a man that loves God's word, or a man or woman, a person who loves God's word. You know, you can tell your spiritual condition. By your attitude towards the Word of God. You know, when you begin to backslide, you can tell because you'll not have a real hunger for the Word of God. You'll kind of have a careless, carefree attitude about God's word. But, friend, if you love God's word, if you delight in God's word, that's a sign of your spiritual condition. Do you love the word of God? One of my favorite characters of history is Charles Spurgeon. And one time he was in Scotland. After he had preached in a church, he went to a friend's home for dinner. While he was waiting for it to be put on the table, he went to his friend's library And he was just searching through the volumes in the library, and he happened to find an old tattered Bible, and he pulled the Bible off the shelf, and he had noticed that a bookworm uh had eaten through the front cover of that Bible. And then he kind of opened the Bible up and he noticed that that hole, the bookworm had eaten through uh the first book of Genesis and then through the Old Testament and then had he eaten through the New Testament, eaten through the book of Revelation. And he he looked at that bookworm and he held the Bible up. He said, God make me that kind of bookworm. Just eat your way through the Bible. He just loved God's word. He appreciated it. And you know what? When you are really walking with the Lord, you're going to appreciate God's word. It is God's love letter to you. Someone once said there's enough dust on some of your Bibles that you can write damnation with your fingers I didn't say that, I'm just quoting somebody. It's actually Spurgeon. That was a bad another story about Spurgeon. I'll blame it on him. He's already dead There's enough dust on your Bibles to write the word damnation, he said. Another person said this, if all the neglected Bibles were dusted simultaneously, we would have a record dust storm. The sun would go into eclipse for a whole week. That might be a bit drastic or using a little bit of hyperbole, but you understand the point there. Other books that we have were given for information. God's word was given for transformation. God wants to transform your life with God's word. And someone also said, if you carry a Bible when you are young, it will carry you when you are old. And so this man, he appreciates God's word. And then notice he also he appropriates it. Look again in verse number two. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. And so not only does he appreciate it, but he's constantly reading it, and he is appropriating it because he's meditating on it constantly. The key here is getting God's word in you Sometimes I'll hear people brag about how many times they have read through the Bible. And that's great. I really like it when you read through the Bible. But the real issue is not how many times have you been through the Bible, but how many times has the Bible been through you. That's the more important issue here. And that's why the psalmist says he meditates. What is meditation? Now I know a lot of people when they think of meditation, they think of Eastern mysticism or yoga where you're taught to empty your mind. But scriptural meditation is the exact opposite. God's not saying to empty your mind. God is saying to fill your mind with scripture and think about it Just continually think about it. Actually the word meditate means to speak to oneself, to think or to reflect. It's kind of a mental digestion, just to think about what you are reading. You know, just coming to church and hearing a sermon isn't going to really nourish you. And some people do that. They just go through the the the uh the motions of uh coming to church, yeah, I heard a sermon, check that off, now I'm gonna be okay. No, the question is, are you allowing God's word to dwell in you? Are you allowing it to change who you are? Also, the word meditation means to sing. It's a musical notation like a song that plays over and over in your mind. Does this ever happen to you? You walk into a store, a department store, they're playing an old song that you used to listen to. You leave the department store and that song is on your mind the rest of the day I mean you just can't get rid of it. It just keeps rolling over and over and over in your mind. As much as you want to forget it, you can't. Ever happened to anybody else besides me. Well, that's really a form of meditation. It's just constantly rolling over in your mind like a song. You can't get it out. But also the word means a pleasant reflection. To remember to visualize something You're just visualizing what the word says, and so you're thinking about it. But here's another question: why does God want us to meditate on Scripture? Well, because meditation stirs our heart. It stirs our heart. When we think about God's word, when the truth of God's word is is in our mind. I think that it will move our heart. There's nothing that stirs my affections like truth and truth about the Lord Jesus Christ. And so it will stir the heart. But here's another thing: meditation is a bridge to application. We begin to do the things that we think about. Would you agree with that? The things that you think about over and over again, those are the things that you do. And write down Joshua 1. 8. Joshua said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. In other words, don't stop Talking about it, just keep talking about it. But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. And why do we do that, Joshua? That thou mayest do according to all that is written therein. Then shall thou make thy way prosperous, then shall thou have good success. You see, the bridge between information and train and application, which leads to transformation, is what? Is meditation. You can't just listen and then leave. You have to think about what God has said. You have to think about it. Let it go over in your mind. Let it saturate your mind and your heart. Because again, you begin to do the things that you think about. I remember I preached in a church up in upstate New York once, and they had a a little tradition that after the final prayer You know, when we have a final prayer in most churches, everybody, you know, leaves. But when they had the final prayer there, everybody sat down. And for three minutes they would sit there and quietly. And why did they do that? Because they were taught that don't just leave and scatter. But think about what you have just heard. Think about how you can apply it. I think that's a good idea. So this Sunday morning after church, I want you. No, I'm just kidding. But what I do want you to do is I want you to think about God's word. That's why it's okay to take notes. It's okay to write things down because it later you should think about that, maybe when you're doing your devotions the next day. Think about what the Lord said to you. Let it go over again and again in your mind, because it will change you when you think about it. It will change you. The mind is a powerful tool. How many of you realize that you will do what your mind tells you to do? Your mind is so very powerful I remember one time we went to an amusement park and um there was this one building that you'd go into and they all they had was rails where you can just hold on to the rail. There was nothing there but a big screen And um I thought, what what is this? What kind of ride is this? Here you are standing in this big auditorium. You have these bars that you can hold on to. People were lined up. And then they they had a movie where the the it started, it was a big screen, and someone put a camera on the front of a roller coaster. So you're standing there and you're watching. You know, I've kind of got my arms folded there, I'm watching this. What in the world's going on here? And on the screen, it's like you're going up to the top of the hill on a roller coaster And then you get to the top of the hill, you know what's going to happen next, right? And all of a sudden you plunge down, and when that happened, everyone in that building screamed and grabbed onto the rail. And I thought, this is ridiculous. We're not going anywhere. All we're doing is standing here. And so I and and then when the the uh roller coaster went this way, everybody would lean this way. Went the other way, they would lean the other way. And I thought, you know what, I'm not gonna touch that rail. I'm just gonna watch. And you know what? When it went up to the hill again and started coming down, I just grabbed the rail again You know why? Because your mind is so powerful. Because you will respond to what your mind tells you. And there's a truth in that. That's why God wants us to meditate on scripture. He wants us to think about God's word because he knows the mind is so very powerful. The Bible says in Proverbs 23:7, for as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. Someone wrote, Sow a thought, reap a habit. Sow a habit, reap a character. Sow a character, reap a life. Sow a life, reap a legacy. And if you want to have a godly legacy, it starts with godly thinking. Godly thoughts. So God says, meditate on scripture. Now let me move quickly here because we are way, I only have five minutes left, and I won't I've got three more points. Tonight. Number one, the person that God blesses, he is separated from the world. Number two, he's saturated with the word. But here's number three. He's situated by the waters. Look what it says in verse number three For he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper And so he's in this psalm, we know that Hebrew poetry uses figurative language, and here he's using the metaphor now of a godly person, a godly life And he compares them to a tree. You know what a godly person is like? The psalmist said he's like a tree that's put by the water. Think about that. Notice I want to think about the permanence of it. He shall be like a tree, not like grass or flowers. Flowers are beautiful, but they fade away. Grass is soon withered. But a tree just continues to grow year after year. It gets bigger, it gets taller. And also a tree has a hidden life, doesn't it? It has a root system that nobody sees. And the health of that tree is dependent upon the hidden life. You see, the key to your prosperity is your hidden life. Are you being nourished by God's word? The Bible says in Matthew, a good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth fruit is hewed down and cut cast into the fire. In other words, the idea is the fruit reveals what the tree really is because of that hidden life. So, what's your hidden life like? Are you spending time with God and His Word and praying and seeking His face? And so He's like a tree, but notice His position by the rivers of water. Literally it means division of waters, and I think this refers to irrigation because in many ancient Middle Eastern countries they were already learning how to irrigate and get uh little channels of water to where the trees were, little canals were dug in every direction. Egypt was once covered with these canals. And uh when the water would come from the Nile, they would just channel them through these canals all over the plain. That's the idea here. This tree is right by the water, and it's being nourished by that water. What do you think the water is a symbol of? Water for drinking in the Bible is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit. Here's a person that's dependent upon the Holy Spirit of God. He's positioned by the waters, but also notice his productivity. He bringeth forth his fruit in his season. You might you might say, what I've been trying to do right, it doesn't look like I'm being very fruitful. Well wait for your season. Just keep doing the right thing. Your season might not come yet Fruit is seasonal. And God says this tree will bring forth his fruit in his season. But then notice his perpetuity, his leaf also shall not wither. There's two kinds of trees, some that shed its leaves, and some that stay the same all year round, no matter what the weather is. That's what kind of tree this is, and that speaks of a Christian. It doesn't matter what the outward circumstances are, we're the same. Right? It doesn't matter the changing seasons and the changing weather We're going to be the same. That's the idea here. And then notice his prosperity. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. And again, God wants to prosper you. Now let me give you the last point, and we'll be done. The person that has a blessed life is separated from the world. The person also is saturated with the Word of God. This person is situated by the waters. But here's the last thing. This person is segregated from the wicked. Notice the contrast in verse 4. The ungodly are not so. Now he's giving a big contrast here. Everything that he said about the godly person that the light God blesses, now he contrasts and he says, this is not true for the ungodly. This is not true for the wicked. He says, but are like the chaff which the wind drives away. Again, he's using a metaphor there, isn't he? A beautiful poetic expression. Maybe not so beautiful for the person who doesn't know the Lord, because here he's saying, what's a ungodly person like? If the godly person is like a permanent tree that is productive year-round, that is situated by the water, that is stable, that is growing. What's the ungodly person like? Well, they're like the chaff that the wind drives away. And what does that mean? I'm sure you understand what chaff is. If you go over into uh Israel even today, On some high hills you might see someone throwing wheat up into the air and allowing the wind to blow the chaff away. That's what they would do back in that day. They would take sometimes they would take wheat and they would um They would put it on the ground, they would allow an ox to walk around on a circuit and trample down that wheat, and then they would Throw the wheat up and they would separate it with the wind and the chaff would just drop or the wind would just drive the chaff away. There's nothing more unstable, empty, weightless, worthless than chaff. It just gets in the way. And this is the idea here. God says about the ungodly, they're like chaff. That the wind is going to drive away. The picture is someone futile, empty, worthless. John used this, John the Baptist used this picture in Matthew when he was describing God's time of harvest, when he describes visiting the threshing floor, and when God will separate the grain from the chaff. That will happen in the judgment. And so this is a sad picture. A person who doesn't know the Lord, they are driven with every wind. They are doomed. They will not stand. Look what it says in verse number 5. Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment. Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. They will not stand in the judgment, which means they won't have a leg to stand on. They are doomed. They are damned. They will perish. Their case won't hold up in God's court in heaven, the Bible says. And so this is a very serious thing. Look at verse 6. For the Lord knoweth the way of the righteous. God knows the righteous. God knows those who are his. The word know here is a very intimate word. He knows the way of the righteous, but he also knows the way of the wicked, the ungodly, will perish. So I want to be the life that God blesses. And really, there's a choice here. Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount kind of gave a similar contrast. Those on the broad road, those on the narrow road. You have a choice. Do you want to do you want to have a life that God blesses? Because I want to tell you something. God certainly wants to bless you. And God gets no pleasure from judging the wicked or the ungodly. He gets no pleasure in that whatsoever. And we shouldn't get pleasure in it either from seeing it. God wants to bless. He wants to prosper you. He wants to see you successful. But you have to make your choice. Let me give you one other verse, Ecclesiastes 11, 3, where it says, if the tree falls toward the south or toward the north, in the place where the tree falls, that's where it's going to be. And again, Ecclesiastes is Old Testament poetry. And really what it's saying is it's a poetic way of saying that once you die, once the tree falls Your destiny is settled. It's fixed forever. Once that tree falls. Now the good news is before that happens, you can make a choice. You can make a choice about what kind of life you want. So how can we be blessed? How can we be truly happy? To be blessed and happy, we must build our lives on God and on his word. And we must be separated from the world. Saturated with his word, situated by the waters, segregated from the wicked. That's not what we want. That's not who we are. God has something different for us. Let's bow together for prayer tonight. Father, we are thankful that you're a loving and gracious God, that you're merciful and you're kind and you're patient. And Lord, you would rather bless than judge. You would rather see all prosper and be happy than the opposite. And Lord, we know that a lot of that lies with us, the choices that we make. So Lord, help us tonight to consciously choose the blessed life. Help us, Lord, to cons consciously choose to live a life that's separated from the world. Because we look at the world and we see the emptiness of it, we realize it really has nothing to offer. There's a lot of things on the surface, but down deep there's really nothing. Lord, help us to reject the world's advice, their actions, their attitudes. May we be people of your word. Change us, Lord, through the Word of God as we meditate on it. Help us to be dependent completely upon the Holy Spirit in our life. May we be different from those who do not know you or trust you. So, Father, bless these words to every hearing heart tonight. We'll thank you and we'll praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.