And if we will, you would you please take your Bibles and open to the Gospel of Matthew, chapter number twenty-six. And we're going to be looking at uh just a few chapters. Uh uh we just have uh a half hour to get you through about an hour's worth of preaching, so you have to listen fast. But if you've been with us, we've been looking at the Passion Week here at Grace. We've been looking at the things that took place from the beginning on that Sunday when the Lord wrote in. to declare himself to be the Messiah until Friday. And just to kind of review with you, on Sunday, of course, that's Palm's Sunday when he rode into Jerusalem to present himself as the Messiah. On Monday he cleanses the temple. And uh we're in chapter 27, by the way, verse 47 is where we'll begin. On Tuesday, uh he goes back into Jerusalem. And uh on the way in he curses the fig tree and and it becomes like an old testament prophet. The fig tree represents the nation of Israel. This fig tree had a lot of leaves, but it had no fruit. Israel had a lot of outward religion, but there was no real fruit. And and when while he's in the temple there on Tuesday, he is teaching and uh some religious leaders come and they challenge his authority. By what authority are you doing these things? You know, cleansing the temple, which he did on Monday. and then coming in and teaching like you're you own the place. Well Jesus had basically taken over the temple and said, this is my father's house, my house. By what authority do you do these things? And then Jesus gives three parables, all of which are directed to show his divine authority. And then right after that, he gives uh a a denunciation against the hypocrisy of the scribes and the Pharisees. Then he gives his great Mount Olivet discourse where he talks about the second coming. On Wednesday is kind of a day where he stays in Bethany. He doesn't come to Jerusalem, but The in Jerusalem, meanwhile, the religious leaders are gathered together at the house of Caiaphas and they're plotting how they could take Jesus. While Jesus is in Bethany, he goes to the home of a man by the name of Simon the Leper. He is a man that Jesus cleansed and healed. Out of gratitude, he has Jesus and the disciples over for dinner. is whilst Jesus is at this on Wednesday at the house of Simon the leper that a woman named Mary comes in. She has an expensive bottle of ointment. And she breaks kind of the flask and she pours out this ointment on Jesus. This would be valued today at about $130,000 for uh this. That's a lot for Cologne But she sees this as an act of worship and she pours it all on the Lord Jesus Christ. And in doing this, she basically is this is somewhat a prophetic act where she is anticipating the death and the burial and the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And then on Thursday, Jesus sends his disciples to Jerusalem to prepare for the Passover meal. Jesus comes to Jerusalem into the upper room. He washes the disciples' feet. They bicker over who will be the greatest in the kingdom during that meal. And then Jesus tells them that one of you is going to betray me. And they all begin to say, Is it I, Lord? Is it I? Is it I? Jesus dips the bread in the dish with the fruit sauce, hands it to Judas, and says, What you gotta do, go do quickly And Judas leaves the room. And while Judas is gone, Jesus institutes the Lord's Supper and has the Lord's Supper right there, that Thursday, in the upper room. They leave the upper room and they walk to the Mount of Olives. On the way to the Mount of Olives, Jesus warns the disciples and he tells them, Look, all of you are going to forsake me tonight. And Peter says, Not me, Lord. They might forsake you, but I'll never forsake you. And Jesus says, Peter, before the the cock the rooster crows, you're going to deny me three times. That was just before midnight on Thursday. And Jesus was saying, Peter, in a few hours you're going to deny me. They all begin to descend down the Mount of Olives and they stop at a little garden called the Garden of Gethsemane. This is a place where there are olive trees and an olive press, and Jesus stays there to pray. And he brings with him Peter, James, and John to pray with him. And you know the story how that he prays, as it were, the Bible says, great drops of blood. Finally, after praying, Jesus rises up, and this is in Matthew chapter 26, if you want to look at it, verse number 46, where it says, Rise, let us be going. Behold, he is at hand that doth betray me. This puts us at early Friday morning on Good Friday. This is right after midnight. Jesus In verse number 47, look notice what it says. And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves from the from the chief priests and the elders of the people. And so while he yet yet spoke, while Jesus is saying, you know, He's at hand that betrays me, they come. Again, this is this is uh just past midnight. The early morning hours of Friday morning. This is the day that Jesus will be arrested. He will be tried, and then he will be crucified. Now, the whole idea that we see here as we look at these narratives is this: that when Jesus did this, he was absolutely submitted to the will of the Father. In other words, when Jesus allowed himself to be taken, When Jesus went to the cross, he did it out of submission to the Father. No one took his life. Jesus laid his life down. And that's the Iki idea. He be he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. So I want you to notice with me then these few events. First of all, there's their arrest of Jesus the King. Again, we see this in verse forty-seven. It says in verse forty-seven, a great multitude came. Who was in that multitude? Well, it was some Roman soldiers, it was from religious leaders, it was temple police. In John 18, verse 3 it says Judas received a band of men. He came with a group with a band. The word band there actually is a Greek word, spyria, which means one-tenth of a legion of the Roman army. That would be about six hundred men. Now think about that. Six hundred men, just Roman soldiers. They come to the Garden of Gethsemane to put Jesus under arrest. There were also religious leaders, temple police. And then also notice the weapons in verse 47. They brought swords and clubs. So we're sword here is what a Roman soldier would use. Clubs are what the temple police would use, kind of like a night stick. And uh they were anticipating resistance, but they had no idea that Jesus would come willingly because he was doing the will of the Father. No reason for any of this. But then also notice the kiss in verse number 48. Now when he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, the same as he, hold him fast. Judas says to this band, The one that you see me kiss, this is the guy. Make sure you lay your hands on him. Make sure you grab him. They needed a sign, and Judas was the one that came up with the sign, a kiss. How hypocritical. A pretend gesture of love and affection when actually it is the ultimate betrayal against Christ. And Judas basically fulfills the thought in Proverbs 27, 6, the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. So Judas kisses Jesus, they go out to a reach out to arrest Jesus. Now Peter thinks he's gonna save the day here. Look at verse 51. And behold, one of them that were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew a sword and struck the servant of the high priest and smote off his ear. Now Matthew's gospel doesn't tell us who it is uh it kind of protects the guilty here. But John's gospel identifies them. John says that was Peter. Peter's the one who did this. Took this word and he tried to protect Jesus. He cuts off the high priest's servant's ear, man by the name of Malchus. He was an assistant to the high priest. I don't think Peter was trying to cut off his ear. I think he was trying to cut off his head. And the guy just kind of ducked. I mean, he's a fisherman. He's not a soldier. He doesn't have a whole lot of experience in wielding a sword. And so he cuts off his ear. In verse 52, Jesus rebukes Peter. Look at verse 52. Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place. For all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my father, and he presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? He says, look, Peter, put up your sword. I don't need your help to defend myself. I can call 12 legions of angels. That's about 72,000 angels. I think they could get the job done. It's it and all and they would come immediately, Jesus said, if I if I called them. And so, you know but Not in it's not in Matthew, but what's interesting is in Luke 22, 51, we read where it says, and Jesus touched his ear and he healed him. That's just incredible. Jesus heals this servant's ear that was severed off. Jesus, that means he must have bent down, picked up the ear, attached it back to his head, and immediately it was healed. All the all the tissues and the muscles and the nerves were all brought back together and he was healed. Think about that. I mean if you want a sign that this man is the son of God, there it is. That should have stopped them in their tracks right there But but nevertheless, they continued on with their arrest. And so we see here then the arrest of the king. But then we see secondly the accusations against the king. And we see this in verse number fifty seven. We have to drop one down. By the way, Jesus gives a verse where he says, you know, all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken by the prophet, and he's quoting out of Zechariah there. All these things Jesus said are J just according to the way the scripture said it. Now, right after Jesus is arrested, he's taken down to the home of Caiaphas. Look at verse 57. And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas, the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. And what we're going to see here in this section, let me just give it to you real quick. There's going to be two trials of Jesus. There's going to be the Jewish trial, there's going to be the Roman trial. The Jewish trial has three phases to it. He'll stand before Annas and then before the Sanhedrin. and the home of Caiaphas, and then finally in the early morning they'll give the final verdict. And then there'll be the Roman trial where Jesus will be brought before Pilate, and then he'll be brought before Herod, and then they'll bring him back before Pilate. So really just two trials here. Notice the Jewish trial first. This is again in verse number 57. They take Jesus to the house of the high priest Caiaphas. John 18, 13 says that Jesus was taking first to the home of Annas. This is the father-in-law of the high priest. But they had houses that were connected, Caiaphas and Annas. were connected by a backyard courtyard there. So they were kind of bringing them back and forth between these two houses, first to Annis, then to Caiaphas, the home of Caiaphas there. Anis, by the way, was uh in charge of the money uh exchange in the temple. Remember Jesus cleansed the temple and overturned them the money changed tables of the money changer? Well this guy Innis, he was really unhappy about that. I mean he'd lost a bundle because of Jesus. And so he's very upset But who's the part of this trial in verse 57? It says that there were the scribes and the elders. They were already assembled. I mean they had all this arranged. You normally don't have a court trial at about one in the morning. All these guys were already there together. The Sanhedrin, which would be about 71 men, presided over by a high priest, this would be the equivalent of a Jewish Supreme Court Again, remember this is just around 1 o'clock or 1. 30. What's the problem with this trial? Well, it's an illegal, unjust trial. I mean the Sanhedrin normally they gather together to preserve life. Here they're gathering together to put Jesus to death. They had already decided the verdict in advance that he needed to die. And they needed to figure out a way to do it So this trial was conducted at night. By the way, the law specified that any trials were to be held during the day, not at night. There could be no secret trials. And yet this was all done in secret, under the cover of night. You talk about injustice. No one suffered injustice like Jesus did. The accused was always allowed to call witnesses in his defense. Jesus was not allowed to call any witness. He didn't have any witnesses. All the disciples ran. He was by himself. There was no one to defend his case. The Sanhedrin was to be a judge in cases. They were not to be the prosecutor, but they had already set them had set themselves up to be the prosecutor. Look in verse number 59. Now the chief priests and elders And all the council sought false witness against Jesus to what? To put him to death. I mean these guys were so corrupt. They were looking for false witnesses. They wanted whatever they could get against Jesus, even if it was a false witness. And so they assumed a role of persecutor. Verse sixty says they couldn't find anyone. Look at verse sixty, but they found none. Yea, though many false witnesses came, yet they found none. In other words, there were many that volunteered. Maybe they were kind of paying them, but the problem was they just couldn't their their testimony didn't agree. They bore false witnesses, but they and Mark 16, or excuse me, 1456 says that their witnesses did not agree. So look at verse 61 and and and finally they find a guy and he says and this and said, this fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. Finally they found one guy who heard Jesus say this Uh this is what he said. He said if you destroy this temple, I'll put it back in three days. That was the only charge they could raise against him. And of course Jesus wasn't talking about the temple in Jerusalem, he was talking about his own body, but they're taking his words out of context because to speak against the temple, that was considered blasphemy. And so his words were taken out of context. And so and by the way, it was a serious thing to bear false witness. If you would bear false witness against someone, you were guilty of punishment of death. And so this is why they're trying to find witnesses that agree here. They're definitely seeking Jesus to die. And so, but still it they they they still don't really have enough. By the way, a witness was not forced to testify against himself, but again they ignore that And they asked Jesus to testify against himself. Look at verse 62. And the high priest arose and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing, what is it which these witnesses witness against thee? But Jesus held his peace and the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tellest whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus is silent, fulfilling prophecy, Isaiah 53, 7, that he would be silent before his accusers. However, the high priest, when he said, I adjure thee by the living God, he's giving an oath and he's compelling Jesus to answer the question, are you the Son of God or not? And so we see again this in verse 62 and verse 63. Are you the Christ? Are you the Son of God? Caiates wanted Jesus to claim to be the Son of God. He wanted him to claim to be deity because that would be considered blasphemy, and then he would have something by which he could put him to death because that's what they were trying to do. And so finally, look at verse 64. And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said, nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter shall you see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. There it is. There's the proclamation. Thou hast said it. That is that Jesus was saying, Yes, I am. And then he quotes from Daniel 7, which is a prophecy about the Son of Man. And he's saying, Yes, I am the Son of God, and by the way, one day you're going to see me coming again in the clouds as the Son of God. Well that was enough. They use this confession. Now when when the uh high priest heard these words, look at verse sixty. 5. And the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He has spoken blasphemy. What further need have we of witnesses? Behold, now ye have this blasphemy. What think ye? And the answer then is that he's guilty of death. So the high priest Philippe puts on a show before the Sanhedrin and he rips his clothes. By the way, did you know that the Bible says in Leviticus 21, 10 that the priest is not to tear his clothes, that if he did that, he would be basic Disqualifying himself from the office that he held. And you see what's subtly happening right here? The phony high priest rips his clothes, disqualifies himself before the true high priest. Jesus Christ. And the Old Testament system with all of its shadows is now being fulfilled by the high priest Jesus. It's all done away with. In fact, it was done away with when Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper there just a few hours before. And so this is very subtle and yet it's so very clear. So we see the arrest of the king, we see the accusations against the king, then we see the abuse of the king. And verse number sixty-six down to verse sixty-eight. What happens is right after they uh accuse him, they begin to abuse him. In verse 67, it says, Then they did spit in his face and buffet him. Others smote him with the palms of their hands, saying, Prophesy unto us thou Christ, who is he who is it that smote thee? Now get this in context. These are all religious guys They're all supposed to be the the you know the just, holy, righteous, and here they are. abusing an innocent man, spitting into the face of the Son of God. I can't think of a Anything more disdainful than than that. They were spitting in the face of God. What an incredible thing that they would do that. They buffeted him. They punched him like a punching bag. Just incredible the abuse. And then we see the arraignment of the king. And here we go to chapter 27. And uh w and this is uh, you know, again, they're they now have to uh take Jesus to be uh accused before the Roman governor, Pilate, or to be basically uh sentenced under the present Roman occupation. The Jews did not have the right of execution. They couldn't put anybody to that unless they got permission from the Roman government. And now that they had decided that Jesus needed to die, they needed to get permission from Rome And so in chapter 27, look at verse number one real quick. And when the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. This is around five o'clock on Friday morning. before the dawn had begun to give its light. They they held on to Jesus. They probably cast a sentence at about three o'clock a. m. They waited two hours and they then they went to see the Roman governor Pilate. And this is when the Roman trial for Jesus begins. Look at verse number 11 of chapter 27. And the Lord stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. Now, according to Luke's gospel, the trial begins with a lot of accusations leveled at Jesus. They said, Oh, he perverted his nation, you know, he forbids to give tribute to Caesar. He claims that he's the king. But Matthew's only interest is to prove that Jesus is the King of the Jews, the son of David. And so that's what he gets to. And so here Pilate just asks the question directly: Are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus affirms that to be true. And then from verses 12 to verse 14, Jesus is silent. Look at verse 12. And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. Then said Pilate unto him, Hearst thou not what many things they witness against thee? And he answered him to never a word, insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly. So Jesus didn't say anything else. There was no need to. The judge had already rendered his verdict. He knew that he needed to die. Actually, it was his submission here, his silence that was his submission to die and to do the Father's will. So he never tried to defend himself ever. He was just silent before all his accusers. Pilate is amazed. He offers, on that day it was traditional to offer a criminal to go free. And Pilate basically offers this to the people, do you want me to set free Barabbas or Jesus? He was thinking they were going to let Jesus go free because he had some popularity. But the religious leaders had already done their work and convinced the people to tell them, no, you tell them release Barabbas, but not Jesus. They had done their work. Look in chapter 27, look in verse number 20. But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Rabbus and destroy Jesus. And so they wanted him to be crucified. In fact, this multitude began to say, crucify him. This is the crowd that cried, Hosanna days before, now they're saying, Crucify. So we see the arraignment of the king. And then finally, the atonement of the king. Look in chapter twenty-seven. I know we're taking on a lot here, aren't we? You guys still with me? I know we're going through this pretty quick. All right. All right. Thanks, Gary. And verse uh in verse twenty six, then released he Barabbas unto them, and when he had scourged Jesus he delivered him to be crucified. I always thought that was I thought that was such a cowardly act from Pilate. He knew Jesus was innocent. He knew that That's why, you know, he offered them Barabbas and they took Jesus and just as a move of political corruption, you know, to protect himself, he just had them scourged. Oh maybe scourging Why would you scourge an innocent man? Well, he's a politician. Scourging is It I don't have the time to get into it, but it's an incredible whipping with a cat of nine tails from front and back, from neck down. And when a person was scourged, a man never walked away from that. If anything, he crawled away. His flesh was liter literally ripped off The Bible says his visions were so marred that he didn't look like a man. And then the Bible says they the soldiers began to mock. at Jesus. Look at verse 27. Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, gathered under him the whole band of soldiers. They stripped him and put on him a scarlet robe. And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and a reed in his right hand, and they bowed the knee before him and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. They're playing the game of the kings There's there's etchings and floors in Jerusalem that show this game where soldiers will play kind of a cat-and-mouse game with a prisoner. Here they had someone who claimed to be a king of the Jews, and boy, they had fun with that. They put on a mamak crown, the crown of thorns, a mock robe, and they would uh blindfold him and get in a circle and hit him. It was just a incredibly cruel game that they they they played as they continued to beat Jesus And then in verse number thirty, and they spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote him in the head. Verse thirty one and after that they mocked him, they took the robe off him, and put on it o his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him. And so here Jesus is being led away. In verse 32, verse 33, uh he's too weak to bear the cross, so they compel a man by the name of Sy uh Simon. to bear his cross. They bring him to the place of Golgotha, which is called the place of the skull, and the Bible says they crucify him there. There he his n his hands are nailed to the cross, his feet are nailed to the cross. cross. And uh again, I wish I had more time to describe all of this, but just excruciating pain and suffering of our Lord. But that wasn't enough that people just mocked at him. In verse 38, and there were two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand, the other on the left. And verse 39, and when they they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads and saying, Thou that destroy the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. And so here here is this this mocking just continues to go on. There was the mocking of the soldiers, now we have the mocking of the people. They have a title there on the cross. This man claims to be the son of God Then we have the mocking over the religious leaders in verse forty one to verse forty three. Likewise verse forty one also the chief priest mocked him with the scribes and the elders. saying he saved others himself he cannot save if he be the king of Israel let him come down from the cross. The mockery that Jesus went through. Hard to imagine. Hard to really comprehend. But remember, beloved, he's doing all this for you and me. He's doing all this for you and me. And there's another thing that Matthew points out. When he talks about the cross, he he he Focuses on the mockery that comes from his tormentors, especially the religious leaders and the people of Israel that mocked at Christ. But then he also does something else. He points out about the miracles. You've heard me talk about this before. But Matthew shows that the incredible miracles that took place at the cross. And why does he do that? To show that that Jesus is the Son of God. The miracles were God the Father's divine stamp of approval on his Son, Jesus. And what he was doing that shows that he was truly of God. And what are the miracles? Well there's the miracle of the sun. Look at verse 45. Now, and now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. Jesus was on the cross for about six hours, two, three hour periods. He was on the cross from nine to twelve, that's the first three hours, and then from twelve one to three o'clock. During the first three hours, he prays to offer forgiveness. Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And then to save a thief, where he says to the thief, today you're going to be with me in paradise. And then to help his mother, he says, John, behold your mother, take care of Mary. The second three hours begin in verse 45, when the Bible says that there was darkness. Over all the land, until the ninth hour, from twelve o'clock noon till three o'clock, there was darkness Now the Jews were always asking for a sign. You want a sign? Here's a sign. At twelve o'clock noon, it got pitch black dark. And it wasn't an eclipse because it stayed dark for three hours. Three hours. I mean that should have stopped him right there. That should have convinced him. That this is something different going on. And what was this darkness all about? And by the way, it was at that time, look down at verse number 46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice saying, Eli Eli Lamach Sabacthani, that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? This is at the point when God the Father turned his back on his son. You say, why? Well, because at that moment Jesus was bearing the sins of the world upon himself. He took upon him the sins of the world. And God the Father, when he turned his back on his son, he was confirming that Jesus at that moment was bearing your sin and my sin. At that very moment, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was delivered for our offenses. 1 Corinthians 15, 3, he died for our sins. 1 Peter 2. 24 says Christ bore our sins in his own body on the tree. 1 Peter 3. 18, Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. 1 John 4. 10, God sent his son to be the propitiation for our sin. And it was at that moment That God the Father turned his back on his son and Jesus for the sin of the world. There's no way to really fully comprehend all that took place at that moment. There's no way really to comprehend it. You can try. But now again, by the way, this should have been convincing to the people that were there. But verses 47 to first forty-nine tells us the crowd still mocked Thinking he's calling for Elijah. Can you imagine after three hours of darkness and this happening, people still mocking? That shows the hardness of their heart. This is part of Matthew's purpose to demonstrate how willfully blind, how hard-hearted the people were. And then there's another miracle that takes place here, the miracle of the sanctuary. And verse fifty and verse fifty-one. Notice verse fifty. And Jesus, when he cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost, and behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from top to bottom. So this so the veil that separated the holy place from the Hol Holy of Holies was ripped from top to bottom. I like what Spurgeon said. He said, when Jesus died on the cross, the veil in the temple was torn from top to bottom, so big sinners like me can have can make it through. Have access before God. And then there was the miracle of the stones, or we could say the earthquake in verse 51. The earth did quake and the rocks rent. The stones just split. There was an earthquake that was so fierce and Devastating that the rocks and the stones just just tore asunder. An incredible thing. Now The miracle here is not in the earthquake, because we have earthquakes all the time, but it was in the timing. At the precise moment that Jesus died, a great earthquake and the stones were just splitting and renting. Remember Jesus said when the crowd grows silent, the stones will cry out. We hear their crying out. And they're crying out that he's the Son of God. And then there's the miracle of the and by the way, the people at the foot of the cross, they got this. They got this. They understood what was going on. Then there's the miracle of the saints. In verse 52 and verse 53, it says the graves were were opened, and many bodies of the saints which slept rose and came out of the graves after his resurrection and went into the holy city and appeared unto many. Here's another incredible sign that took place when Christ died. People, Old Testament saints, resurrected out of the grave. And they walked around into Jerusalem. Can you believe that? I mean and You say, well, why does Matthew record this? Because did you know the Jewish rabbis taught that when the Messiah is revealed, Old Testament saints will be resurrected? Where did they get that idea from reading the Old Testament passages like Ezekiel 37? They taught that when the Messiah is revealed, there will be a resurrection. One rabbi Said this, he said, when you bury me, put shoes on my feet, give me a staff in my hand, and lay me on one side that when the Messiah's come, I'll be ready. They knew when he was coming that there would be this resurrection. And here, Matthew is pointing again to an event, a miracle that again verifies that Jesus is the Son of God. But then here's the last thing. Then there's the miracle of the soldiers. Look in verse 54. Now, when the centurion and they that were with them, watching Jesus saw the earthquake and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly, this was the Son of God. It's interesting that Matthew records the confession of these soldiers at the cross. Here are hardened gentile soldiers. These men that are accustomed to doing crucifixions all the time. They did thousands of them. And when they started to crucify Jesus, they thought maybe he was just like another ordinary person, but by the time they were done, they knew that he was the Son of God. They saw all these signs. The Bible says they feared greatly. They knew something momentous had just taken place. They didn't know who he was when they started, but they knew who he was by the time they were done. And they confess truly this was the Son of God. This should have been a rebuke to all the religious leaders. And all the people that mocked at Christ, even after all the signs that God gave, they still mocked. And yet here is some hardened Gentile soldiers that are saying, hey, wait a minute. This man's a son of God. This man's a son of God. You know, the only proper response to the cross is to say that very thing. Is to bow to his lordship, to recognize that he is indeed the Son of God, that he did indeed take your sins upon him on the cross. There's only one way to heaven, that's through Jesus Christ, through his shed blood And my friend, if you want forgiveness of sin and salvation, you come to the cross and you say, Behold, this is the Son of God. He is the Son of God. And you know what? He will give you eternal life. That's what the gospel is all about. That's why Jesus came. That's why he died in such agony, to satisfy the holiness of the Father, to bear the wrath of the Father for our sins, so that our sin debt could be paid, so that we could have eternal life in heaven. That's why he went to the cross. That's why he died. And if you're saved here today, it's because of what Jesus did for you on the cross. So Frank, don't don't think lightly And I'll close with this. I'd like to tell this story. There was a nightclub in Chicago named The Gates of Hell. It's on Michigan Avenue. And it's not far from a church called Calvary Church. And one time a visitor to the city wanted to go to this famous nightclub. And he couldn't find it. So he went to a police officer and he said to the police officer, he said, Excuse me, sir, can you tell me how I can get to the gates of hell? And the policeman said, yeah. You have to go up here, you have to go right past Calvary, and if you go past Calvary, you'll come to the gates of hell. And you know what? I hope that no one here ever goes to the gates of hell I hope that every person here knows Jesus Christ. But I'll tell you this, if a person does go to the gates of hell, you're gonna have to walk past Calvary. And you're going to have to ignore what Jesus did for you on the cross. You're going to have to ignore the fact that he did all that he could All that he needed to do to prove that he was indeed the Son of God come to die for your sins. And a person, if you ignore all of that and you walk past Calvary, God forbid one day you'll find yourself at the gates of hell. But Christ came and died for us so that we wouldn't have to go there. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And friend, if you're here, I would just plead with you tonight, please do not walk past Calvary. I hope that you'll cry out like the soldier standing at the foot of the cross. Truly, this is the Son of God. But that's a choice that you have to make. But once you make it, your destiny is fixed. The Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth that the Lord Jesus shall believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. With the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Turn to Jesus. Call upon him to save you. And he will give you eternal life, friend. He'll forgive you for your sins. He'll give you eternal life Would you be willing to ask right now where you are, Lord Jesus? Save me. I believe you are the Son of God. I believe with all my heart And by faith I kneel at the cross right now. And I cry out, like the soldiers, truly this is the soldier. Son of God. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. And friend, God will hear your prayer. He'll save you from your sins. Father, bless your word, the hearing hearts. We thank you for the cross with all our hearts. Heart we pray in Jesus' name and that