Our focus is on the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want to just share with you a few things from the Scripture about the Lord Jesus Christ just before we end our service tonight. And so if you happen to have a Bible, I want to invite you to take a your Bible. There's a uh if you don't have one, there's a red book right there in the rack in front of you that has a Bible. And I want you to open to an Old Testament book called Micah. Now you say, well how do I get there? Go to the book of Matthew and make a left. And go back a few books, and you'll come upon this Old Testament prophet called Micah. Now, there's one verse of scripture here that I want to speak to you about tonight, and I'll just take a few minutes. But I want you to learn a few things that are so important, and we heard this actual verse mentioned tonight by the choir, and they sang about it, but Micah 5. 2 is the verse that I want you to think about tonight. And it says this, but thou Bethlehem Ephrada, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel. whose goings forth have been of old from everlasting. You ever wonder why, of all places, for the Savior to be born, that God chose that little village called Bethlehem I mean, w really the only thing we know about Bethlehem, probably the only reason we know about it, is because Jesus was born there. And when he w was born there, he sanctified that whole spot. That became holy ground because of that. But why Bethlehem? Why not Rome? Rome was the greatest city of that day. It had a population of one million, the first city to reach one million 130 years before Christ, why not Rome, the political center? Why not Jerusalem? That's where the temple was. That was the religious capital of the world. and where people would come to worship. Why not there? Why Bethlehem? Why this little spot called Bethlehem? Well I think that When God the Father chose Bethlehem, he was making some statements about who his son would be. About who Jesus would be. Someone said the hinge of history is on the door. Of a Bethlehem stable. And that's so very true. Let me give you a few reasons why. First of all, because Jesus, the one who would come, would be the fulfiller of prophecy. You realize that when Jesus was born it fulfilled Old Testament prophecy? This very verse here was fulfilled in verse 2, but thou Bethlehem, Ephraidah Though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler. This tells us who would be born there, a ruler, or we could say a king. And it also tells us very specifically where. In this verse, notice it doesn't just say Bethlehem, it says Bethlehem Ephrata. It's very, very specific. And you say, what's the big deal? Well, did you know back in that day there were two Bethlehems? There was one in the north part of Israel and one in the south. And if the scripture would have just said he'll be born in Bethlehem. Someone might automatically assume that it would be the Bethlehem in the north because that was only five miles away from Nazareth, and that's where Mary and Joseph lived. They lived in Nazareth. So if you would if the Bible would have said just Bethlehem, most people would have assumed that it would be Bethlehem Zebulun or Bethlehem of the North. where uh they were where they thought the set the Messiah would have been born. But the Bible doesn't say that. The Bible was very, very specific. about it. It would be like someone prophesying about a president that was going to be born seven hundred years later and he'll be born in Washington. And you would say, well what Washington? There's a Washington State, there's a Washington, D. C. , there's a Washington, Pennsylvania. In fact, there are twenty-six towns named Washington in the United States. You would say, what Washington? That's not specific enough. Well, the Bible was very specific because it says in verse 2, Thou Bethlehem Ephrita. That makes it very specific. Jesus was to be born in the southern Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, which was 80 miles away from Nazareth. That he would be born there. In fact, in Matthew chapter 2, when the wise men come looking for Jesus, Herod calls in the scribes and says, Where is this going to happen? And they point to this very verse Right here, and they said the Bible says, the Old Testament says it will be in Bethlehem, which was five miles from Jerusalem. Where Herod was asking this very question. And so the Bible was very specific about that. He was he would be born there in Bethlehem. Now it's amazing to me, I don't know about you, but it's amazing to me that seven hundred years before the birth of Christ That this prophet, by inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, knew exactly the specific town where the Messiah would be born. Do you think that's an accident? Not at all What does it prove? It proves the Bible is the inspired word of God. And that Jesus would be the fulfiller of prophecy. There was a man in the first century by the name of Justin Martyr. And at first he was a skeptic. He didn't believe in Christianity. He made fun of it. But he began to study the Bible and specifically the Bible prophecy and as he began to study the prophecies of the Bible, he became a Christian. And he later said this, to declare a thing shall come to pass long before it comes to being, and then bring it to pass, this or nothing is the work of God. This is the work of God. Only God can know the future and determine The Bible says, remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none other. I am God and there is none like me. You might say, well that doesn't really prove that the Bible is the Word of God. That's just a coincidence that Jesus happened to be born there in Bethlehem. And this prophecy says about that. You really think so? There was a professor by the name of Peter Stoner, and he's a professor of science at Westmont College. He and his 600 students studied this verse, and they put a mathematical calculation to it. They determined the average population in Bethlehem from the time of Micah to the present. They divided it by the average population of the earth during that same period. And they determined that the chances of this prophecy being fulfilled, as it was predicted in Scripture, was one in three hundred thousand. And yet it happened just like the Bible says. And that's just one prophecy. You can add more. If you add seven together about Jesus coming, the chances of all those things happening would be one in ten with seventeen zeros. I don't know how to count that high. And yet all those things happen just the way the Bible says. But that's not all. There are 456 prophecies About Jesus the Messiah, and guess what? He fulfilled every one of them. Which leads us to say he would be the fulfiller of Now Matthew is very careful to point out this verse in his gospel. You know why? Because there were people in Matthew's day that were saying, well, Jesus can't be the Messiah because He came from Nazareth. And can any good thing come from Nazareth? How can he be the Messiah? We know he's from Nazareth. In fact, John 7. 41, others said, This is the Christ, but some said Is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that he would come from Bethlehem? And so Matthew clears this up He makes very specific that Jesus was from Bethlehem. This is where he was born. Now people in that day they couldn't understand it. If his parents lived in Nazareth, why would he be born Eighty miles south in Bethlehem. How can that happen? How can that be? Well, Luke's gospel makes it very clear how that could be. In Luke chapter 2, it tells us that Caesar Augustus sent out a decree that all the world should be taxed, and actually the word there means census. He wanted to take a census for the purpose of taxing, and he would do it every 14 years. And guess what the rule was? All Jews had to go back to their ancestral home, which for Mary and Joseph was Bethlehem. And so they had to go back to Bethlehem, their ancestral home. Now think about this. Here's Joseph and Mary, and here is Mary, and she's nine months pregnant. She's going to bring forth a child. Now if she has that child in Nazareth, then the scripture isn't fulfilled. And the word and the prophecy fails and the word of God fails, and he can't be the Messiah. And all everything in Scripture fails. Let me tell you something, dear friend, if this is not the word of God, we don't have any truth. But it is the word of God, and the word of God doesn't fail. But here's the question, how how can it be If Mary is nine months pregnant, she's there in Nazareth, how is she going to go 80 miles south? Now, if you were a man living back in that day, the last thing you want to do is take your wife nine months pregnant on a trip eighty miles. Now some of you men remember when your wife was nine months pregnant and you would drive her in the car and she would look at you as if to say, can you possibly miss a bump? You know Because they were so uncomfortable. Imagine Mary riding on the back of a mule, eighty miles weaving through rough terrain. What would cause her husband Joseph To put her on that animal and take that trip with her being nine months pregnant in the dead of winter What would cause him to do such a thing? The very fact that Caesar Augustus made this decree, that they had to get back to their ancestral home, and there was a deadline, they had to get back there by a certain time And think about this. If he had not given that decree at that time, if he were a few days earlier or a few days later, Mary may have had the baby in Nazareth. But he decreed it at the very moment when God wanted him to decree it, so that at that moment when Mary and Joseph heard that decree, they knew that they had to leave at that moment So that Mary would have that baby there in Bethlehem at the very time when she needed to be there to fulfill this prophecy that had been given 700 years earlier. You say, is that an accident? Not at all, my dear friend God is in control and he fulfills his word. Jesus is the fulfiller of prophecy. He is the Savior of the world. But let me tell you something else. that this tells us the fact that Jesus was born in Bethlehem means that he would be the Son of God. Again, Micah 5. 2. Let me again read it to you. Listen to what it says. It says, yet out of these shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been of old, listen, from everlasting That is the word everlasting Olam. This is always used in connection with God. It can only mean this from eternity on. In other words, he came from eternity, this king, this ruler that would come from Bethlehem would be from eternity. His beginning was not in maternity, but in eternity. He was from of old. I tell you, the greatest miracle of Christmas is that God became a man in the form of Jesus Christ. This is the incarnation, this is what we celebrate. that deity and humanity came together in one person. He was 100% God, 100% man, both natures dwelling concurrently in one And this is a mystery that we can't really figure out. Paul said, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. And you know what that should provoke us to do? It's just to worship him. As God. This king that was born in Bethlehem is God, and he came also to be the bread of life, not only the fulfillment of prophecy. And the son of God, but he would be the bread of life. You know what the word Bethlehem actually means? It means house of bread You know why? Because Bethlehem was a place where all around it were wheat fields. That's where people would go to harvest their grain. Most of the bread for that region was produced there in Bethlehem. And so it was thus called the house of bread. It's appropriate because you know who Jesus was, he was the bread of life. Who would feed the world You know, there's an interesting story in the Old Testament when the priests would make bread and put it on the table of showbread in the holy place, they would make that bread and then they would pierce it, not really understanding why they would do that And it's recorded there in Leviticus 24 5. Pierce cakes. They didn't really understand why they would pierce those cakes, but you know why? Because the piercing speaks of the bread of life, Jesus, who would one day come and his hands would be pierced and his feet pierced on the cross when he took the sin of the world upon himself. That's the reason he came To bear the sin of the world. Spurgeon said this: In that blessed bread of heaven, made of the bruised body of our Lord Jesus and baked in the furnace of his agonies, we find a blessed food. And here's the point. Just like you have physical hunger and your physical body gets hungry and you must have to meet that hunger, your soul has a hunger in it. And it can only be satisfied with the bread of life, Jesus Christ. You know what the problem with the world is? They have this soul hunger, they have this spiritual hunger, and they're trying to fill this hunger with spiritual junk food. Or things of the world. And you know what they find? That doesn't fill that soul hunger. Because God didn't create your soul to be satisfied with those things. He created your soul to be satisfied with Jesus Christ, the bread of life. And friend, if you're here today and you say, Man, my life, I'm just not satisfied, there's a there's something missing, there's a longing. I don't can't put my finger on it. The Bible puts the the finger on it. I mean that is this, that you need to be satisfied with the bread of life, Jesus Christ. He came to satisfy that hunger. But also, not only would Jesus be the fulfiller of prophecy and the Son of God and the bread of life, but finally Being born in Bethlehem tells us that he would be the sacrifice for sin. Did you know that Bethlehem was a place where shepherds raised the sheep that they would use in temple sacrifice? That's where they did it. The Hebrew scholar Eldersheim tells us that there was a place there in Bethlehem called the Magdal Elder, the Tower of the Flock. And that was the place where the lambs were destined for the temple in Jerusalem. They would raise male lambs there, and they would take lambs that were without blemish. And they were considered holy. They were set aside. And later on they were taken five miles to Jerusalem. And there those lambs were given in sacrifice. For the temple services, and this was a continual cycle of sacrificing lambs. You know why? Because those sacrifices pointed to the Lamb of God who would sacrifice himself once for all sin. And that's Jesus Christ. So to me, it's very appropriate that the Lamb of God, the one who would sacrifice himself for the sin of the world, be born in a place where lambs were grown to be used in sacrifice because God chose that place because his son Jesus Christ would be the sacrifice for sin. Now listen to this and I'm done, but this is very important. This is what Christmas is all about, beloved. This is why God sent his son. He sent his son so that you can have an eternal home in heaven. But let me tell you something about God. God is a holy God. And a holy God must punish sin. His holy justice demands that sin be punished. But let me tell you something else about God. He is a God of love. And he doesn't want to punish you. So you know what his plan was? Someone has to be punished. Someone has to take the brunt of sin and bear the wrath for sin. He didn't want me to have to bear that wrath or you So he sent his son Jesus to be the lamb, the sacrificial lamb. And Jesus was born of a virgin in Bethlehem, the house of bread. And he lived a sinless life. He fulfilled all the law of God. Then the perfect Son of God was taken to the cross at Calvary. And on the cross, you know the story of how he was pierced. And they're on the cross. All of the sins of humanity were laid on Jesus, just like I laid my hand on this hand. All of the sins of the world were laid upon the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's not just preacher talk because the Bible says, And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. All the sins of the world were laid upon Jesus. And you know what happened? All the wrath of God fell upon Jesus. That wrath should have fallen upon me because of my sin. That wrath should have fallen upon you. But God in his mercy punished his son instead of us. Jesus was our substitute The babe that was born in Bethlehem was born to be the Lamb of God, to be the substitute for sin, so that you can have eternal life in heaven. That's why he came. And friend, if you don't know Jesus as your Savior, if you've never repented of your sin and turned to Christ and said, you know what, I received what Jesus did for me on the cross, you know people are out there They're trying to be good. They're trying to do their religion so they can get to heaven. Let me tell you something, dear friend, that's a false way. There's due religion and there's done religion. Do religion is man's way, it's a false way. Done religion is God's way. It's not what you can do, it's what Jesus has already done. And you need to put your faith in what He has done. That work on the cross was sufficient to God the Father. He accepted it as the payment for sin so that you can have salvation. And now it's offered as a gift. When you turn to Christ, when you repent of your sin, when you say, Lord, I'm a sinner, save me. Friend, you get to receive the gift of eternal life. That's how you celebrate Christmas. Let me tell you something, friend. I didn't know what Christmas was about until I got saved. And the Harmon family didn't know what Christmas was about until my father got saved. He got saved right here in this church by our founding pastors preaching. He came, he turned from uh from sin to Christ. And you know what? The grace of God came into the Harmon Home, and you know what? For the first time we really understood what Christmas was all about It was all about knowing Jesus, truly in salvation, being a child of God. And let me tell you something, friend. My heart longs for you here tonight. If you don't know Jesus I would just tell you this one thing. Make sure. Don't let this Christmas season go by without knowing, without knowing, absolutely certain that you have Receive Jesus as your Savior. You put your faith in His finished work, what He did for you on the cross. Friend, if you do that, you can really know what Christmas is all about. And I'm going to do this just before we close our service. I'm done. But I'm going to ask you just for a moment, bow your heads and close your eyes with me And maybe you're here tonight and God has spoken through your heart and you say, yes, that's what I want. I want to know Jesus as my Savior. I realize now He came into this world to die for me. And I've never personally turned to him. I've never turned from my sin. I've never asked him to save me. But tonight I'm going to do it. And that's my prayer tonight. And I want you to pray for me, preacher. Would you do that? Would you lift your hand tonight so I can pray for you? And I want to lead you in a prayer. Is that your heart's desire tonight to receive Jesus? Would you just pray this prayer in your heart? You don't have to pray it out loud. But you can pray it right there where you are. Just say this. Lord Jesus, I believe you're the virgin-born son of God, the Lamb of God. They came to die for my sin. Lord Jesus, I receive you now. And what you have done for me on the cross, I accept what you have done as my payment for sin. And I'm turning to you tonight in faith, and I'm asking you to save me. Lord, save me. Friend, if you pray that, he'll save you. The grace of God will meet you right where you are. He will save you. He will change you. And if you pray that prayer, do me a favor, let us know after the service. We want to rejoice with you. We want to encourage you in the things of God. Father, bless these words for the hearts of these precious souls who are here tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.