Would you take your Bibles open to the book of Leviticus chapter 23? Look in Leviticus chapter 23. And uh we're going to talk tonight about the feast of the Lord. in Leviticus chapter 23. I heard about an atheist that complained to a friend about holidays. He said, you know, uh Christians have their holidays. They have uh Thanksgiving, they have Christmas, they have Easter. And he said, Jewish people have their holidays. They have Passover and Yom Kippur. But we atheists, we don't have any national holidays and it's discrimination. And the friend said, Look, sir, actually atheists do have a holiday. He said, Really, what's that? He said it's April 1st, April Fool's Day The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. So if you love holidays, you're in good company because our God loves holidays. In fact, it was God who invented holidays, which actually is a word that simply means holy days. Holy days were something prescribed in the Bible, special days that God put in his calendar for people, his people to celebrate. and enjoy. You know, the devil wants you to think that when you become a Christian you don't have any fun anymore and you lose all of that joy, but nothing could be farther from the truth. The Bible says God gives us all things richly to enjoy. And God wants his people to be happy. He wants his people to enjoy all the blessings that he gives. And here in Leviticus 23, God describes his work in terms of a feast. Salvation is an invitation to enjoy a feast. You ever think of it that way? When God invites us to know Jesus, he's inviting us to a continual feast. And this is what we learn. Jesus is the host. We're the invited guest. These seven feasts that are prescribed here in Leviticus 23 all really speak to us about the work that God does through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want us to look at that tonight. We're going to look at it under three headings, the proclamation of the feast, then we'll talk about the portrait of the feast, and then finally we'll talk about the purpose of the feast. As we kind of take a bird's eye view of this chapter. It's a long chapter, 44 verses. We won't be able to go through every verse, so relax, I won't keep you here an hour. But I do want you to get a just a general understanding of the beauty of of chapter 23 of Leviticus and what how God in this calendar of his really is prophetically pointing forward to what he's going to do through Jesus Christ So number one, just write down the proclamation of the feast. Look at verse number one. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel And say unto them, concerning the feasts of the Lord, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts So in this chapter, these special holidays are called feast nine times. The expression holy convocation is used ten times. Holy is the basic Hebrew word for uh set apart, sanctified unto the Lord, Kadesh, something very sacred. Convocation means an appointed or a fixed time. And God says to Moses, proclaim or announce to the children of Israel these special set-aside times that I am prescribing here, these anoint uh appointed times for celebration. Now, why does God want his people to have these various feasts? I think part of it is because God is revealing to us his plan. for the future. He's revealing to us Israel what his plan is for the future. And God is showing us by way of these pictures in the Old Testament his great plan of the ages. Now notice first of all their origination. Again in verse 2 it says that they are the feasts of the Lord. Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them concerning the feasts of the Lord. And then in the rest of verse 2, he says, these are even these are my feasts at the end of verse 2. God says, look, these are my feasts. These holidays were God's idea. It wasn't man's idea. This was all of the Lord. God says, these are my feasts, these are my holy days. He is the host. We are the guests that he's inviting. And again, these all speak prophetically and figuratively figuratively about God's plan of salvation. All of salvation is a call to enjoy uh a feast with the Lord. Uh this is a gracious invitation. You remember in Jesus' earthly ministry he uh all would use parables to speak about things like this, a dinner or a feast. He had a parable of a wedding feast. where the king was uh preparing a feast for his son, and uh he spared no expense. He invited everyone to come, uh all his friends and neighbors, and you remember in that parable that they rudely rejected the invitation that was given by the king Even though several invitations went out. And ultimately it led to their judgment. It's a serious mistake to refuse God's gracious invitation. to feast with his son. And again, that is the invitation of salvation. But notice not only their origination, but think about their organization. Now, as we look at this chapter, as we look at these feasts, they are organized, again, all around God's calendar. And by the way, if you want to be confused, study the development of our modern calendar. That will really confuse you. The calendar we use today in the Western world is called the Gregorian calendar. It's really a revision of the Julian calendar. that was uh set up under uh Julius Caesar. By the time Julius Caesar came onto the scene, uh the calendar was so out of step with nature that uh that Caesar ordered a Greek astronom astronomer, a man by the name of Saucy Gensis, to straighten it out And I'm going to call him Saul for short. Um and when Saul put his mind to it, he solved the problem by temporarily adding uh nearly three extra months to the calendar. That's what he did. So that was in the year forty six BC. And so there was four hundred and forty five days in the year then. Can you imagine having a year four hundred and forty five days? Boy, that makes me tired just thinking about that. I'm I'm older than I think here But the people born that year must have had fun trying to figure out their birthdays. But Pope Gregory VIII commissioned the calendar that we use today. And again, it was a revision of the Julian calendar. And when Great Britain and its colonies adopted the Gregorian calendar in seventeen fifty-two, on September third became September fourteenth. So eleven days disappeared from British history So George Washington, who was 20 years old, f uh found that his birth date moved from February 11 to February 22nd. because of that change. Perhaps he celebrated his birthday twice that year. You know. However, the Julian calendar is really a solar calendar that is tied to the movements of the sun. But when God gave Israel a calendar, it wasn't tied to the movements of the sun. It was more of a lunar calendar that was tied to the movements of the moon, both the moon and the sun, and was in rhythm with the seasons. And what we see here is that these seven feasts that God prescribed are organized around his calendar. And it's important for us, again, to understand. these feasts because God's calendar talks about his future plan, what he will do So I want you to see number two, not only the proclamation of the feast, but write down number two, the portraits of the feast. Every feast that God gave Israel to observe had a purpose and a reason behind it. It was an object lesson. It was a reminder of God's love, his care, his provision, his uh for his people. But most importantly, again, uh this is the emphasis tonight, each of these seats pointed to Jesus Christ. They pointed to the work of Christ. Have you ever noticed how the secular world wants to take Christ out of their holidays? But you know, all the holidays really are come from God and they're centered around God. Um You know, just as Jesus is the center of all God's holidays and feasts in the Bible, uh all of the holidays that we have here today, modern holidays. That we don't necessarily see in Scripture. They should be centered around Jesus Christ. Because God is the maker of all these things. He's the giver of every good and perfect gift. But as you read here in the Bible about these feats, you'll notice the expression unto the Lord. Unto the Lord. This is to be done unto the Lord. The Lord is to be the center of all this activity. The feasts were not, again, man's feasts, but they were unto the Lord. In John 5. 1, we read, There was a feast of the Jews. Now here was a feast that God prescribed, and now in the Gospel of John is calling it a feast of the Jews. You see, when the Lord is left out, the feast becomes a man's feast. Not a feast of God. That's sad. Because people lose the true meaning of it. There'll be people this year that, you know, we're coming up on Thanksgiving. It's just a wonderful holiday. There'll be people that that just don't really get it. But it's all about giving thanks to God. And that, you know, they'll thank everything else in the world except God. They'll think even themselves, well, I'm thankful that I am what I am. You know. And they'll totally bypass God and not think about His goodness and His provision and all the gifts that He gives us every day and how His mercies are new every morning. And then when we come into the Christmas season, it is so commercialized, so secularized, that, you know, some man in a red suit, some overweight guy in a red suit gets all the attention. When it should be all about Jesus Christ and his coming, the incarnation. The greatest miracle history has ever known is the incarnation, the mystery of God becoming a man. And I think in the Bible, God got angry when his holidays were abused, or when people celebrated them wrongly. At one point, God said to the prophet Israel, excuse me, the prophet Isaiah, said to Israel through the prophet Isaiah in Isaiah 1, verse 13, bring no more vain oblations. Incense is an abomination to me. Here's God saying The things that he prescribed, it's all an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbath, the calling of assemblies, I cannot uh away with it. It is iniquity. Even the solemn meetings, your new moons, your appointed feasts. My soul hates God says, I hate when you get together for your feasts and the way you celebrate them. What a serious indictment that was Against Israel. These things that were intended to r remind Israel about the faithfulness of God. God had been totally forgotten in all of that. It was all ritual, it was all going through the motions, there was no heart. I will not be a part of your solemn assemblies. I'm not in it. So they wearied God. Why? Because they took God out of the celebration. But we have to remember that in the Bible, all of these feast days, all of these holidays, they all were a shadow that pointed to the real substance, which is Jesus Christ. Write down Colossians chapter 2, verse 17. Listen to this. These are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Talking about these holy days, these feasts. They're a shadow of things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Christ is the fulfillment of these things. Now I want to go through these quickly. Again, I wish I had more time. Really, you can do a whole series over each one of these feet these feasts. Do a whole series over the feasts of the Lord. But I want to just again go through it in summary form. and talk about how they point to the G uh to Jesus. So number one, write down Sabbath. And that's really not a feast. That's a special day, but we're going to include it in because it's right here in chapter 23. And this speaks of of Christ my rest. Look in verse three. Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of rest, a holy convocation. Ye shall do no work therein. It is a Sabbath of the Lord in all of your dwellings. And so uh again, th the the reference to the Sabbath is parenthetical. The rest of the chapter will deal with the annual holidays and feasts, but God wants to emphasize the importance of the Sabbath. It was a an appointed holy day. Wasn't one of the annual feast days, but an important day. And God gave it to Israel for some really good reasons. First of all, rest. It pointed to Rest. That's what the word Sabbath means. It means rest. And when God created the world on the seventh day, he rested. Now the reason God rested was not because he was tired, I promise you that. He's omnipotent. But it was the rest of satisfaction. God was satisfied with all he had done. And this was a pattern that God had set in his creation for the seventh day, one day out of the week, to be a time of rest. But also restraint. The Lord ordered a Sabbath, Sabbath years, and a year of Jubilee to keep the Jews from exploiting the land and overworking the land. God wanted his creation to rest, the land to rest. And then also relationship, the Sabbath that God prescribed for Israel in Exodus 21, uh Exodus 21 and 31. This was a special sign between the covenant that God had established with his people Israel. All other people of the world, they might work seven days, they might not count the first day of the week as or the seventh day of the week as Anything special, but the Israelites rested on the seventh day and thereby gave witness that they belonged to God. So it was a a sign of the relationship, but also, beloved, it pointed forward to redemption because Jesus is the fulfillment of the Sabbath. You see, when Adam and Eve sinned, they they uh they lost the rest that God had given them in the Garden of Eden. That wonderful rest that they had, that a part of the creation that God gave them. They lost all of that through sin. And in Christ, that rest is recovered. It is re-established. We rest in Christ. Christ is the Lord of the Sabbath. And uh God the Father was satisfied in the work of Christ. And friend, it is because of the Christ's work on the cross that we can enter into the To the rest of salvation. We don't have to labor, we don't have to strive to be right with God because of what Jesus did on the cross. And what we enter into partially here, when we trust Jesus as Savior, we enter into ultimately. when we go to be with the Lord there. But all of what Jesus did, his redemption on the cross, speaks about rest. There's so much more I can say about that, but I've got to move on. Next is Passover. Sabbath speaks of Christ my rest. Passover speaks of Christ my redemption. Look at verse four. These are the feasts of the Lord, even the holy convocations, which he shall proclaim in their seasons. In the fourteenth day of the first month At even is the Lord's Passover. And so this occurs on the 14th day of the first month, and we know that this celebrates The deliverance from slavery in Egypt, and the tenth plague that God poured out on the Egyptians, which was death, the death angel would come, all the firstborn would be slain. Who did not have the blood of an innocent lamb covering them? So you know the story. It's in Exodus 12. God said to the people of Israel, Select a lamb. It was to be blameless, selected on the 14th and watched this lamb. It was set aside for death. It was to be a male without blemish and without spot. The Lamb was to be studied to make sure it was a worthy lamb. That speaks to us about Jesus, doesn't it? Jesus was that worthy lamb, without blemish, without spot. He was studied. He was watched. And you know what the Bible says he knew no sin. Even Pilate said, I find no what? No fault in him. He was the spotless lamb. The lamb was slain. The blood was put in a basin and the blood was put on the doorpost, on the sides and on the top of the threshold. And whoever was in that house The firstborn that was in that house were covered by the blood of that lamb and that and the angel of death passed over. So this feast celebrated that event, the Passover. And again, all of this pointed to Jesus Christ, who is the Lamb, the Passover Lamb. In 1 Corinthians 5, 7, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. So Christ is my rest. Christ is my redemption. But here's the next one. The feast of unleavened bread. Christ is my righteousness. Look at verse 6. And in the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread unto the Lord, seven days you must eat unleavened bread. In the first day you shall have a holy convocation, ye shall do no servile work therein. But you offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord seven days, and the seventh day is a holy convocation. And so for seven days following the Passover the Jews ate only unleavened bread with their meals. They were to carefully, and you can just write write down your margin Exodus 12, verses 15 to 20, they were to carefully cleanse their house of all leaven or all yeast, get it out of the house. In many places, leaven is a picture of sin. The putting away of leaven illustrates the cleansing of one's life after you come to know Christ. You see, what got the children of Israel deliverance from Egypt was not, you know, putting away the leaven. It was the blood of the Lamb that delivered them and saved them. But after that they were to cleanse the leaven out of their household and out of their life. That speaks about when we come to Jesus, we are saved by not by our works, but because of the blood of Jesus. But after that, we should walk in righteousness. We should purge the leaven of sin out of our life. God wants to bless your life, but you have to purge the old leaven out of your life. And the Bible speaks about this again in 1 Corinthians 5 7. Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump. As ye are unleavened, for even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. And so this is a lesson of Purging sin. You know, the leaven is mentioned in the New Testament several times. There's the leaven of malice. The Bible says we have to put away malice and wickedness. Some people are so filled with the malice of unforgiveness. They hold a grudge. They have malice and bitterness in their heart. God says, put that away. Get that malice away. Get the leaven out. It's hindering you. Then there's the leaven of hypocrisy. Jesus warned, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. You don't want to be a hypocrite. You want to be real. There's the leaven of false doctrine. Paul said you know, to the Galatians. Look, you did run well. You had the gospel. You were you had it right. You were running well. Someone came in and they fed you the wrong doctrine. And then he said this a little eleven leavens the whole lump. Get rid of the leaven of false doctrine. Then there's the leaven of Herod In Mark 8:15, which is worldliness and pride, the leaven of the Sadducees, which is unbelief. We need to get rid of all of that. And when we do, we walk in righteousness. You see, Christ is not only my redemption, Christ is my righteousness. So we see the Sabbath, Christ is my rest. Passover, Christ is my redemption. Unleavened bread, Christ is my righteousness. First fruits, Christ is my resurrection. Look down at verse number nine of chapter 23. Where it says that um in in verse nine, did I say chapter? Verse nine of chapter twenty-three. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, while or when ye be come into the land which I give unto you and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest unto the priest. And he shall wave the sheaf before the Lord. to be accepted for you on the morrow after the Sabbath, the priest shall wave it. This is called the Feast of the First Fruits. This took place the day after the Sabbath following the Passover. The word first fruits applies to the harvest. And this was right at the beginning of the of the barley harvest or the or the flax harvest. And this feast recognized the goodness of God in the harvest. You're saying, God, thank you for the wonderful harvest. And they would take the first sheath of ripened grain, and they would bring it to the priest who would wave it before the Lord. It's sometimes called the wave offering, because they were basically saying, God, thank you for what you're you're doing Thank you for giving. Thank you for being so bountiful. Thank you for the harvest. And then the people would offer a lamb. And a little bit of flour, fine flour, mixed with oil. And again, that all points to Jesus. Jesus was the Lamb. The fine flour points to the character of our Lord Jesus. He was sinless. He was our sacrifice. But here's the thing. The first fruits point to the resurrection of Christ. Say, how do you know that? Listen to what Paul said, 1 Corinthians 15. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. This points to the resurrection. When Jesus came out of that grave, he was the first fruits of the resurrection. You see, when a farmer would take the first fruits to the to the priest, the first fruits basically said to that farmer, there's more of us coming. You know, uh just like us. There were three stages of the harvest for the Jews. There was the reaping, or the first fruits rather, I should say, and that's when the first grain, the first ripened grain was taken. to the Lord in thanksgiving. Then there was the main harvest, and then later there was the gleanings that was left for the poor to go into the field and glean after the reapers. And that speaks about the resurrection. You know, Christ was the first fruits. He came out of that grave. You know what Jesus said to death? There's more like me coming. You know who the part of the main harvest is? You and I. In that time when Jesus comes back. We are going to be the main harvest. We're going to be resurrected from the dead because Jesus did. And then later on the gleanings. And so, friend, this speaks about Christ my resurrection. But then Pentecost. Look at verse 15. And ye shall count unto you from the morrow, after the Sabbath, from the days that ye brought the sheep of the wave offering, seven Sabbaths shall be complete. Even unto the morrow after the seventh Sabbath ye shall number fifty days, and ye shall offer a new meat offering unto the Lord. Fifty days following the feast of the first fruits, the feast of Pentecost occurred. It occurred on the 50th day. Now, the word Pentecost actually means 50. So it says that on the first, it happened on the first day after the Sabbath. And so this places it on a Sunday, the first day of the week. For believers, that's a very meaningful day, the Lord's Day. And by the way, the feast of the first fruits took place on a Sunday. The first day after the Sabbath. And now the Feast of Pentecost will take place on the day after Sabbath. Again, the first day of the week, Sunday. And this was the day, of course, that later on in the New Testament when the Holy Spirit came down upon the church. When Jesus gave to the church that the wonderful gift of the Holy Spirit. You see, forty days after Jesus resurrected, he ministered to his disciples, the Bible said, and then they waited another ten days in the upper room until finally on the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit came. Fulfilling really the what's pictured here in this feast here. And so uh again, it's just a beautiful picture of what God was going to do. Um Now, one other thing I would point out, in verse 16 it says they were to offer a new meat offering, or actually literally a new meal offering on that day. And this was composed of two loaves of bread, and I think symbolizing both Jews and Gentiles that God was going to bring together and baptize into one body the church. Again, it's just such a beautiful picture here. So the Sabbath is Christ my rest. Passover is Christ my redemption. Unleavened bread, that's Christ my righteousness. First fruits is Christ my resurrection. Pentecost says Christ my resource, but here's the next one. The Feast of Trumpets. This speaks to me of Christ my returning Savior. Look down at verse number 23. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a Sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation Now, the first four feasts given in chapter 23 describe the past work that God has done through Jesus Christ on the cross. The final three feasts will point to a yet future work. That God is going to do through Jesus Christ. And these final three feasts take place in the seventh month. That would be our modern calendar. That would be September and October. But by the way, on God's prophetic calendar, we're living between the Feast of Pentecost and the Feast of Trumpets. That's the age we're living in right now. Pentecost came, the Holy Spirit came upon the church. The next feast that we as a church can celebrate will be the Feast of Trumpets. Can you guess what that might be talking about? You I'm sure you already know, right? By the way, in the in according to Numbers ten, the priest blew the trumpet for three occasions to call people together. Two, announce war and at special times, at special new moons. So the Feast of Trumpets was held again on the first day of the seventh month. And by the way, this marked the beginning of the new year for Israel, Jewish people. This is also known as Rosh Hashanah. Rosh from the Hebrew word uh head or beginning, and it's the beginning of the year. The blowing of the trumpet signaled, you know, work was to stop. This was the beginning of something new. And uh this points prophetically to the fact that the trumpet sound is when God will gather together all of Israel. We have to really apply this to Israel primarily. This is a reference to Israel. When God is going to gather his people together. And God is doing that work. We see foreshadowing of that when Israel became a nation in 1948. God is taking the scattered people that have disobeyed him and rejected the Messiah, and He's going to gather them together. That's what this signifies here. And this will be in the last days, and we're seeing that take place. But while the basic interpretation points to Israel, there's also a reference to the church. We're waiting for a trumpet sound, aren't we? We know what that is. But the Bible says, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, but the voice of the archangel and the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. This is yet to come. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, when the Lord will come. So, again, there's so much more I could say about that. But let's move on to atonement. Christ, my reconciler. Look in verse 26 And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Also on the tenth day of the seventh month, there shall be a day of atonement. It shall be a holy convocation unto you, and you shall afflict your souls. and offer an offering made by fire unto the Lord. This is the day of atonement. Now this holy day, which is probably the most holy day for Israel, It's really dealt with in detail in Leviticus 16. But here God just touches on it. And it's the Day of Atonement is called Yom Kippur, Yom the Hebrew word. For day, Kapoor is the word for covering or atonement. And so this is a day when uh the the the high priest entered into the Holy of Holies And he would take the blood of a lamb and sprinkle it there on the on the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies. And uh this is also when the the scapegoat was sacrificed and the other goat was led away. And this was God's forgiving Israel for their sins. a very special holy day. And by the way, uh by the way, it all again points to Jesus Christ, Jesus who is the the the one sacrifice for our sin. Uh the the writer in the book of Hebrews speaks about all of this, how that Christ came as the high priest. He entered into the Holy of Holies once for all by his own blood. It was Jesus who sacrificed his own blood for us. at the Holy of Holies. He was our sacrifice, the final atonement for sin. So this all pointed to what Jesus would do. But also This points to the fact that after God regathers Israel together, there's going to come a time in the future when all of Israel will recognize their Messiah. The one whom they have pierced. Now if you've been with us on our study of Zechariah, you know we went over this in Zechariah chapter twelve and chapter thirteen. What a glorious day that will be when Israel will recognize their Messiah. But then here's the next one. Feast of Tabernacles. And this speaks of Christ, my reigning King. And this is the last one. But look in verse 33. Where it talks about this. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of the seventh month shall be the Feast of Tabernacles. For seven days unto the Lord. This is also called the feast of Booth. And this reminds Israel of when God led them out of Egypt and they lived in the wilderness in temporary dwellings. And God's Shekinah glory covered them. You know, they lived in these temporary booths or tents while they were traveling through the wilderness, but yet God's glory covered all of them, the Shekinah glory of God. So to commemorate that they would live. The Jews would actually go out and live in a booth for seven days. They would decorate the booth with all kind of palm leaves and myrtle leaves and and branches and so on, you know And it's kinda I'd like to say it's kind of a combination of our Thanksgiving and Christmas. You know, they decorate the booth, they live in it, but it's also a time of thanksgiving. Also it's called the Feast of the Ingathering Ingathering because they're thanking God for the harvest that happened at that same time. But also it pointed forward to the time when the king, the Messiah, will reign in Jerusalem. And again, we saw this in Zechariah chapter 14. The prophet Zechariah describes that when the Messiah comes back And he reigns from Jerusalem, there will be the celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles, and Jews and Gentiles alike will come and they will worship the Lord. And they will celebrate this feast together. So the best is yet to come. Now, that was a quick summary of all of these feasts. If you want more detail, you're going to have to study on your own. I just wanted to give you a touch on each of these. Now God put these on his calendar. And God said, I want you to observe these. And all these point to Jesus Christ and God's work, his past work, and yet his future work. But let me give you the last thing here. The purpose of the feasts. Again, why did God do all this? Just a few reasons quickly that we can give. First, number one, to remind God's people of what God did for them. Each of these feasts, in some ways, is supposed to be a reminder of what God has done. They show his many wonderful works. And so they're designed to be a time of remembrance. As sinful human beings, we just forget. And and if part of that's just not memory last, if some of it is just sinfulness. We just we choose not to remember. Or we can take things for granted. We need to schedule times of remembering. And you know what? That's what holidays are about. Please don't go through this holiday season and fail to remember the goodness of God His faithfulness. This is all about Christ. This is all about what he did for us. This holiday season should be a celebration of Jesus. If you don't enter into it that way, you're failing to really benefit from these holidays. Don't let the world don't follow the world's sinful pattern of forgetting Christ and kicking God out of all these things. He has to be preeminent. But secondly, why did God have these times to rest? God gave us a holiday to change the routine of life up so that we can come aside, so that we can rest. Some of you might be saying, well if holidays are for resting, how come I don't rest? How come I'm stressed out by the end of Christmas? That's because you're not celebrating it right. You need to rest. You know what? You don't need to buy a thousand gifts for everybody. You know, look, just give them an Amazon gift card and rest. All right? Don't let the stress of all of this keep you from resting. And again, remembering that's all part of it. We have forgotten this principle of the Sabbath. You know, I've I've read an article where it says uh sleep scientists are warning that people are not getting enough rest I don't need to tell you that because you all look pretty sleepy tonight. You're not getting enough rest. And rest is part of God's design. You need to get your rest or Yeah, there's gonna be consequences. This report said that over you know half of all American vehicle accidents was due to driver fatigue. And it went on to talk about other accidents. You know, I don't want to give you all this, but you need you understand all that. It was all about, look, get more rest. Rest is part of what God placed in the rhythm of the week and the seasons. And part of these holidays is so that we can do that. But also another reason is to rejoice and just give thanks. God wants you to have joy. He wants you to rejoice. And our heart is filled when we recognize God's goodness and we give thanks to Him. That causes true rejoicing. And you know, the pilgrims when they came over here and they they adopted this Thanksgiving feast, they were just following the Old Testament feast in the Bible They were just following, you know, the book of Leviticus about feasts and thanksgiving and so on. And they were rejoicing over God. But here's another reason to repent. We don't often hear this about holidays. To repent, yeah, that's right. Repent. Each of these holidays, as prescribed here in Leviticus 23, was a time of self-reflection where God's people were to judge themselves Part of it was confession of sin, self-examination, evaluate their walk with the Lord, how dependent on God are they, to remind them that all that they have and all they are comes because of God's goodness. We need to have these times where we make sure that we are examining our heart to make sure there's no sin that we're holding on to. That were walking in fellowship with the Lord. And then finally, another thing that we see that was done in these feasts, we didn't have time to go over all the detail, but to read the scripture to read the scripture. When the Jewish people reserved these feasts, there was always with it the reading of Scripture, the reading of God's Word. So let me just encourage you, when you get together for Thanksgiving, take some time to read Scripture together. a family. Just read some psalms about the goodness of God. When you get together for Christmas before you tear into those gifts. Read some scripture. Read about Jesus. Read about the incarnation. Stay focused on why we're celebrating. And let every gift remind you of the greatest gift. And that God is the giver of every good and perfect gift. God is inviting all of us to feast with him. Let's make sure that we accept his gracious invitation and let's make sure that we don't leave him out, that we include him in, that he's central, that he's preeminent, that all of our rejoicing is because of Jesus. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for your word and this reminder. Thank you, Lord, for these holidays, these holy days that you prescribed. And it's a reminder, Lord, that, Lord, you're in control of all time and history. All these events are part of your calendar. It's what you put down. And your calendar is the one that matters. And we know that your calendar still hasn't, all the dates haven't been yet fulfilled. There's still things yet to be. And it's all because of our Savior Jesus Christ. Lord, as we enter into this holiday season, help us to keep Christ preeminent. Help us to celebrate Jesus and to love him all the more. And in contrast to the world, let people see what holy days are all about, and let them see it in us, the church. As we exalt our Lord and our Savior Jesus Christ, and we pray in His name, Amen