Take your Bibles and open to Matthew chapter 1 this morning. Matthew chapter 1, the passage we read this morning. And we put aside our series in James because we want to talk about Behold our king, your king, I could say. We're talking about Jesus Christ and the coming of Christ into this world. We're doing a short little series during the Christmas season. And this morning I want to talk about the virgin birth of the king. One time Larry King, the CNN talk show host, was asked who he would most want to interview. If he could interview anyone, who would it be? And he said, I want to interview Jesus Christ. And the questioner said, Well, what would you like to ask him? And Larry King said this. He said, I would like to ask him if he was indeed virgin-born. He said the answer to that question would define history for me And you know what? He's exactly right. This is one of the most important questions in all of history. Was Jesus the virgin-born Son of God? Well, we're going to see from the Bible that it's very clear. Jesus is the virgin-born Son of God. And this is one of our foundational doctrines of our faith. You take the virgin birth out of Christianity, and Christianity will crumble like a house of cards. And I want you to see the story of it here in Matthew. Matthew makes it very clear why this is so very important. The virgin birth made possible, the uniting of the full deity of Christ and the full humanity of Christ, who is Jesus He was 100% God. He was 100% man. Both of those natures dwelling concurrently in one person without either nature disturbing the other. Or lessening the other in any way. Fully God and fully man. Now, beloved, that's an incredible miracle. And I think it's one of the greatest miracles ever. And so the virgin birth made that possible. Also, the virgin birth made possible the fact that the sin nature would not be passed on to Jesus. You know we all have a sin nature, and we get that sin nature from our father Adam that is passed on from our father to us, but the fact that Jesus was virgin-born means that the sin nature was not passed on to Christ. That made it possible for him to be our Savior. He is the sinless Son of God. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to notice just four affirmations. that Matthew gives us here about the virgin birth. Write down number one, the virgin birth publicly reported. Matthew shows us it was publicly reported. Look at verse 18. Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. When Matthew says it is on this wise, he simply means this is how it happened. We would say it was as follows. The idea is this was publicly reported. This wasn't something that was a secret. It was very well known in the public. And Matthew tells us in verse 18 that Mary was espoused to Joseph. Now the question is, what does it mean to be espoused? That's something like in our day, we would say engaged. Only it's much more than that. When two young people want to get married, they get engaged. However, when they're engaged, they're not legally married at that point. Espousal in the Jewish mind was they were legally married at that moment You know why? Because a Jewish marriage had three stages to it. Let me describe them to you. First of all, there's what I want to call the contracting stage If a man m wanted to marry a woman, he would have to go to her father and he would have to negotiate to get the bride for a price. He would have to pay the purchase price. Now frankly, I think we should still do that today I don't understand why we don't do that. I could have saved a lot of money. No, I'm just kidding. Anyway. You're gonna have to pay to get my daughter Now you have to remember back in those days it was the agricultural community. Every child was a laborer. It meant capital for the father to have a child. So if you want my daughter, you're going to have to pay for her if you're living back in that day And so the bridegroom would negotiate with the bride's father for a price, and once that was determined, they would have a contract, really a covenant that they would sign, and that was the contracting stage that's called the Kiddishim in the Jewish culture And once that contract was signed, they were legally married. They were espoused. It was legal at that moment. And the father and the bridegroom would drink a cup of wine together to seal the covenant. By the way, on the Last Supper, Jesus Signed the contract, and he drank a cup of wine, and then he went out and purchased his bride with his own precious blood. He paid the purchase price. That's the first stage Now, the second stage was the claiming stage. Now, the bridegroom wouldn't take the bride at that moment. He would go back to his father's house, and you know what he would do? He would begin to prepare He would begin to prepare to come and claim her. She didn't know when he was coming. It could be at any moment, at any time. Sometimes a year, sometimes longer. And during that time he was preparing for her, and then one day when she didn't know when it was going to happen, he would come, he would come with his bride uh attendants, his bride bridesman, uh his groom and the best and the vestman and his men were all there, and there would be a shout that said, Behold the bridegroom comes, go ye out to meet him And then the bride would come and meet him, and she always had to be ready. That was the claiming stage. By the way, you know what we're waiting for? We're waiting for the bridegroom Jesus. To come back. The church where the bride, we've already been purchased by his blood. One day we're going to hear that shout, behold the bridegroom comes Go ye out to meet him. We're still waiting. That was the second stage. And then the third stage was the celebrating. There would be a marriage supper. And sometimes it would last seven days. It would be a time of great celebration. Now, in our story here in the Bible in Matthew, Mary and Joseph are espoused together. Their first stage had taken place. The contract had been signed. They were legally married. But Joseph had not yet come back to to get Mary. The second stage had not yet happened. And so Matthew says, look again in verse 18, now the birth of Jesus was on this wise When his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, notice what it says, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Now, Matthew's very careful to say before they came together, she was found with child. She was a virgin, and yet now she's going to have a baby. Now this is Matthew's account of it. Why don't you hold your place in Matthew? Go to Luke chapter 1 real quick. I want you to see Mary's account of it. We see in Matthew the birth to birth from Joseph's point of view. Here's from Mary's point of view. Look at Luke chapter 1. Look at verse number 26. I just want you to see this real quickly. Notice what it says in verse 26 of Luke 1. And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee named Nazareth to a virgin, espoused to a man whose name was Joseph of the house of David, and the virgin's name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her and said, Hail, thou art highly favored. The Lord is with thee. Blessed art thou among women And when she saw him she was troubled at it, saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be. And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary, for thou hast found favour with God, and behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. And he shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest, and the Lord God shall give him the throne of his father David, and he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever, and all his kingdom there shall be no. And now notice what Mary says in verse 34 Then said Mary unto the angel, how shall this be seeing I know not a man? Again, Luke's very clear. Mary's a virgin. And verse 35, and the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. This is how Mary saw it. Now we don't have time to read the rest of it, but you know what happened right after that? Mary goes out and she tells Elizabeth, and they rejoice together Elizabeth sings a song of praise. Mary sings a song of praise. We call it Mary's Magnificant. It's a wonderful song. It's got such great theology in it. Zechariah sings a song of praise. They are singing, they are praising God. All this was public This is all public knowledge. You say, why is that important? Because some of the accusations that later were hurled against Jesus was that he was a child of fornication. That's a blasphemy. And the Pharisee said that But now think about the story here. If a woman is espoused to a man and she's going to have a child, that's nothing to go around telling everybody about in that day. You don't write songs about it You don't go out and praise others or praise God about it before others. You don't go out and make it known to everyone if that sort of thing has happened, if it was something that was wrong. However If you are a young woman and you're carrying the Messiah, then you praise God about it. Then you sing songs about it. You see, you get the idea there? This is not something that was a secret. This was very well known, and they made it known that Mary was a virgin and she was going to bring forth the Messiah The Son of God. Now that's the virgin birth publicly reported, but right now number two, providentially reaffirmed. It was providentially reaffirmed to Joseph. Now go back to Matthew 1. And I want you to notice Joseph's response. We read about it. Look in verse 19. Then Joseph, her husband. Being a just man and not willing to make her a public example was minded to put her away privately. Now put yourself in Joseph's shoes. Here he is, he just was espoused to Mary. He believes she's a godly, virtuous woman, and yet he finds out she's going to have a child. And Joseph knows it's not his child. So wow, this this puts a real burden on Joseph. I mean, you can just imagine what he's feeling. Imagine he probably feels hurt. He feels betrayed. He feels perplexed, maybe angry. He loved Mary, but he knew the child that she was carrying was not his. And so, what was his option? He had three options at that point. Remember, they were legally married. Now, first of all, he could give her a public divorce. You say, what would that include? That would be stoning if you go by the letter of the law. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 22, verse 20, but if the thing is true, the evidence of virginity is not found in the young woman Verse 21, then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones. If you follow the letter of the law, Joseph could have had a stoning. He could have publicly divorced her there. Now in the first century, the Jews were not following that law. because of the Roman influence, there was another option. That is, he could just simply divorce her publicly. He could make a public example of her. He could shame her before the public He could bring her to trial, she can be convicted in front of her family and friends, her reputation be ruined forever. That was the other option. Then there's a third option. He could divorce her privately. That is to do it in secret because he doesn't want to embarrass her. It could be done very quickly in front of two witnesses, just simply sign a document and the divorce is in effect, there's no more marriage, and then she could go somewhere and and she could bear the child on her own and Joseph can go his way. That was the third option Then of course he could just simply marry her. But notice what the Bible tells us in verse 19, Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make a public example, was minded to what? Put her away privately. The Bible says Joseph was a just man. He was a good man. He didn't want to shame her pu uh publicly. So he wanted to put her away. The phrase there, put her away, is the Greek term apoluo, and it is the technical term for divorce. So what was Joseph want to do? He was going to divorce her. He was going to do it privately That's what he thought to do. Now put yourself in Mary's shoes. How could she explain to Joseph what was going on? I mean You can imagine her what argument she could use. Joseph, I know what you're thinking, but I'm a virgin, and this is a miracle of God. I mean no one had ever had a virgin birth ever in the history of man and now she's going to go and tell Joseph that she's a virgin and she's going to have a child and this is a miracle of God that she's going to bear the Messiah. Do you think Joseph would have actually believed her? I mean that would have been something hard to swallow. So what happens? God intervenes. Look down in verse 20. But while he thought on these things, while Joseph was thinking about everything that was happening, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, Thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. While Joseph was thinking on this, the angel comes. Notice how the angel greets Joseph, son of David, kind of reminding Joseph of the prophecy in the Old Testament. Points back to the royal genealogy. And he tells David, don't be afraid to take Mary as your wife, because what's happened is of God. It is a miracle of God. This Messiah who we be born would be both human and divine. The Bible speaks about that in the Old Testament. In Jeremiah 31, 22, for the Lord hath created a new thing in the earth, a woman shall compass a man. It's alluded to many times in the Old Testament. And then it's prophesied. And notice what the angel says, his name will be Jesus. Which means Jehovah saves, for he shall save the people from their sins. The purpose of this child coming into the earth will be to provide salvation for the people of God, for the world. He would be a spiritual savior. The Jews were looking for a political leader, but first he would be a spiritual savior. He would save people from their sins. That's why Jesus came into this world. And by the way, let me just say this. The virgin birth of Jesus Christ proves that Jesus is the only way to heaven. Logically it demands that you must believe that Jesus is the only way. You say, why that? Well because if there were other ways to heaven, like some people teach, there's a pluralism out there and an inclusivism out there that says there are other equally valid ways to heaven, then why would God need to send his son to earth if there were other ways? Why would God send his son to this earth to be born as a baby, grow up as a child, suffer many things To die in horrible agony on a cross if there were other legitimate ways to heaven. Let me tell you something, friend If if the if if a doctor came to me and said, Your son, there's something in his blood that can save people from a horrible disease, and I say to the doctor, Are there other ways? Oh yeah, there's other ways, but we'd like to have the life of your son I would say you can't have them. If there are other ways to bring salvation, you can't have my son. Why would God the Father send his son to this world through the portals of a virgin? If there were other legitimate ways of salvation, Jesus is the only way of salvation. The Bible says there is no other name given under heaven Whereby you must be saved. His name will be Jesus, because he will save the people from their sins. So we see the virgin birth providentially reaffirmed. But then the angel refers to a prophecy, right down the third thing. The virgin birth prophetically recorded. The angel is quick to remind Joseph Listen, Joseph, this is exactly what was said in the Old Testament. This is exactly what the Bible, the scriptures have said. Look in verse 22. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken Of the Lord by the prophet saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. This is all done just as the Bible says. And by the way, Matthew, in his gospel, is so very faithful to point back to the Old Testament because remember he's primarily writing to the Jewish people. About Jesus being the King, the Son of David, the Messiah, and so he's constantly pointing back to Old Testament scriptures, bringing them out and saying, see, this is what the scripture says And here he refers to one prophecy in the Old Testament about the virgin birth, and it's Isaiah 7. 14. Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son. In fact, I want you to hold your place in Matthew. Go back to Isaiah 7, 14. I want you to see this verse. Notice this passage that is being referenced here in this story. Isaiah chapter 7, verse number 14. Now, let me tell you, there's a big controversy over this verse. You know what it is? There are some who don't want to believe in the virgin verse, and they say, well, this word virgin in Isaiah 7. 14, this is the Hebrew word alma, which can mean young woman And if God wanted to say virgin, he would have used Bethula, which is a Hebrew word that means virgin, but he uses the word alma. And so this is not talking about a virgin, this is talking about a young woman. That's the attack that some people have leveled against the virgin birth of Christ. Well, how do we respond to that? Well, let me give you the story here, and you can see why it can only mean virgin. Now, in this story here in Isaiah 7, two evil kings have made an alliance And they're coming against the king of Judah, Ahaz, and Ahaz is very afraid about what's going to happen. And so God says to Isaiah, Isaiah, go meet King Ahaz. I have a message I want you to deliver to him. And by the way, Isaiah, take that little baby that was just been born. So think about this, when you read this chapter, you have to uh picture this in your mind. Isaiah is holding a little baby in his arms when he goes to speak to Ahaz. Think about that. Isaiah goes to Ahaz with his baby in his arms, and notice what he says to him in chapter 7, verse 10. Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying, Ask thee a sign of the Lord thy God. Ask it either in the depth or in the height above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the Lord. Now you know what's going on here? Here's Isaiah. He comes to Ahaz. He says, they has asked the Lord for a sign. What kind of sign? A sign that everything is going to be okay. These two kings are not going to wipe you out. They're not going to wipe out the house of David. So ask for a sign. And King Ahaz, who's not a very godly man, pretends to be spiritual here at this moment. Oh, I'm not going to ask God for a sign. And the Lord is not impressed by that. And then notice what the Lord says. And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David, is it a small thing for you to weary men? But will you weary my God also? You know, you really weary me, Ahaz. Feigning spirituality. So the Lord says, therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign. I'm going to give you a sign, Ahaz. Remember, this is going to be a sign that the house of David is going to be fine. These two kings are not going to wipe you out. Everything's going to be fine. And by the way, the word for sign here is the Hebrew word ah. It means a miraculous sign. I'm going to give you a miraculous sign, King Ahaz, that everything is going to be okay And here's what the sign is going to be. Now think about this. Remember the argument? The liberals say, well, the word virgin means young woman. So let's think about it in that context. Here's your miraculous sign, Ahaz, a young woman is going to have a child. Wait a minute, that don't make sense. That's not miraculous. That sort of thing happens all the time. That's not a miraculous sign. That's why the word can't mean young woman. Like in many Hebrew passages, the context determines the meaning of the word. Alma can mean young woman, that can also mean virgin. The context determines what word it is. The context here demands That this word means virgin because here's the miraculous sign. Okay, God's going to give you a sign, Ahaz, a miraculous sign. Behold, a virgin shall have a child. Now that's a sign That's a miraculous sign. Never ever in human history has a virgin ever had a baby. That would be a sign. You say, how would that be a comforting sign to King Ahaz that a virgin many, many years later is going to have a child? What it meant was, again, nothing's going to happen to the house of David. Because from the house of David, a virgin is going to have a child. That's going to be a sign. And by the way, that sign wasn't just for Ahaz, and it wasn't just for the house of David, it's for you too. It's for you too. God has given you a sign, a virgin. Shall be with child. And notice later on in the text, we don't have time to read it all in verse 14, and shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. Here is the sign that God offered you today. A virgin shall have a child, his name shall be Emmanuel, which is God with us. When Mary gave forth that baby that day in Bethlehem, God came forth in the form of a baby. God with us. What an incredible miracle that was. And Matthew refers to this prophecy. Now go back to Matthew chapter 1. This prophecy here is so very clear. A virgin shall conceive. And by the way, in Matthew 1, the word for virgin there can only mean virgin. Even though the Hebrew word can mean two different things, the Greek word can only mean virgin. Again in verse 23, behold a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Here it is. This is exactly what the Old Testament said, the scripture said what happened. It's happening right now, Joseph. And your wife Mary is going to be the mother. She is the virgin that had been prophesied about over 700 years ago. It's happening right now with you. Now let me give you the fourth thing. We saw the virgin birth publicly reported, providentially reaffirmed, prophetically recorded, but here's the fourth thing, personally received. Personally received because you know what happened? When Joseph got up from that vision, he wasn't the same person. He wasn't doubting anymore. Look at verse 24. Then Joseph, being raised from sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife. You know what? Joseph is an example to all of us. You know why? Because he believed. Here, by faith, he believed. He no longer doubted Mary. He no longer wavered. He believed the word of God. He believed the message given to him. How different he was now when he gets up and when he laid down. Totally different person. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. He's an example to you, he's an example to me, because I want to ask you a question. Have you personally received The virgin birth of Christ. Have you received this as being true? Joseph did. Again, this is one of the fundamentals of our faith. We don't have a virgin-born son of God. We don't have salvation. That's how important it is. The whole drivetrain of the gospel is messed up if you pull this out And I make a point of this because there are some Christians out there, they call themselves Christians, who want to say, oh this is not an important issue. Oh yes it is an important issue. This is foundational. You can't remove this. There are even some people who claim to be Christians who don't believe that Jesus was virgin born, who claim to celebrate Christmas. How can you celebrate Christmas? If you don't believe in the virgin birth of Jesus Christ, what are you celebrating? What exactly are you doing? It just doesn't make any sense whatsoever. If you don't believe in the virgin birth, that means you have a problem with the character of Mary. That means you don't believe that she was a virgin. That means you believe that she was a deceiver. That means you believe she was an impure woman And therefore you have a problem with the Bible because the Bible makes it very clear. And you have a problem with Joseph. Joseph says that the Bible calls Joseph a just man. That makes Joseph a deceiver as well And also you have to say by extension, that means God is a liar because God calls Mary an honorable woman. You see, friend, if you don't believe in the virgin birth, you've got a lot of problems. It's just a domino effect. All the other doctrines will begin to fall. But Joseph believed in the character of Mary. He believed in the miraculous conception. Well some people say, well, I don't understand how this can happen. It's a biological impossibility You think God is limited by biological impossibilities? God can make a body many different ways. You say, I don't understand it. Well, I don't understand electricity, but I don't sit around in the dark. I just do it. One time Lee Scarborough preached on Jonah and the whale, and his son later said, Well dad, do you actually believe that a a whale swallowed Jonah? And the father said, Well son, if God can God create a man can create a whale that big and he can create a man, I believe that God can create a whale big enough to swallow a man. And the son said, Well, Dad, if you're going to bring God into it, that's different You know, with a virgin birth, you just have to bring God into it. It's not impossible for God. Let me tell you something. God made a body from the dust of the ground. When he made Adam. And God can make a body from just a man. He took Adam's rib and made Eve. And God can make a body with a man and a woman, and God can make a body from just a woman. This is not impossible. The Bible says in Luke 1. 37, for with God nothing shall be impossible. And Joseph believed. And you know what faith is? Faith is reason at rest in God. You know what I find in theology? There are some mysteries in theology I just can't figure out. I can't figure out how Jesus was the God man. I know he was, but I believe it by faith. But I can't explain that But faith is reason at rest in God. My reason is at rest in the fact that He is God. And the Bible makes it clear. You either believe it or you don't. You either believe what the Bible says or you don't. Joseph believed in the character of Mary. He believed in the word of the Old Testament. He believed in the truthfulness of Scripture. He believed in the miraculous And he believed that Jesus was the Savior of the world. Friend, do you believe that? I believe with every fiber of my being This Bible is the inspired and errant word of God. And everything I know about Jesus comes from this word right here. And this Bible tells me he's the virgin-born son of God. And the Bible can stand up under the most serious scrutiny. And friend, you either choose to believe it or you don't. But I want to tell you with all my heart and all my soul, I believe it And Jesus is the Savior of the world. He's the only Savior of the world. He's the only salvation for men. And I believe with all my heart that if you're here today and you've never repented and trusted Jesus If you come to him today in faith, he will save your soul. He will give you a place in heaven. He will give you eternal life. And friend, you can celebrate Christmas the greatest way ever This season, by making by personally receiving the virgin birth, Jesus as your Savior. If you personally receive it, just like Joseph did, he didn't doubt anymore. He believed. And you know what, friend, you can do the same today. I'm going to close with this. Years ago I was in Ethiopia. I know I've told you about it before. When I first got to Ethiopia, some men took me one night, Friday night, to a home that was very dark. They drove me to a house behind gates. Gates opened there. I went in. Went into the house. There were about 50 people sitting around a rug. These were people who were Muslims who had just been converted to Christianity. And they gave testimony about what happened. And they had the smile of heaven on their face when they started telling about being saved. You know how they got saved? And by the way, did you know this Christianity and the gospel is spreading all over the world in a way you don't even realize it? The leaven of the gospel is just spreading unrelentlessly, or relentlessly, I should say, all over. Things like this we don't hear about. Because you know what? Here's how they got saved. The Muslim Imam, who is the leader of this group, was reading the Quran. You know what it says in the Quran? Even in the Quran, it says that Jesus was virgin born. He read that in the Quran. And that got his wheels turning theologically. This man was a very deep thinker. And he thought, well, if Jesus was virgin born, that means he wasn't just another man. He wasn't just another prophet. He couldn't have been And so it also says in the Quran that if you have a question about Jesus, ask people of the book. Who are people of the book? Ask Christians. So this man began to ask Christians. He began to research it. And you know what happened in his mind? All the dominoes began to fall. If Jesus is virgin-born, that means he's not just a man. Who can make a virgin birth possible? Only God can do that. That's a miracle. Jesus was miraculously born by God. That means he's the Son of God That means he's not just a man, he's God. And then one domino began to fall after another Until finally, he confessed, Jesus is Lord. He's the only Lord. He's the only Savior. He got saved. And you know what he began to do? Share Jesus with others around him. Those people in that group, very quietly, he began to Show them how he got to his conclusion. He led them down the same path that he went down. And you know what? They confess Christ They got saved. And now here I was in the midst of these new believers with the joy of heaven on their face. And I was sharing God's word with them. And they said, Will you come back the next day and please do it again? So the next day was a Saturday, it was a Muslim holy day. Muslims were out all around in holy dress. We weaved our way through traffic, went to that house, I shared the word of God. He said, Will you baptize a few converts for us? They're in that house in a bath uh in a bathtub. I baptized some of those converts. And they were just so thrilled. And you know what that Iman said when we pulled in that day on Saturday, and I got out of the vehicle. There he was waiting. You know what his first words were? And he's shouting to the top of his lungs. Now remember, Muslims are marching all around us. And I get out of the vehicle and he's there and he shouts for the top of his lungs, Jesus is the only Lord! I felt like saying, keep it down just a little bit I'm really glad you're excited. Jesus is the only Lord. That's what he said. You know why he said that? He received the virgin birth He believed it with all his heart. And I want to tell you something, friend. Jesus is the only Lord. And he'll be your Savior if you'll trust him. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for your precious word. Lord, we believe it. And I believe with all my heart Jesus is the only Lord, our Savior. And if there's someone here today that's never trusted Jesus as their Savior, I pray that they will not leave this place today without being confronted with this truth. About Jesus Christ, that Lord, they would make a decision right now, this very day, to receive the truth of the Word of God, to receive that Jesus is the virgin-born Son of God And receive him into their heart as Lord and Savior. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you can't say with all your heart, I believe that Jesus is the virgin-born Son of God and I trust Him as my Savior. Friend, if you can't say that, I want you to be able to say that before you leave today. And would you be willing to pray and say in your heart, say these words in your heart. Say, Lord Jesus. I believe you are the Son of God, the Virgin-born Son of God. And I'm asking you right this very moment to come into my heart Save me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child. Forgive me for my sins. I believe you're the only way of salvation. And friend, if you'll pray that and you'll mean it, I'm telling you, based on the authority of God's holy word, he will save you. He'll cleanse you from your sins. He'll forgive you. He'll give you eternal life. You can have an eternal home in heaven if you'll just trust Jesus today How do you say that's my prayer preacher? I'm I'm lifting up my hand to heaven and saying that's me. I'm confessing Christ today. Is that you? Would you just lift your hand so I can pray for you? Anyone here That we'll see that's mean for each. God bless you, dear lady. God bless you. God bless you. Anyone else? God bless you, ma'am. God sees your hand. He sees your heart Would you be willing to confess Christ before men today and say, yes, I'm trusting men today as my only Lord and Savior? Anyone else say yes, that's me. I want to trust Jesus Christ. Jesus and Jesus Alone? Anyone else? In a moment, we're going to sing, we're going to have a song of invitation. And those of you that raise your hand, if you would like to come and make it public, we could pray for you. We can show you more from the scripture If you want to do that, friend, we invite you to do that. I I everyone here, just about every Christian has made a humid profession of their faith in Christ. And I'm asking you to do that. When we sing, I'm going to ask you to step out where you are. Come down here. Take the hand of one of our ministers. And let them know that you're trusting Jesus today. Let's all stand together. Can we?