Now I want you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Matthew eighteen, please. Matthew chapter eighteen. And this morning I'm going to begin a series on the parables of Jesus. I'm going to go through a few of them. And this morning I'm going to talk about the parable of the unforgiving Servant. I heard about three mean looking guys on motorcycles that pulled into a truck stop cafe and they uh saw a little guy sitting there at the counter, a truck Driver. He was eating his meal, minding his own business, and these three bikers came over and they roughed them up a little bit and they shoved them around and they took a suit and threw it to the ground and the guy just simply And one of the bikers said to the waitress, You know, he wasn't much of a man, we couldn't get him to fight. She said, I guess not. She said he's not much of a truck driver either because he just ran over three motorcycles. outside. What's the philosophy today? We don't get mad, we get what? Yeah you guys know that really well You know, it's sometimes hard to forgive when people offend us, when people do things against us. Uh the philosophy of the world today is indeed we when someone wrongs you we want to get back at them. But our Lord Jesus gives us a better way. It's easy to say, it's tougher to apply, but we want to look at what the Scripture says with reference to this. And the reason this is so hard is because you know they're we're born to kind of retaliate. And frankly, we live in a society where the world makes heroes out of people who take nothing from nobody, who won't take any guff from anyone. And our society today kind of looks down upon the meek and the the gentle, the forgiving, the gracious, the merciful person, uh the one who demands nothing from anyone. The world today looks at someone like that as if they are weak or they're a coward But you know, as Christians, we should be obsessed with forgiveness. We should not be obsessed with vengeance. And there's a clear illustration of this in the book of Hebrews. Don't turn there, but you remember the Bible says in the book of Hebrews that the writer mentions Jesus' blood, which speaks of better things. And why does he say that? Because the blood of Abel was crying out from the ground. Why? Because Cain had killed his brother. And in a metaphorical way, the blood of Abel was crying out And the writer of Hebrews says the blood of Jesus speaks of better things. Why? Because the blood of Jesus cries out. For forgiveness. That's what his blood cried out on the cross when he died for our sins, forgiveness. Now, there's nothing wrong with desiring justice. Justice honors God. It is certainly legitimate to want to see wrongs made right, but still Jesus says there's a better way, and that is the way of forgiveness. There's no way to live in this world without being bad Hurt. People are going to hurt us. And the truth of the matter is a lot of times we don't feel like forgiving. When someone hurts us, we want to make them pay. We want to get back at them. But if we have that attitude and we're bitter, it's only going to hurt us. And so the Bible teaches us a Pattern of forgiveness and what is it? Just write down Ephesians four thirty-two. Be kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another. Now always someone comes along and asks the question, what is the real biblical pattern of forgiveness? Should it be conditional or unconditional? There are some people that argue that all forgiveness And so their rationale goes something like this God forgives only those who repent. Therefore, if we're going to forgive in the same manner, then we should withhold forgiveness from all those who are unrepentant. In other words, we don't have to give forgiveness until that person fully recognized And then only then am I Responsible to forgive at that moment. And so they believe that all forgiveness should be conditional. Now there's some authors that teach this, for example, Jay Adams, who's very good with the with the idea of counseling, he wrote a book on confident to counsel And he takes this position that all forgiveness should be conditional. You're only liable to forgive someone if they acknowledge the wrong against you. Now I respect Jay Adams, he's a brilliant man, but I disagree with him on this issue. I I think that the pattern of the Bible is normally unconditional forgiveness. Now let me just There are times when I can't forgive someone until they recognize their wrong. And on those terms, the Bible's very clear about condition If the wrong they committed is going to hurt them or it hurts someone else or it brings down the name of Christ in any way, then I my forgiveness must be conditional I have to confront them until they acknowledge their wrong. And again, that's for their good. We don't want them practicing a pattern of behavior that's going to ultimately hurt them or hurt the name of Christ or hurt others And so at that point I must be conditional. But other than that, other than what the Bible prescribes, I believe that the default mode of the believer is unconditional forgiveness Forgiveness. We just freely forgive. Listen to what the Bible says, Matthew 6, 12, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our what Debtors. But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, ne neither will your father forgive your trespasses And there are many other verse uh verses in the Bible that speak about this, and that I think is the the the pattern of forgiveness, which is just completely unconditional forgiveness. Now sadly, those who believe that all forgiveness must be conditional seem to go around sometimes holding grudges. And they even say, I don't have any obligation to forgive until they repent. And so they nurse grudges, they refuse to be reconciled, they sever friendships because they're holding on to this unforgiveness. And Just think about this. Who would want a friend that thinks all forgiveness must be conditional? That means every little thing that I do they have to confront me about Every little wrong or offense, they have to confront me about it, rather than just writing it off and saying I forgive you. They have to come to me, they have to confront me, they have to elicit out of me the wrong that I've done. I have to acknowledge And then ask for forgiveness? Now, if that kind of friend, I got news for you. I'm I know what kind of person I am. I would have to be doing that all the time to them. Because I'm making mistakes all the time. Can you imagine In a marriage like that, where each spouse demands that whenever there's a little offense done, there has to be some conditional forgiveness, a formal transaction has to take place before I I could offer forgiveness to that person. Can you imagine how odious that relationship would be? How difficult that would be to bear. So I think again the biblical pattern is in 1 Peter chapter 4, love covers a multitude of sins. I'm going to forgive petty offenses again. Write down first Corinthians thirteen five, talking about love. It doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil We could say it like this when it says thinketh no evil. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love doesn't keep a record of wrongdoing or wrongs Or it doesn't take into account really it's an accounting term here from the Greek word legisome. And it literally means to place a ledger. Did you know that everybody kind of has a legger Ledger book in their hearts? And when someone commits an offense, you know what we do? We write that offense down in our heart in the ledger book. And why do we do that? Because we want them to pay And how do we want them to pay? Well we we exact payment in some way. It could be in aggressive ways, it could be gossip or slander or criticism or anger or physical attacks or truth Trying to destroy that person's reputation. Or there's also passive ways to get back at people, like ignoring them, acting like they don't exist. Or just simply uh withholding our love from that person. But that's not the way that acts. What does the Bible say? Love, biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It's not an emotion. It's an act of the will. You might say, I don't feel like forgiving. The Bible doesn't say feel like forgiving, it just says forgive. It's an act of the will. It doesn't come naturally. It's just something that we choose to do. Some people imagine wrongly that if they don't feel like forgiving, then they can't forgive. But again, that is not true. You make a decision, you make a choice to forgive, and guess what? Your heart will catch up with But you make that choice. Uh a friend of Clara Barton, Clara Barton was the founder of the Red Cross, once reminded her of an especially cruel thing that someone had done to her years before and Miss Barton said to her friend, uh, you know, I don't remember. And her friend just says, You don't remember Remember this? She says, I distinctly remember remembering to forget it. I chose to forget it. And that's what biblical forgiveness Entails. It is to release the offender from the guilt of their sin. It's like hammering down the gavel and saying not guilty. Case dismissed. That's forgiveness. It's refusing to bring up that offense ever again. That's the way God, when God forgives us of our sins, He'll never bring them up to us ever again. They're gone, the Bible says they're buried in the sea of forgetfulness. It's refusing to think about that offense. I'm not gonna think about it. I'm gonna choose not to dwell on that. It's it's also refusing to talk about that offense. You know, if you say that you forgive someone and then you go around telling everyone else what they did to you That's not really forgiveness. You're making the offender pay by going out and telling others what this person did to you. It's to be reconciled with the offender as much as biblically possible. You don't say, I forgive you, but I don't ever want to see your ugly face again. That doesn't cut it. It's to be reconciled as much as possible. Biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. It is undeserved. You say, Well, this person doesn't deserve forgiveness. Neither did I deserve it from God. Neither did you deserve it. If we deserved it There wouldn't really be forgiveness. It's total. God doesn't just forgive some of our sins. When we come to Christ, He forgives them all. Oh. If biblical forgiveness is final. You don't say, Well, I forgave you yesterday, but not today. It's f it's It's final. It's eternal, we could say. The Bible says the mercy of the Lord endures forever. Always. Now you say, well, how can we forgive like this? How is this possible? This I want to again tell you this is not within us. This goes against the grain of our nature, but there is something that can help us. There's a perspective that we can get from the Bible that helps us understand how we can forgive. And it's found in the parable here that we're going to look at. And I want you to just see three things about this parable. First of all I want you to see the pride of unforgiveness. Look again in Matthew 18. Look in verse 21. Then came Peter unto him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? Till seven times And Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. Now notice Peter's question. He starts off asking this question. Now Peter was the disciple that was always asking questions by the way. He was the one that always kind of put his foot in his mouth, you know, with the Lord, and sometimes Jesus would have to rebuke him. But thank God for Peter's questions. Because uh the answers gave us insight. And Peter asked this question, Lord, how many times do I have to s uh forgive someone who sins against me? This is future tense, meaning Peter's anticipating being sinned against. So how many times do I have to do this? And remember the context of this. In Matthew 18, Jesus has just taught about confronting others. This was a confrontation And so there's a whole process That Jesus describes in Matthew 18. But Peter's question on the heels of that is, Lord, how many times do I have to go through this process as someone? If someone sins against me And by the way, that's personal there. If they sin against me, Peter was concerned about himself. Lord, if someone sins against me, how many times do I I have to go through this thing of forgiving them. In other words, I don't want to be a doormat. I don't want people to just keep sinning against me. When can we say enough? I don't have to forgive you now. How many times can I be hurt by the same person? You know, there is in all of us a self defense wall that we place around us because We don't want to be hurt. But listen, the only way that you'll ever guarantee that you'll never be hurt in this life is to never love. If you're going to love others, you're going to be Hurt. But Peter asked this question, Lord, how many times? And then he kind of offers Jesus a answer. He says, uh, until seven times? Now that sounds kind of generous If a person sins against me seven times, you know, uh after that, do I still have to forgive? I mean, you know, can we count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven? Okay, I'm done And why did Peter give seven? Did you know there was a Jewish tradition that said you're only liable to forgive three times on the fourth time you don't have to forgive And this was based on Old Testament passages like in Amos chapter one, where it says, For three transgressions and and for four I will not turn away its punishment. In other words, God said For three transgressions, I'll forgive in this area, but not the fourth one. And Jewish rabbis latched on to that verse, and really they misinterpreted that verse, and they began to teach that you only have to forgive a person three times on the fourth time you don't have to forgive For example, one rabbi, Rabbi Joseph ben uh Jehuda, said this: if a man commits an offense once, they forgive him. If he commits an offense a second time, they forgive him. If he commits an offense a third time, they forgive him. The fourth time, they do not forgive him. And that was tradition. So here comes Peter and he says, Lord, seven. So I think Peter's feeling pretty proud of himself. He took He took the three, he doubled it and threw one in for good measure. Seven times, Lord? I think Peter's thinking, man, I'm very gracious here. Seven times? And then after seven, I don't Have to forgive anymore? And I think Jesus' response kind of shocks him. Verse 22. And Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee till seven times, but until seventy times seven. What 70 times 7. In other words, Jesus didn't wasn't being literal here. He's kind of using hyperbole, but the point is, you just keep on forgiving. He didn't say once you get to 491, then you don't have to forgive. Anymore. Surely by that time you've lost count. The whole point is you just keep on forgiving. There's no end to it. There's no number in sight. You just Continue to forgive and forgive and forgive. That is the default mode of the child of God. We just keep forgiving. Forgiving, and this is the point that Jesus made here. Now, Peter asked this question because really unforgiveness is a manifestation of pride. I deserve this. But that's pride. Now don't you see the second thing? Then Jesus on the heels of this gives a parable. So notice the parable of unforgiveness. Look at verse 23. Therefore the kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king And so here is a parable Jesus gives to illustrate his point. Notice the first scene in this, I call this forgiveness received. Here is a king, and he's going to take account of his servants. In other words, he wants to He wants to settle his accounts. He wants to g have an audit to make sure that all his servants are handling his money well. These are probably stewards in his household that have reserved responsibility uh to watch over his finances and such and so he give takes does an audit and in the process of that audit he decided Discovers a man, look at verse 24, and when he began to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. That's a huge sum of money The Greek literally says myriads of talents. Myriad was the highest number in that day. Didn't get any higher than that. And a talent was the amount of weight that a soldier carried on his backpack. So this be 75 to 100 pounds. Now think about this. A talent equaled six thousand denarii. A denarius was a day's wage So one talent would be 20 years work by an average worker, just one talent. Give you some perspective there. By comparison, in Jesus' day the Roman government, when it collected uh collected excuse me taxes from the neighboring areas, collected six hundred talents from Judea and Samaria and Endumea, those three places, they collected six hundred talents. The total revenue collected from Galilee was three hundred talents. So you just Just imagine 10,000 talents? That's a lot. For example, when the gold was put in the tabernacle in the Old Testament and they overlaid things with gold, that only cost 29 talents David donated three hundred talents to build the temple. So let's kind of put it in today's numbers. If you multiplied $1,000, which is the price Price of an ounce of gold by sixteen ounces, then by seventy-five pounds, then by ten thousand talents, the equivalent worth today would be ready for this Twelve billion dollars. Twelve billion dollars. That's an impossible debt Anybody want to be in debt for $12 billion? There's no way to ever pay that back. And Jesus hears, when Jesus gives this parable, you can just imagine the hearers there. Just saying 10,000 talents. There's just no way to pay that back. That would be like a child saying a million gazillion. There's just no way to pay this debt. And this man was embezzling that much Look at verse twenty-five. But for as much as he had not to pay his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. a decree the slave couldn't pay this back. There was absolutely no way. And he could never really recollect the loss, but what he could do is he could uh put him in the debtor's prison. He could could uh keep him in jail. He could sell him as a slave and the rest of his family and sell everything that he had. There was no such bankruptcy law declaring bankruptcy didn't exist back in this day. And so This man was really gonna lose everything, and his wife and children all be slaves. But notice this plea, look at verse 26, and the serv servant therefore Position. He was devastated. He was at the end of himself. And he says, if you just be patient with me, I'll pay you all. Now, question, do you think he can really pay that back? Absolutely not But he was so broken. And it says he worshipped him, which literally means to kiss the hand. He was kissing his hand. He was saying, Please have mercy with me. Please be Patient with me. And this king, look at verse 27. And then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. What Now imagine you're the hearers of this parable. They're listening to Jesus. He did what? He He forgave the debt Are you serious? Who would do such a thing? Who could forgive on such a monumental scale? Actually, the phrase loosed is really a financial term. He canceled the debt He wiped it out. And why did he do that? Because the Bible says he was moved with compassion. Verse 27. It comes from love. He just loved them. He loved them Servant, just like God loves you, he loves all men. He just loved him. And even though the debt incurred against him was so great and his treasury had been robbed, The king says, I I forgive you, I wipe it clean. In fact, he doesn't consider it embezzlement. He calls it really a loan. He forgave him the debt, really is the word for loan. He considered it a loan that you don't have to pay back. He wipes it absolutely clean. He releases this man of any obligation. He is absolutely totally forgiven. What an incredible act of love. Love and forgiveness this was by this king. But notice the second scene. We see forgiveness refused. Now this guy goes right out. Verse 28. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence, and he laid hands on him and he took him by the throat, saying, Pay me what thou owest. Now this is pitiful what happens next. Because this man who has been forgiven for so much a debt he could never pay back. He goes right out, and by the way, he doesn't just bump into someone who owed him money. Because normally you don't bump into people that owe you This guy went searching for him. He went looking. He went out and found someone that owed him money. And what was Is it a hundred pence? It says there. What is that in today's market? That would be 18 bucks. 18 dollars. And what does he do? He grabs them by the neck I mean this is the old way of collecting a debt, right? You send some thugs out. Rough you up a little bit. This guy grabs him by the neck Seizes them. Roman writers often speak about men going to their debtors and wrenching their nose until the blood came out. And so he's pitiless. And notice the response of the fellow servants. The response verse 30. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee off. Does that sound familiar? That's the The exact same thing he said to the king when he owed him all that money. Here this fellow servant says, Just have patience with me. I will pay you everything. But what is his response? Verse thirty, and he would not. But he went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt And so this man has no pity. What's amazing that he he shuts up his heart of compassion, even though so much compassion and love has been shown towards him, he will not show that to anyone else And he throws him in prison. And this day you can put a person in debtor's prison. And what that did was that forced the rest of the family to pay the debt so that that person could get out of prison. And that's what he did with this man here. And so So the contrast is very obvious, isn't it? Here this man had been forgiven for so much, and he refuses to forgive someone else for a petty little portion that he owes. Notice the next scene, forgiveness removed. Look at verse 31. So when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry. And came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Now here's some other servants saw all this. I mean they knew the story. They'd been kind of watching this whole thing unfold. They saw the great heart of forgiveness that the Lord had extended towards this This man who owed this impossible sum, and then they saw this same man go out and hunt down someone who owed them just a small amount and refused to give them any forgiveness. says they were grieved when they saw this, and so they go back to the king and they rehearse to the king everything that had happened. They reported to him. And the king hears about this. The word for told there is a very strong word where it says they told unto their Lord all that was done. It really has the idea of giving a careful, detailed outline of everything. And I think that maybe this is not in the story, but maybe these guys Guys went to this man first and said, Hey, what are you doing? You've just been forgiven for so much. And now this guy owes you just a little bit and you're not gonna forgive him? Are you serious? And maybe they They tried to go to him first, but they go back to the king, they rehearse the whole thing in front of the king, and notice the rage. Look at verse thirty two. Then his Lord then his Lord, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt because thou desirest me. Shouldest not thou also have compassion on thy fellow servants Servant, even as I had pity on thee. And this is the whole key to the whole parable. He comes and he calls him a wicked servant What you did is wicked. I forgave you all this debt. And you're not going to forgive your fellow servants. And you know the reason that this man should forgive? It's given in verse thirty-three. Even as I had pity on thee That's the key to the whole parable. I forgave you. I loved you. I had compassion on you. I forgave you all the debts that you had against me. Shouldn't you and Turn forgive others? The whole point. This is the perspective on forgiveness. You ask, how can we forgive the way the Bible says? Here's the perspective right here Because you and I have been forgiven for so much. You know what? Let's go to the third part, the punishment of unforgiveness. Really, let's just interpret it. Who does the compassionate king represent? Who does that represent? God, right? He's the great compassionate, loving king. What about the debt? What does the debt represent in this story? It's our sin, right? Often sin in the Bible is compared to debt. But what about the servant who incurred the debt? Who does that represent? That represents me, friend. That represents We incurred an insurmountable debt against Almighty God. What about the fellow servant? Who does he represent? brother, our sister, anyone out there who sins against us. And here's the point. We, the servant, racked up this insurmountable debt against Almighty God You say, now wait a minute, I haven't I haven't sinned that much, really? You don't think so? Let's just say that, you know, let's just say that you committed three sins a day, or let's just use me, I'm I'm a bigger sinner. I I commit three sins a day. That's about a thousand sins a year. By the way, that's giving myself a lot of credit. More like three sins an hour. But three sins a day, that's a thousand sins a year? If I'm fifty years old, that's fifty thousand sins? That's on the small end. I'm giving myself a lot of credit. I'm rounding it up. Can you imagine a a cr Criminal being guilty of fifty thousand crimes when he stands before a judge, and a judge saying, Don't worry about it. You're released. But that's again Again, the small end. Friend, you can add up all of our sins, and you understand that we have this incredible amount of sin that we've sinned against the holy God. And because of what Jesus did on the cross Because God the Father put our sins upon Jesus on the cross and satisfied the holy demands of God, that those sins can be paid for and we can be released of that debt, of sin against God Here's another way of looking at it. Jay Adams says this. Let me just use his illustration. He's he he illustrates how much God has forgiven us by imagining a s uh going to a movie, sitting in a movie theater, the theater is packed, the show is about to begin he says he says then you discover that this movie is the unedited undeleted story of your entire life the soundtrack will contain everything that you have ever In fact, the movie will project everything you have ever thought, including all of the things you would have liked to have done if you thought you could have gotten away with it Every one of us is relieved that a movie like that doesn't exist. But really it does exist. God has that movie. And you know what happens when you come to Jesus Christ? You know what he does? He takes that move and he throws it into the deepest sea. And all those sins are gone. And we are released from this incredible debt of sin that we sinned against Almighty God. And here's the basis for us forgiving others, since we have been forgiven for so Much. That's the reason we can forgive others. And this is the whole point of what Jesus is saying. This man who didn't forgive, the Bible says he was delivered to the tormentors. And I believe there's a sense in which a person who is under Unforgiving will be tormented all of their life with a bitter, angry, vengeful spirit, and you'll tear yourself down. You'll tear others down around you. You will destroy relationships. You will harden your own heart. You will be tormented if you refuse to And so that's the whole point of this parable. We should forgive because our heavenly Father has forgiven us. Look at verse 35. It sums it up. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you, if ye from your Your hearts forgive not every man his brother everyone his brother their trespasses. So I want to ask you this morning as we close, is there anybody still in your debtors college? In your hearts that you haven't forgiven. And you're taking vengeance either passively or aggressively because you haven't released them from the prison of your heart You haven't slammed down the gavel and said, Not guilty. Gone. It's over. I'm not going to talk about it. I'm not going to think about it. I choose to for it Forgive because God has forgiven me. Forgiveness is my responsibility by a choice of my will to release a debt I do it by faith. I do it for the glory of God. Let's bow for prayer today. And from within Heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to remind you that again that Jesus Christ, because of what he did on the cross, when he took your sins, is offering you salvation today. And God the Father, who is holy, can take your sin debt and he can say you're forgiven because of what Jesus did. But I want to ask you, friend, have you been to the cross for forgiveness? You see You really can't forgive others until you yourself have been truly forgiven for your sins. And would you be willing today to come to the cross to say, I want this massive sin debt that I've sinned against God? I want it to be forgiven. I want it gone. And friend, if you come in true repentance, you know what he'll do? The Lord will forgive you for your sin. And in exchange, he will give you eternal life in heaven Talk about a compassionate, gracious King. Friend, if you haven't done that, I want to invite you to do that today. Come to Him for forgiveness today. If you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus, can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand Hand so I can pray for you, friend. We want you to know the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm looking around. Is there anyone here that has never come to the cross for forgiveness of their sin? Because this morning is a time of invitation, of salvation If you've never been to the cross, friend, I invite you this morning. And maybe you're here and you say, I've been to the cross. I'm a Christian. I've been forgiven. Well, let me ask you a question: Is the ledger book in your heart wiped clean? Is there anything that you're holding in your heart against someone else? Friend, I'm telling you today, release it. You've been forgiven so great a debt. And by the choice of the will, by faith, or the glory of God, release it today. Release it before God. Say, I forgive. It's gone. Forgive. May that be your prayer this morning. Father, bless this word to hearing hearts. May we truly release anyone from the debtor Prison that we have in our hearts. And we find freedom and peace in every relationship in life because we forgive fully, freely, because we've been forgiven For so much. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.