It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Revelation. We are studying through this book on Sunday night. And I want you to look in chapter one. We're going to look at verses twelve down to verse twenty And I want to talk to you tonight about the glory of Christ and his church. Louis XIV ascended the throne when he was four years of old, and he reigned for 72 years. Uh he was one of the longest reigning monarchs in uh modern European history. He was kind of consumed with his own power. He called himself the great monarch. He's the one who said, I am the state. Those were the words that were attributed to him. But in 1715, King Lewis died. His funeral was nothing short of just spectacular. He had a golden coffin. And to demonstrate his greatness, there was a single candle that lit was lit right there. before his coffin. Thousands of people waited to peer into this exquisite casket and look at the mortal remains of this long-reigning monarch. And on the day of the service when they were finally going to lay him to rest, Bishop Massalon, who uh uh uh presided over the service Did something that stunned everyone that was there. He rose, and before he spoke, he took and he extinguished a candle in front of him, which last left the audience gasping, and then he said these words, Only God is great. Only God is great. And that's a good message, a needed reminder. You know what the Bible says? God won't share his glory with anyone. All the glory belongs to God. A. W. Tozer said this. He said, God is looking for men in whose hands his glory is safe. I like that. God's looking for men in whose hands his glory is safe. God uses people. He delights in people who delight in him and delight in his glory. Now when we talk about the glory of God, what are we talking about? We're talking about the greatness of God, we're talking about all that who he is. We're talking about all those wonderful perfections and attributes kind of rolled up into who he is. And uh basically throughout the Bible, if you look through scripture, you'll find that when God displays his glory, it's in some kind of an incredible light, some kind of shining glory, glorious light that people can't even behold because of the brightness of it. And there's a mystery about that, admittedly, I'm not sure how all that works together. But I do know this that throughout biblical history God has endeavored to show man his glory, show man his greatness, and expects man to respond properly to that glory. And so what we're going to see tonight is where John, in this vision, gets a glimpse of the glory of God in the person of Jesus Christ. Now when John sees this glory, he sees it unfettered, he sees it up close, he sees it with his own eyes. And by the way, one of these days we will get to see the glory of Jesus Christ. Amen. I'm looking forward to that day. His glory will light up the heaven. There's no need of the sun or the moon there in heaven. His glory will light up the whole place. And the Bible says one day throughout eternity we will bask in that glory But what we're going to see is really this glory that John sees. He's going to share with us this vision. And we see it not like John did. He saw it up close and personal. We will see this glory as in a mirror, as in an image, the mirror of Scripture. And yet we see this glory. It's very powerful. This whole passage is so very powerful. And I think there's a sense in which this passage fulfills the prayer of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because you remember one of the prayers that he prayed in John 17 was, Father, I want them to see my what? My glory. That is, he's talking about all of his followers, all of his disciples. When Jesus came the first time, you've heard me say before, he came in humiliation, wearing a robe of flesh. We never really got to saw the glory of Christ except glimpses of it throughout his earthly ministry. One of the things that Jesus desires is that all his people will see his glory. And by the way, looking at the glory of Christ, these are reasons why we focus on it because this is what Jesus desired. And also, it lifts us to new levels of spiritual growth. Write down Second Corinthians 3, verse 18. But we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. You know what that's saying? That we look into the glass, that is the mirror, and we see reflections of the glory of Christ. And when we do that and we focus on that, you know what it does for us automatically spiritually? It lifts us to new levels of sanctification and growth. We're lifted From glory to glory, the Bible says, even as by the Spirit of God, focusing on the glory of Christ does a sanctifying work in the heart of every believer. We are sanctified more into that image that we see. It is the best and most noble truth that we can focus on. And when you think about it, it is the greatest privilege we have as believers on earth. Do you understand the privilege that we have of seeing the glory of Christ? Because I want to tell you that's the difference between someone who's saved and someone who's lost. A believer is someone to whom God has opened their eyes, and now they see the beauty of Jesus Christ. Right? Write down 2 Corinthians 4, verse 4. It says, In whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not. Listen to this, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. You know who unbelievers are? There are people whose eyes have been blinded by Satan and they do not see the glory of Christ. They do not see the beauty of Christ because their eyes have been blinded by Satan. But listen to this in verse 6. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That's what happens at salvation. God says to our dark heart, let there be light. And by the way, there's a direct relationship between creation and salvation. What did God say in the beginning of time? He said, Let there be what? Light. There was darkness on the earth, and God said, Let there be light. And there was light And Paul's referring to that, and he's saying, this is exactly what happened at salvation. God commanded the light to shine out of darkness. And it has shined in our hearts so that we can see the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Aren't you glad that God said that to you in your heart? God said, Let there be light. And there was light. And what a privilege it is for us to be able to see the glory of Christ. It makes us more fit for heaven. Because again, as I said, that when we're in heaven, we're going to be basking in the glory of Christ. We're going to be living in that glory. It prevents spiritual decay in the soul. If you begin to backslide or you feel like your soul is shriveling up, you know the best thing you can do is open up the scripture and see the beauty and the glory of Christ. Because that will ignite your heart. If that doesn't ignite your heart, you probably need to get saved. Because if you're a true believer, when you see the glory of Christ, it will excite your affections, it will stir your heart, and then also it gives encouragement to the church. Which from time to time is needed. And I think that when John has this vision, I I don't think it's a stretch to say that there may have been a bit of discouragement in John's heart over the condition of the church. If you read through the New Testament, you'll find at times the Apostle Paul was discouraged about the state of the church. Many times he even confessed it. In fact, in 2 Corinthians, he told the church that he was depressed about their condition. And sometimes when pastors see the condition of the church at large, sometimes it can be discouraging because we're not seeing perhaps the things that we should see, and we may be seeing trends that are difficult. Things that are happening to in the church overall that we know that can have a detrimental effect on the church. I know that in these last years two years I've seen uh what COVID has done in the church and it's very distressing to be quite frank with you. And part of the concern I have is that It it takes believers out of the good spiritual disciplines and habits that they had is with reference to the church and the things that they do in God's house. And I think it's it can be damaging spiritually if we're if we're not careful. And so there are times when uh we need encouragement. And I think that John was perhaps at a time like this. John was exiled to Patmos. You remember I believe that he was exiled under Domitian. There's two different interpretations. Some say it was Nero, and they believe in the early writing of the book of Revelation, 86 sixty five. I believe it was under Domitian. Domitian was the one who had the uh the the the track record of the of of banishing people on islands. What did Nero do? He beheaded people. But Domitian, if you look at his history, he would take Christian leaders and he would banish them. And I think that's one of the reasons why the book of Revelation was written in ninety-five under the under Domitian's reign. John was banished to this island called Patmus, a five by ten mile rock, really in the middle of oblivion. Uh and really it was just just a rock. It's just a terrible place to be. And John was perhaps concerned about the church, concerned about the church in Asia Minor, concerned about the church where he had somewhat of an influence, the church at Ephesus. He knew that some of the things were going on. And I think that perhaps he knew some of these things that the Lord was going to reveal about the church in Asia Minor. He knew that the The church of Smyrna was small, yet they were holding on to the truth. He knew that the church of Ephesus had left its first love. The church of Pergamus had become enamored with idolatry. And uh they were becoming worldly. The church of Thyatira were also compromising. The church at Sardis was a a church that was really dying. They had a name to live and yet they were dead. The church that lay the sea was the church that the Lord said, I want to spit them out of my mouth. And so he perhaps was a just a bit uh discouraged about the church. And that's not unlike today. When I look around the church in America, I see it infested with liberalism, legalism, compromise, immorality, heresy, carnality, apathy, materialism, pragmatism. And it seems like that it's superficial and shallow and the worship is shallow. And sometimes we come to church and we're going through the motions and is our heart really in tune with God and are we really here to worship God and see the glory of Christ? Well, we have to be concerned about that. And again, the thing I think that is the the needed word and the needed message Is what John sees here. He sees the glory of Christ. Look at verse number nine again. I, John, who am your brother and companion in tribulation in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ. was in the aisle that is called Patmos for the Word of God, for the testimony of Christ. And I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day. And I heard behind me a great voice as of a trumpet. So here's John, he's in the spirit on the Lord's Day. He's at a heightened state where God is about to reveal to him the greatest revelation of his life. And what he sees he is to write it down in verse 11, saying, I am the Alpha and Omega. The first and the last, and what thou seest, write in a book and send it to the seven churches which are in Asia, to Ephesus, Smyrna, Pergamus, on the Phiatira, Sardis, on the Philadelphia, and on the Laodicea. Now, these are seven cities that were really postal centers. The route that was described here was really a circular postal route. If one that was delivering mail, this would be the normal route that they would take. And this is the voice, and this vision that John had really starts out with this voice. And what John will do is when he turns, he will see the most incredible vision that he's ever seen in his life. Time magazine once printed on its cover a a composite of artists' impressions of Jesus, the various pictures that have been famous throughout time. You know, Jesus has been the subject of more painters than any other person in history. But what we see here from John is where John paints a portrait, and he's not going to use a brush, he's going to use a pen. And this is the greatest portrait of Christ found anywhere in the pages of Scripture. This is very majestic. And uh this is not a picture of what Christ will do. It's a picture of what he is doing. So let's look at this. I call this the sevenfold glory of Christ. If you're taking those right down, number one, the glory of his exalted presence. Look in verse 12. Notice what it says, and I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned I saw seven golden candlesticks in verse thirteen, in the midst of the seven candlesticks was like unto the son of one, like unto the son of man, clothed with a garment. So here John turns and he sees this vision and he sees Jesus standing in the midst of his church. And I think this is an encouraging picture. If you're discouraged about the church, John sees Jesus standing in the midst of the church and say, how do you say it's in the midst of his church? Well, the seven golden candlesticks speak about the church Drop down to verse number twenty, we'll kind of fast forward there. The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven cold golden candlesticks, the seven stars of the angels of the seven churches, and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven what? Seven churches. And so this is a picture of Jesus Christ standing in the midst of his church, and he's doing his work. He's ministering to his church. And I want you to notice the exalted position. He's head of the church. And this is the posture of governing as the head. John sees one that is like the Son of Man. And I think these lampstands are would be set on the floor. They were tall, perhaps shoulder level. And on the top of those lampstands are is a golden lamp. And the gold again speaks of something that is precious, something that is valuable. You know why? Because the church to Jesus is precious. It's valuable. The number seven speaks of completion. And so I think that these seven lampstands represent all the churches of all the ages. Now remember, this letter is delivered to actual churches, but I think these church churches represent the church or all the churches of all the ages. Now there are different views on this, and let me give it to you real quick. First of all, th there is the historicist view of this, of these seven churches, and I think that also futurists take this view as well, and that is that these seven churches represent seven different periods in the history of the church. For example, the church at Ephesus. This is said to describe the Apostolic Church in about 100 A. D. , actually from the Apostolic Age. until about 100 A. D. That's one church period, and the church at Ephesus represents that period there. That describes the church in that time. The church at Smyrna which endured persecution is said to represent the church from the period of one hundred A. D. to three thirteen A. D. This was a time when the church suffered under a series of Roman emperors. And then the church at Pergamos is a church That is compromised with carnality and false doctrine, and they say, Well, this represents the church from the period of 131 AD uh to about 600 A. D. Excuse me, I should say 313 A. D. to about 600 A. D. And it was during this time that you have Constantine's edict of toleration and the rise of the Roman Catholic Church and so on. And then the Church of Thyatira is seen as the papal church as well, from that time of 600 A. D. until the 1500s A. D. And then Sardis is the church from 1500 to 1700, and then Philadelphia is the church from 1700 until recently here in the missionary age of the church. And if that's true, you know what church age we're living in now? Laodicea. How depressing that is. That's some view of of that's one view I should say of how people see these seven churches. They represent seven periods in church history, and now we are in the last Period of church history, we are the Laodicean Church. And that's not very hopeful to me if you if you think about it If we're in the Laodicean church age, it doesn't give us a whole lot of optimism. I think a better way to interpret this, in my opinion, in my humble and yet most accurate opinion Is that these seven churches represent seven different kinds of churches in every period of church history? And so you have in the uh from the Apostolic Age to 100, you have a an Ephesian-like church, and you have a Smyrna-like church, and you have a Pergamus-like church in that age, and all throughout the history of the church, you have Seven different types of churches that can fulfill any one of these things. And even now, in these latter days, there are churches out there that are more like Ephesus where they've lost their first love. And there are churches out there that are more like Smyrna that are suffering persecution. There are churches out there like Pergamus that have compromised with the world. There are churches more like Thyatira where they have sinned against the Lord and some churches like Sardis and so on we could say. I think that's really a better way to say it, that each of these churches represent different types of churches throughout all of the history of the church But the thing I don't want you to lose is the fact that Jesus Christ is standing in the midst of his church. He is Lord over his church, and he is working in his church. And that very thing should give us hope. It gives me hope to know that it's all really in his hands. But here's the second thing. We see the glory of his exalted presence, but number two, the glory of what I call his eternal priesthood, because look what it says again in verse 13, that he was clothed with a garment down to the foot, and gird about the pastor, that is to say, the chest, with a golden girdle. So here he is wearing a the robe of the high priest He's clothed with a long robe. This is a robe that reaches down to the feet. He has a golden sash around his chest. By the way, this is the word used in the Septuagint to describe the robe used by the high priest. He wore that robe when serving in the temple. Josephus describes carefully the garments of the priests when they were serving in the temple. He says, quote, they wore a long robe reaching to the feet and around the breast. Higher than the elbows, they wore a girdle which was loosely wound round and around the body. The girdle was embroidered with colors and flowers and a mixture of gold interwoven So the description is of a robe and a sash around that that was around the chest, the golden sash And again, it's a picture of a priest, and what we see here then is Jesus as the high priest. This is the priestly work of Christ, right? As the Savior, he died for us. Now he's exalted. The risen Christ has ascended in heaven. And you know what he's doing for us now? He's praying for us. He's praying for his people. Write down Hebrews 2. 17. Wherefore in all things it behooves him to be made like unto his brethren. Listen to this, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God. You know what he's doing? He's representing us in heaven and he's praying for us. You say, what is he praying for? We don't have time to look at it, but sometime read John 17 and you'll see an outline of what the Lord basically prays for. You know what he prays for? He prays that the The church, his people, would be one. He prays that we would be sanctified through the truth of God's word. And that gives me hope. You know why? Because if Jesus is praying for my sanctification, that means you know what? God's going to answer his prayer and I'm going to get sanctified. That encourages me in this war against sin in my own life. That I've got the Savior praying for my sanctification. That's a wonderful thing to know. You know what else he's praying for? He's praying that we would love one another. He's praying that we would be where he is. By the way, this is why I know I'm not going to lose my salvation because you know why? Jesus is praying that I'm going to go to heaven and be there with him one day. And God, the Father, always answers the prayers of Christ. That's why you're not going to lose your salvation because Jesus is praying that you'll be where he is. And he's continually bringing us before God. He's continually praying for us, his people. For his church. What a beautiful picture this is of the Lord interceding and ministering to his church. But here's the third thing We see the glory of his exalted presence, his eternal priesthood, but then his exceeding purity. Look at verse fourteen. And his head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were as a flame of fire. And so John moves from describing his clothing to his person. And what does the Lord do? In verse 15, he has eyes as a flame of fire. He's walking in the midst of his church. His hair is as wool. Now, these are uh symbols that John is des using to describe something literal about Christ, and I think that when he refers to the hair as white as snow uh is what white like wool, white as snow. I think he's referring here in a symbolic way to the absolute purity of our Lord Jesus Christ. And you know that also shows a concern that Jesus has. You know what the Lord has concerned at his church over? That we be a pure bride, that we be a sanctified church. He's more concerned about our purity than he is about anything. And notice his eyes is a flame of fire. Fire penetrates. Fire reveals. This is the penetrating gaze of Christ. He looks deeper than the surface. He knows everything about everyone in his church. He knows everything about the church. And that's why he's going to be the judge. God, the Father has put all judgment into the hand of Christ. And Christ is omniscient. He knows everything about all of us. He knows everything about his church. We might look on the surface. We might look superficially, but Christ looks much deeper than that. I heard a pastor one time from a megachurch say this. This is a quote. He's talking about his church, the one that he pastored. He said, This is the greatest church in the history of the New Testament church. That's that's a quote. I guess that made him the greatest pastor, because it was since that was the greatest church. You know, that means he had to be the greatest pastor, right? You know what my first thought was when I heard him say that? There's absolutely no way you can make that judgment The only way you can make that judgment and be accurate is if you knew everything about every church and everyone in those churches. That's the only way you could say that. Of course he was you know, touting his own ministry and himself in a very arrogant way. But I want to tell you, no one gets to judge the church and the greatness of any church except the Lord of the Church. The one who looks with eyes as a flame of fire, and he can see inside the hearts of every person. And he sees beyond the surface And notice also there's a sense of judgment because in verse 15, his feet like unto fine brass. And I think that's a symbol of righteous judgment The bronze altar in the temple was which was related to a sacrifice for sin and judgment was made of brass and kings in the ancient world sat on an elevated throne, so those being judged would always beneath be beneath the king's feet, and I think the feet is a symbol of authority. And so Jesus walks through his church He he wants a pure church. He looks with eyes as a flame of fire. He's judging the hearts of the people that are there in the church. He's constantly purifying his church. Because again, just write down Ephesians 5. 26 that he might sanctify it and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word. This is the Lord's desire for his church. And so he's the one who uh wants a chaste bride. He wants a church above reproach, and he will purge his church at times to do that. So the glory of his exceeding purity. But then here's number three, or excuse me, number four, the glory of his enduring proclamation. Look at verse 15. And his feet like unto fine brass as if they burned in a furnace, and his voice as the sound of what? Many waters. Now if you ever been to a great waterfall, you can kind of understand what John is saying here The sound, that huge sound. I remember one time I was over in uh Uganda, we were on a boat and we're headed down the Nile, and we got close to these huge thunderous waterfalls And a long distance away we could always already hear as if it were the sound of thunder, and we were a good distance away, and the closer we got the sound was so overwhelming that you couldn't even hear yourself talk And this is what he's describing here. John said he heard his voice as the sound of many waters. This is the voice of authority. It's the voice of power. When Christ speaks, he speaks authoritatively. And John is conveying this in a figurative way. This is the impact of a word of God, it is unmistakable, it is final authority, it is earth shaking, this thunderous noise And what if uh what if tonight the the uh the roof split open and we heard a voice that was obviously the voice of God and it shook the buildings and it sounded like thunder. Would that get your attention? Yeah, I think so. And what if it gave us a specific command that we would run to do it? May I tell you that the Word of God is no less authoritative than if that happened? We have a more sure word of prophecy in the Word of God, the Bible says. Remember that's what Peter said. Remember, Peter saw Jesus in his glory on the Mount of Transfiguration, and he heard a voice from heaven saying, What? This is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. And you know what he wrote about later? He wrote about that experience. And listen to what he said. And he said in 2 Peter 1:18, he said, In this voice which came from heaven, we heard when we were with him in the holy mountain He was there and said, Look, I heard that voice. I was there in that holy mount. I heard that voice. But listen to what he said after that. We have also a more sure word of prophecy. What was he talking about? He's talking about the word of God right here. It's just, it has that same authority. In fact, Peter said it's a more sure word. Because sometimes you can hear things and not be true. But friend, this word of God is true. It's been proven to be true We have a more sure word of prophecy. We should thus listen to the word of God as if we're listening to a thunderous voice from heaven, because that's the authority of Scripture. And so we see the glory of his exalted presence, we see the glory of his eternal priesthood, of his exceeding purity, of his enduring proclamation, but here's number five, the glory of his exaltive providence. Look at verse 16. And he had in his right hand seven stars. Now the question is, what do the seven stars represent? There are different interpretations of this. The word for the seven stars actually, look down at verse 20. It says, The mystery of the seven stars, which thou sawest in my right hand. And the seven golden candlesticks, the seven stars are the what? Angels of the seven churches. So who are the seven stars? They represent seven angels from the seven churches. And the word for angels is Angelas. And so really this is not a translation, but a transliteration of the word Angelas meaning messenger. Well again the question is, who is that messenger? And there are different interpretations. Now there are some that read this and they say, well, these are angelic beings. But nowhere in the New Testament do we read or does it teach that angels are involved in the leadership of the church? We don't see that. God has not assigned an angel to lead the church here at grace unless you consider me that. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding, alright, everyone, just relax. I'm not an angel. There's nowhere in the Bible that talks about angelic beings leading the church. But then there's another interpretation, messengers. Some interpret this to be messengers sent from the churches to visit John on the Isle of Patmos and then bring back the book to those churches. But again, I don't see any justification for that because Christ is said to be holding them in his right hand. And there's something significant about that. Another interpretation is, well, these represent the spirit of the church. This is a prevailing spirit of the church. And I don't know how Anyone comes with that interpretation, it's kind of a mystery to me. I don't think that's what's in view here. There's another interpretation, and that is simply this that the the angels represent the pastors. that are leading the church. Angular simply means messenger. So this could be an a leading elder or pastor in the church. And I think that this is perhaps The best way to see this. And notice that in his right hand, which is a symbol of honor, he's holding these messengers. It's a place of favor. It's a place of salvation. It's a place of blessing. If we look in all the scripture, we see that. And so it's God working in the church through his leaders in the church, but he has it as his right hand. And again, to me, this is a picture of sovereign control. He's saying, I control the church. And I mediate through the leadership of the church. And so he is simply an agent. That is, the leader of the pastor is simply an agent. Through which the Lord works in his church. And by the way, this doesn't give license to anyone to be a tyrant or a dictator in a church. I think the Lord will also speak through his people in the church, right? But one of the ways that he leads his church is through the leadership, the Undershepherds, that He has called and raised to do that, and they are accountable to God. To lead the church in the right way. And he guides them and he has them in his right hand. And by the way, I'm thankful for that because I want to tell you I need all the help I can get. And so does any leader in any church. We always feel complete, total insufficiency to do anything productive or good. And our sufficiency is in Christ and Christ alone, and what he can do. And so I'm glad that we see his exhaustive providence. He is watching over his church. He's working through the leaders of his church. He has them in his right hand. And let me give you number six. We see the glory of his ever-ready protection. Again, in verse 16, the latter part where it says, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword. What is that? This is the sword that comes out of his mouth. This speaks, I think, about the protection of the Lord. Now some of them say, wait a minute, the sword is the word of God. And that's so very true. But we already saw that the voice of many waters is the voice of the authority. That's the word of God. I think here in the context of Revelation, this might have a little nuanced meaning. If you look down in chapter 2 and verse 16, we see this idea of a sword again. Look at chapter two, verse sixteen, where it says, Repent, or else I will come unto thee quickly and will fight against thee with the sword of my what? My mouth. And so here it's a sword of war. He's going to fight against them that fight against him. If you consider the context, what he's talking about here, that this is the false teachers who are teaching the doctrine of Balaam in the church. These people were troubling the church. These people are doing harm through their lies and their heresy. And here Jesus says, I'm going to fight against those that threaten to harm the church. So I call this the ever ready protection of the Lord. And then let me give you one final thing. We saw about this sevenfold glory. We see the glory of his exalted presence, eternal priesthood. Exceeding purity, enduring proclamation, exhaustive providence, ever ready protection. But here's the last thing. We see the glory of his fulgent perfection. Look at verse 16 again. And he had in his right hand seven stars, and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun that shineth in his what? In his strength. And John sees the face of Christ, and he says, it's like the sun shining at high noon. And he radiates with the glory of God. What an incredible vision this was for John to see the glory of Christ here. What an incredible thing. How that must have really encouraged him to see Christ. And this is what I want to say in conclusion because I want you to notice John's response. And I want to pay attention to this because I hear some things sometimes in it really, really Uh in a way makes me angry too, I'll be honest with you. Because I hear teachers, famous teachers, popular teachers out there that say things I think that are demeaning With reference to Christ, I don't think they're trying to be. I think they're trying to communicate some other message. For example, I heard a famous woman, Bible teacher, that's if I mentioned her name, everybody would know. And she talks about the time where Jesus came to help her build a snowman. She talks about, and I'm not kidding either, I'm not making this up. She went out and you know Jesus was there and they built a snowman together and they had such a good time. I hear about another man who talks about how that every morning when he gets ready, the Lord Jesus comes in while he's shaving and they have a talk together. They talk together. There he is in the presence of the Lord. He's shaving when Jesus comes in. And I've heard other things like this that are equally ridiculous. What did John do when he saw the glorious Christ? You know what he did? Look at verse 17. And when I saw him. I said, yeah, Jesus is my homeboy. Is that what he said? Jesus is cool, man. He's my buddy. Hey Jesus, how you doing? That's not how he responded. And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as what? I fell at his feet as dead. He was so overcome with Christ. He was so overcome with the power of that vision. And the glorious Christ. That he was just filled with reverence and fear, and he fell down as dead. I want to suggest to you, if Jesus ever really visited anyone, that would be the same kind of response they would really have. They would be overwhelmed with the glorious Christ. And so there's fear. You know what I think? You know what? It's a serious thing to come into the presence of a holy God. It's a serious thing, and I think sometimes we come a little too casually. I think we don't come with enough reverence And enough respect. And John falls at his feet, and there's a response of fear. He was humbled. This reminds me of Isaiah when he saw the Lord hide lifted up. What was his first response? Woe is me. Because when you see someone that is so pure and so holy and so awesome, the very first response you're going to have is to see your own sinfulness, your own unworthiness. And so he's humble. He falls on his face. And then I want you to notice Jesus touches him in verse 17. And I fell at his feet his dead, and he laid his right hand upon me. So there's the Lord. He touches them. That one touch made everything okay. That one touch communicated love. There's immediate fellowship there. He probably m remembers that touch because you remember John was the one that said, I I'm the one that leaned on Jesus' chest. You know, during the supper when they would lay down, they would recline on the elbow. That was the custom back then. And they would eat, and John would lean back, and there was Jesus, and he remembers the touch of the Lord, and there is that fellowship. But then there's a sense in which the Lord gives him strength. And he said, he laid his right hand on me, saying unto me, fear not. I am the first and the last. I am he that liveth and was dead, and behold, I'm alive forevermore. Amen. And have the keys of hell and death Write the things which thou hast seen, the things which are, the things which shall be hereafter. And so here Jesus gives him a task of writing everything that he sees, and descendeth to the seven churches. What an important task he's given here But I want you to see that the Lord Jesus strengthens him and gives him the fortitude to do what he needs to do. And you know what? That's true of Christ. Friend, do you feel weak? Open up your Bible and see the glory of Christ. You know what it'll do, it'll strengthen you. It'll give you the fortitude to do whatever important tasks the Lord has called you to do. You'll hear the words of Jesus say, Fear not. Don't be afraid. I'm here. And and so Jesus gives them this task, and I want you to notice in verse 19 that Really what we see there is the outline of the whole book book of Revelation and verse 19. It's all distilled there in that one verse. He says, John, write the things which you have seen. That's chapter 1, verses 1 to 20. This vision that you see, I want you to write it down. The things which are, that's chapter 2, and chapter 3, the things that are in the church that I'm going to tell you about, these seven churches. And the things which shall be hereafter. That's chapter 4, all the way to verse 22. And really the book of Revelation is just a series of several visions that John has And each vision that he has uh the the picture kinda gets bigger and bigger. Remember I told you it kinda opens up more and there's more of a panorama until finally John sees the whole city, the whole New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven as a bride adorned for her husband. He'll see all that, but these visions will just get bigger and bigger and wider and wider. And can you imagine this task? John has to write all this down. What an incredible thing. What an incredible task. And yet the Lord strengthens him for this task. And so I pray that As we look at the book of Revelation, we see the glory of Christ, that it will do for us what it it does for John, that it will give us a true reverence and fear. It will bring us into closer fellowship. That it'll strengthen us for whatever tasks the Lord might have for us. Let's bow for prayer together tonight Let's bow in prayer. I hope that you see the glory of Christ. I hope that you focus on that glory And understand the privilege that we have as believers. Because the God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts. To give us a light of the knowledge of the glory of Christ. May we not take that lightly. May we Every day, bask in that glory of our Lord Jesus Christ and His beauty. Father, I pray that you'll take these words tonight, that you'll use them and minister these to every hearing heart here And Lord, in times when we may be discouraged, help us to, through the pages of Scripture, through the mirror of God's word, see the reflected glory of Christ in these words. And may we remember that one day we will bask in that glory throughout all eternity. The joy of that fellowship that we'll have. What an exciting future we have in Christ. But until then, Lord, help us to be faithful. Help us, Lord, to do all that we do to show forth your glory to a lost world. And Father, we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Sing the solid rock My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and right. Righteousness, I dare not trust our sweetest frame. Lord holy lean on Jesus' name, on Christ the star with I said, for All other crown is thinking sad. All other crown is thinking sad. And let's be dismissed in prayer tonight. Let's bow together. Our Heavenly Father, again, we thank you for the joy of being able to worship here in this place. For the day that we've had. Thank you for the good day in God's house. And now, Lord, as we leave, I pray that you'll remind us of the victory that we have in Christ. Lord, send us on our way as those that are more than conquerors. And give us this week a spirit of triumph in all that we have, all that we face. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.