Take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of first John, chapter five. As you know, on Sunday morning we've been going through this letter, and we come to chapter five this morning, and we're going to look at verses one down to verse 13 this morning. And I want to speak this morning on a sermon I'm titling The Birthmarks of the Believer. Well yesterday when I had the opportunity to see my beautiful new granddaughter and hold her for the first time, I noticed that she had a beautiful little birthmark on her forehead. And sometimes our babies bear those marks. We call them identification marks. And even so for the believer, when uh the believer comes to know Jesus Christ as their Savior, there are some marks that identify us as being children of God. And so John points to these marks as a means of assurance. Now when we come here to 1 John chapter 5, John is beginning to wrap up his letter We can say that 1 John 5 is really a summary of everything that he has written. He's kind of moving toward the conclusion of the letter, and he's going to summarize in one paragraph all of the tests that he has been giving in the first four chapters. You might remember that we we're calling this the threefold cord of Christian assurance, God's threefold cord, because there are three main themes that John comes back to again and again. There is the theme of Christ, believing on Christ, the doctrine of Christ. There is the theme of obedience, obeying Jesus. If you're a true believer, you're going to have a pattern of obedience. And also there's the theme of love, loving other believers. Now what John is going to do here in chapter 5 is he's going to bring all these tests together. He's going to kind of weave them all together. And I really call this the birthmark, birthmarks of the believer. Because if a person has these marks, this is evidence that they truly are children of God. But if there's no evidence of these birthmarks, a person needs to examine whether or not they are truly born again. And again, the whole thesis of first John we find in first John chapter three Or excuse me, chapter five, verse thirteen. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life. Now, this is the thesis of the whole book. This is the purpose statement of this whole letter. John wants you to know that you have eternal life. That's why he's writing this to you, and that's why he's giving these tests of assurance. So I want you to notice what I call this morning in our passage three infallible proofs of assurance. There's first of all what I call the external evidence of the saint. Or external evidences of the saint. Look at chapter 5, look at verse number 1. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God. And everyone that loveth him that begot loveth him also that is begotten of him. And here's the first one here. John is going to talk about our saving faith. Having genuine saving faith. Look at the word believe there. It's not talking about just an intellectual ascent or a mental understanding. The Greek word refers to a wholehearted acceptance of who Jesus is. Now there have been some who have taught that in order for a person to be saved, all they have to do is just believe in their mind the facts about Jesus. In fact, years ago, two men, John Gloss and Robert Sandeman, taught that a person who said that he believed that Jesus as Lord had saving faith And what they did was they basically reduced faith to a mere intellectual assent to the truths of the gospel. There was no repentance, there was no submission to the Lordship of Christ, there was no experience of the power of of saving truth. This this teaching was condemned in the uh eighteenth century as heresy, but we still have this kind of easy relief easy believism that is still around today. The idea that all I I I believe everything that Jesus said. I I I believe it here. I understand it. But true faith, true belief involves more than just believing something in your mind. It goes deeper than that. In fact, systematic theology recognizes three elements of genuine saving faith. There is knowledge or what they call nocia, a mental knowledge in your mind. Then there is what they call essentious or a an emotional uh uh response to that, an assent in your heart, and then fiducia or trust or uh we could call this a commitment of the will. So the mind has to embrace the truth about Jesus. The heart has to re reach out and accept it. But also it leads to a commitment of your life and of your will your whole will It's volitional. And so it's all of those three elements that are there. It involves all of you. For example, James in his epistle talks about Three types of faith. First of all, he he talks about dead faith in James 2. 20. He said, faith without works is what? It's dead. That is, if you believe it just in your mind, and it doesn't go any deeper than that, that that's called dead faith. It's just in your mind. But then there's demonic faith, James 2. 19, the devils believe and tremble. Now, James is saying, look, demons believe that Jesus is Lord. They understand that. They're orthodox in their understanding of who Jesus is, and it brings fear in their heart. They tremble over that, but it doesn't mean that they're believers. Doesn't mean that they're saved. You can believe it here, and you can believe it in your heart to where you have fear about it But that is not deep enough. And then James talks about dynamic faith, James 2. 22. By works was faith made perfect. This is a faith that is a commitment of the will. So you believe it in your mind, and then you believe it in your heart, and then you believe it so much so that you make a commitment of your will to that. So the question is, do you have that kind of faith? A faith that goes deeper than just mental ascent or some kind of emotional reaction. Let me give uh illustration I'd like to give is this. Let's just suppose that um I have a problem with smoking. All right. Now I don't have a problem with smoking, so please please don't leave and say pastor smokes, all right? I I don't have a problem. I quit last week so God gave me the God gave me the victory over it, all right. Let's pretend that I have a problem with smoking and I go to the doctor and I'm sitting there in the waiting room And while I'm there, I see a magazine that talks about the dangers of lung cancer and smoking. And I read that magazine. I believe every word of it. Every word of it. I think it's absolutely true. I lay the magazine down, but I reach in my pocket and pull out a cigarette and start smoking. What kind of faith is that? That's a dead face. Because even though I believe it in my mind, it doesn't really affect me But let's say I come back the next week, I read the same article, and I this time I think about dying of cancer and I get emotional. and knowing that I could dive this and and so I tears come out of my eyes, you know, thinking about leaving my family early and I I get so upset that I reach into my pocket and say, I need a cigarette and I pull out a cigarette and I smoke it. You say, what kind of faith is that? That's a demonic faith. Because I believe it in my mind and I believe it in my heart, so much so that it it provokes fear in me, but it doesn't change me in any way But let's just say I go back to the doctor's office for the third time. I sit down there, read the same magazine article, again the third time. I believe every word of it. It provokes fear in my heart. But then this time I say, you know what? I'm never going to smoke again. And I reach into my pocket, I pull out my cigarettes, I crumple them up, I throw them away, and I say, That's it. I'm not doing that again. What kind of faith is that? That's dynamic faith Because it reaches not only the mind and my heart, but it makes a commitment of my will, faducia, trust And so it changes me. Now the kind that kind of faith is saving faith, and that's the kind of faith that God gives to a person when they believe on Jesus Christ. It comes from God. It's not natural with us. It's something that God gives us, but that is real belief. And John says, whoever believes, that belief that involves all of you If you believe that Jesus Christ is born of God, that means that you're a believer because you don't just believe it here, you've made a commitment of your life to that very thing. So there's our saving faith, but then there is our sweet fellowship. Look at verse number two. Or actually verse one again. Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone that loveth him that begot Love of him also that is begotten of him. I call this our sweet fellowship. This is another evidence that John has mentioned. Love for believers. If you're saved You're truly born of God. You're going to love others who have been born of God. If you love God who has begotten you, you're going to love others. You're going to love your brothers and sisters in Christ. You're going to love the fellowship of the church. Tradition says that John the Apostle, when he was allowed to leave Patmos, returned to Ephesus, and almost blind and deaf, he was carried into the fellowship, repeating all the fellowship of the saints. Because he missed so much being with God's people, the church. Why? Because when you are a believer, you love God's people, you love the church. You love fellowshipping with the church. You love worshiping with the church. You love being together in church. Sometimes people say, well, you know, I love Jesus. I just don't love the church. But that is incompatible. That's not true biblical Christianity. Because if you love him that is be that begot, you're going to love him that is begotten of him. That's what John says here. You cannot separate the two And this is a theme that we've looked at. We saw it last week, but we've seen it several times in 1 John. Look at 1 John chapter 2 and look at verse number 9. Notice what he says here. He that saith he is in the light And hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. Verse 10, he that loveth his brother abideth in the light. Look in chapter three, look in verse fourteen. Again, John says this, and we know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. And then in chapter four, verse number seven, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, knoweth not God. And then in chapter 4, verse 11, he says this, beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. And finally, in verse number 20, if a man say, 1 John 4, 20, if a man say, I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? So if you're a true believer, you're going to love God's people. But then also there's our simple fruit, I say. Look again in chapter 5, verse number 2. We're following John's logic here. He says, if you're going to believe on Jesus, and if you believe you're going to love the brethren, and then also in verse 2, and by this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and we keep his commandments. You're going to have a desire to obey Jesus. You're going to have a desire to keep God's word. And that's what he means here by commandments. It's not talking about Old Testament law. It's talking about the words of Jesus. Obedience to Christ to you is not going to be a drudgery. You're not going to say, oh, I have to do this. It'll be a delight. Notice what he says. And verse number three. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not what? They're not grievous. They're not grievous. For the Greek word here means heavy or oppressive. Or burdensome. If you're a child of God, obeying God's word, obeying Christ is not going to be burdensome to you. You're going to delight in doing that Your whole life will be directed to that. You'll be like the psalmist who said, I delight myself in thy commandments, Lord, which I have loved. My hands will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved. And remember, John said in 1 John, we saw this in chapter 2, if there's no desire to obey Christ and keep his commandments, then that means that you are not saved. Look again in chapter two, verse two and three. This is what John is referring to. Hereby uh actually verse chapter two, verse three, and then verse four. And hereby we do know that we know him. If we keep his commandments. He that says, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him. So you're going to want to just obey Jesus. You know, you might not understand everything that Jesus says, but whatever it is, you're going to want to do it. That's just going to be the overwhelming desire of your heart. And again, it doesn't mean we're going to do it perfectly, but it's going to be what we desire. It's going to be what we want. So there is our saving faith, our spirit our sweet fellowship, our simple fruit of obedience, our spiritual freedom. Look in chapter 5, look in verse number 4. John continues, for whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. Here's another external evidence, and that is you will experience a victory over the world. Look at the word overcome. This is one of John's favorite words. And it is the Greek word Nike, which means to conquer, to have victory, to defeat. And we John uses this in the book of Revelation several times. This was a Greek word that was used to talk about the victory that gods achieved, the Greek gods, and John is kind of using this word to apply it to the believer. If you have been saved, God will give you victory over the pull and the lure of the world in your life In other words, now that you're saved, the world's not going to have its pull over you like it once did. Whereas before you knew Christ, you were sucked into the things of the world. That's what you live for. You live for all the things that the world uh loves. But now that you're a believer, you have a different view. And the thing that is uh that basically takes your affection is not the world, it's Christ. And so therefore the world is not able to pull you in like it once did. The temptations and the lures of the world, you are able to overcome them because you have found something more satisfying. And what is that? That's Jesus Christ. That's knowing Christ and walking with him. And so there, in a real sense, as believers, we can achieve victory, but only through Jesus Christ. In John chapter 16, verse 33, Jesus said, I have, same word, overcome the world. Jesus was saying, I've overcome that whole system, and now, as believers, you are given that same ability to overcome the world. So the question is, is that true of you? You you don't love the world. Look again in 1 John chapter 2. Look at verse number 15 Again, John summarizing all these things that he's already said. Look at verse fifteen. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. So you'll be free of the world's pool, of its allure, of its temptation, of its pollutions, and you'll experience victory over the world in ever-increasing degrees. Again, it doesn't mean it's going to be perfect. It doesn't mean that you won't fail at times to be pulled in by the system of the world or the things of the world, but you'll get victory by degrees over the pool of the world. You'll be less worldly and more Christ-like. And as time goes on, that'll be a continuing pattern in your life. A continuing pattern. A Christian who sins will suffer because you don't want to sin. You don't want to be pulled in by the world. A Roman officer wanted to persecute a Christian and really make them suffer, and so he pulled some of his advisors together to ask for their opinion, and one of them said, Well, let's confiscate all of his goods. And the and the Roman soldier said, Well that's not gonna work because he says he has treasure in heaven and we can't get to that. They said, Well let's just put him in solitary confinement and he said, Well that's not gonna work because he said he has a friend that sticks closer than a brother. Another one said, Well that's let's just kill him. Let's just kill him. And and they said, Well that's not gonna work because he says to live is Christ and to die is gain. He said he would rather go and be with Christ. And then another Roman soldier said, I know. If he's a real Christian, I know how to make him suffer. Let's make him sin. Because if he's a real Christian and he sins, he will suffer. And that is so very true. Because we don't want to sin. We want to have victory over the pool of the world So those are the external evidences, and John just weaves them all together and says, if these things are true of you, those are birthmarks of a true child of God. You'll have a saving faith and a sweet fellowship and simple fruit of obedience in your life and freedom over the world. But here's number two. I call this the eternal evidence of the Son. Look in 1 John chapter 5, verse number 5. And who is he that overcometh the world? He that believeth that Jesus is the Christ. That is, one reason why people lack assurance is because they're not believing on the Christ, the one that is revealed. John has hammered hard on the doctrine of Christ in this epistle, and he does so again one more time before he finishes. He says, this, you have to believe that Jesus is the Son of God. And look look at verse number six. This is he that came by water and blood. You want to know which Jesus we're talking about? John says, this is the one who came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ. Not by water only, but by water and blood. And it's the Spirit that bears witness because the Spirit is true. Now remember that the Gnostics have attacked the deity of Christ. They attacked the fact that he was incarnate. Some of them said he didn't come in the flesh. And John is calling forth three witnesses to say, let me tell you, I got three witnesses that prove that Jesus is everything that he claimed to be. He's God in the flesh. What are those three witnesses that he calls? If you're going to prove something in the court of law, you'd need those witnesses. And the Bible tells us by two or three witnesses a matter is established. So, notice verse number six. This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus, not by water only, but by water and blood, and it is the Spirit. So in these verses, John is going to give three witnesses. Number one, witness number one is water. Witness number two is blood, and witness number three is the spirit. And all these three say the exact same thing about Jesus and who he is, and you have to believe their witness. Now y who is the water? What is that about? You know, there are some people when they come to this they stumble over it. They they uh they try to interpret this by saying, oh the water and blood, that's referring to the water and blood that came out of the side of Jesus when Jesus was pierced by the Roman soldier with the spear, water and blood came out. And they try to compare those verses, and you know what? Neither passage sheds light on the other. That's not what this is talking about here. Or some say, well, it's referring to baptism and the Lord's Supper. No, that's not what this is referring to. These are witnesses about Jesus, not for the believer. So what is John talking about here? This is he that came by water, first of all. And John is using a literary device. called synecdoche. What is that? That's where one part represents the whole. One word is used to speak about an event, the whole thing, everything that took place. Where one represents the whole. Now we use this sometimes. If someone came up to me after church and looked at my vehicle and they said, Man, I like your wheels. What does that mean? That they like just my wheels or they like my whole car? Now the wheels stands for what? The whole vehicle, right? We do this all the time. A hired hand. Someone says, I I need a hired hand. Well you want just his hand or do you want the whole worker? Hand stands for the whole person. Someone who is trying to keep bread on the table. What does bread stand for? All of your food, right? Trying to keep a roof over my head. Well do you want just the roof or would you like the whole house? The roof stands for the whole house. So again, we do this all the time. And this is characteristic of John's writing when he speaks of the lamb. He wants to present an image in your mind of the sacrifice of Christ, of propitiation, of Christ being sinless, blameless. And so when he uses the word water here, he's speaking about an event in the life of Christ that proved that he was the Son of God. And what event did that? That was his baptism, right? At the baptism of Christ, what happened? There was a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. There was evidence at the baptism of Christ that bore witness to who Jesus was. He came by water. Baptism was the official beginning of his public ministry. But then there's another witness, blood. And what does blood stand for? It's one word that stands for everything that took place at the cross. All of what took place at Calvary. And there were evidences at the cross that proved that Jesus was the Son of God. What were those evidences? Well, at twelve o'clock noon it became dark like midnight. That's a that's a miracle. The veil was rent from top to bottom. There was an earthquake when Christ died. Saints resurrected out of the grave and walked around in Jerusalem. There were so many evidences that took place at the cross that Jesus was the Son of God that even a hardened Roman soldier said, truly, this was the Son of God. This was the Son of God. So the cross were witness as to who Jesus was, his baptism, his baptism was the official beginning of his public ministry, the cross was the official end of his public ministry. Both of those events bore witness with adequate testimony that Jesus indeed was the Son of God, God come in the flesh, Savior of the world, to die for man's sin. They all bore witness. But then there's a third witness, and that's the Spirit. John says this this is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ, not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that bears witness because the Spirit is truth. So the Holy Spirit of God also bears witness as to who Jesus is. And look at verse number seven. For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. These three are one. There are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood, and these three agree in one. We have these three witnesses. that bear record on earth that Jesus was everything that he claimed to be. And beloved, if you're if you're a child of God, that means you believe these witnesses about Jesus Christ. You see, you don't get to make up your own Jesus. That's happening all the time all over. We have these people making up their own Jesus. Every religion makes up their own version of Jesus. We even have this American Jesus where he comes to give you the American dream. That's not the Jesus of the Bible. And if you want to be saved, you have to believe upon the Jesus of Scripture revealed in God's Word, who was given witness by the water and the blood and the Spirit. That's the Jesus you must believe on. Believe on him. That's the that's the internal or excuse me the eternal evidence of the Son But then there's another evidence, not only the external evidence of the saint. We're going to have faith and fellowship and fruit and freedom, but and the eternal evidence of the Son. But here's number three, the internal evidence of the Spirit. Look down in verse number nine. If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater, for this is the witness of God which he had testified of his son. There is also this inward witness of the Spirit that we are saved. And we talked about this last week. You will experience, if you're a child of God, you will experience in your heart and life the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Look at look again in chapter four. Look at verse number thirteen. Chapter four, verse thirteen. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit. We experience this ministry of the Holy Spirit. One of the reasons I know I'm a Christian is because uh it it is because of that inward subjective testimony of the Holy Spirit. And that is very real. There are external evidences in my life. I have to measure my life by the things that John talked about, my my believing and my my obedience to Christ And loving other believers and having victory over the world. Those are external evidences, but there's also inward, subjective evidences, and that is this work of the Holy Spirit in us. He will bear witness to your heart. That you are a child of God. So we see his reliable witness in verses 9 and 10. Now again, uh in the court of law, sometimes a case will hinge on a testimony of a key witness. Well the key witness when it comes to your salvation and your assurance is the Holy Spirit. And John's argument is this that same Holy Spirit who bears witness that Jesus is the Son of God also is in you and bears witness that you are a child of God. That same witness. Look at verse number 10 where it says, He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself. You have the same Holy Spirit in you bear that bears witness of who Jesus is. That same Holy Spirit is living in you that bears witness in your heart that you are a child of God. And John says, look. If we receive the witness of man, shouldn't we receive the witness of God who bears witness in our heart that we are children of God? We we bear witness of men all the time. You say how? Well when people tell us something, we believe them. You know, back when uh doctors used to write their prescriptions, I could never read one. I just believe that he that the pharmacist was able to read it and I wasn't going to be given the wrong medicine. Right? That's that's believing the witness every time I get on an airplane. I don't I I believe that they're gonna take me wherever I need to go and land me there safely because they told me on the advertisement, fly the friendly skies. You know, we'll get you there safely. You know, you need to get away. And I just believe that witness. Uh one time the pilot was walking down the aisle on one occasion and I did ask to see his license, you know But um but that normally doesn't happen. But you you get the idea. We we we hear things in the news, we read things in the paper. Be careful about believing all that by the way But we believe a lot of what men tell us. And John is saying, look, if we believe the witness of men, shouldn't we believe a greater witness of God? who bears witness in you that you are a child of God? How does he bear witness? Well write down Romans 8 verse 15 You have not received the bondage, the spirit of bondage again, the fear, but you just receive the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father In other words, when you're saved, you don't have a spirit of fear in you when it comes to your relationship with God. That's gone. Now there's something inside of you that wants to cry out to God in prayer. You cry out, Abba Father. That's the witness of the Spirit in you. And so we have his reliable witness, the witness of the Holy Spirit. But then also he points us to the Word of God. recorded word. Look at verse eleven. And this is the record that God has given to us eternal life. And this life is in his Son. Actually we need to back up to verse 10. He that believeth on the Son hath his witness in himself. He that believeth not God Had made him a liar because he had not believed not the record that God gave of his son. And this is the record that God has given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. And one of the ways the Holy Spirit helps us in this matter of assurance is to remind us of the testimony of Scripture. And there are times when your heart will condemn you. When you will wrestle with doubt, we we talked about that in chapter three, verse twenty. But our assurance must be based upon the word of God. Not our feelings, but on what God's word says. Our feelings are a greater witness. Then, or excuse me, the word of God is a greater witness, I should say, than our feelings. Just to illustrate this, um What if uh I was in a courtroom and the and the judge said, Mr. Harmon, um are you married? Yes sir. Can you prove it? Well yeah, Your Honor. I remember the day that I married Carolyn, I remember how my heart felt. I felt like a grasshopper on roller skates and you know I start talking about my emotions and he's he'll say Mr. Harmon your emotions carry no weight in this courtroom. I need facts, I need evidence. And I say, wait a minute, I pull out the marriage certificate The marriage record. And I give that. He said, now that is evidence. And this is what John is saying right here. Look, when it comes to your salvation, don't depend upon your don't point to your feelings and your emotions Go to the record of Scripture. Point to God's word and say, this is what I'm trusting in. This is what I believe with all my heart. And this is what the Holy Spirit does. He points us to the record, to God's word about salvation. Again, verse 12: He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. So the question is, do you believe the record? Have you believed the witness of who Jesus is? Have you put your full faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Him alone? And if that's true of you, friend, then the Holy Spirit will bear witness in your heart, and he will point you to the written record that what God's Word says, and you can believe that witness. Because the witness of God is greater than the witness of man. And then John concludes And verse 13, with this verse we've already looked at, is thesis, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life, and that you might believe on the name of the Son of God. So how'd you do on your test? On looking at to applying it to yourself, how did you do? You know. The very first test given to a newborn in the delivery room, you know what it's called? It's called the AFGAR score. Whenever a baby is born, they they they have this test. And it's designed to evaluate the physical condition of that baby after delivery and to determine if there's any real need. or extra medical measures that need to take place in that baby's life. They'll test things like the muscle tone and the heart rate and the skin color and the breathing rate. And uh I remember after each of my children are born born, I was waiting to hear the score on the test. What is the test? There's a sense in which John is giving us here kind of a spiritual apgar test. And as we look at all these verses, as John has weaved in everything he's been talking about in the first four chapters, he kind of weaves it all together here in these verses here in chapter Five, as he's beginning to conclude this letter, and it's almost like he's bringing together this test to see how you are doing on your spiritual Agar test. Are you truly a child of God How did you do on all this? Are these things true of you? Do you have real genuine saving faith? You put your full faith in who Jesus is? Do you have a love for other believers in the church? Do you Want to obey Jesus in your life? Is that the overall desire of your heart? Do you expand uh experience a freedom from the pool of the world? You don't love the world the way you used to And you believe the witness about who Jesus is, the Son of God, that the same ones who bore witness about Jesus, the water, the blood, and the spirit, that's what you agree with as well? And do you experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit in you, pointing you to Christ, giving you that subjective peace that you are a child of God? And he points you to the scripture, and you're holding on to the promises of God's Word, not so much to your feelings, but to the Word of God. So how did you do on your test? Do you know for sure? Do you know for sure that you are his child? Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you just to kind of do a little spiritual inventory. I want you to examine your own heart. And be honest with yourself. Ask the Holy Spirit to strip away any pretense or blindness, spiritual blindness you may have about yourself. This is the most important matter in your whole life. Do you know Jesus? Have you been forgiven? Do you have eternal life? There's no issue in your life more important than this. And God wants you to have that biblical assurance, the peace that you are in Christ. And friend, if you're here today and you're not absolutely certain of that And right now our Lord is holding out his hands of love to you. He's saying, Come unto me. All ye that labor and are heavy laden, are you w overwhelmed with sin in your life, or you're burdened down by your sin, you can be forgiven. Jesus will save you, he will cleanse you, he will give you eternal life, but you must come to him and believe on him. Turn from your sin and turn to Christ. Let's all stand together. We're going to have a moment of invitation. If the Holy Spirit is speaking to your heart, won't you come and just take one of our The hand of one of our ministers. Let them pray with you. Take you aside, show you from the Bible how you can be absolutely sure. Or if you have any spiritual need, Where you need someone to pray with you, friend. We're here for you here in the front. Just come and let us help you. We're going to sing a few verses of our invitation hymn, just as I am Just as I am with much one thing, what had I lost? Was shed for me and thou wish me come to be more. Sing one more stance that it was the Holy Spirit leads. To rid my soul of one One dark blood to me whose blood can plant its cloud old land. Let's let's bow for prayer before we are dismissed. Father, thank you for the privilege of worship again here in this place. And now, Lord, dismiss us in your name. Send us forth, Lord, in your strength. And Lord, keep all these in your care. And we think of the words of our Lord Jesus who said, Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Help us, Lord, to live with your kingdom first in our heart. Depend it upon your power, passionate about your glory, and we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen