Take your Bibles, open to the book of First Kings, chapter eighteen. First Kings chapter eighteen, as we're going through this book, we're coming to uh this chapter and this narrative in the life of Elijah the prophet. This is a well known story perhaps to many. If you've been safe for any length of time, you know the story of Elijah and his confrontations with the prophets of Baal and Mount Carmel. So look in chapter 18, look down at verse number 19. Now therefore send and gather to me all Israel unto Mount Carmel. And the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table. So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto Malcarmel And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him, and if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. Now I think the greatest need we have in America is revival. Our nation needs to turn back to God. And as I look at this narrative here, I can see parallels between Israel and Elijah's day and America today. Israel had been a specially chosen nation of God. I think we can say that for our country, America. If you look in our history, you see the providential hand of God, and I believe America had a special purpose. But even as Israel turned its back on God, even so I think our country, America, has turned its back on God Israel became dominated by uh idolatry and false religion. I think the same has happened in our nation. We are a nation that we are um basically a nation that has many idols and uh a nation that believes in religious pluralism. Uh Israel had very few men of God who would Stand firm and not compromise God's word. Even so I think America we are seeing fewer and fewer men of God willing to stand firmly on the truth and pay the price for it. And refused to compromise. Israel needed to turn back to God. They needed revival. And I think the same could be said of our nation. Israel needed to make a choice. They had to choose whether they wanted to serve God or serve Baal. I think America has the same option. Are we a nation under God or not? If if if God is God If Yahweh is the true God, then we need to follow him with all our heart. Following the true God is what this whole story here is about. Because really, you can follow the real God, the true God, as he has revealed himself in Scripture, or you can follow a God of your own choosing, of your own making. And so Elijah comes with a challenge, and we read this in verse number 21, where Elijah comes to where all the people are gathered there on Mount Carmel. He issues this challenge to Ahab. Remember when he confronted Ahab, Ahab said, You're the troubler of Israel. And Elijah said, I'm not the one troubling Israel. You are. And here's what we need to do. We need to find out which God is the true God. So get all your prophets and bring them to Mount Carmel, and I'll meet you there. And also there were people from Israel that had gathered there. We're not sure how many from Israel in verse 20, but the word went out through all the children of Israel, it says. And so there was a group of people gathered there on Mount Carmel, and Elijah throws down this challenge, and he says, If God is the true God, serve him, but if Baal is God, then serve Him. So here is this huge showdown. This is the biggest showdown in all the Old Testament. This is a heavyweight fight here between Baal and God. This is uh This is um a winner-take-all contest uh between uh Israel's God and Baal So look what he says in verse 21. Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? Look at that word opinions there. It's an interesting Hebrew word. It's from the word branches. It occurs only here in the Old Testament. And it's the root word is to cut or to trim branches. So literally we could say it like this. How long will you go limping between two branches? One ho uh Hebrew scholar says the meaning is really here crutches. So we could say it like this. How long are you going to hobble upon two crutches? If the Lord is God, serve him, is Baal is God, serve him. And so he's calling for a clear-cut decision. And what this implies is that some people were vacillating back and forth. They would serve the God of Israel and they would worship him, but then they would worship Baal And God will not allow that. He will not have rivals. If you either serve God with all your heart or you don't, you either devoted to God with all your heart or you're not. In fact, that's the first commandment. Remember, Exodus 23, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Remember what Jesus said? You can't serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or else you will hold to the one and despise the other. James said a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. And so Elijah is calling for a choice. You make the choice whether or not you're going to serve God. Him, literally go after him in a sense of religious devotion. That is worship him. Choose your God and worship him. Now, did you know that when God created man, he created him as a worshiper? Did you know that you were created to enjoy God? That there is something innately in man that wants to worship And if man doesn't worship the true God, you know that what he will do, he's a worshiper. If he's not worshiping the true God, what he will do is he will worship something else. He will worship a false God. And he will create his own God. We see this throughout history. An idol can be a God that you fashion. Now, in the Old Testament, they would fashion an idol with their hands out of wood or out of stone, but you can fashion a God with your own mind, not with your hands. You know how people do that Well they just figure a God in their mind. This is what God should be like. And so they fashion a God in their own mind, and then they try to force that God down on the pages of scripture and they try to make Scripture fit the God that they have formed in their mind. And actually what they're doing is they're not worshiping the God of the Bible as He's revealed in the Bible. They're worshiping a God that they created And if they find a verse of scripture that doesn't fit the God of their mind, well what they'll do is they'll ignore that verse or they'll interpret it in a way that they can accept it. Because it has to fit the God of their mind. Many people are not worshiping the God of the Bible. They're worshiping the God that they created in their mind. Or an idol can also be anything that you live for Anything that drives you more than God, anything that you worship more than God, in our society today, idols are not made of stone and wood, but there are other things. They are lusts, they are money, they're desire, power, security, relationships, vainglory, success. All these things can be idols, and we can even throw a Christian cloak over these things and make it look as if we're really serving God, but in actuality what we're doing is we're serving ourselves uh a desire that comes from ourself rather than serving the true God. And so God is calling upon all people To get rid of all of your idols and to serve the God who has revealed himself in Scripture, the true God. Now, this is again what Elijah is calling for these people to do. And so he has this contest, and look what he says down in verse number 23. Let them therefore give us two bullocks And let them choose one bullock for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it on wood and put no fire under it, and I will dress the other bullock and lay it on wood and put it under no fire. And call ye upon the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the Lord. And the God that answers by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is Well spoken. So here's the particulars of the contest. You have two altars. You'll have two sacrifices And you'll have two groups of people that will call upon God. Actually I say groups, but really it's four hundred and fifty to one It's just Elijah that's going to pray versus these four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal that will pray. And Elijah says, let's just pray and let's just see Which God is the true God? The God who answers by fire, let him be God. Now all of this narrative is about demonstrating the greatness and the power of the true God. So let me just give you three lessons we can learn about the God who answers by fire. And I hope that these lessons will strengthen our resolve to examine our own heart and make sure that we get rid of any idols in our heart so that we fully serve God and Him only. Number one, here's the first lesson we can look we see here. The God who answers by fire is not limited by geography. Look at verse again, verse 20, where he says, gather the prophets together unto Mount Carmel. Why did Elijah select Mount Carmel for this showdown? Now Old Testament scholars will give you several suggestions. They say, well, it was a central location. It was convenient. It was near the sea. Well, it was there was an altar one time that was devoted to Baal here on this mountain. So they give a lot of reasons. I don't think any of those were the reason. I think the real reason why Elijah chose Mount Carmel is because Mount Carmel was the supposed place, home, resident of residence of Baal. In fact, did you know that ancient Near Eastern religions taught that their gods dwelt in mountains? You might remember that Um Mount Olympus was a place that was inhabited by who? Zeus. If you remember, if you ever read Greek mythology, Zeus and some of the other Greek gods lived at Mount Olympus. That was close to Thessalonica. That's why that city was so filled with idols Paul found it to be so when he went there. And that's where the Olympic Games came from. They competed uh in the name of their God. Because Zeus dwelt on Mount Olympus. And we can see this in other pagan religions, their God dwelling on a certain mountain. Baal lives supposedly on Mount Carmel We see this in the annals of the Assyrian king Shalmaneser III, where he is where it's called the mountain of Baal. It's also called in an Egyptian record the holy head suggesting there was a sanctuary there. This was the residence of Baal. One Old Testament scholar said one might simply say this was Baal's bluff. This Carmel was sacred ground for Baal. And so And we also see a an altar that was torn down in verse 30. An altar that was devoted to the worship of Yahweh was torn down there. So in a way, Baal and his worshippers claim this mountain to be the mountain of Baal. And I think this is why Elijah chose it. Because here Baal has home field advantage. You ever played sports? You know the value of home field advantage, right? You ever play uh on a on against a team on their home field? They they seem to be more emotionally psyched up when it's on their home field. I remember in my younger days when I coached football We were invited down to a team's to play them on their homecoming. Now, when a team schedules you to come and play them on their home field or homecoming, you know what that means? It means they disrespect you. They exp they expect to beat you really bad. That's why they invited you in. They didn't invite you in to for you to win. They invited you in so they can beat you really bad. I remember one time we were invited down to a a school for their homecoming, and we actually won the game. And I want to tell you there's no sweeter victory than that. When you win on the other team's field during homecoming. Well, there's a sense in which what's going on here is Yahweh is being invited to Baal's homecoming celebration. This is Baal. He has home field advantage. This is his turf. But Elijah selected this place because he wants to dispel this pagan belief that God is somehow limited geographically That was what a lot of them believed. Gods had certain areas that they ruled over. What Elijah wanted to show all the people of Israel and all the Baal worshippers. was that God, the God of Israel, the true God, was not limited by geography, that he was sovereign over every inch of the world. Now we know this. We believe this. At least I think we do, but did you know that there's a movement out today among some charismatic Christians known as the spiritual warfare movement? And they see sin and wickedness in some places and they say Satan has control of that place And in order for us really to do anything for God, in order for God to really work there, we have to, as believers, we have to go there and we have to bind Satan. This movement is called the Strategic Level War Spiritual Warfare Movement, or SW, or excuse me, SLSW. It's very influential. And many in this movement wouldn't consider starting a church in any area until first they went out and they confronted the local territorial spirits is what they would call it. Scott Morrow describes it like this. He says that this SLSW as praying against territorial spirits, seeking to map their strategies over given locations by discerning their names and what they use to keep people in bondage and then binding them so that the evangelism may go unhindered. In order for you really to be effective in evangelism, you've got to bind all those spirits And so they also call this spiritual mapping. They said this one aspect of this process known as spiritual mapping is researching an area, identifying the spirits in charge. So that smart bomb praying is what they call it, may loosen their hold over the people who may then freely come to Christ. And one pastor gives an illustration how that uh this is recorded in Charisma and Christian Life magazine. A pastor began to seriously fast and pray. And while he was fasting and praying, he says a grotesque, unnatural being appeared to him and growled and said, What why are you bothering me? And he identifies itself as a demon of witchcraft who has dominion over this specific geographical area. And then Nicholson says he names the city, he names the streets and the surrounding area, and the spirit says, I don't want to give that much territory to you. But the pastor says, Well in the name of Jesus I command you to give up that territory. And then he goes on the in the article and talks about how his church began to grow after that, after he was able to bind the spirits there. And God was then able to work. May I suggest you that gives a really low view of God? Are you saying that God the gospel can't spread unless first you as a believer bind spirits. Let me just say there's nowhere in the Bible does it teach that believers are to bind spirits. That's not how we conduct spiritual warfare. What does the Bible say about how we enter into spiritual warfare is very simple. Let me give it to you. James 4. 7. Resist the devil and he will what? Flee from you. It's that simple. How do we resist the devil? We resist the devil by throwing aside our idols and worshiping the true God. And seeking the true God, and praying to Him, and worshiping Him. That's the way we advance. And so, you know, God doesn't need our help to bind any spirits before he can work in a given situation. So let me give you the second lesson we learned. The God who answers by fire is not limited by geographical locations. But number two, the God who answers by fire is not limited by odds. You look at this story, the odds were not in Elijah's favor. Look down at verse 22. And Elijah said unto the people, I, even I only remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. So again, there's four hundred and fifty to one. This is an uneven contest. The DAC was stacked against Elijah in favor of the prophets of Baal. And also there's some other things here that we could see. First of all, Baal had the first choice of the bull. If you look at this, look at verse 23. Let them therefore give us two bul bullocks, and let them choose one bullock for themselves and cut it in pieces. And Elijah, he lets them, first of all, make the choice of the bull they wanted. That was really good sportsmanship on his part Just in case one bull appeared to be more preferable for sacrifice, Elijah said, you can have the first choice here of bulls. And then also notice that Baal and his prophets, they got to go first. They got to pray first. Look in verse 24. And ye call upon the name of your gods, and I will call upon the name of the Lord So he let them go first. Now this is sudden death here. You understand what I mean by sudden death? Some of you who don't watch the NFL football, let me tell you what that means. If a game ends in a tie, then it's called sudden death. And the team that scores first after that wins. At least that's the way it used to be. And so this is sudden death here. So if the prophets of Baal, if they call upon Baal and Baal answers by fire, it's game over. That means Baal won. Elijah wouldn't even have an opportunity at that point. He would have been a dead man first, so to speak But he lets them go first. But also, this whole contest kind of favored Baal's strengths. The entire contest played to his supposed strength as a deity. Did you know Baal was called the god of the sun? Um, or the god of warmth, or the god of heat. I mean, fire was his expertise. That was right up his alley. Also, he was the god of the storm. And a lot of these ancient figurines that they found of Baal, these little images they found, he had a lightning bolt in each hand. So his specialty was throwing down lightning bolts. He was the God of the storm, the God of the thunder, the God of the lightning. So surely he could answer by fire. This was his specialty. He could just throw down one lightning bolt, right? That would be very easy for the God of the storm, right? But also another advantage that Baal had is he had more time. Look down at verse number 26. Where it says that they prayed, and they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed it, and called upon the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, Oh Baal, hear us But there was no voice, neither any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made. So they're just all day long there crying out, Oh Baal hear us. I mean This was an all-day thing. And when Baal didn't answer, it says they leaped upon the altar. The word here for leap actually means to dance. Intensive form of the word dance. They're doing some kind of cultic dance. One Old Testament scholar says they performed a hopping dance or they danced wildly, but still there's no answer. Bell does not respond at all. And by the way, this is the second time we see silence in the narrative. When's the first time when Elijah issues a challenge? The Bible says the people didn't answer it was silent. And now hear these prophets of Baal crying out, and there's no answer. Again, there's silence. You know, one of the great things about our God is that He hears and He answers prayer. This whole contest was about answering prayer. But they prayed all day. You might say that the prophets of Baal dominated the time of possession here. Again, I'm using another football analogy You know, if a team has the ball the longest, they normally win the game, right? If the team has the ball all the time, they're probably going to win. Here, the prophets of Baal, they kind of have the ball. All day long they're praying. But nothing happens. And so right about noon, Elijah begins to have some fun. Look at verse 27. And it came to pass that at noon that Elijah mocked them. And cried aloud for uh and said, cry aloud for he is a God. Either he is talking or he is pursuing or he is in a journey, or per adventure he sleepeth and must be awakened He was really having a lot of fun here. He begins to mock. Cry louder. Maybe he can't hear you. Maybe he's hard of hearing. Or maybe he's where it says he's talking, the Hebrew verb here actually means musing or thinking. Maybe he's preoccupied. Maybe he's talking to somebody else right now. He doesn't have time to deal with you Or where it says he is pursuing. This is really an interesting uh word here. Um I'll give you uh The soft version of it. Maybe he's using the bathroom. Maybe he's in the men's room. He's busy right now. That's really what it means. Or he's on a long journey. Did you know according to Canaanite mythology, Baal made an annual journey to the underworld and he was killed by the God Mot. Remember I told you about that before? And uh so really what that's what he's referring to. Maybe he took a long journey. And he met up with Mott, and now he's dead. Or maybe he's just sleeping. You know, he needs to take a nap at midday. And so he's mocking Baal. And look down at verse 28. And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancelets till the blood gushed out upon them. And it came to pass when midday was past that they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, and there was neither voice Nor any to answer, nor any that regarded. They had all day long. All of this religious hoopla All of this dancing and praying and even cutting themselves, trying to get the attention of Baal, and nothing happened Let me just take a a little s uh side trail here. Remember I taught you before about apologetics? We get a little learn a little bit about the apologetic method. of Elijah here. What's his method? How does he defend faith in the living God? Well he has a two-part strategy. First he disproves the false God, and then he will prove The true God. First, he is disproving the false God. He is showing all Israel, all the people that gathered there That Baal wasn't real. That's why he was willing to give Baal first choice. You hear you choose the bull. Here you pray first All of that was strategic on Elijah's part because he wanted everyone to see that Baal was not real. And that's why he mocked. That's why he made fun. Because he wanted to show again that Baal was nothing Some of you might remember watching The Wizard of Oz. You remember that at the end of the movie, when Dorothy and her friends finally reached the Emerald City? And they heard the voice of the great and terrible Oz. And at first they were afraid of them. You remember that? And then you know what happened? Then Dorothy's little dog, Kodo, pulls back the curtain. And they're able to see the great wizard. And what they see is not a really a great wizard. What do they see? They see a little old man with a megaphone. And he is exposed to be a huckster. He's exposed to be a cheat. That he's not real at all. That's kind of what's happening here in this story. What Elijah is doing is he's kind of pulling back the veil, and he's showing everyone there that Baal is a huckster, that Baal is not real. And so it was right for Elijah to mock. This was a kind of holy sarcasm because, again, before he would prove the true and the living God, he had to disprove the false God Baal. And so it doesn't really matter that the odds were stacked against Elijah. Let me just tell you something, friends, God is not limited by the odds. He's not. Let me ask you a question. You ever feel as a Christian that the odds are against you in this world? You ever get that feeling? You ever get the feeling that the odds are against the church? I think that in America today, we're kind of living in a post-Christian America, kind of headed into a new paganism, and a lot of times we it'd be very easy for us to feel outnumbered. But I want to remind you that that's not a problem. That's not a problem for God. We have God's people have always been outnumbered. The odds have always been against the people of God, but God can bring easy victory at any time. And you know what we need to do? We need to show the same confidence to the world that Elijah showed against those prophets of Baal. He had total confidence in God. And let me read to you what one man said is very true. Christians tend to be very defensive. We have our own schools, magazines, TV programs, radio shows, and books We hunker down in our own little communities because we feel threatened by a culture that is hostile to biblical faith. And when we go out into the world, we keep it pretty quiet. Let me tell you something, friend. That's not what Elijah does. Elijah went up to the mountain and he confronted the culture. He was not afraid of the numbers. He was not afraid of the fact that he was Outnumbered. He wasn't intimidated by the prophets of Baal or their arguments or their worship. He went out in broad daylight and challenged. This false religion. He was not afraid because he knew ultimately they had to fail. And you know why we shouldn't be afraid, beloved? Because we have the truth. And the truth will not fail. We serve the living and the true God. We will not fail. In fact, we already have the victory in Christ. It doesn't matter what the odds are. We are already victorious. We need to remember this as believers. We are servants of the true and the living God. We might be in the minority now, but you know what? It's not all over yet. Judgment is coming. When Noah got on the ark, he was in the minority, but when he got off the ark, he was in the majority. One day we are going to be in the majority as believers. God's not finished yet. The God who answers by fire is not limited by geography. The God who answers by fire is not limited by the odds. But let me give you the third thing. The God who answers by fire is not limited by circumstances. Now again, the circumstances were not ideal. Because if you want to have an altar that has fire, you want an altar that's dry. And you want to alter that works that's not broken because but what we see here is that Elijah, after they proved that Baal was uh he proved that Baal was not real. Then he faced some other circumstances. First of all, the altar that he had was broken. Look down in verse number 30. And Elijah said unto all the people, come near unto me And all the people came near unto him, and he repaired the altar of the Lord that was broken down. There was an altar that was already there that was broken down. Perhaps it was broken down by the prophets of Baal earlier But I love how Elijah calls all the people to gather around and watch. Come on, gather around. I want you to see this. And what does he do? He gathers up twelve stones, he repairs the broken altar, he rebuilds it. This broken altar represents the nation of Israel. It uses these twelve stones to signify that. They it really symbolizes Israel. Just like this altar was in ruins, the nation was kind of in ruins. Just like This altar was rebuilt. Even so, God wants to reunify the nation. And he wants to bring revival to the nation. And the same thing can be said of our own country. There's nothing in our country that can't be fixed if we rebuild the altars and begin worshiping the true God. Then it will be fixed. The altar was broken. The altar was wet. Notice the next thing. Look down at verse 31. Verse 32, rather. With the stones he built an altar in the name of the Lord, and he made a trench about the altar. So he he carves a trench around it, verse 33, and he put the wood in order and cut the bullock in pieces And laid him on the wood and said, Fill four barrels with water and pour it on the burnt sacrifice and on the wood. And he said, Do it a sec the second time. And they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time And they did it the third time. And the water ran about the altar, and he filled the trench also with water. Well, this is not the way to start a fire, Elijah. He takes four barrels, uh really the word could be like big huge water jars, and there was a spring close by or there was also the Kishan River further down. I think they probably used that spring, it was a little closer. And they filled these jars of water up. And they took these four jars and dumped it on the sacrifice that was there. Not once, not twice, but three times. Twelve huge water jars full of water dumped on this altar to the point to where the the sacrifice was completely drenched and the trench that was dug around the altar was filled with water. Why did Elijah do that? He was making it clear that no one can start this fire on this altar except Almighty God. This was now humanly impossible for anyone else to start a fire on this altar. Elijah knew that whenever God performs a miracle, there will always be doubters and naysayers. So he wanted everyone to know that this was a true miracle of God. There's no trick here. From a human perspective, there's no way this altar is going to be lit unless God does it. It may be that in your life you've got a wet altar, so to speak, a circumstance from a human perspective that looks impossible to you. But let me tell you something, God's not limited by circumstances. God can do anything. No matter what your circumstances are, God is fully able to overcome them, even though they it might look impossible. God's able to do it. And I want you to see the third thing. The altar was broken. The altar was sweat. Now the altar was consumed. Because notice what happens next. Elijah prays a very simple prayer. Look down in verse number 36. And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice. That Elijah the prophet came near and said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant. And that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again Now notice this simple prayer in stark contrast to all the prayers of these false prophets. They were dancing around. They were shouting at the top of their lungs. They were cutting themselves. They were doing all this stuff. Their prayers were long, loud, and loquacious. 450 prophets of Baal singing, come on, Baal, light my fire. And nothing happens. Remember this religious frenzy is not necessarily a sign of spiritual life. You get a lot of people that scream and yell and run around and do all this stuff that's spectacular. That's not a sign of religious life, necessarily. God looks on the heart. Elijah's prayer was short. It was simple. Right from the heart, hear me, O Lord, hear me. That this people might know that thou art the Lord God. This prayer wasn't a selfish prayer for Elijah. This was to honor God God, I want all these people to know that you are the real, true, living God. And so how does God respond? Look down in verse 38. Then the fire of the Lord fell, and consumed the burnt sacrifice, and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench. And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord, He is God. The Lord, He is God. The fire of God came down from heaven. Consumed everything. There's nothing left. No sacrifice left, no wood, no stones, no soil, no water. Nothing. This is more than fire coming down. This is an explosion. This is a conflagration. And when the fire came down, it proved that God was the true and the living God. And all the people, they fell on their face and they said, The Lord, He is God. Now in verse forty, Elijah rounds up the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal, takes them down to the river Kishon, and he has them executed. That was in fulfillment to the commandment in Deuteronomy thirteen 12 to 15, that leaders who drove Israel into idolatry were to be put to the sword. And that's exactly what Elijah does. But God proved himself. Again, let me give you a lesson here about apologetics. We can give arguments to disprove the false gods, and we should be able to do that. We should be able to confront the false ideas of this world with the Word of God. If we tug long enough on the loose ends of any non-Christian worldview, it will begin to unravel because of its own contradictions. We can offer all the sound arguments, we can offer all the proof, we can do all of that. But only God can change an unbeliever's heart and mind. God can reveal himself that he is the true and the living God. Sinners must be transformed by the Holy Spirit of God We have to give out the message. We have to give out the word. We have to give out the proof. But persuasion comes from God. That's his department. And so really, what happened here is that God revealed Himself. And God, and part of what Elijah wanted to see was that the people's hearts would be turned back. That was his prayer in verse 37, that you'll turn their heart back again. And God did that. He turned the people's heart back to himself. So again, in conclusion, this story calls upon all of us to examine our hearts, to make sure that our heart is fully, completely devoted to God alone, that there are no idols in our heart. Stop wavering between two opinions. Stop trying to serve God and the world. Stop walking and limping along with crutches and start walking with God completely and God alone. Why? Because He's the God who answers by fire. Because he's the God who's not limited by geography. He's not limited by odds. He's not limited by circumstances. Our God is a consuming fire. And you better fear him, and you better make sure that you walk with him. And your life should say to all those who see you, it should demonstrate this one thing: the Lord, He is God. Do people see that in us? A single commitment and devotion that the Lord, he is God. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for this story and the reminder that you give us that what you want from us is not a divided heart. But a full single devotion, a heart that is completely, utterly devoted to you, with no idols or no rivals. You are the God that we worship, that we serve. You and no other. We have only one master, not two. And Lord, I pray that you'll help us as we examine our own heart. Maybe there's some idols that we need to confess and get rid of tonight. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, would you do that just for a minute while we close tonight? Examine your own heart. Are there any idols there? Something that you're pursuing really more than God? Or something that gets your attention, your devotion, your passion more than God. God wants it gone, He wants it removed. He's telling you tonight stop limping along trying to serve me and serve idols. Get rid of it. May you say with your life, not just your mouth, but your life, that the Lord, He is God, the one and only God. Serve Him and Him alone. Speak to hearts, Father. Thank you again for this wonderful story. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.