Psalm 120. Psalm 120. On Wednesday nights, I want to begin a new series with you of these Psalms, Psalm 120 to 134. And uh so look at Psalm 120 tonight. This is these are wonderful psalms, and I hope that they'll minister to your heart. A teenager once said to his father, he said, Dad, on board with the songs in church. The father said, Well perhaps you can write some other ones that aren't so boring. And of course the father was kind of half-joking, but the son took them seriously, and the young man picked up a pen and he began to write his own hymns. He wrote a hymn, let me give you the words of one hymn, when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died. That's not too bad. In fact, he wrote many of the hymns that we now sing, and his name was Isaac Watts. One of the first hymns he wrote is a hymn that was appeared in 1707 in a it was titled back then Heavenly Joy on Earth But the title of that hymn that we know of today is called Marching to Zion. You recognize that song? Come we that love the Lord and let our joys be known. Join in a song with sweet accord And thus surround the throne. And then there's the refrain, we're marching to Zion, beautiful, beautiful Zion. We're marching upward to Zion, the beautiful city of God. Now Isaac Watts when he wrote that hymn based it on these Psalms that we're going to look at called Pilgrim Psalms. Once you look at Psalm 120 and notice just above Verse 1 of Psalm 120, there's the title to that Psalm, which says A Song of Degrees. And notice also in Psalm 121, right above the verse 1 there, it also says a song of degrees. And then notice Psalm 122. Same thing, a song of degrees. And you'll see that in Psalm 123, 124, all the way until you get to Psalm 134. These are 15 psalms that are called Psalms of Degrees, and actually they are a hymn book within a hymn book. They are psalms within psalms. They're collected and bundled together for a very specific purpose. Actually, the word degrees there is a Hebrew word And it just simply means a step or a stair or ascending upward or movement upward. That word can mean any of those things. Normally it was the word that was used to talk about a person who was walking up a hill. Geographically they were ascending upward, or maybe they were ascending up a staircase. This would be the word that was used to describe that. Now, why were these psalms given that specific title? Some call them Psalms of Ascending. Why are they given that specific title Well there are several explanations as to why. Now here's one. One s scholar, or scholars I should say, say they were collected to be sung. Regarding the Babylonian captivity, as the children of Israel were released from Babylon and they went back to Jerusalem and back to Israel, these songs were sung in honor of that occasion. Because Babylon was in the lowlands, Israel was in the highlands, and so as people went back to Israel, they were literally walking up. Some look at Psalm 126, where it says, the Lord Turn the captivity of Zion. They think that's referring to the Babylonian captivity, and thus these psalms are referring to that. That's one view. Here's another view. Some say that the word for degrees or ascent really is a literary designation. It's the idea that verses build on each other. There's a thought in one verse And in several verses later it builds on that idea, and then later it builds on that idea, the idea of a stair-step building of ideas, a progression of thoughts. They use Psalm 121 to prove that. The Lord is our keeper, and then the Lord is our helper, I should say, and then keeper, and then he's our pr protector. And so they look at a psalm like that and they say it's that progression. However, not all the psalms show that kind of progression, so I don't think that's what it's talking about. Well here's another view. Some say that these psalms were sung by priests in the temple. Did you know that there, according to Ezekiel forty, there were eight steps leading into the outer courts? And then there were seven more steps that led into the inner court. Thus you had 15 steps in all leading into the holy place. And so some say that these psalms were sung then by priests, Levites, as they were going into the holy place. They would sing these psalms at each step. By the way, there's no proof of that. This is purely speculation. The Talmud does say that there were 15, these 15 Psalms correspond to the 15 steps. between these courtyards. However, the Talmud is kind of a commentary on the Old Testament. Some of it may be spurious, some of it is valid, but there's no real proof of that. Well, let me give you what I think is a real understanding of these Psalms of Ascent. And this is what most scholars agree on. That these psalms were sung by Jewish pilgrims as they traveled to Jerusalem on the various feast days Did you know in the Old Testament that God commanded all men in Israel to go to Jerusalem for a feast three times a year they had to do that? It's commanded in Exodus 24, verses 14 to 17. They had to go for the feast of unleavened bread, the Passover, the Feast of Tabernacles. So three times a year, all males had to come to Jerusalem. Now normally what they would do is they would make it a family event. It wasn't just the males that came, but they brought all of their children with them, all of their wife, their children, and their relatives. And so normally in Jewish customs it would be a caravan of people that would travel up to Jerusalem for these feast days In fact, you might remember the story of Jesus, Joseph, and Mary in Luke chapter 2, when he was 12 years old. Remember, they all went to Jerusalem. Why? To observe the feast? The Bible says in verse 42, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. Remember what happened in that story? Mary and Joseph get back home, and what do they realize? Jesus wasn't with them. You say, man, how could they do that? How could they leave 12-year-old Jesus behind? Well, because it was always a caravan of people, normally close relatives. That were watching over each other, and and it was easy for a child to get lost. And you remember Jesus purposefully stayed behind, and you remember that occasion where he challenged doctors there in the temple with his knowledge And so I think this is exactly what this is referring to. Now to kind of put it in our day today, it would be like having three Thanksgiving holidays a year. I'd be for that Three Thanksgiving holidays a year, and it doesn't last one day, it lasts a whole week. And it's kind of a combination of Thanksgiving and a giant family reunion because all the families would come together and they would make this journey up And as they were going up into Jerusalem, they would uh sing these songs. Now Why are they called songs of ascent? Well, again, because Jerusalem geographically is located in an elevated area. It is 2,300 feet above Jerusalem. sea level. So anyone traveling into Jerusalem would literally geographically ascend upward into the city. In fact, this is referenced several times in the Psalms, where it says in Psalm 24. 3, for example, Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? That's anybody that's traveling into Jerusalem, into the temple area, into the holy place. You're literally going into the hill of the Lord. And so these psalms were selected and placed together for the purpose of pilgrim worshipers who would take this trip into Jerusalem and literally they were marching to Zion. Beautiful, beautiful Zion. They were marching to Zion, the beautiful city of God. Now you say, well, why are we studying these? What benefit can we get from them? And tonight what I want to give you just briefly in the time that we have left is just an overview. of these Psalms, an overview of the lessons that we can learn from these Psalms. Here's the first lesson. Number one, what do we learn? God's people are a pilgrim people. That's the first lesson. That's the thing I see here. I think one of the major motifs or themes of Scripture Regarding the people of God is that of pilgrims. We're soldiers for sure. We're in a spiritual war. We know that. We're priests of God. We have access to God. But also we're pilgrims. We don't hear a lot about that, but do you know that since Adam and Eve left the Garden of Eden, God's people have really not had a home. And mankind has been searching for a home. Abraham, the model of faith, the model of who we should follow, he was a pilgrim all of his life, living in tents, but he looked for a city whose builder and maker was God. All of his life, he lived a pilgrim life under the leadership of Moses of children of Israel, wanders through the wilderness for 40 years. And even when they settled in the land of Canaan, God said, okay, three times a year you need to come up to Jerusalem and worship. Why? God was reminding them that they are a pilgrim people. Write down 1 Chronicles 29, 15. For we are strangers before thee, David said, Sojourners as it were, as were all our fathers. Our days on the earth are as a shadow In other words, this earth was never intended for us to stay here. We're just here for a little time. And we're we're like our fathers. We're pilgrims. We're strangers in the earth. Now there are several things about pilgrims that we need to know. First of all, pilgrims follow their guide. If you want to make it safely through this world, we need to follow our guide. You know, God has not left us without a guide. You say, what is he giving us? He's given us his word. That's our guide. If we follow the guide, we're going to be fine. In fact, if you follow the guide, it's going to be much easier. Last Saturday, Carolyn and Josiah and Annie and I, we decided to go hiking in the Maryland woods. I don't know what possessed me to do that. I was careful to choose a state park and a trail that was marked easy. Easy. This is an easy trail because they're graded. There are easy hikes. There are moderate There are difficult hikes. I didn't even want to get near moderate. I wanted easy. I wanted a nice easy walk. This was supposed to be four miles and through the beautiful woods. And we chose the easy trail then. But you know what? They gave us a little guide, a little sheet of paper. You know the problem is we didn't even refer to that guide. We didn't look at that guide much. And what happened was we got off the trail. And what was easy became really hard. We ended up hiking a lot longer than four miles. Through steep training. In fact the last mile of it was the hardest because it was it was almost straight up. You talk about ascending. We were literally ascending upward. I'm telling you, I was winded, my legs are still sore In fact, I wish I had a stool up here so I can sit on while I'm preaching to you. This was a long journey. What was easy really became hard. You say why? Well, because we didn't really refer to the guide You know what? The journey that we have here, if we just follow God's word, it becomes a lot easier. It helps us a whole lot. In fact, we can't do it without our guide, without the word of God. Let me just show you something. Look at Psalm 119, look at verse 19. I know we're going back one chapter, but It has the same idea here. Look at verse 19 of Psalm 119. He says, this, I am a stranger in the earth, that is, I'm a pilgrim here in this world. Hide not thy commandments from me. Lord, if you uh if I don't get your word, uh I'm not gonna make it. Look in verse 54, same chapter. Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. Lord, it's your word. Look in chapter 130, we're back to the Psalms of the Greece. Look down to verse number 5. I wait for the Lord, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope. He's hoping in God's word. And so if we're going to successfully make it through this world, we have to follow God's instructions. In fact, God's Word is a survival guide to help us make it through. Now, not only does pilgrims follow the guide, but also pilgrims forsake the world. That's another thing I noticed by reading these Psalms. Pilgrims, they're not They're not uh loyal to the things of this world. Their allegiance is not to this world. In fact, they don't love this world. They have another love Look in Psalm 120. Again, we're just kind of doing a bird's eye view of some of these pilgrim psalms. Look in verse number 5. Notice what the psalmist says. Woe is me that I sojourn in Meshech. That I dwell in the tents of Peter. He's using figurative language there, but he's talking about living in a hostile place, living in the world. He's so far away from Jerusalem. He's so far away from the house of God. And he says, oh, woe is me. He had no love for the things of this world in this world. He wanted to go where God's people were. Too many believers today, they want to settle in this world instead of being pilgrims. You know, we're not called to settle in this world. We're passing through. You understand that? We're just passing through. If you try to settle down in this world, it's going to cause you trouble. 1 Peter 2. 11 says, Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul. And 1 John says, love not the world. And so pilgrims basically forsake this world, but here's another thing about pilgrims. Pilgrims focus on the destination. You know what I find as I read through these pilgrim songs? And you'll find this if you read through, and I challenge you to read through them, they're constantly referring to Zion. They're constantly referring to the sanctuary, to the house of God. We see this all over. We see it in all the chapters. I don't want to take time to go through all these verses because it's so much there. You can see it yourself Constantly referring to Zion. In fact, it is obsessed with Mount Zion because that's where they were going. And they had their focus on that. Their heart, in fact, was already there. In Psalm 122, they really start out the journey, but he says, I just feel like my feet are already standing there. His heart was so much there in Mount Zion that he felt that he was already standing there And friend, that's to be true of us as Christians. You say, what is our Mount Zion? Zion in the Old Testament, which represented a a hill really in Jerusalem, and later it became to represent a whole city Because it's wherever the Ark of the Covenant was. First it was on a hill, then it was in a temple, and then all of Jerusalem was referred to Mount Zion. Later on, New Testament writers said Mount Zion is a type and a picture of what? Of heaven. Right The writer of Hebrews said it in Hebrews 12, But ye are come unto Mount Zion, listen unto the city of the living God, to the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, and so on. He goes on to talk about all those in heaven. What is our Mount Zion? It's heaven. And what does God want us to focus on? He wants us to be obsessed with heaven, to focus on heaven. As we travel through this world, as we pilgrimage through this world, we're to keep our minds on heaven. That's what God says we're to do as pilgrims. If you read history, you're going to find out that the Christians that God used the most in this present world were those who thought the most about the next world. They were heavenly minded. C. S. Lewis said this: aim at heaven and you'll get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you'll get nothing. And so God's people are a pilgrim people. Here's the second thing. God's people are a protected people. They're a protective people. That's another thing I see when I read through these Psalms. You know, a major theme that you'll find is that God cares for and watches over His people as we journey through this pilgrim land. As we're making this journey, God's going to protect us, He's going to care for us. It doesn't mean we're not going to go through valleys because we will, but He'll go through the valley with us. And he'll help us through. This pilgrim journey is filled with darkness and danger and difficulty and distress, but God is the one who's with us, and he will protect us and he will watch over us. As we if we called out unto the Lord, look again, look in Psalm 120, look at verse 1. In my distress I cried unto the Lord, and notice the next part, and he heard me. He heard me. You know what? Everywhere the pilgrim traveler looked, he saw God protecting him and watching over him. For example, he looks upward. And what does he see when he looks upward? Look in Psalm 121, verse 1. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, for when cometh my help, my help comes what? From the Lord. He said, the Lord is my security. He's my helper. He's my sentry in verses 3 and 4. He that keepeth Israel is not going to slumber or sleep. You know the good news, the God who watches over you, he doesn't need a nap or he doesn't go to sleep. He's constantly watching over you. He's your shade. He's your safety. And so he looks upward and he sees God. He looks backward and he sees God. And you ever you ever in your Christian life Think and look back and say, how did I ever survive that? How did I ever make it through that? I mean I know that wasn't me. How did I make it through? And you know what? We realize how we made it through. It was God. Only explanation. Remember that poem? Still around, footprints in the sand in the sand, two sets of footprints, and then all of a sudden there's one and the person prays and says, God, you know, why why is it just one? And and the Lord says, That was when I carried you. I carried you through this. That's what I think of when I read Psalm. Look at Psalm 124. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, Now may Israel say, if it had not been for the Lord, verse 2, who is on our side, if it wasn't for God, we would have never made it. The psalmist looks Upward and he sees God. He looks backwards and he sees the protection of God. He looks outward. You know what he says? He says, man, I'm surrounded. You ever hear Lone Ranger in Tonto? You probably heard this show because I appreciate your laugh anyway. Lone Ranger riding east, Indians are coming east. Starts to ride west Sees a bunch of Indians coming west. Starts south. Indians are coming south. Starts north. Indians are coming north. He says, Tanto, what are we gonna do? We're surrounded. He says, what do you mean we pale face He was surrounded. Here, the psalmist looks and he sees the Lord surrounding him. Look in Psalm 125. Look in verse 1. They that trust in the Lord shall be as Mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abides forever. Look in verse 2. As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people, from henceforth and forevermore. Did you know no matter what direction you go in your pilgrim journey, you're surrounded by God. He's already going to be there. So the psalmist, he looks upward, he sees God, he looks backward, he sees God, he looks outward, he sees God. He looks forward in this pilgrim journey, and what does he see? He sees God there, Psalm 128. And again, we don't have time to go over all of it, but he's talking about the blessings. Look at verse 1. Blesses everyone that fears the Lord that walks in his ways. Look at verse 4. Behold, that sh thus shall be the man that uh be blessed, that fears the Lord, the Lord shall bless thee out of Zion, and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of your life. You know what he's saying? If you just Fear God and obey God. You know what? God's going to bless you in the days to come. You know, I I had the opportunity sometimes to counsel young couples. It's a privilege to do that. And I always tell them the same thing. It's not rocket science. If you just honor the Lord and fear the Lord and obey the Lord, you know what? You're going to be blessed. That's a guarantee from Scripture. You want to be a blessed, you want to have a blessed life, you want your future to be blessed, you just do that. And you watch. God will be there. He will be blessing you. And then the psalmist even looks inward and sees God. In Psalm 130, he says in verse 1, out of the depths I've cried unto thee, O Lord. And he's talking about his sin in verse 3. If thou Lord should mark iniquity, O Lord, who shall stand? But there's forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. In this pilgrim journey, we're going to wrestle inwardly. We're going to wrestle with sin in our life. But you know what? We have a God who's merciful and forgiving, a God who redeems. And he'll help us there. Even if we look inward, you know what we're going to see? We're going to see a God who cares deeply for us and who is with us. And so God's people are a protected people. Let me give you the third thing, third lesson. God's people not only are a pilgrim people and a protected people, but God's people are a praising people They're appraising people. This is another valuable lesson I learned as I read through these Psalms, as I meditate on these Psalms. You know what? We are a people that as we make this pilgrim journey and as we're ascending, as it were, you know what? We should be praising God. We should be singing on this journey. Amen. Of all people, we should be joyful. We should be glad in the Lord. Why? Well, because of who God is. He's the one who's made all this. He's the one who's blessed us with all this. That's what Psalm 134 says in the last verse, verse 3. The Lord that made heaven and earth, bless thee out of Zion. He made it all. Everything you have, he's given to you because of who he is, but also because God gives joy. Doesn't he give us joy? Doesn't he give us happiness? You say, how? By the great things that he does for us. In this pilgrim journey, he's constantly doing good things for us. He's constantly doing great things. In fact, look in Psalm 126. He says in verse 3, the Lord has done great things for us. Actually, back up to verse 2. Then was our mouth filled with laughter and our tongue with singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord has done great things for them. You see, when God does great things for his people, even the lost people see that. And then he says, the Lord has done great things for us whereof we are glad. I've had people come up to me before and say, you know what, the Lord sure has blessed you. And I say, You're right, He has. And you know what? You've probably had the same thing happen to you. Because people on the outside looking in, they see God's goodness and blessing to his people. And so God gives us joy because of that. But let me give you another reason why we sing in this journey, because you say, well, sometimes we go through sorrows. That's right. You say, well, sometimes we go through valleys in this pilgrimage. That's right But we have a God who is able to turn our valleys into mountains. He's able to turn our sorrows into joys. Like the psalmist said in Psalm 94, 6, who passing through the valley of Baca, which means Valley of Tears, God will make it a pool, will make it a refreshing well when you pass through the valley of tears. Let me show you again. Look at Psalm 126 again. We see this idea. Look at verse 5. They that sow in tears shall reap in what? Joy, think about that. Think about what he's saying. What's the normal law of solian reaping? You reap what you sow. If you sow corn, you don't get wheat. If you sow green beans, you don't get watermelon If you sow apples, you don't get back oranges. What? You reap what you sow. That is a natural law. That's the law of nature. But God says, with regard to my people, that's not true. You see, if you sow tears, what should you reap, tears? If you sow tears, they that sow in tears. They should reap tears, but God says, not so with my people. They that sow in tears are going to reap back joy. God says, for every tear that you plant, God says, I'm going to give you a harvest of joy in your life Isn't that a great promise? You see, in the law of sowing and reaping, God cancels out the natural law. And God says, I'm going to return all of your sorrows, I'm going to return back joy to you. And God does indeed do that because He loves us. So He will take your tears and turn them into cheers. He will take your hurts and turn them into hallelujahs. He'll take your sobs and He'll turn them into songs. Because that's the kind of God that we serve. Billy Sunday said this, if you have no joy in your religion, there is a leak in your Christianity somewhere. And that is true. Let me give you the last thing here. God's people are a pilgrim people. We learned that. God's people are a protected people. In this journey, God's people are a praising people. But here's the last thing. God's people are a progressing people. A progressing people. Because what I notice in these Psalms is that the they make progress. Any pilgrim that's on a journey has to make progress, right? Or it's not a pilgrimage. You have to make progress. And as these pilgrims would travel, geographically they were moving constantly upward. They were moving forward. Until they reached Mount Zion, the heavenly city. And if you notice in these Psalms, there kind of seems to be that progression. In Psalm 120, he sojourns in Meshech, which is a place far, far away from Jerusalem. That's where it starts in the pilgrimage. He's a long way away. And then in Psalm 121, he's making his journey and he lifts up his eyes and he sees the hills. Why? He's on his way. He's on the road. He's on his way to Zion. In Psalm 122, he's excited about the journey. It's as if he's already there. In Psalm 125, it's as if Mount Zion is in sight. In verse 2 is he says, As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the Lord is round about his people. You get the idea that he's getting closer to Jerusalem, and he can see the mountains that surround the city of Zion because he's getting closer. And then in Psalm 127, he gets closer to the walls because he refers to the watchman on the walls and the arrows of a mighty man. He sees the watchman. He's getting closer to the gates. And then he gets inside the gates. And once he gets inside, it says in verse 132, he delights being in Zion. Look in Psalm 132. Look in verse 13 and 14. Notice what it says, for the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation. Verse 14, there, this is my rest forever. Here will I dwell, for I have desired it. So you get the sense he's in the city now. And he's reveling in being there. By the way, again, all this speaks about the Christian on his way to heaven. You know what? Once we get to heaven, we're going to really be glad we're there. We're going to revel in it. Those who are already there, our loved ones who are already there, they're having the time of their life. They're reveling in it. And then in verse 133 you get the idea that he's going to worship now and he's with his brethren and there's unity and fellowship. Behold, how wonderful, how pleasant it is to dwell together in unity. He's preparing for worship, and then by the time you get to Psalm 134, he's in the house of God and he's worshiping and he's blessing the Lord in the evening worship in the sanctuary, lifting his hands, worshiping God. And so what is this? This is a geographical progression as he gets closer and closer. Now, what's true of those pilgrims geographically is true of us spiritually, should be true of us spiritually. We should be, each day of our life in this pilgrim journey, we should be getting one step closer, one step higher. We're ascending closer to the Lord, we're getting closer to heaven. And each day of the journey, we're learning more. We're growing spiritually. I like the song that we sing. I'm pressing on the upward way. New heights I'm gaining every day. That's that's really the way it should be for us as Christians in this pilgrim journey. We're we're pressing on. Stephen Kong wrote a devotional work on these uh Psalms of Degrees. And he actually in his book he describes this as spiritual stages. He kind of breaks it down into stages. And he actually calls these the songs of the ascent of the soul. Because our soul should be ascending closer to the Lord. And this is what he says. Let me read you a little excerpt. He said the Christian life is a continual advancing, it's a continual going forward and going up. Never should there be a standstill. If we remain stationary in one experience or become stranded at one stage, we shall find that our spiritual life suffers. It becomes frustrated. We should instead be stretching out always to the things which lie before us. End quote. And that's so very true. So very true. How about you? Are you making progress? Or are you stranded in a stage? You're not moving forward. In fact, there are some who may be even moving in the opposite way. God wants us to constantly move forward. Can you say like the Apostle Paul, I'm forgetting those things which are behind. I'm reaching forth unto those things which are before. I'm pressing Towards the mark. You remember the book that John Bunden wrote called Pilgrims What? Progress. Because really the whole theme of the book is how that on this pilgrim journey, it's a wonderful allegory, we're going to come up with pitfalls But we need to navigate around those, we need to keep going. We need to keep moving forward. In fact, at one point in the book Christian and his traveling companion Hopeful slip and fall into a pit. Actually a miry, muddy pit And it's called the slew of despondence. Sometimes we can get so despondent that we fall into the slew, the pit of despondence, and we need someone to help us out. And there's a man there that helps them out. And then in the book let me just read a little bit here, just a small excerpt, when he's helped out, Christian turns and says, Sir, wherefore sends over this place is the way from the city of destruction to yonder gate? Is it that this pit is not mended? That poor travelers might go thither with more security? That this Christian says, look, can't something be done about this pit here so that when other travelers come, they don't fall into it? Sounds like some of our roads here in Maryland, right? Can't we do something about these pits here? And this is what the man says to him. It says something very profound, I think. And he said unto me, This Myri slough is such a place As cannot be mended. And that's true. What was he saying? That in this pilgrim journey that we travel, in this world, there's no such thing as a perfect path. There's going to be pitfall. It cannot be mended. You cannot get around it. The thing is, you must overcome them. And you must continue to press on in this pilgrim journey. You've got to keep making progress That's what God wants of you. And God gives you all the resources and the help to do that very thing. Say, what's the measure of whether or not I'm making progress? in my Christian walk. Really, it's one thing as I read in these Psalms here. You know what it is? It's dependence on God. Because one common denominator that I see in all of these Psalms Is absolute total dependence on the Lord. In fact, when I look at these, I divide them up into three stages of dependence. He's beginning to learn to depend upon God in the first Five chapters, and then he continues learning, and we see his firmness as he trusts in the Lord. He's like as stable as Mount Zion. We see his fullness As God fills and we see his family, he's learned to put all matters into the Lord's hands. And then finally, by the time you get to the end Let me just show you this one picture. We don't have time to look at all that. Look at Psalm 131. There's a picture of total, complete dependence and contentment on the Lord. Look in Psalm 131. Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor my eyes lofty, neither do I exercise myself in great matter. Or in things too high for me. Surely I have behaved and quieted myself as a child that is weaned of his mother. My soul is even as a weaned child. What's the picture there of a child that is not complaining or whining or irritable, but is totally at peace and contented totally satisfied, totally dependent, and that's what we are to be as children of God. You know what Physical maturity, you know, we have children, we have a baby, that baby is totally dependent on us. And and and physical maturity is that they grow to be less and less They they grow to be independent until finally one day they leave our home and they're no longer dependent on mom and dad. At least that's what we hope, right? They're totally on their own now. That physical maturity is growing from dependence to independence. But did you know that in the spiritual realm it's the exact opposite? In the Christian life, in the pilgrim journey, it is growing from independence of God to complete, total dependence upon the Lord for everything. for everything. Where you're content, at peace, there's no complaining. Why? Because you are absolutely Totally dependent on the Lord. That's the measure of How you're making progress. So are you dependent on God? Examine yourself on a scale of 1 to 10, 10 being totally dependent on God, 1 being independent. Where would you place yourself Are you absolutely dependent on the Lord? Because that's where God wants us. That's the place of blessing. And by the way, if you want to see an example of the right pilgrim, the perfect pilgrim, just look at the life of Jesus. Just look at him. He was a pilgrim in this world. This world was not his home. He had a short journey through this world. And did you know that on his last pilgrimage to Jerusalem The Bible talks about that in Luke chapter 19. It says that he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. Jesus took his last pilgrimage. into the holy city of Jerusalem. Why? He was going there as the Passover lamb. He was the one who was going to die for all sin. He took that final pilgrimage. He zigzagged through Uh Judea and Galilee into uh the city of Jerusalem. And finally there, he set his face there to go to the cross for all of us. And you know what I believe? I believe that on that journey that Jesus took that final journey to Jerusalem. I believe, I can't prove it, but I think I'm right. I think he sung these songs on that journey. pilgrimage. And I think when he sung, in Psalm 132, there were verses about himself. Look in Psalm 132 verse 11, then we'll be done. The Lord has sworn in truth unto David, He will not turn from it, or the fruit of thy body will I set upon the throne. Who's that? That's Jesus. That's all about him. Verse sixteen. I will also clothe her priest with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. And there will I make the horn of David. That again is referring to Jesus, the horn of David, the bud. I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. Again, that all speaks prophetically about the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who would bring salvation to all people. there. So on that final journey, Jesus was singing, I believe, these songs, and singing about the salvation that He would give to all the world, to all of us. And so you know what I want in this world? I just want to be a good pilgrim. I just want to keep my eyes on Zion. I just want I want to bring my family with me. You know, one of the biggest desires I have is that all my children love Jesus, serve Jesus, my children, my grandchildren, my great-grandchildren. I want us all in that caravan on the way to Zion. All of us. I want us to focus on the Lord. I want us to enjoy the blessings and the joys that He gives us. I want us to remember that this world is not our home. I want to remember that sometimes we will pass through the valley of Baca. Sometimes we will go through darkness. But everywhere we look, guess what I see? The care and the protection of God, the blessings of God. And I want to get safely to that place there at Mount Zion and worship there with all the family and friends together and look back and say, what a wonderful, blessed day. Life that God has given us all because of His grace. All because of His grace. And you know what? Something about pilgrims. Let me just say this one thing. You know things about pilgrims, again, they travel in groups. You know what that means? We gotta help each other out now. On this journey. We've got to help each other out. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you that you do bless us so much. in this journey that you're faithful everywhere we look. Your hand is with us. We know that in this journey it doesn't mean we're not going to have heartaches and valleys and darkness. We will. But Lord, like the psalmist, we can say if it had not been the Lord who was on my side. I would have drowned. So Lord, we thank you for your faithfulness to us. Help us to be good pilgrims, Lord. And as we in the next few weeks study these Psalms, Lord, apply these things to our heart. Give us strength for our journey. We need it. And Lord will thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.