Uh I invite you to take your Bibles this morning, if you will, please, and open to the book of Revelation, chapter 20, today. Revelation chapter 20. You know, on Sunday nights we've been doing the study and kind of sharing with you a little bit of what we do on Sunday nights. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I want us to look at verse 11 down to verse 15 of Revelation 20. And I saw a great white throne in him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and heaven fled away. And there was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works. And the sea gave up the dead which are in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. And this is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God Give us ears to hear the Word of God, His inspired Word this morning. Will you pray with me today? Father, as we come before you, we thank you for the living Word of God. the inspired and errant word of God, and we have nothing else to offer other than your words, Lord, because we know that in your word is life. And we would ask that you would breathe life into souls today. As we consider this solemn passage, Lord, speak to our hearts. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I heard about one of the great paintings of all time was a painting called Michelangelo's Last Judgment. When he painted the portrait for the first time, it went all throughout Europe and it scared people. It got people thinking about death and judgment afterwards because the painting really centers on Christ as he raises his arm in a gesture of damnation. And it pictures people being before the throne of God, being judged, and with a look of despair on their face because they were judged f For their works. It's a very solemn portrait. But I want to tell you a more solemn portrait is the picture that John paints for us here in Revelation chapter 20, the verses that we just read. This is a solemn portion of Scripture. And this is what preachers call the great white throne judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, John is describing a courtroom scene in heaven. This is the Supreme Court of Heaven. But in this courtroom scene, it's unlike any other courtroom that you've ever experienced. There'll be a judge, but there'll be no jury. There'll be a prosecution, but there'll be no defense. There will be a sentence, but there'll be no appeal. This will be the final judgment. No one will be able to accuse God of being unjust. You won't be able to defend yourself before a righteous God who knows all things, because when God judges, it will be in righteousness and in truth And think about the words that we read here in verse eleven, where it talks about the great white throne. Great. That speaks about the preeminence of it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no higher throne, no greater throne than the throne of God. He is the ultimate authority. You can't appeal to a higher authority. This is the Supreme Court of Heaven. Great white, think about white. That speaks about the purity of it. And this talks to us about The righteous character of God. When God judges, it will be in righteousness. It will be in truth. Again, you won't be able to accuse God of being unfair in his judgment. We read sometimes of judges that take bribes that are unjust judges. I remember one time I was a college student. I had a card that my father put together. It wasn't very much to look at It was a NOVA back when they had the you know the gear shift. That's how old it was. And my dad put it together for me so I can go to college. We didn't have a whole lot. And uh I remember that the speedometer on it didn't work, it just went back and forth. I remember one time a police officer pulled me over and he said, Son, do you know how fast you're going? And I said, Actually, sir, I don't. I would appreciate it if you let me know. And uh he let me know all right and he gave me a ticket. And I had to go and appear before a judge, and I'll never forget the name of the judge. His name was Orville Anderson. And I stood before him and when he found out that I was a a college student studying for ministry, he kind of scoffed at me. Here you are. studying for ministry and you're, you know, standing before me with getting a speeding ticket. And so he he gave me a fine and so on. But I remember the judge's name because the very next day in the paper he was on the front page because he was accused of taking bribes. I wish I'd have known that when I was standing in front of him Not that I would have offered him a bribe, but I could have at least accused him of being an unjust judge. But let me tell you something. When we stand before God, he will judge in righteousness. God is not unjust in anything. He is the holy God. He is a righteous God. And also the throne, the great white throne. This speaks about the power of it. God has all authority, all power. So this is a very solemn occasion. Someone wrote these words. I dreamed that the judgment morning, that the great judgment morning had dawned and the trumpet had blown. I dreamed that the nations had gathered. to judgment before the white throne. From the throne came a bright shining angel, and stood on the land and the sea, and swore with his hand raised to heaven that time was no longer to be, and the rich man was there, but his money had melted and vanished away. A pauper he stood in the judgment, his debts were too heavy to pay And oh, what a weeping and wailing, as the lost wereetold of their fate. They cried for the rocks and the mountains. They prayed, but their prayer was too late And friend, that's a very solemn thought. But thank God, right now there's mercy. Right now is not too late. The Bible says right now is the day of salvation. And when we come to passages like this, we need to remind ourselves that now is the accepted time, but there's going to come a time when every opportunity is over with. And we'll have to stand before God in judgment. There's nothing but judgment. So I want you to see just four quick things about this judgment scene. Here. Number one, if you're taking notes right down the setting described. Again, notice how it describes it. And I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it Whose f face the earth had and heaven fled away, and there was no place for them. So I want you to think about, first of all, the awful place. This is going to be an awful place And let me just tell you, beloved, you do not want to stand here in this place one day. You don't want to stand in this spot Sometimes I hear Christians, and I said this before, Christians will pray, and they get their eschatology messed up, and they say, Lord, grant that I stand before thy great white throne Well, don't pray that for me, beloved. Because you don't want to stand here. This is a judgment, not for those who have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, but for those that have rejected him. You see, the Bible says there are two times of judgment. There is what is called the judgment seat of Christ, and this is a judgment for us servants of the Lord, for believers, those who know Jesus Christ. And at this judgment Our works that we've done for the Lord will be judged. They'll be judged to see what manner in which we have done them. Second Corinthians 5. 10 says this, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ That everyone may receive the things done in his body according that he hath done, whether it be good or whether it be bad. And that will be a time when we will be judged for the things that we do unto the Lord. You know, the Bible says that God will judge our motives for the works that we do. And in that time, the works that we do, the quality of them will either be gold, silver, and precious stones, or wood, hay, and stubble. The Bible said it will be tried by fire. I've often said, I don't fear the fire of hell because I'm a believer. I know Jesus Christ. I know that I'm saved. I fear the fire of heaven. I want to make sure that my works are done in a pleasing way before God. That's the judgment seat of Christ. That's totally different from this scene that we see here. This is called the Great White Throne Judgment. And this will be for those who have not trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. This is a awful place, but also the awesome person that is on the throne, for it says, from whose face the earth And the heaven fled away. Now who is this? Who's the one that will be judging at that time? Well, we know it because the Bible says it is the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to John 5. 22, for the Father judges no man, but has committed all judgment unto the Son. God has relegated all judgment into the hands of Jesus Christ. Acts 1731 Because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men in that he has raised him from the dead. How do we know that Jesus will be the one judging us in that time? The proof is that God the Father raised him from the dead. That's the proof. Now in that day, he will be the judge You might be thinking, well now wait a minute. I thought Jesus was the loving, gentle Savior. Yes, today he is. Today if you will come to Christ And plead for mercy. He will forgive you for all of your sins, and you can have eternal life. That's today. Today he's the Savior. But after death, and when there's judgment, then he'll be the judge. He will not be the lamb, he'll be the lion that will come in judgment. Today he's your savior. Tomorrow he will be your judge. I was reading about in the old days when they had horses and wagons, a man was crossing the street and he did not see a a team of rushing horses in a wagon coming down the street ready to to to to to just knock him over and perhaps kill him and there was a man who saw that and he pulled the man out of the way. And later on that same man that was in danger committed a crime. And he stood before a judge, and the judge sentenced him, and as they were taking him away, he said, Sir, do you remember me? Yesterday you pulled me out of of of of a dangerous situation. Yesterday you saved my life. And he said, yesterday I was your savior, today I'm your judge. And that's the way it will be with Jesus. Today he's the savior. But friend, if you put off trusting him as your Savior tomorrow, he will be your judge. There's the awful place and the awesome person, but also the awkward position, again in verse number eleven where it says And the heaven fled away, for her who for from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. In that time people are going to want to run and hide from judgment. Did you know that's the nature of man ever since the fall in the Garden of Eden? Man has been hiding from God. Remember, before the fall, Adam and God had fellowship. But once Adam sinned, he was hiding from God. Running from God. And that's what people do today. People are constantly running from God. They're trying to hide from God. There's something innate in man that knows that he's a sinner and God is holy, and he doesn't want to face a holy God. And so men try to run from that That's what atheism is all about. An atheist is someone who's just simply suppressing the truth in his heart about God. He's running from God. He's trying to hide from God. But I want to tell you there's going to come a day when you stand before the Lord and there's going to be no place to run to. There's gonna be no place to hide. You might want to try to run and hide, but there'll be no place there'll be no trees to hide behind like Adam did in the garden. There'll be no shift to hop on like Jonah did when he was running from the presence of the Lord. There'll be no rocks or mountains to go. and hide in. You can't crawl in the grave and pull the dirt up over your face thinking you can hide from Almighty God. It's not going to happen. It's going to be an awkward time. But I want you to see a second thing, not only the setting described, but then the summons delivered. Look at verse number twelve. And I saw the dead small and great stand before God, and the books were open, and another book was open, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which are written in the books according to their works. Now this event the Bible calls the second resurrection For the believer there's going to be a resurrection day. Thank God for those who have trusted Jesus Christ and they're asleep right now, the Bible says, their bodies sleep in the grave. But There's going to be a resurrection day for the believers. We'll be made just like the Lord Jesus will have a glorified body in eternity. There's also going to be a resurrection for those who don't know. the Lord. The Bible speaks about this in Acts 24. 15. It says that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and of the unjust. In John 5. 29 it says, shall come forth they that have done good under the resurrection of life, and they that have done evil under the resurrection of damnation. And John calls this resurrection of damnation um Calls this what we've just read here the resurrection of damnation. And notice the people of this summons. It says in verse 12, it'll be the small and the great. This refers to all of the lost of history, all those who don't know Christ. This will be the educated, the uneducated, the powerful, the weak. It'll be the great man and the common man, the rich and the poor. The religious person and the reprobate thou all be resurrected to stand before God. John Phillips wrote this. He said Those whose lives were amounted to nothing will be there. Those whose sins were drab and dowdy, mean, spiteful, peevish, groveling, vulgar, common, and cheap. The grape will be there, men who sin with a high hand, with dash and courage and flair, men like Alexander and Napoleon, Hitler and Stalin will be present. Men who went in for wickedness on a grand scale with the world for their stage who died unrepentant at last, they're all going to be there. All those who have never trusted Jesus Christ. They would never put their full faith in what Jesus did. Think about this with me. Two groups here I want you to consider. First they'll be the sinner. This is what I I call the sinner. This is just a person who is an out-and-out sinner. They shake their fists in the face of God. They have no thought about eternity. They live for themselves. They sin without any remorse. The sinner will be there. The self-righteous will be there. This is the person who thinks that their good works will not cause God to cast them into eternal judgment. They think that they've done enough good in their life to keep God from punishing them. Let me just tell you this, my dear friend, if you have that image about God that you know God couldn't possibly throw me into eternal judgment because I've done some good things in my life, then you are very deceived about what the scripture says. I'm not saying that doing good works onto other men is a bad thing. I'm just saying that those good works do not register as far as your salvation in heaven. Illustration I like to use it's monopoly money. You can use monopoly money to play the game of monopoly, but you can't deposit that m money into a bank. Take your monopoly money, go down here to MSE Bank and see if they'll take it. They'll say that money doesn't cash in this bank. Your works here on this earth, if you think that'll earn you merit with God in heaven, it will not The Bible says all of our righteousness are as filthy rags before God. And the Bible says that man is depreyed. Man is a sinner. Depravity just simply means this: that when Adam fell, all of our nature was corrupted. And even though we might try to do good works, we still sinned against the Holy God. And it only takes one sin to damn a person for eternity. We sin every day against the Holy God. And there's no works that we can do that can make us just before God There'll be those self-righteous people, however, who stand before God and think that my goodness is enough. It's not. And it never will be. Then they're the slow deciders. These are people who just keep putting off trusting in Jesus. They've heard the gospel, they've heard the message, but they're not ready right now to repent and and trust Christ because they've got their own life they want to live. They don't want to have to be under the uh obedience of Christ And so they say, I'll just put that decision off. I'll just keep pushing it down the road. And I know that sometimes you think you got this image in your mind, you know, just The doctor will tell me I'm not going to get well, and then at that time I'm I'll get myself right with God. But friend, you don't know that you're going to live till tomorrow. You don't know what a day's going to bring. That's the slow deciders. The Bible says, Boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And then they're the self-deceived. These are people that think they have salvation. Because again it's all based on their works. Jesus said this, I call this the most fearful verse in the Bible. Not everyone that says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter to the kingdom of heaven, but he that does the will of my Father which is in heaven, many will say to me in that day, Lord, haven't I prophesied in your name? Haven't I done all these wonderful works? Cast out devils? And then Jesus said Depart from me, I never knew you. There's some people that are religious people that come to church that think that their works that they do Sh is their salvation. They're not trusting in Christ in Christ alone. I mean, they're they're they they point to the things that they do. But friend, that's deception. You must put your full faith in Christ And him alone. During that time there will be the self-deceived. The people of the summons. But then the place look again at verse thirteen and the sea gave up the dead which are in it, and death and hell delivered up the dead which are in them, and they were judged every man according to their works. Notice it's death and hell. Death claims the body, hell claims the soul. Hell is the word for Hades. This is when a person dies and goes to hell. That's not really the final judgment. We can give an analogy like this. When a criminal commits a crime, they're put into a jail and they're kept there until they stand before the judge and when the judge gives a sentence, then they're put into the prison. Hell is like the jail, it's a holding place for people who have not trusted Jesus Christ. One day they will stand before God. This is the great white throne judgment. And then at that time, God will give their sentence, which is the lake of fire. The Bible says. And notice again in verse 13, it says that every that they were judged, every man according to their works. God will summons them to stand before him, and they won't be able to run or hide, and and they will be judged according to their works. Let me give you the third thing here. Not only the setting described And the summons delivered, but also write down the secrets displayed. You say, what's going to happen at this judgment? Well God is going to open up the books and they'll be judged. Look at again where it says In verse 12, that the books were opened. The books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books. You see, God is going to judge you according to all the things that you've done. He keeps an accurate record of everything that we do. Everything. You say, what books are going to be there? Well, I know one book it'll be the Word of God. But you know you're going to be judged according to this book right here. How do you know that? John twelve forty eight. He that rejected me and received not my words hath One that judges him, the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. What was Jesus saying there? He's saying that you're going to be judged according to the word of God that you have heard here on earth. There'll be some people there in that day will say, Well, I I didn't know. I didn't know I was supposed to repent. I didn't know I was supposed to trust you. And God the Father will say, Oh no, you heard the word of God And he'll judge them according to that word, the Bible says. And there'll be degrees of judgment in that day. Those who heard more of the Scripture and yet didn't respond to Jesus Christ will be judged more severely than those who did not And the Bible makes that very clear in Matthew chapter ten, where Jesus said, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for you. He's talking to the people that have rejected him. Here they had Jesus, who was the personification of light and truth, right there, giving them the truth, and they rejected him. And Jesus said, you know what? It's going to be more tolerable for those who did not hear me In other words, the principle is this the greater the revelation of truth God giveth to you and you reject it, the greater the judgment will be in that day. So people be judged according to the word of God According to the book of life, if your name's not written in the land's book of life, where when you get saved, your name is entered in there. I think it will be the book of thoughts. Did you know God knows all of our thoughts? He writes them all down. Knows everything that we think. Psychologists tell us that we never really forget anything. Everything is stored up here in our brain. And got and we just have the inability to recall it that one day God will be able to bring all of that information out. And all the thoughts that we have. God will judge us according to our thoughts. He'll judge us according to our words. Listen to Matthew chapter twelve Verse thirty six, but I say unto you that every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned God will recall the very words that we spoke, and we will be judged according to our words in that time. You know, I read somewhere that when we speak, We create a sound wave and that sound wave never really dies out. It just continues to travel. It's still traveling. And I think if we if we in science could invent a an instrument could that could recapture those sound waves, we could hear the very words that we spoke. But I believe that one day when we stand before God, God will be able to recapture all of those sound waves, and he will rehearse the very words spoken on the day of judgment. The very words, every lie, every blasphemy against God, every curse uttered, every time you Spoke against your fellow men. And then we'll be judged according to the book of Acts or Deeds. Listen to Ecclesiastes twelve 14, for God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be bad. So the secrets will be displayed. But then number four, the sentence determined. Look again in verse number 13, where it says this. They'll be judged according to their works. And that actually dropped down to verse 15. Whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. And so, and then actually back up to verse 14 as well. And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. This is the worst possible news that anyone could ever hear. That you're going to spend eternity in hell or the lake of fire. And I want to tell you something, dear friend. It's it's real. A lot of people want to try to explain this away. But it's in the scripture, it's just as there's a heaven That God's people go to, that those who put their trust in Christ and it's real, there's also an eternal judgment, hell, and it's equally real. It's real. I don't want anyone to go there. I don't want you to go there. I want you to know with absolute certainty that you're going to go to heaven. You say, how can we know that? That's why God gave us his word. The Bible says, these things have I written on you that you might know that you have eternal life. God wants you to know that when you die, you're going to go to heaven. We spoke to some dear saints here in our church that passed away. And we can rejoice knowing that they're in heaven. You say, how do you know that? Because they put their full faith in Jesus Christ. And the Bible says when we do that, we can have the assurance that we have eternal life. Here's what I would recommend for you if you don't know Jesus. Don't stand at the great white throne judgment. Settle your case out of court. Don't wait to stand before God at that judgment scene. That's not the judgment scene I want to be a part of. I want to be a part of the judgment seat of Christ where I have put my faith in Christ, and I'm judged after I'm a believer of what level of reward I'm going to get, not what level of punishment I'm going to get Which is what you get at the great white throne judgment. You say, how do I settle my case out of court? Listen to what the Bible says in 1 John 2, verse 1. My little children, these things write on you that you sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for our sins, and not for ours only, but also the sins of the whole world. You know what the Bible says? You have an advocate or you have an attorney. Now you can do one or two things. You can choose to go ahead And stand before the judge at that day at the great white throne and see how you fare at that time, but I wouldn't recommend that. Or you can go to an attorney. And that attorney is Jesus Christ. And the Bible calls him Jesus Christ the righteous. And it says that he is the propitiation for our sins. And not only our sins only, but also the sins of the whole world. What does that mean, propitiation? It means this. God, who is a holy God, must judge sin. You mark it down that this holy God is not going to allow one sin to go unpunished. His holy nature demands that sins be punished. If I will allow myself to be punished by God, think of all the sins of my own life. I'm, you know, if I committed three sins a day, that's about a thousand sins a year. I'm fifty some odd years old. That's over fifty thousand sins What kind of judge would let a person free if he committed 50,000 crimes? God, who is a holy God, he wouldn't allow me to go free. I would be cast into the lake of fire. But you know what? I settled my case out of court Say how'd you do that? I went to Jesus my attorney. Because what Jesus did was that he took all the sins of Jerry Harmon, every sin I've committed from the time I was born until the time I die All those sins were placed on Jesus Christ on the cross. He bore all of my sins. He paid the punishment and the wrath of God, which should have fallen upon me. It fell upon Jesus Christ and said, He was my attorney, my advocate that took my punishment, he took my sins. And now I put my faith in what Jesus did for me. You know what? Now all my sins are forgiven. And when God the Father looks at me, he sees his Son Jesus Christ. Because Jesus took my sin debt. He became my substitute. That's why the Bible says we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. And so you have a choice today. You can stand before the judge at the great white throne yourself, and you can try to claim your own merits and your own deeds. If you do that, friend, you'll end up in eternal punishment. Or you can go to the attorney Jesus Christ and plead your case there. And he'll show mercy. In Luke chapter 12, Jesus was rebuking the multitudes because they could discern the weather, but they were couldn't discern the fact that he was the Messiah. And he used an illustration. About a man who is going to be dragged into court with a losing lawsuit. And this is what he said. He said, Yea, and when even when even of yourselves, judge ye not what is right When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge, and the judge delivered thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence till thou hast pained the very last might. In other words, what Jesus is saying here to them is this if you all are smart, You won't allow yourself to be dragged in before the judge. You'll settle your case out of court. Because if you're dragged in before the judge, you'll pay for every You'll pay every last debt against him. That's not advisable. And the point is, we all have a debt of sin towards God. You either pay that debt yourself Or you allow Jesus to pay that debt for you. You say, how do I do that? Run to Jesus. Run to him. Find mercy. He already paid the price. The sins of the world were laid on him. All of God's wrath fell on him. That's why salvation is a gift. You don't get it by works. You don't get it by trying to be religious. You get it by putting your full faith in what Christ did. Christ in Christ alone. Trust him in him alone. I want to tell you as a teenager I did that and Christ forgave me for all my sins. And I know that one day when I die, I know I'm going to go to heaven, not because I'm a good man, because I'm not. But because Jesus Christ is my righteousness. He is my Savior. And friend, He could be yours if you put your faith in Him, if you trust Him. Let's bow for prayer together today. And I want you just to examine your heart right now. Have you repented? Have you turned to Christ? Put your total faith in Him If not, I just want to invite you right there where you are. Would you be willing just to pray right where you are? Right now. With your heads bowed and eyes closed. Would you just be willing to just reach out in prayer? Because Jesus right now, He's your attorney, He's your advocate. He's your Savior. And you know what he's saying today to you? He's saying, Come unto me, come, come, and you'll get mercy. Come and you'll get forgiveness. Your sin's debt will be wiped out, and you'll have eternal life if you're willing to just put your faith in me. Turn from your sin. And put your full faith in what I've done for you. And friend, if you'll do that, if you'll reach out in prayer, just pray the prayer. That the publican prayed in the temple when he said, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Save me today. Would you just pray that right now? If you've never done that, if you've never put your faith in Christ, right there where you are, will you just reach out and say, Lord, be merciful to me, save me? I put my full faith And what Christ has done. Christ and Christ alone. Christ is my hope. One day when you die, you'll stand before the Lord and he'll say, Why should I let you into heaven? What will your answer be then? You say, well, Lord, I try to do good. Wrong answer. Well Lord, I I believe that I've been a righteous person, wrong answer. Well Lord, I went to church, wrong answer. Here's the right answer. Because, Father, I put my full faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. I'm trusting in Him, is my only hope. of salvation. Christ. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. I pray that No one under the sound of my voice will stand one day before the great white throne judgment. I pray that everyone here will have their case settled out of court, that they would run to the attorney Jesus. Jesus Christ the righteous, and find forgiveness in him. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.