Thank you. Would you take God's word this morning, please? And I want you to open to the book of 1 Peter, chapter 3. On this morning, I want to preach a sermon with respect to Mothers and Mother's Day. And I want to the title of my sermon what I want to talk about is The Most Beautiful Mother in the Bible. Look at 1 Peter chapter 3 And uh look down in verse three, and that's where we're going to begin. Society today is obsessed with outward beauty. Magazines exalt it, Hollywood markets it. But God measures beauty differently than the world. If you want to understand beauty, all you have to do really is to look into the scripture. God's Word tells us what real beauty is. There are many beautiful women in the Bible, but perhaps no mother in the Bible demonstrates more clearly. the beauty that God desires than that of Sarah. And this passage here in First Peter, he points to Sarah as an example of a mother's Of course we know Sarah. She's well known in the scripture. She was the wife of Abraham and the mother of Israel. And she possessed a remarkable outward beauty. I think Peter's audience perhaps knew of this already when he writes this story. Her physical beauty was undeniable. It was noticeable even in her advanced age. In Genesis chapter 12, Abraham and Sarah entered Egypt because of a famine, and Pharaoh's princess saw Sarah, and immediately they recognized her beauty. The Bible says this in verse 15. And the princes also of Pharaoh saw her and commended her before Pharaoh. Now Sarah was not a teenager at this point. Many Bible scholars think she was around sixty-five or seventy years old. And here she is being desired by uh the king of Egypt. Later on in Genesis chapter twenty, King Abimelech does the exact same thing, see Sarah and uh ask about her and wants to include her into his Harem. Two kings. That tells us something about the extraordinary beauty that Sarah had. It must have been a an incredible outward beauty that she had. Yet when Peter speaks about true beauty and uses Sarah as an example, he does not point to her face, he doesn't point to her apparel, he doesn't point to outward beauty. He refers to something completely, totally different. The most beautiful thing about Sarah was not what kings saw, but it was what God saw. It was not what she wore, but it was what she was. And what was it that God saw that made her so very beautiful, the most beautiful mother in the Bible. Now let me just say that there is already a beauty that every mother has just by virtue of being a mother. I'm convinced that we do not appreciate and vindicate motherhood enough in our society today. Women who liter literally enter into the valley of death to bring forth life and and and work so very hard and sacrifice so much to raise their children. Men, we need to admit, they're stronger than we are. In a lot of ways, they're stronger than we are. But and so there's a beauty that comes with just being a mother But Peter speaks here about another kind of a beauty that all mothers should aspire to, and not just mothers, but all of us. All of us should desire this kind of beauty. So I want to share with you four ideas about this kind of beauty that Peter identifies. And here's number one, the desire for real beauty. Look at verse number three of chapter three. Whose adorning, let it not be that outward adorning of flatting of hair and wearing of gold or putting on of apparel. Peter here is referring to women and how they adorn themselves. The word for adorn is the Greek word cosmos, is where we get the word cosmetics, and the word that actually means to arrange or to order. So when he's using this word, he's talking about really in reference to physical arrangement, when you arrange your clothing and you arrange your your face. It is women preparing to make themselves presentable. Now, all women have an innate natural desire to beauty. That is a quality that God has placed in the heart of every woman. For example, in Genesis chapter 24, when Rebecca found out she was going to meet Isaac for the first time, she immediately began to prepare herself. That was instinctive. And this reflects her desire to want to look her best. That is a woman's God-given instinct. In Proverbs chapter 31 The woman of of this chapter, the virtuous woman, is godly, industrious, wise, and spiritual, and yet She also cares about her clothing, her physical beauty and presentation. The Bible says in Proverbs 31, She maketh herself coverings of tapestry. Her clothing is silk. purple. This is not a rebuke. This is a the writer commending her for her virtue and for her her her appearance. And the Song of Solomon Feminine beauty and adornment are celebrated poetically. It says in chapter one, verse ten thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewel jewels, thy neck with chains of gold. So the point is scripture does not condemn women adorning themselves with jewelry and apparel or other means of beautification in the book of Esther. Esther went through six months of preparation before she went before the king and included all of these things. Also again I I read in the Old Testament when Abraham's servant found Rebecca, who was to be the wife for Isaac, a bride for Isaac. The first thing he did was he gave her jewelry. It says in verse 53, and the servant brought forth jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment and gave them to Rebekah. Earlier, it says that he gave her a golden earring and two bracelets for her hands. And this whole all all this is presented in a positive way in this passage here in Genesis. One of the most clearest passages in the Old Testament. is in Ezekiel chapter 16 where God symbolically describes his relationship with Israel, he being the the the husband, Israel being his bride. And it says this, I clothe thee also with broided work, I deck thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thy hands and a chain upon thy neck. I put a jewel on thy forehead. and earrings in thine ears. And so all of that to say the Bible presents feminine concern for beauty and attractiveness as something that is normal. It is something that is culturally expected. It is celebrated and a part of life. And again, a natural desire, which is why women adorn themselves. Now I I say that because I've heard preachers preach sermons against makeup and jewelry and cosmetics, but I I read nowhere in Scripture where the Bible condemns this. Now there there's a passage in Isaiah chapter 3 In Isaiah chapter 3, where uh sometimes it's cited as condemning all this, but the problem was not with the outward adornment, the objects, the problem was with the heart. There was a haughty heart. Isaiah 3. 16, because the daughters of Zion are haughty. So the problem was the sinful spirit behind the adornment. Of course, the Bible does warn about being completely obsessed with these things and going overboard as far as all these things. The Bible tells us that there should be modesty with respect to these things. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, Paul says women are to adorn themselves in modest apparel. Now, some preachers look at this verse here in 1 Peter 3, verse 3, and they say Peter is teaching against cosmetics and jewelry, the plaiding of hair, the wearing of gold. That is simply not true. Because if Peter was saying that the plaiding of hair was wrong and the wearing of gold was wrong, what's the next phrase? The putting on of apparel? Is that wrong? I don't think we want to say that you know it's wrong for you to wear clothes, and so nobody would take that interpretation. That's not what he's saying Absolutely nothing wrong with appropriate outward adorning, as long as it's done in humility and modesty. Scripture repeatedly warns against making outward beauty the supreme priority. The Bible says in Proverbs 31:30, favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, and the word for vain there means temporary or fleeting. It's a physical beauty that is here now, but it's going to fade. It fades like a flower, the Bible says. But there is a quality that grows more beautiful with time. There is a beauty that does not fade away. And that leads us to the next point. We saw the desire for real beauty. But number two, think about the definition of real beauty. Look at verse number four But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great Now Peter's whole point here is that while women adorn themselves outwardly, nothing wrong with that. Don't forget the most uh important ornament or adornment that you could ever wear or put on What is the most beautiful ornament that that a woman could ever wear? It's an adornment that you don't wear outwardly. It is something that you put on inwardly, and Peter calls it the hidden man of the heart. Now, when he uses this expression, this is an idiom that means the inner person. Don't forget about the inner person or what's on the inside. God is interested in the inner person. He's interested in that hidden beauty. The world obsesses over outward visible beauty. God values inward invisible beauty. Anybody can decorate the outside while neglecting the inside. In fact Jesus rebuked the Pharisees about this because they polish the exterior, but their hearts were filled with corruption, the Bible says. The world invests everything in cosmetics and surgery and fashion. They do all of this to try to preserve this kind of outward beauty. But external beauty can only go so far. It can attract attention, but it can't sustain a home. Physical beauty may open doors socially, but it cannot build a godly marriage And it cannot raise godly children, and it will not sustain faith during trials. And the point is outward beauty, faith, faith. But Peter says there is a beauty, however, that does not faith. That's hard for us to understand because everything that we know of in this world fades or corrupts with time. But there is a beauty that does not fade. It is incorruptible. And what is it? What is he referring to? Again, look in verse number four where he says, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit. So we see here the virtue of a meek and quiet spirit. Again, this is an ornament that you don't put on your body. You wear this ornament on your soul. So what is a meek and quiet spirit? The word for meek here is a word which has the idea of strength under control. It means gentle but not weak. Meekness is not weakness. Modern culture doesn't really understand this concept of meekness. It's not being timid or passive or inferior. Again, a meek spirit is not a weak spirit, but it's a spirit in surrender to God, a surrendered spirit. Scripture presents meekness as a form of spiritual strength. The Bible says that Moses was the meekest man on all the earth, and yet he confronted Pharaoh. He wasn't weak. The Bible says Jesus was uh he described himself as meek and yet Jesus cleansed the temple. None of us would ever say that Jesus was weak. And so, what is a meek person? A meek person is someone that's not easily provoked, not governed by pride, not eager to assert their personal rights at every moment. Matthew Henry says this, meekness is a grace whereby we are enabled to bear injury patiently, to submit ourselves quietly to the will of God. That's meekness, but also what's a quiet spirit? He said a meek and a quiet spirit. Well, a quiet spirit is an inward peace, a calm, a trust. It's a silence, or excuse me, it's not really silence, but it's calmness. Doesn't mean you're always quiet, but you're calm. Peter's not talking about someone or a woman who never speaks. This is talking about an inward tranquility. He's describing a heart that's at rest. with God. A quiet spirit is not combative, it's not restless, it's not manipulative, it's it's not filled with constant turmoil. It is a spirit that is settled by faith. It is peaceful because this spirit trusts in the sovereignty of God. That's a quiet spirit. The loudest people are often the most insecure people. But a woman walking closely to the Lord possesses a settled spirit. We all know that this life has a lot of disappointments. We face a lot of conflicts and uncertainties. And without the grace of God, the heart can become restless. But this quietness comes from a confidence that God governs all things. He governs all things. So we see the virtue, but also the value. Notice what else Peter says in verse 4 about this meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. Great price here is the Greek word poly teles. Pali meaning many or great. Teles is talking about something expensive or valuable. Very, very extremely valuable. It's precious in the sight of God. That's the idea. This great Greek word was used to speak about Very expensive things in in that day. Used to speak of expensive jewelry or apparel. And I think Peter here is using this word that's was used to talk about outward adorning, but now he's applying it to the inner spirit. He's saying to have that kind of a meek and quiet spirit is as is also precious and valuable to God. Now again the world really rarely uh values this quality, but God prizes it. And why does God prize this? Why does God treasure this this quality so much? Well because it reveals a trust in God. Look at verse number five. For after this manner in the old time the holy women also who trusted in God adorned themselves. So meekness and quietness is a reflection of our relationship to God. It's a result of a complete and total trust in God. Again, a meek spirit submits to the providence of God in our life. It doesn't quarrel about his wisdom. It doesn't murmur about God's dealings. It does not treat hardship as if God has forgotten us. A restless, loud, and proud heart does not trust God. But a meek and quieted spirit is a spirit that trusts in all of the providences of God. When affliction comes, the proud heart will resist it and push back. But the meek heart says, Lord, you are wise. I am not. You are good, and I can trust you. in whatever I'm dealing with. This is especially needed in seasons of disappointment. I mean, let's face it, when we go through trials, we all want answers right now. We want to know why. We want clarity. But the quiet spirit rests in the knowledge that God, He governs all things perfectly, even when we can't trace His hand. God values a meek and quiet spirit because it also not only does it have a peaceful, calm trust in the Lord, but also in relationships to others, we are humble and submissive. Look again in verse number five where it says, being in subjection unto their own husbands. These holy women trusted in the Lord And they were in subjection to their own husband. They submitted to their husbands. This is the second time Peter used this expression, be in subjection to. Look back up to verse number one And notice what it says. Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husband. Now a person who has a meek and quiet spirit has no problem with submission. We know in our society today that submission is really a dirty word. No one really likes to talk about that. Some view it as inferiority, but nothing could be further from the truth. Look at the first word in verse 1. Likewise, what is he doing? He's referring back to what he had already said. It refers to someone. And who is that someone? Well, if you read back in chapter 2, it's referring to Jesus. Jesus demonstrated this submission and his human relationships. And there was nothing inferior and weak about Jesus In fact, look go back to chapter two and look at verse number twenty-one. Notice what it says. For even hereunto are you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should what? Follow in his steps. Jesus gave all of us the example to follow. Look at verse 22. Who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. This is talking about when Jesus was standing before his unjust accusers in his trials. No one suffered more injustice and cruelty than the Jesus under abusive authority. No one. And yet how did he respond? When he suffered, he didn't threaten, but he committed himself to him that judges righteously. That's a meek and quiet spirit. And this is another reason why the Father values this so much, because it reflects the character of Christ. The highest form of beauty is Christ-likeness. And the more a believer reflects Christ, the more beautiful their spirit is, the more they'll have that meek and quiet spirit. So meekness towards others is an evidence that God's grace is at work in your heart and in your life. It means being slow to anger, it means refusing to retaliate or answer with harshness. It is preferring peace where truth is not compromised. A meek and a quiet spirit, however, is a direct challenge to the spirit of our age where people rush to defend themselves But this meek person doesn't treat every disagreement as a battle that they have to win. So we see the the desire for real beauty. And number two, the definition of real beauty, this meek and quiet spirit. But I want you to see number three the demonstration of real beauty. Look down at verse number five of chapter three again, actually verse six. Even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Now Peter, after explaining all this, points to Sarah as the ultimate example of a mother, a woman who demonstrates this meek and quiet spirit. And she did it in two ways. First of all, in verse 6, in attitude she called him Lord. Now I know that what some of you are thinking. You want me to walk around the house and call my husband Lord? Uh that that's uh by the way my wife does not call me Lord Jerry in the house, you know. Promise promise you that. All right. So what is this talking about here? Um well when the Bible says this about Sarah calling him Lord, it it's not saying that, you know, she viewed him as divine or superior in worth or any of that sort of thing. In the culture The language of that day, this was simply a respectful term of honor. It would be like today saying my husband or even the word sir used respectfully It really is an attitude of respect. What Peter is focusing on here is not so much the words, but it's the attitude. An attitude of respect. Sarah demonstrated this strength through her humility, through her respect, through her confidence in God. She wasn't manipulative and she didn't contend. She learned to submit in obedience to her husband, but also, more importantly, in obedience to the Lord. An attitude, but also an actions. Look again in verse 6. Even as Sarah what? Obeyed Abraham. Now again, I know what some of you might be thinking here. Well, you don't know my husband and some of the stupid things he's done. I'm expected to follow that. Well, just remember, Sarah was not married to a perfect husband. In fact, if you read the Bible and you look at the life of Abraham, you're going to find out that he made a whole lot of mistakes. In the Old Testament, he it was as bad as you can get as far as mistakes for a husband. He did some pretty stupid things. But he also did some things in obedience to God that would be hard for a wife to accept and go along with. I mean, think about what Sarah did by following Abraham. Imagine what Abraham asked her to do Leave the homeland, the Ear of the Chaldees, and by the way, archaeology shows that that city was a very well-developed city and there were luxurious homes. She was to leave all of that and to live in tents, wander as strangers, trusting in promises that seemed to be impossible to fulfill. That God was going to give her a child at her old age. And yet, when all these things she was asked to do, she followed her husband. And Abraham, again, was not perfect. But she trusted God ultimately in all of this. So biblical submission is ultimately an act of faith in God's authority. Sarah's greatest beauty appeared during difficult seasons. And that's when true beauty really manifests itself. It's during the difficult times. Sarah had to endure barrenness. Shame, disappointment, waiting for God to fulfill his promise. She had to deal with uncertainty. She had to deal with family conflicts. Two times Abraham lied about Sarah. I said, No, she's my sister. And that had caused her to have to go through a lot of difficulty. She was taken into These uh these uh places under these kings where sh I'm sure she didn't want to be. Because of Abraham's lies, she had to suffer hardship But through it all, she continued to trust in the Lord, and all of that shaped her character. She obeyed the Lord in all of this. You know, trials either harden your heart or they'll soften your heart towards God And it softened her heart. So Peter points to Sarah as this demonstration of real beauty. But let me show you the fourth thing. We see the desire for real beauty, the definition of real beauty, the demonstration of real beauty. Finally Number four, the daughters of real beauty. And again, we see this in verse six. Whose daughters you are as long as you do well and are not afraid with any amazement. Now what does Peter mean when he says, whose daughters you are? We're talking about mothers, right? You are the daughter of the most beautiful mother in the Bible if you follow her example. You show yourself to be a daughter of Sarah. How? He says that well if you do well, that is, if you follow her example. This is the qualifier. If you ca if you have that meek and quiet spirit, if you continue in righteousness, maintaining godly character, even dealing with all kind of difficulties and trials and hardships and And sometimes even a husband that doesn't make very good mistake uh decisions and makes mistakes. If you continue in godly conduct, that reveals that you are a daughter of Sarah. It's not saying that you earn your salvation, no. But your godliness reveals that your faith is genuine That your faith is real. Notice what he says, and are not afraid with any amazement. The word afraid here, phobos, fear. Amazement is the idea of terror or panic. And Peter is saying, you don't live in fearful intimidation. You don't live in constant anxiety and panic, wondering about what's going to go on, the next thing that's going to happen No, this beautiful mother walks in faith, not governed by fear. She's learned that living with Abraham, that she has to trust in the Lord. She journeyed through dangerous territories. Again, she endured all kinds of hardship, yet she trusted in the Lord. And so the beauty God values grows through difficulty. It grows through sanctification. It's brought on. This spirit is brought on by challenges, all kinds of difficulty. It's formed through walking with God. You don't just go into a store and purchase a meek and quiet spirit like you do a garment. It's formed through walking with God, through prayer. Focusing on Christ, knowing God's word, learning God's word. Children may not remember every outfit their mother wears, but they can remember this kind of a spirit. They'll remember this later on in life. They will speak of their mother on how she prayed and how she responded to trials and how she trusted God and how she treated others. They will remember when she sacrifices. And works on their behalf. She doesn't require personal recognition. And so this spirit is displayed in so many ways. And uh I see it in a lot of you here, and I I thank the Lord for the godly women, the godly mothers that we have here in our church today. But the Holy Spirit forms this, this treasure, this beauty that God values so very, very highly. So Sarah was beautiful enough to attract kings. But Peter does not tell the Christian woman to imitate Sarah's appearance. He says to all mothers, imitate her spirit. Imitate her spirit because the greatest beauty is not found in the outward appearance, it is found in the heart The world might ask, how beautiful are you outwardly? But God will ask, how beautiful is your spirit? And today we honor mothers who have this kind of a spirit. Let's bow for prayer together. The only way we really can develop any of this is through Jesus Christ. It's through knowing him as your Savior. It starts with him. And if you're here today, you've never put your faith in Jesus as your Savior. Then today I want to invite you to come to the Lord Jesus Christ in salvation. If you've never truly repented of your sin, Put your full faith in his finished work, then today God is calling you to do that very thing. There's no way that you can become a godly person to have this meek and quiet spirit without knowing Jesus. No way. This is where it starts right here. And by the way, this isn't just for mothers, it's for all of us. It's for all of us. This is a challenge for all of us today to have this Christ-like meek and quiet spirit. If you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ, would you do it right now? You can do it right there while you are praying. You can just reach out And pray this prayer. Just pray it in your heart. Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. I ask you to please come into my heart. Save me. Make me your child. The Bible says that when you put your faith in Jesus, he will cleanse you from your sin. He'll give you eternal life. You're adopted into the family of God. You become a true child of God by faith. And if you prayed that prayer, we're going to have a moment of invitation and you want to know more about how you can uh be a child of God, be a Christian, or if you just pray that prayer and you want to make it public, we're gonna have some ministers here in the front. You do what the Holy Spirit says. We want to help you if you're here today. We'll take you aside, pray with you, talk to you more about God's Word. Let's all stand together today. And let's sing two stanzas of this our invitation this morning.