Take your Bibles, please. Open to the book of James. The book of James, chapter five, is where we're going to be reading from this morning. The book of James, chapter five. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please? We'll read the first few verses of chapter five. Go to now, ye rich men. Weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are malt eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days. Behold the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth. And the cries of them that have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of the Salayoth. You have lived in pleasure on the earth and been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. Ye have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's word. May we be submissive to it. Would you bow in prayer with me today? Father, thank you for your inspired word. It speaks to us in every area of our life. It is truly our guide, a word from heaven, our comfort. And so, Lord, this morning would you please help me to proclaim your truth, to rightly divide the word. Father, that you would receive honor and glory, that your saints would be instructed in the knowledge of the things of God and become more like the Lord Jesus Christ. So we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Now in keeping with our campaign that we're doing, I want to just talk a little bit about what the Bible has to say about the believers' relationship to money. Throughout this letter, James has been giving one test after another to talk about genuine Christianity. How do you know that you're truly a believer? And he has addressed in previous chapters how one responds to trials. How one responds to trials tells a great deal about you. Or how one resists temptation. James talks about that issue. Or how one restrains their tongue. James talks about the tongue in chapter 4. Now here James is going to focus on the issue of how one regards their treasure. The way we handle money is a very true indicator of our spiritual condition. Now I know that money is a very sensitive topic. Someone said the most sensitive nerve in the human body is the one that goes from the hand to the pocketbook. But James doesn't shy James does not shy away from this subject. And for that matter, neither does the Bible. The Bible has a lot to say about our relationship to money and material things. For example, there are 500 references in the Bible to prayer. There are 500 references on faith. There are 2,000 references on money. Of the 38 parables Jesus told in the Gospels, 16 deal with how we handle money. Jesus taught a lot about this very topic. In fact, he said more about money and possessions than he did about heaven and hell combined. Out of one out of every ten verses in the Gospels deals with this issue. And so God has a lot to say about it in the Word, and I would not be a a a a minister of the whole council of God if I skipped over this simply because It's a sensitive issue. Why does God say so much about this? Well, because God knows that the dedication that doesn't reach the pocketbook really doesn't reach the heart. And God knows that if you get your relationship to him right, then your relationship to this issue will also be right. And so in this passage, James gives a strong rebuke to believers who have the wrong attitude towards money. This is really what James is aiming at right here. Having the wrong attitude towards money and material things. Some people say, well, your money talks. Well, and James would agree with you, money does talk. But he warns you that you might not like what money has to say about you. For instance, in verse number three, look what he says here. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you. That is to say that your money will be test called upon to testify one day about you. If in here in this uh this narrative that James gives, James is a master of illustrations. He uses so many illustrations and analogies through his letter. But here he gives this uh metaphor of money being like a person. And one day that person, money personified, might be called upon the witness stand to testify uh about you or against you. If if money were called upon the stand to testify about Jerry Harmon, what would money have to say? Tell me, Mr. Money, how did Jerry Harmon treat you? Well he he uh w well let me ask you more specifically, did did Jerry Harmon lock you up and keep you and never use you? Did he never use you to help other people? Did he never use you to help the things that were needed, the help of the work of God? How exactly did Jerry treat you? And if money was to testi was if money were to testify against us, what would it say? Some people may look at James five and think, well, this doesn't apply to me because he's talking about rich people there in verse number five. He says, Go to. That is to say, listen Hear now, you rich men, and I'm not rich. And so this passage doesn't apply to me, but I would just say to you, beloved, that rich is a relative term, and I would say that compared to people in other parts of the world, you're very rich. We here in this country, here in America, we have so many blessings. And I've been to other countries. I've seen what real poverty is. And it it's heart wrenching. And I would just say this, if you live in America and even if you have a a minimum wage job, you have more than the vast majority of people in this world. And so there so you are rich. You do have riches. And besides, James is referring not just to having money. He's referring more about the attitude towards money. You know, you can have the wrong attitude towards it and not have a lot of it. You can have a lot of it and have the right attitude towards it. It's really not an issue of money, it's an issue of your attitude. Look what James says in verse number one. Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. We normally don't associate someone being rich with weeping and howling with misery. The word here howl is an expression of intense grief. Weep means to sob aloud. Most people think that money will bring happiness. We don't associate people being rich with weeping and this kind of misery. But James is warning, money doesn't bring you happiness Money does not it's not the thing that gives you joy and satisfaction. Money in fact can be a curse if you don't have the right perspective on it, if you don't have the right attitude towards it. And so that's the question, what is our attitude towards money? And so I want you to see just three guidelines here. that that James refers to here that I want to point out to you with respect to this our attitude towards money. First of all, how we guard it. How we guard it. And this is what we see in verses 1 to 3. James here is referring to a rich man who hoards his wealth. He basically is taking it out of circulation because he just loves it. He's not using it rightly. He's not giving it willingly. He's not really investing it wisely. He's just in love with it and he's taking it out of circulation for his own sake. Look again at verse 1. Go to now ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted Your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rest of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped tr treasure together for the last days. The word for treasure here, th uh theosaurizo, is where we get the word thesaurus, which thesaur uh thesaurus is a collection of words, right? Here he's talking about just collecting all of your money like a person would just collect stamp. They don't intend to use it. They don't intend for for anyone to benefit from it. They just want to take it out of circulation. They're collecting it. They're holding on to it for the mere joy of having it. This is an attitude of love towards money. They're not investing it, they're not using it, they're not saving it for a purpose. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with a savings account. I have one. There's nothing wrong with investing your money wisely. I've done that. There's nothing wrong with being frugal. And all those things, and looking out for the future and the future of your family, all those things are good things. And the Bible commends that. It commends good business and good thinking and wisdom in all those areas. But what it does not approve of is just hoarding wealth. Just hoarding it just because there's a love for it. And we often hear the verse misquoted where it says the uh people say, well, the money is the root of all evil. No, it's the love of money. And that's what the Bible warns about, hoarding it, loving it. Some of God's greatest servants in the in the New Testament and Old Testament were people that were wealthy because God blessed them with their wealth, because they had the right attitude and God could entrust to them riches because they they use it wisely and they use it in a way that honored the Lord. And so James here is talking about the love of money, the love that hoards wealth. It's an attitude of covetousness. It's an attitude of greed. It's the attitude that says, get all you can. Can all you get, don't let it out. Sit on the lid, poison all the rest. That covetous attitude Jesus warned about it in Luke twelve fifteen, and he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. In Colossians 3. 5, Paul said, covetousness is idolatry. I read about a woman named Hetty Green. She has been called America's greatest miser. When she died, that was in 1916. She was worth over $100 million. In 1916, that's when a million dollars was a million dollars. In 1916. Let me tell you how this rich woman lived. She ate cold oatmeal because it cost too much to heat it. Rather than buying new clothes, she would stuff her old clothes with newspaper. When she bought a newspaper, she would resell it. When she bought a train ticket, she would ride the Pullman Coach. Never a ticket where you could have a sleeping compartment. She would rather sit up all night awake than to pay a little bit extra to lay down and sleep. She would spend all night in the attic of her factory sorting out rags, white in one pile, color in another pile, because she found out she could get a penny more a pound for white rags. She had a business in New York, but rather than buy a house in New York, she would rent a tenement or a flat under an assumed name so she wouldn't have to pay income taxes. Her son had to suffer a leg amputation because he delayed so long in looking for a free clinic. And when she died, lay dying, the nurses around her had to put on street clothes because she refused to pay professional nurses. Money was her master. She loved it. She hoarded it. This is what God's talking about here. This kind of covetousness. God hates that kind of covetous that takes money, heaps it up, doesn't really use it in anything, takes it out of circulation. And just loves it. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 5. 13, there is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely riches kept for the owners thereof to their own hurt. And the point that James is making here is that riches entrusted to you and hoarded up, not used properly, not used wisely, the way God would have you use it, it is it it will corrupt It will corrupt. That's the whole point. If you don't use it, you lose it. That's what God is trying to say here. Look again in verse 2. Your gold and silver is cankered. Actually I'm sorry, that's verse three. Back up to verse two. Your riches are corrupted. And the word corrupted here means rotten. And by the way, riches in this time, this first century, a wealthy man was measured by the grain that he had. Normally it was three things that we measure as wealth. Grain, garments, and gold. That's how he measured his wealth. Grain is what he's referring to here. You've got so much grain stored up in all your barns and you're not using it. You're not giving it out. What's going to happen to all that grain when it's stored up in those barns? It's going to rot. It's going to come to nothing. That's what he says. Your riches are corrupted, they're rotten, and they're doing no one any good. Your garments are moth-eaten. The only m garments that are moth-eaten are the ones we don't use. We all have a closet full of stuff we need to get rid of. It's not being used. Your garments are moth eaten, James is saying. And then he says in verse number three. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rest of them shall be a witness against you. They're all rusting. Why? Because they're all taken out of circulation. They're all hoarded up. It's not to be used. It's not being used for any good purpose. And God says, you know what? All that's going to come to nothing. It's all going to rot. Your grain will rot. Your garments will ruin. Your gold will rust. And James is teaching a principle in God's economy, if you don't use it, you will lose it. And by the way, after James wrote this letter, he was writing, by the way, to many of the first century believers who were rich. Many in Jerusalem. In 70 AD, just twenty-five years later, Titus would come in and invade Jerusalem and all those riches were gone. They were gone. They had them all saved up, but the Romans came and they took them all. Took them all. So one attitude or one way that we can check our attitude towards money is first of all how we guard it, but secondly how we give it. How we give that. Look at verse four. Behold the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth, and the crieth of them that have reaped entered into the ears of the Lord of the Sabbath. And so what James is referring to here, again, he's condemning some of these rich men because what they're doing is the way they're getting it is they're doing it at the other at the expense of other people. This is what we would call exploitation. Here is a rich man and he hires a day laborer. This day laborer goes out and he works in this man's field taking down his his uh his crops and his harvest. And by the way, according to the Bible, you were paid at the end of each day. That's what the Bible said in Leviticus 19, 13. Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor, neither rob him. The wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. And God made it very clear. You do not oppress someone that works for you. In Deuteronomy 24, 14, thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy. Whether he be of thy brethren or of the strangers that are in the land within thy gates, at his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it. God was saying to these rich men who were uh employing these day laborers, look if they work for you all day, at the end of the day, you give them what's due to them. You don't say to them, Oh come back tomorrow, I'll give it to you then. Why, because their heart is set upon it. Many times in that day, they live from day to day. And they were dependent upon that day's wages to feed their family. And here's this rich man who has all more than he could ever want. Hires day labor to do the work. It's time for the pay. What does he do? He doesn't give him his pay. Not because he doesn't have it. Because he doesn't want to. That's oppressing him. And this principle speaks to anyone who is an employer who has employees. Don't oppress your employees. Give them their due. Make sure you treat them well and generous. In fact, you treat them as if it was Jesus Christ who was working for you. That's the way. If a servant is to work as if you're working for Jesus, Or employees to work as if you're working for Jesus, then if you're an employer, you're to treat your employees as if they are Jesus. How would you treat him? You don't hold back. what is due to those who work and here are rich men that are getting rich at the expense of other people. Any thing that you do, any wealth that you gain at the expense of someone else is not God's way of wealth. The Bible says wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished. We don't get rich at the expense of others. or at the hurt of others. The Bible condemns this means, this illegitimate means of getting wealth And again in verse number four, they were keeping them back. Look at verse 4 again. Behold the hire of the laborers who've wreaked down your fields, which is of you, kept back by fraud. Crieth and the cries of them that have wreathed have entered into the ears of the Lord the Sabbath. If you do that kind of thing and the laborer cries out to God You can rest assured that the Lord of the Sabbath is going to hear. God will hear that. And God has a way of balancing out the scales. To make sure that those that are oppressed get what is due. And that's the whole principle here. God is always on the side of the oppressed. That's what he's saying there. So how we guard it, how we get it, another way we measure our the right attitude is how we give it. How we give it. Again in verse number 5, where he says, Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and have been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in a day of slaughter. James condemns the rich in this verse because they only give the self. They're only concerned about themselves. You know, you know, you've lived in pleasure on the earth. You've given yourself everything that you could ever want. And ever wish for or ever desire. All that you have, you all you you do is think about you yourself, and that is it. You don't think about anybody else. You don't give to anyone else. That's what the word wanton here means. It means to give to oneself and selfish pleasure. You've nourished yourself. That means fatten. This is the image of a cow being fattened for the slaughter. And James, who's again the master of metaphors, says the self-indulgent person like that is like stock being led to the slaughter. God does not look favorably upon that attitude Just using it for yourself. I heard of a man who suffered from lower back pain. It finally reached to such an intensity that he went to the doctor And the doctor examined them very closely and he said, Sir, I I think I've diagnosed correctly what your problem is. He said, What is it? He said, You have a c a case of uh Walletta sciatica He said what? He said it's wall wallet us iattica. He said, can you give it to me in layman's terms? He said, yeah. He said, your wallet is so thick that when you sit on it, it gives you back problems And what you need to do is you need to take some of that money out of that wallet and give it away. What you need is a wallet ectomy. There are some people that need that. Some people that need that understand that. Now in closing out, I got two minutes. I got eight points in two minutes. Let me just give you some basic laws that we need to understand with reference to this. First of all, I want to call th this the law of clarification. And this law states simply this, everything belongs to God. Everything belongs to God. I hope that if you don't hear anything else this morning, I hope that you'll hear that. Listen to what David said in First Chronicles twenty nine, verse ten. Therefore David blessed the Lord in the presence of all the assembly. And David said, Blessed are you, O Lord, the God of Israel, our Father, for ever and ever. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. For all that is in heaven, in the heavens, and in the earth is yours Yours is the kingdom, O Lord, and you are exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor come from you, and you rule over all. And in your hand are power and might. And in your hand is to make great and to give strength to all. Isn't that great? It all belongs to God. Everything. Everything. So please don't ever think that when you come to church and you give something, you're doing God a favor. Or you're in any way making God rich? Because you you you don't do that. God owns everything. And David understood this perfectly. God, it's all his. That's the law of clarification, and we need to understand that. There's no way that you can give, make God rich because it already is his. God is not a collector. God is the giver. Every day of our life, he gives to us. And this morning when I woke up, I was able to breathe. You know why? Because God gave me his air. And we have rain coming down. We might not like the rain, but we need the rain so that the earth will give us of its substance. Everything that God has put in nature has this thing of giving, giving, giving. The sun gives, the earth gives, the harvest gives. Animals give everything that God has put in it because God, that's who He is. He is the giver. You know what messed it all up? When man sinned, man started becoming a collector. A receiver. That selfish attitude entered into the heart of man. But we need to understand that all that we have and all that we are is only because of the grace of God. That's it. Then there's another law, the law of circulation. And you know what that law says? God wants all of his wealth in circulation. He wants you to continue giving. He's given to you, okay. Give it to others. Now use what you need for yourself, but doesn't he always give us more than we need? Doesn't he always give us more? And I find that when he gives me more and I start giving away more, then he starts giving me even more. And and so God's this is the principle. He wants his wealth in circulation. He wants everyone just to give, keep giving out. Because it's all his. That's the nature of God, and that's what God wants to see in us. The law of circulation. But then there's another law, the law of consecration. Before we do that We have to give our own self to the Lord. The Bible says this, and I'm gonna have to close with this, but Second Corinthians chapter eight verse five. Paul's bragging about the Macedonians in the way they gave. And he says this and he said they this they did not as we expected. In other words, you know, he was taking up a collection for poor saints, and he wanted to help them, so he's asking all the churches to do their part. Macedonians are a very poor church and Paul said, you know what? They they did more than I expected. They did really, and it was incredible what they did. But they gave themselves first to the Lord, and that was the thing. First, they had to give themselves to the Lord. And again, the consecration that doesn't reach the pocketbook doesn't reach the heart. And God doesn't want your money. He he already has it. It's his. What he wants is he wants you. He wants your heart. That's what he wants. So the question is, does he have you? Because you can give your money without giving yourself. And if you do that, I I would just say just hold on to your money until you get this right. First, give yourself to the Lord. First you. That's the whole point. And I I know I've used this illustration before. Forgive me for using it again, but it's the preacher's prerogative to use illustrations over and over again. But again, the greatest lesson I ever got on giving my my little uh toddler son, Jeremiah taught me one time when I was Carolyn, I was in the study and Carolyn brought me lunch and I ate it and I was bringing the dishes back to the kitchen like a good husband should. And uh Jeremiah was laying there on the floor on the carpet just playing. He had a bag of Cheetos. And uh I just laid down, reclined next to him on the elbow, and I opened my mouth and I went Give me one. You know, like that. And uh I wanted to see what he would do. Now I know what you're thinking, shame on you, eating your son's Cheetos, you know, but they weren't his Cheetos, they were my Cheetos. I bought them. I paid for them. Alright. I I I didn't want Cheetos. I could bury him in Cheetos if I wanted to. Cheetos had nothing to do with the point here. So I wanted to see what he would do. I wanted to see honestly his response. And so he uh he smiled, he started to giggle, and he reached into the bag and he shoved one in my mouth. And he reached into the bag again and he shoved at another and he kept shoving them in so fast that I had to say, stop, stop. You know. And you know what? Every time he reached into that bag and shoved a Cheeto in my mouth, what he was actually saying is, I'm giving you my heart. And you know, that's what I wanted. I didn't want Cheos. They're not even nutritional. I wanted his heart. And you know what? God wants your heart. He wants you. He wants every part of you. And if and if that area doesn't include your money, then that's he doesn't have you. He wants every part of you. That's the kind of giving that he wants. That's defines our attitudes towards riches. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your love to us. Thank you for being the great giver. All that we have and all that we are. Father, we owe that to you. Father, thank you for your mercy. Your mercies that are new every morning. Lord, we we we could not put a number on Everything that you give us so freely. The desire of my heart, Lord, is that we have a people. Whose hearts are wholly given to you. Lord, may you have all of us. All of us. It's not about money Stop what you have in us. And so, Father, just work in our heart, Lord. Let there be true worship as we give ourselves to you, Father, in humble gratitude. For all that you've given us, your grace, and your mercy. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.