Take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Judges, chapter number twelve. As you know, we're studying Judges, and tonight I want to talk about the damaging sin of strife. We see this here in Judges chapter 12. This is a continuation of the story of Jephthah, the judge. But as you're finding that in the 1990s a country in Europe called Yugoslavia basically tore itself apart. And it wasn't destroyed by an enemy from the outside. It was actually an uh It collapsed really from within. People who had lived side by side for years, they began to turn on each other. And why was that? It was pride. It was identity, division. Differences in people were weighed and they were magnified. Grievances were rehearsed. And what started as tension turned into division. And division turned into conflict. And neighbors became enemies and communities fractured and the nation basically collapsed. And what is sobering is that's kind of a familiar pattern. It doesn't just happen in nations, it could also happen in families And it can happen in churches as well. Because the same kind of division doesn't just affect big nations, it affects individuals. And normally when a division comes, it's not usually all at once. It's not usually over a major doctrine. It's often over something that is small. Perhaps someone feels overlooked Someone feels unappreciated or words are spoken or assumptions are made and then pride steps in And people instead of seeking understanding, they begin to take sides. And before long, what was once a unified body now becomes strained. And now there is division. And it's not the enemy on the outside that's doing the damage, it is the pride that is on the inside. That's exactly what we see here in Judges chapter number 12. The people of God are not being attacked by a foreign nation. What we're used to seeing that in studying judges is that foreign nations on the outside are the ones that are attacking, but here that's not the case. What's happening here is that Israel is turning on each other. Israelites are fighting among each other. Ephraim is offended. And Jephthah responds. And Jephthah doesn't respond really well to the offense and what begins as wounded pride ends up devastating the whole nation and weakening the whole nation because pride when it takes root uh will weaken the people of God. So what I want you to notice from this chapter are just three important lessons about the damaging sin of strife. And here's the first one we want to learn about, and that is strife begins from pride. And we see this in verses 1 to 3. Now remember the context of Judges here in chapter 12. It ends in uh with, of course, chapter 11 with Jephthah's vow, you remember we talked about that last week where he made a foolish vow and ended up offering his daughter in burnt sacrifice. But the story doesn't stop there. Here in chapter twelve, there's conflict that erupts from the Ammonites Um but from the uh it erupts not really uh I should say from the Ammonites, but actually this conflict erupts within Israel's borders. Look in verse number one. And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together and went northward and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passest thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and did not call us to go with thee. So here are the men of Ephraim, and this is after that Jephthah has a battle with the Ammonites, and he defeats them, and they meet Jephthah, and they're furious at him. And I want you to see, first of all, what I want to call the recognition they desired. Because they're they're insulted, their complaint was not about faithfulness, it was about recognition. They were angry because they were not sharing in the glory of the victory that Jephthah had just won. Now you might remember it was the same group that came to Jo to Gideon in chapter 8, after Gideon won the battle against the Midianites. It was the same men of Ephraim that approached Gideon and they were angry because Gideon didn't share any of the glory with him. So this seems to be a repeated pattern. Now Gideon was able to turn their wrath away with a soft answer. You might remember in chapter eight verse two, he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison to you? Is not the gleaning of the grates of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiazar? And it was basically saying, look, my le your leftover grapes, the gleanings, are better than my whole harvest. In other words, your contribution was huge and mine was very small which was basically a lie. It was flattery. But Gideon was using that to to defuse the situation and uh to prevent a civil war. And uh the Bible tells us that it worked because it says in verse 3 of chapter 8, their anger was abated towards him. Now these same guys are back. And now this time they're angry at Jepha And they felt offended that they weren't called. How come you didn't call us for this battle? Because they wanted to share in a g the glory. They had nothing to do with the battle, but they still wanted to share the glory of it now So this seems to be an established pattern with these guys. Same pride, but this time they're even more enraged. Do you ever notice something about pride? Pride, when unchecked, it grows more volatile. The first time they met with Gideon, the pride was present there, but it was restrained. But here we see in chapter 12 that it it explodes. Because notice the next thing, not only the recognition they desired, but the rage they displayed. At the end of verse number one, notice the threat that they give to Jephthah. We will burn thine house upon thee with fire. Wow. That's pretty severe. They were so enraged they said we're gonna burn your house down with you in it. Wow, that's that's just terrible. Now think about that. Because they were not given the recognition that they thought they deserved. They were willing to burn down Jepsa's house with him in it. Again, that shows how quickly pride turns to violence. Those are shocking words. There's no attempt by these guys to understand. what was going on. There's no inquiry about the events, no patience, just accusation and a threat to Jephthah. It tells you again, pride doesn't say emotional, it becomes destructive. When pride is wounded, it doesn't just complain, it lashes out. And we've seen some of this in our own country in recent years where a group or people are angry. And they begin to set fire to buildings, and before we know it, neighborhoods and communities are destroyed. What began as strong feelings escalates into destruction. And that's nothing new because we see it here. It's human nature, it's depravity. But it also shows a lack of compassion on the part of these Ephraimites. Remember, Jephthah had just gone through a very difficult situation, right? He just lost his daughter because of a foolish vow that he made. So he's a man of sorrow. He's a man that's going through a lot of grief, and yet Ephraim shows no compassion, no awareness of that, no restraint whatsoever Nothing. They come to him, since you didn't call us, we will destroy you, we're going to burn down your house. This is incredible pride The Bible says this in James 119. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. We need to follow that. That's very good, wise advice. And then it goes on to say the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. So again, so very important. It also reveals that they see him as an enemy, not as a brother. Um they were not still thinking that he was one of them, uh that he was uh really just a uh uh a s an illegitimate son that rose to power and uh they're not talking to a foreign king they're talking to one of their own and yet they're using such hostility And so instead of unity, there's nothing but pride. Now the Bible says only pride only by pride cometh contention So we see that strife springs from pride. But here's lesson number two we learn. Strife spreads by provocation. It spreads by provocation. And we see this in verses four to six. We saw that when the Ephraimites came to Gideon, again he answered diplomatically and he stroked their ego. Jeptah, however, does no such thing. He's going to answer with facts. He's going to come back with them strongly. So notice first of all the rebuke. Keptah uses basically four arguments in response to the men of Ephraim. Number one, he says, you were needed, but you didn't come. Again in verse number two. And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at a great strife with the children of Ammon. When I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands So in other words, he directly answers their complaint and said, you know, when they say, why didn't you call us? He said, I did call you. You just didn't come. And this is an important point. Their anger is not based on truth. It's based on perception. That's a lot of times where anger comes from. They were actually offended at something that never really happened. He didn't ignore them the way they thought. And this is so important because many conflicts are based on misunderstanding and not on facts. Uh they just had the wrong understanding. And uh we've seen situations like this that happened uh you know among people, perhaps in a family or in a church. A text was not returned, a greeting was missed and a decision was made without them. Instead of asking what actually happened, the person will assume the worst And then they'll act out on their assumptions, which are really not true, or not based on truth at all. And so those assumptions become the foundation of division. But then w another way he answered them is he said, I had to act because the situation was urgent. Look again in verse number three. And when I saw that you delivered me uh delivered me not, I put my life in my hands and passed over against the children of Ammon So he says, look, um, I didn't have time to wait around to see if you were coming. I mean I I sent the message, you didn't respond, we couldn't wait, lives were at stake, I had to act He wasn't excluding Ephraim, it was a crisis situation, and something had it had to be done quickly. And so Uh Jephthah's first concern was to defeat the Ammonites, not to make sure that his neighbors were pleased with him. In other words, Ephraim was concerned about recognition. Jephthah was concerned about responsibility. That's the difference here. And also, you know, the tribe of Ephraim developed this reputation for being unreliable. They had a way of missing messages and not responding and not showing up when it mattered. Um, you know, they they probably said we didn't get the text message, evidently. There must have been some hold up, you know. You hear things like that. Of course, that's not what they said. But Ephraim in Scripture becomes a symbol of instability and pride and unreliability. So there's a few verses to consider right down Psalm 78 verse 9, where it says this The children of Ephraim being armed and carrying bows turned back in the day of battle. They turned back in the day of battle. They had weapons, they had training, they had opportunity, and yet when the day of battle they were unreliable, they turned back. And then Hosea gives several verses about Ephraim. The prophet pictures them as being very unstable. And Hosea 7. 8 he says, Ephraim is a cake not turned. In other words, it's half-baked. You know, Ephraim's half-baked. Um they're not consistent. They're uneven. And then Hosea 8 7, they have sown the wind and they shall reap the whirlwind. That's a reference to Ephraim. Their reckless actions would bring severe consequences. And then also Hosea 13, 1. When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel. But when he offended in Baal he died. In other words, when Ephraim spake trembling, that means in humility. There was a time when Ephraim had the right posture. There was a time when they had true humility before the Lord This trembling suggests reverence and humility before God. They have feared the Lord. And the result was they were exalted in Israel because of their humility and fear of the Lord They were exalted in Israel, the Bible says. God gifted them, God lifted them, and He always exalts the humble. But when uh it goes on to say, but when he offended in Baal, that is something changed. Ephraim moved from reverence to self-reliance. Ephraim moved from dependence to disobedience, from worshiping God to worshiping Baal. And so what happened? When humility leaves, sin enters in. And the Bible says in the rest of the verse, and he died. That is, they were ruined. So this tribe that was once a well-respected tribe, a Lee tribe, is now a tribe that is a symbol of instability. Pride and sin don't just weaken you, they will eventually destroy you. And so Jephthah is kind of confronting them about their instability, about their weakness. And then he also points out that it's the it's God who gave the victory. Look in chapter uh chapter twelve, verse three, the second part of verse three where he says, And the Lord delivered them into my hands Wherefore then are you come up to me this day to fight against me? Jeffla shifts the focus away from who was involved, who got the credit, and he places it on what God did. Look, you guys want glory in this battle, but God is the only one who gets the glory for this. Because God is the one who delivered us from this. He points to the true source of victory. And then he gives another argument. He says, why are you fighting your own people? Again, verse 3, wherefore then are you come up to unto me this day to fight against me? I mean you're ready for battle now. Now you want to fight me. The enemy has been defeated, but now you're raising up your weapons and you're coming against Me. This shows the absurdity of the situation. Victory's been won. Why do you want to fight me now? That's the idea here So pride has led them to fight the wrong battle. And often that's what pride will do. Pride will put you fighting against the wrong person in the wrong battle. Because pride distorts the facts, pride delays action, pride seeks recognition, pride fights the wrong enemy. So notice the response of Ephraim How did Ephraim respond when Jepha gave him these facts and kind of rebukes Ephraim? Well the response, look down at verse number four. They basically let the insults fly. Ephraim responds with insults. Look at verse four. Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead and fought with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites and among the Manassites So when it says ye Gileads are fugitives, that's not just a description, that's a slur. It's essentially saying you're not legitimate. You don't belong. You're inferior. So instead of answering Jephthah's arguments with reason, they they fling insults at Jephthah and his army. That's classic pride. When truth confronts it, it doesn't repent, it retaliates. And that's exactly what we see here. Jephthah gives them the facts, and they retaliate with strong words. The Bible says in Proverbs 15:1, A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. And again, Proverbs 12, 18. There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword. Their words weren't neutral. Ephraim's words were very wounding. And so they div they invited conflict. And so the issue again is this issue of pride with Ephraim And uh sometimes we still see this. Have you ever tried to correct someone and instead of dealing with what was said, they just kind of come back with something personal? You know, that's what we see here. That's what's happening. And so what's the result? Because of their insult to Jephthah and his men, the result was civil war breaks out. Now Jephthah was the wrong guy to insult. 'cause he was a warrior. You better be careful who you insult. Because he didn't take it well and he ends up doing battle against these Ephraimites. And this got so bad, think about this, that forty two thousand of them Died. 42,000. Think about that. Started out with an angry confrontation and it escalated to a civil war where 42,000 people died. That's terrible. Uh and what's interesting here in this next few verses is the Ephraimites called Jephthah a renegade and a fugitive. But ironically, they're the ones that end up becoming fugitives because in verse number five, look at verse five. And the Gileadites took the passages of Jordan before Ephra before the Ephraimites And it was so that when those Ephraimites which were escaped said, Let me go over that the men of Gilead said unto them, Art thou an Ephraimite? And he said, Nay. And he said unto him, Say now Shibolath. And he said, Sibyleth For he could not frame to pronounce it right. So what happens here? The word for uh escape in verse five is the same word for fugitives in verse four. The word that they called Jepha, you're you're nothing but a fugitive. That's what they actually became. They were the ones running from their lives. And I think that's a the author is showing us hear this situation. And what's happening now is that Jephthah and his army uh they are routing the Ephraimites and basically there are certain places where you could cross the Jordan River. They wanted to go back to their place And at those crossings there were men of of the Gileadites from Jephthah's army, and these Ephraimites were trying to sneak out and pretending like they were not one of them. And so they had a little test that they would have to say there at the Fords. And we just read it. If a man tried to cross, they would ask the question, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said no I said, okay, well let's give you a test. Say shibolous. Now the word shivalous uh is a word that means you know there's different opinions on it. Some say it means a stream or ear of grain. But really the meaning isn't the point here. The pronunciation is the point. You see the Ephraimites had a dialect where they could not pronounce the SH sound, they could only pr pr pronounce the S sound. So instead of saying shibbileth, they said sibileth. Just to kind of give you an illustration, just say, you know, Civil War, a northern guy asks a southern guy, uh, are you a are you from the south? And he says, no. And I said, Well, say Pakan. And he says pecan. And that guy says execute him on the spot. He's a southerner. You don't say it's not it's not pecan, it's pecan. Or or another test we we like to say is say water Say what are you can tell which where a person is from but that one word. You could tell whether it's from New York or Boston, whada. Wada. Or down south wood or You know, they draw it out. But just that one word can tell where you are. And so here they're saying to these guys, Look, uh say Shibboleth, and they can't say it. And so these men are executed there on the spot And again, the writer emphasizes that 42,000 people died there at that fort, uh fort of the river. 42,000 in verse number six. Again, that's just incredible. Reminds me of in history, this is the way World War I started. Started with a terrible event, an assassination. And it was mishandled and then this single assassination caused provocation among leaders. The next thing you know you have nations against nations in war and because of one act by the time that World War One was over, sixteen million people died. Think about that. One act that had that kind of provocation during that time. Just incredible. So strife springs from pride. Strife spreads by provocation. But here's the third one I want you to see. Strife saps our power And we see this in verses seven on down to verse fifteen, the under the chapter. Ephraim's pride and Jephthah's provocation weakened the whole nation for the next generation. It's revealed in these closing verses. And by the way, strife can take our strength. It can take our power as a church. If we're not careful, we need to guard against strife. So but when the time you by the time you get to the end of Judges 12, the whole tone changes. There's no great victory song. There's no real extended peace. There's no sense of renewal. Just a quiet, sobering reality. The people of God have been weakened. And that's really what we see here. Three three things, first of all, strife it debilitates leadership. Uh Jephthah's legacy is overshadowed by conflict. They really didn't say much about him except then look at verse 7. If Jephthah judged Israel six years, then died Jephthah the Gileadite and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead. So his his leadership is over. And he judged only six years. This is striking in comparison to the other judges that judged some 30, some forty years and so on had a long time of leadership. His was very short and it was really um marked with conflict, um a rash vowel a broken home, a civil war. His leadership didn't end in peace. It ended in pain. Strife didn't just affect the people, it affected the leadership as well You see, division doesn't just wound relationships, it divides leadership. Leaders that are constantly dealing with strife are losing the ability to lead effectively Instead of building, they're managing conflict. Instead of advancing, they're putting out fires. So strife will debilitate leadership, but also it diminishes impact. And what we see is that the judges that follow really are men that lack the spiritual weight of the earlier judges. Because in verses 8 to 10 we see what we see is this three minor, what scholars call minor judges. The reason they're called minors because there's really not a whole lot given about them. Just about their short time when they had a leadership position in Israel. There's Ib Ibzan in verses eight to ten, Elon in verses eleven to twelve Abdon in verses 13 to 15. And notice that the description of these men is really thin. There's no great deliverances, there's no national revival, no decisive victories. It's just really a brief um sketch of them, of their family, of their duration. And when when you come to this point, there's something that is missing compared to the earlier judges. I mean Gideon confronted Midian, Deborah led Israel to victory, and Othniel brings rest to the land. But now The accounts are quieter, we could say. Or these men are much less impactful. And so why? Well, I think that this is the writer's trying to show us here that Israel is kind of is kind of declined and it's just existing. They're not really moving forward. There's nothing about revival. There's nothing about spiritual renewal. It's just existing. There's a lack of power. There's a lack of unity. There's a lack of influence. Why? Well because of this strife that drained seemed that civil war seemed to drain the life out of Israel Israel for a time. That's another thing. It drains momentum. So this nation is no longer advancing. It's just existing. And uh again, no mention of repentance or return to the Lord. And this is what happens when division lingers. Uh it has that kind of an impact. So by the end of Judges 12, you don't see a victorious nation, you see a weakened one. The leadership is diminished, the impact is reduced, the momentum is gone. Now, again, how do we apply this today? The same thing can happen in a church if we're not careful. When Christians fight each other, Satan doesn't have to. Strife tr strength strife drains our power to reach the loss. We spend energy fighting on the inside when we should be reaching people on the outside. D. L. Moody said this, I've never yet known the Spirit of God to work where the Lord's people were divided. And so this whole story teaches us the folly. of strife, of pride and strife. Strife brings it springs from pride. It spreads by provocation. It saps our power. So what's the cure for all this? Humility. Just simple humility. It's having the mind of Christ. Philippians 2:3. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. The whole chapter in two of Philippians is all about the selflessness of Christ, the mind of Christ. Instead of demanding recognition, Christ humbled himself. Instead of provoking wrath, he bore the wrath of the Father upon himself Instead of strife, he made peace through his blood. And he Paul points to Christ, he points to the to the life of Christ with respect to the how to live A selfless life, how to live a humble life, and he is our example. It's okay to disagree, but you it's division is not okay. Right? I don't know of anybody who agrees with me a hundred percent on anything. It's amazing how many people are wrong about stuff. But it's okay to disagree. But to be disagreeable and to be divisive, that's another thing. That's the thing that we want to guard against. And that takes humility. When I think about that, I think about the story of George Whitfield and John Wesley. George Whitfield and John Wesley strongly disagreed theologically over the doctrine of predestination. And their followers argued on the various sides of the issue and lines were drawn and people tried to turn George Whitfield and John Wesley against each other. And at one point, someone asked Whitfield, Do you expect to see John Wesley in heaven? And Whitfield replied, No, I do not. And there was a shock for a moment. And then he continued, Because he will be so near the throne of God, and I so far away, that I shall not get a sight of him. That's humility. That's humility. It's not rivalry, no bitterness, no need to win, just a heart that esteems others better than themselves. It's just the heart that's humble and puts others above themselves. That's Philippians chapter 2, and that's the mind of Christ. And that's the mind that settles all strife in the church. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this narrative and how you preserve that for us to learn from. Indeed, all these stories here in the book of Judges are lessons for us to learn about how to live our life. And in their own way, they uniquely point to our Savior, the true judge, our true deliverer. The Lord Jesus Christ. May we, Lord, look to him, Father. May we look to Jesus. May we have the mind of Christ. And may we walk as he walked and be pleasing in your sight. And we pray in Jesus' name. Just name, Amen.