Now, I want you to take your Bibles tonight, please. Open to the book of Revelation. As you know, we're going through Revelation chapter by chapter. And tonight we come to Revelation chapter 11. And there's 19 verses here and a lot to cover. And uh but at this point in Revelation, we are uh kind of at the uh the midpoint of the tribulation period. If you uh if you interpret the book sequentially and chronologically, I heard that Niagara Niagara Falls there's a sign that says the point of no return, and they say if your boat gets to that point, past that point, you're going over to falls There's no going back. And I guess we're at the point here of no return here in the book of Revelation. We've kind of passed the midway point, and uh we're coming near the brink of what God is going to do as he culminates his plan of redemption. Now just a little context, the seventh seal uh was introduced. We saw that, and uh we also saw that out of the seventh seal And by the way, that seventh seal was opened in chapter 8, if you were with us on that. And out of the seventh seal, the Bible says there preceded seven trumpets. And then in chapter 9 and chapter ten we see these trumpets sound, and as those trumpets sounds, there's judgments poured out on the earth. The first four trumpets, God judges the planet. And the next two trumpets, uh, I call the first four trumpets of war, where he judges the planet, and then the next two are trumpets of woe, where God actually judges the people on the planet. And the seventh trumpet has not yet sounded at this up until this point. Now in chapter 11, we're going to see that it will finally sound here in chapter 11. But chapter 10 and part of chapter 11 are an interlude between the sixth and the seventh trumpet. Before that seventh trumpet sounds, there is an interlude. And we see here in Revelation chapter 11 some things that are going to take place before the sounding of the seventh. Trumpets. What we're going to see is that John sees two witnesses and they're um carrying out their uh ministry uh 1,260 days before being murdered. And then the seventh trumpet will sound. And so when the seventh trumpet is blown, you have to understand that that's going to cover the last three and a half years of the tribulation. If you think things are have been bad up into this point, well, uh the the severity of God's judgment is going to pick up. Now God is in control in control. This is the one thing that we see here. One major thing that stands out during this time is that God is in control. And beloved, it doesn't matter how it might look In our world, it might seem like it's spinning out of control, but you just rest assured that God is still on the throne. He is sovereign. He knows the future. It's in his hands. Alfred Hitchcock, the movie director, told a parable in the guideposts about the unknown. This is what he said. He said, There was once a king that was granted two wishes. His first wish was to see the future. But when he saw what lay ahead, all the beauty of it, all the pain of it, he immediately asked for a second wish, and the second wish was that the future be hidden. And then the master of suspense, Alfred Hitchcock, said this. He said, I thank heaven that the future doesn't belong to any man. It belongs to God. And that's so very true. And so as we study chapter eleven, we need to realize tomorrow is indeed in God's hands. Now there are three important events I want you to see. If you're taking notes Here's the first event I want you to see in Revelation 11. Number one, the measuring of the temple. Let's write down the measuring of the temple. Now we have seen uh certain times in the book of Revelation where John is called upon to uh to participate in the vision. We saw this in chapter five. One of the elders looks at John and says, John, weep not. Remember they were trying to find someone worthy to open the scroll. And John is weeping and there's a sense in which John's a part of that vision. In Revelation chapter seven, one of the elders asked John, John, who are these in white robes? And John said, You know, sir, thou knowest. And so it seems like John has been a participant in some of these visions. And now here in this vision that John's going to have here in chapter eleven. He's asked to do something. And the purpose of this is to heighten the drama of what is about to happen. You ever hear a performer say, can I have a volunteer from the audience, please? That kind of heightens the whole uh drama there. And uh it's always a way of grabbing attention. There's a sense in which John now is going to be a participant in this vision that he has and he's called upon to do something. And so notice the command in verse number one, and there was given me a reed like unto a rod, and the angel stood saying, Rise and measure the temple of God. and the altar and them that worship therein. And so John is given a reed. This is a measuring rod. And the word here really is a word that refers to a reed like plant that grew in the Jordan Valley. They could grow grow to the height of fifteen sometimes twenty feet. It had a stalk that was very light. Uh it was hollow, yet rigid enough for some people to use it as a walking staff. And these stalks were ideal for measuring rods. And so here John is asked to measure the temple. Now this reminds us of Ezekiel's vision in the Old Testament where an angel is used to Take a rod and to measure the millennial temple in Ezekiel chapter 40. John is given a command to measure the temple and the altar in the temple and those who worship it. Now, the question some people say is what temple? Keep in mind that the on earth, the temple had been destroyed in Jerusalem in 70 A. D. In fact, we know this from history that the Roman general Titus laid siege to Jerusalem. Uh the temple there caught fire. I don't think it was really originally their intention to to burn it down, but uh but Jesus, you remember, made a prophecy in Matthew twenty-four where he said, Not one stone will be left upon another. And the uh accidentally, we say accidentally, but providentially we could say the temple caught fire Uh there was part of the temple, the dome in the top was overlaid with gold. That gold melted. It s it melted down into the crevices of the stones there at the temple. And in order for those Roman soldiers to get at all the gold between those crevices They tore apart the stones, and the prophecy that Jesus gave came true, that not one stone was left upon another. But now here in this vision, John is told to measure the temple, which indicates to us that there would be another temple rebuilt. Now it's hard to measure something that doesn't exist. And this has led to several views. Now, all along in the study I've kind of given you different views, different interpretations of the book of Revelation, just to let you know what's out there and to try to understand the scripture correctly. And so what are the views about this? Well, there's the preterist view. You remember who the preterist is? The preterist is the person who thinks that everything in the book of Revelation has already happened. It's already taken place. This is now already history. And what they will say about this particular chapter here is that the reason that the temple is there is because the book of Revelation was written before 70 A. D. and not afterwards. Now I don't know if you remember that when I started out this study, I I I tried to show you how that this is an important issue as to when the book of Revelation was written. Was it written in 65 A. D. or was it written in 95 A. D. Because this will really, I think, affect some of our interpretation here. Now, the those who are preterists, they say that everything in Revelation is history, and in order for them to hold that view, they have to have an early date for the writing of Revelation. They have to believe that everything took place already in 65 A. D. And so they say then the fact that John is asked to measure the temple means that there must have been a temple there, which means it hadn't been torn down yet, which in their minds proves that the book of Revelation was written early and not late. Everybody with me? Clear as mud on that. They say that this this proves it. The temple was still there. It wasn't destroyed until 70 AD. And so, and from John's perspective, they say this was yet future. And by the way, those who are omillennial or Post-millennial will also, some will also hold this view as well. But if you look at the book of Revelation and say, no, this is future, this is yet to happen. You hold a late day normally, which means that the book of Revelation was written in A. D. 95, which means that the temple was already destroyed. It was already gone. And so the question that premillennialists have to deal with is the ones asked by predators and non-millennialists and post-millennialists and no ask me a question like this. How can you measure a temple that's not there? And by the way, indeed it was destroyed in seventy AD. We know that. If you go to Jerusalem today, you can go up on the Temple Mount And you can see what's left there, and you can see the Wailing Wall, which is part of the foundation of that temple, and that Jews will still still go there. But if you go there today, there's no temple, and what exists there now is a Muslim a shrine called the Dome of the Rock. And even though Israel is in control of that area, they took back control in 1967. There's still that dome of the rock there, that Muslim shrine, but it's also a place for Jews. But how would I answer that question? How can John measure a temple that's not there? Well, one answer to that is simply this. This is a vision. Okay? This isn't literal. You everybody got that? This is a vision. Alright? So John wasn't asked to leave the Isle of Patmos to his superiors. Hey guys, I got to take a trip to Jerusalem. I got to measure the temple. I'll be back in a little while. So just keep my keep my jail cell open because when I get back from measuring this temple, I'm going to check myself back in jail here on Mount on the Isle of Patness. No, this is a vision This is a prophetic passage. It ought to be obvious to everyone that a prophetic passage about the temple doesn't require an actual physical presence of a temple. You know, a few times I've had dreams where I've talked to people in my dream that are no longer with us. They went to heaven. You ever have a dream like that? Someone that may have been close to you? And you have a vivid dream and you and you have a conversation in that dream. It seems so real, but it's not real. And we know that this vision that John had, however, is not like any dream that a person will have. This is a divinely inspired vision, but keep in mind, beloved, it's the vision. There doesn't have to be a literal temple there in order for John to do this in the vision. But another thing to keep in mind is this. When Daniel, who was in Babylon in 596 B. C. , wrote prophetically about the temple In Daniel chapter 9 verse 27, he was talking about things that were going to happen in the temple. You understand that there was no temple when he wrote that. It was already gone. It had already been destroyed. When Ezekiel was told to measure the temple, in Ezekiel forty to verse uh chapter 40 to chapter 48, he talks about extensively everything in that temple. The temple had been destroyed over a decade earlier. How could Ezekiel measure the temple if it was destroyed? This is the same thing here In Revelation 11, John is simply being told to measure the temple that was in his vision. It didn't require that uh the temple actually literally be there. And this is one of the arguments that preterists use to try to prove the early date for The book of Revelation. Oh, it had to be written early because the temple was still there. Therefore, they conclude that it had to be written earlier than 70 A. D. But uh with all due respect, that's a weak argument. It's no evidence at all And there will be a temple there one day. We know there's not a temple there now, but according to strip scripture, the temple will be rebuilt if you take the scripture literally. There has to be in order to fulfill the prophecy of the word of God. Now we know that Jerusalem, this is Jerusalem has been invaded before, the temple has been destroyed before and rebuilt. This is not gonna, you know, this is nothing new for Jerusalem. And there are some who believe that, you know, this will be the end. God no longer has any more purpose for Jerusalem or the temple whatsoever. But there are Old Testament passages that if we look at, and we don't have time to look at them all, would basically prove that not to be true. And besides that, the scripture points to several things that have to happen in a temple there in Jerusalem. Number one, in Second Thessalonians, that Before the day of the Lord comes, there would have to be some events that would happen. And number one, and there would have to be a falling away in 2 Thessalonians 2, 3, let no man deceive you by any means. For that day shall not come except there come a falling away first, and the man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition which we believe is the Antichrist. Someone has to enter into the temple calling himself God. Second Thessalonians 2 4, who opposes and all exalts himself above all that is called God Or that is worship, so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God. Paul calls this man the man of sin. This prophecy is not yet has not yet been fulfilled. And so therefore there must be a temple there for that to happen. Some preterists and I'm millennialists say not only will there be no rebuilt temple, they don't believe that a temple will ever be rebuilt, but there's no antichrist. Well, John would disagree with that. Listen to 1 John 2, verse number 18. Little children, it is the last time. And as ye have heard that Antichrist shall come, even now there are many antichrists. Whereby we know it's the last time. In the Greek, this is singular. The article is present. So we can say it like this The Antichrist is coming. And it's singular. The Antichrist is yet to come. And so this will happen just like the scripture says. that there will be a temple there. The Antichrist still will come in there. He will declare himself God and he will declare war against the people of God. Now I know that there are people today that laugh at the idea of a rebuilt temple. But I want to tell you something, friend, the Jewish people are not laughing about that. They believe it will happen. And not only that, they're making preparation for it. Today rabbinical schools are training young Jewish priests. the descendants of Levi to offer sacrifices. I've been to Jerusalem. I've been to the Temple Institute there where seamstresses are weaving clothing for the priests to wear. Artesians are making vessels of silver and gold for temple worship. Carpenters are fashioning musical instruments. to replicate worship there in the temple, right before the Temple of Jerusalem. If you go to the if you go to the uh the Jewish quarters there in Jerusalem, what you'll see right in front of it, behind glass, is this huge menorah, golden menorah that is put there Because they in their heart, this is what they long for. This is what they're praying for. In fact, you go to the Western Wall, you go up to a Hasidic Jew that they are praying at the Western Wall. And you ask them, what are you praying for? You know what they'll tell you? I've done this. You know what they'll say? We're praying for a rebuilt temple. We're praying for God. to answer that prayer. And so keep your eyes on Jerusalem. So he's measuring the temple. Look down again in verse 1. He says, There was given unto me a reed like unto a rod, and the angel stood saying, Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and them that worship therein. Now, here's another question we have to ask ourselves. Why does God want John to measure this temple? Why? Well The word temple here is important that we see. The word temple is naos, which means the holy place. This is where priests would go. It's not the entire complex. But just one part, the holy place. And the altar. Measure the holy place, Naos. Measure the altar there And then also notice in verse 1, and them that worship therein. So he's supposed to specifically measure the holy place, measure the altar. And measure the people, that is to count the number of people that worship there. He's to number the worshipers. Now, measuring in the Bible is often a symbol of preparation for either destruction. Or preservation. And so the question is, what is this for? Why is he measuring this? Is this measurement for destruction? Is this measurement for preparation? Is this measurement for preservation? What is in view here? Well, you have to remember, I think the idea that God has in measuring these things is for protection. Now, just as we saw that between the sixth and seventh seal, there was an interlude. We saw this earlier in Revelation. And what happened during the interlude was the seal of God was put upon his people. Why? For protection. And what we see here again is another interlude between the sixth trumpet and the seventh trumpet And I think what's in view here is the protection again of those who are the true people of God. What is also equally important is what he's not to measure. Look at verse number two. But the court Which is without the temple, leave out. Measure it not. Why not? John, measure the holy place, measure the altar, number the people, but don't bother measuring the outward court. Don't do don't bother that. Why? Look at the rest of verse number two. For it is given unto the Gentiles, and the holy city shall be tread underfoot forty and two months. John, don't bother measuring that part because that part is going to be given over to the Gentiles. So that's why I say what's in view here is protection. He's measuring this out. And uh he's measuring this out because it will be the part of that that will be protected during this time. And the message is that God will have a remnant of Jewish people. He will protect from the horrors that are about to happen that will take place during this time in the tribulation period. Just write down in your Bible, Zechariah chapter 13, verse number 8 And it shall come to pass that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts therein shall be cut off and die, but the third part will be left therein. And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried, and they shall call upon my name, and I will hear them, and I will say, It is my people And they shall say, The Lord is my God. There will be a part of those people that will recognize who their Messiah is. They will be the ones that will be refined. They will go through it, and yet God will protect a part of them, and they will say, ultimately, the Lord is my God. Also listen to Zechariah chapter 14. Listen to verse 1. Behold, the day of the Lord cometh And thy spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee, and I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle, and the city shall be taken, and the houses uh rifled, and the women ravished, and half of the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city. Then shall the Lord go forth and fight against those nations as when he fought in the day of battle. And his feet shall stand in that day on Mount on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east. And on the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west. And there shall be a great valley, and half the mountains shall be removed toward the north, and half toward the south, and ye shall flee to into the valley of the mountains. For the valley of the mountain shall reach unto Azel, yea it shall flee like as ye fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah. All this will happen in that time when the Lord Jesus will come again and return to earth at that time, according to Zechariah. chapter 14. So we see here then, we see, first of all, the command, and then we see the court that he's supposed uh to not measure, and then we see the contempt. Again in verse number two, it says, For the holy city they shall tread underfoot forty and two months. How long is that? That's a 1,260 days. That's three and a half years. And again, there's uh differing opinions on uh this this period. Is this to be literal? Is this numbers to be literal? Now, both preterists and futurists, they take these numbers to be literal. Now that doesn't surprise me about the futurists, because a futurist interpretation of Revelation normally takes a literal approach, which surprises me that preterists take these numbers literal because they don't take numbers literal a lot in the book of Revelation. But here they seem to jump back to the literal interpretation. And they say, yeah, this is the literal days here. This is three and a half years. And uh the only difference between the preterist and the futurists is the preterist says, this has already happened, this three and a half years has already happened, and it happened during The war, the Jewish war, that started in 67 A. D. and lasted until 70 A. D. And they say, actually, that whole war lasted three and a half years. It fits perfectly. The destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. You know, and they'll give the dates about that. But again, the only way you can take that interpretation is if you believe in an early date of revelation, which the evidence is just not there. The internal and external evidence is against an early date. And so the futurist view is in here, is in view here. The futurist view, I should say, is in view here. And this is yet future. This happens in The tribulation period in the last three and a half years, where the ungodly, unrepentant people will work under the rule of the Antichrist and they will persecute the people of God. This all corresponds to what the Antichrist will do. So the measuring of the temple is God saying to these people, this area, these people are uniquely mine. Now again, uh throughout history we've seen Jerusalem change hands. I don't have time to go through the history of that, but most recently it changed back to Israeli control in 1967. During the Six-Day War, Jerusalem was taken again by the Jewish people. This was one of the most incredible wars. I don't have time to get into all of that, but now the city is under the control of Jewish hands That rule is fragile, we understand that, but things are happening that where they're having more and more control, especially of Eastern Jerusalem. Where that part of the temple is located. You may have read of some of that in the news here lately. But again, keep your eye on what's going on there. And so we see the measuring of the temple. Now I want you to see the next part of this, the next point. Number two, another event that happens is the ministry of the two witnesses. Look down at verse 3. And I will give power unto my two witnesses. And they shall be prophecy prophesied a thousand two hundred and three score days, clothed in sackcloth. And these are two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth. And if any man will hurt them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if any man will hurt them He must in this manner be killed, and these have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy. They have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will. So there's another event here in this interlude. John sees the ministry of two powerful witnesses. Now again, the question comes up: who are these witnesses? Is this to be taken literal? Is this uh to be interpreted spiritual? And again, uh there's different approaches to this. The historicist approach to Revelation say all these two witnesses If you ask in a historicist, he'll say, well, they represent Christian history. Anyone in Christian history who resists papal Rome, who stands against the Pope, that's who these two witnesses represent. So it could be anywa anyone from John Wycliffe to John Huss to Martin Luther to any of that. Any of these guys, that's what these two witnesses represent. And then the preterist approach is this. Well, I should say, they're all over the map on this. They can't seem to make up their minds. Some preterists say that the two witnesses are either historical prophetic witness against the Jews, or they represent the civil and r religious authority of Israel. Some say, well, it represents the law and the prophets. And then there are some that say, well, it represents the church And then so on. Or these two witnesses represent Israel and the Word of God. And so there's a whole lot of different views out there on that. The futurist approach takes this literal and says, these two witnesses are. Two witnesses. They are two literal people. The word for witness here is the Greek word martis, where we get the word martyr. And it's used in the New Testament for a person or an individual. So these two witnesses are two people. This is taken literally, but again, that's not enough for some futurists. They want to know exactly who these guys are. And guess what, beloved, the Bible doesn't tell us who they are. Alright? So the rest is just simply speculation. Alright? Now some like to say, well, this could-I know who it is. It's Enoch and Elijah because neither of those men died in the Old Testament. So it's got to be these two guys. Again, there's no way to know that. Some say it's Moses and Elijah because if you look at the miracles that they will do, really you see that John is trying to match up The power of these two witnesses to the power of the two great prophets in the Old Testament, Moses and Elijah. I mean, you see as we read in these verses They will have the ability to call down fire and devour their enemies, and they have power to shut the heaven that it rain not. That's Elijah. They can turn water to blood, that's Moses, to smite the earth with plagues, that's again Moses So some people say, well, this has to be then Moses and Elijah come back again here during the last days. Now, there is a prophecy in Malachi. Where it says that, Behold, I will send Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Will that literally be Elijah, or will it be someone that will come in the spirit and the power of Elijah? So I think that there's no way to be sure about this, but I will say this: whoever these guys are, they will definitely come in the spirit and the power of Moses. They will be able to have great power. And they will be able to withstand their enemies. When it says fire comes out of the mouth, obviously we don't take that to be literal. That's obvious. What that simply means is That they will be able to preach the word of God because in the Old Testament the Word of God being preached was compared to fire, and some of the enemies were compared to wood. We see those in verses in the Old Testament But notice not only the period of their ministry, it'll be three and a half years, but the purpose of their ministry. Look at verse 4. These are two olive trees. Here's another metaphor given for these witnesses. He calls them two olive trees, the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth Now, the two olive trees, I think this is a description that's taken from Zechariah chapter 14. Listen to this. Excuse me, chapter 4, verse 11. Then answered I and said unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and on the left side thereof? I answered again and said unto them, What be these two olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves? And so in this passage in Zechariah, the two olive trees, also Lampstands refer to in this passage. Zerubbabel and Joshua. They were once leaders in Israel. One was a religious leader, the other a civic leader. Together those two brought revival and they renewed the worship there and they led the people to rebuild the temple. And restore the worship. And so what we see here, I think, is that really the the idea is that they will have the power of God upon them. The I think the O and the Lamp's referring to that. They will have the spirit of the of the Lord upon them as they do their ministry They they'll have the protection of God again in verse number four. If any man will hurt them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies. And if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed God will not allow anything to happen to them until they have fulfilled the purpose of their ministry. And so we see the power of their ministry in verse 6. They have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy, and have power to over waters to turn them to blood and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will. And so these men will have great power in their ministry, according to verse number six. But then ultimately when God's finished with them during this time, notice the persecution of their ministry. Look at verse 7. And when they shall finish their testimony, The beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them and shall overcome them and shall kill them. Again, nothing can happen to them until they finish what God wants them to do. Again, God is in control. It doesn't surprise us that the world hates faithful preachers of the Word. We see this all throughout redemptive history. True ministers of the word always have to deal with opposition. But here the beast will ascend out of the bottomless pit and shall make war against them. Now again, this is who is the beast? This is the first reference. Of 36 references in the book of Revelation to the beast. Who is this? Who is the beast? Well, we believe that this beast is the same one that's referred to. Look in Revelation chapter 13, look at verse 1. And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and I saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his hor horns ten crowns, and upon his head the name of blasphemy And so the future view of this is that this is the ruler of the revived Roman Empire, which is the Antichrist, and he will come and make war with them, he will kill them. And this may be the reason that they marvel at the beast because he's able to do something that no one else could do. He's able to kill them. But look in verse number eight. And their dead body shall lie in the street of the great city, which is spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified. Here, notice how that this is Jerusalem that's being referred to in verse 8, but spiritually, when there's a spiritual understanding here, the book of Revelation sometimes will give you the spiritual meaning. And that Jerusalem is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt shows how they had apostasized completely from God. They were uh that was their spiritual condition. We know this is Jerusalem. This is the place where Jesus was crucified, and so their dead bodies will lie in the street of the city of Jerusalem. Jerusalem there. Their refusal to bury them was a sign of triumph, a sign of disgust, a sign of disrespect. And the Bible says, look at verse 9, and they of all people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and a half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies but to be put in graves And so they'll be there for three days. And the Bible says they'll be seen of people and kindreds and tongues and nations, plural, they shall see their dead bodies. During that time, they'll see those bloated carcasses there, and they'll rejoice in verse number 10, and they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them and shall make merry. And shall send gifts one to another because these two prophets tormented them that dwell on the earth. Their death will cause rejoicing. They will celebrate. This will and why do they rejoice so much? Because the message that they gave caused these people torment. Again, folks, I refer back to the Word of God and faithful preachers. You know, uh I I've heard in the news when faithful preachers of the word have died, I've actually heard blasphemous things said by evil people in this world. Like, boy, I sure am glad that that person is dead. This will happen during this time. These people rejoice because they hated to hear the message of God. They hated to be accountable to the word of God, to his servants. But then I want you to notice the next part. I call this the panic over their ministry because something miraculous will happen in verse 11. After three days and a half, the spirit of life from God enters into them and they stood upon their feet. And great fear fell upon them which saw them. And I heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemies beheld them And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand, and the remnant were afright, and gave God glory. So we see their resurrection, this miraculous resurrection that will take place. And great fear, the Bible says, will come upon people during this time. The word great mega. Incredible fear. Now someone might say, well, at this point, with this type of miracle, won't people repent? No, they won't. You know, a person whose heart is hardened and turned away from God, nothing you do is going to convince them People can harden their hearts so much. You remember in Luke 16, the man who died and went to hell, and he was talking to Abraham. And he said, Abraham, send some people to my brothers. I don't want them to come to this place. Abraham said, well, that's they're not they're not going to listen. And they said, no, if someone, he said, no, if someone raises from the dead and goes to them. And speaks to them, then they'll believe. And remember what Abraham said to that man. He said, look, if they won't listen to Moses and the prophets, they won't be persuaded, even as someone rises from the dead. Because the heart is so hardened that they'll interpret whatever miracle they have in the wrong way. The problem is their heart is hardened against God. And by the way, someone did rise from the dead, his name was Jesus. And if you don't believe that, you're never going to believe. And so we see their ascension in verse number 12 that we read. A voice from heaven calls them home. They ascend to heaven. Uh if the resurrection were not enough, these witnesses now ascend and God puts the exclamation point at the end of their ministry. He sends an earthquake. As we read in verse 13, and a tenth of the city fell, and 7,000 people were killed And the Greek word for people literally means names of men, which may indicate that the 7,000 that were killed were prominent people, even leaders in government. And so we see the ministry of the two witnesses. Now, real quickly, let me show you the last thing, the last event, the majesty of the seventh trumpet, because the interlude is over now. There was the measuring of the temple. There was the ministry of these two witnesses. And now, number three, the majesty of the seventh trumpet. Look in verse 15. And the seventh angel sounded And there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ, and he shall reign forever and ever. And the four and twenty elders which sat before God on their seats fell upon their faces and worshipped God, saying We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art and was and art to come. And because thou wast taken to thee and to thy great power and has reigned, and the nations were angry. And thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead that they should be judged, that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants, the prophets, and to the saints, and to them that fear thy name, small and great, and shouldst destroy them which destroy the earth. And so the stage is now set for the King of Kings and Lord of Lords to take his throne. And when this trumpet sounds, this marks the commencement of Christ's taking his throne. And this marks a significant milestone here in the book of Revelation. It sets in motion the final events that will lead to Christ establishing his kingdom here on earth. So we see the reign of the Savior. What an awesome time that's going to be when the seven trumpets sounds. And Christ takes his throne. And remember this says in verse number Again, in verse number uh fifteen, excuse me, where it says that the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. And this is has become, tense of the verb describes a future event that is so certain that it's spoken of as if it's already happened. Have become the kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ. You remember in Matthew 4 Satan tempted Christ and he showed him all the kingdoms of the world. He said, Look, I'll give you all this if you just bow down and worship me. And Jesus said, What? Get thee behind me, Satan. Now the time has come for Christ To take his rightful place. Satan, the usurper, is not the rightful king. Jesus is. A friend of mine told of an incident that happened while he was in seminary. He said since the uh school had no gymnasium, he and his friends were playing uh were playing basketball in a nearby public school And the elderly janitor waited patiently until these seminarians finished playing. But what he was doing while they were playing is he was sitting there and he was reading his Bible. And one day he went over and he asked him, he said, You're reading the Bible. What book are you reading? He said, I'm reading the book of Revelation, this elderly janitor. I'm reading the book of Revelation. And he was surprised. He said, really? He said, well, do you understand what you're reading? He said, yes, I understand. He said, well, what does it mean? Very quietly, the janitor said, it means Jesus is going to win. That's a good interpretation of that's the best commentary I ever heard on that book. Jesus will win. This is the confidence we all need to have. You know, we're on the winning side, beloved. Jesus will win. We see the reverence of the saints in verses 16 down to verse 17. The 24 elders fall on their faces, they worship the Savior. This represents the redeemed of God They eagerly are waiting for Christ to take that place. Notice their praise in verse 17 saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art, which was, which art to come. Because thou hast taken to thee thy great power and has reigned. And we also see the rage of the sinner, verse 18, while heaven is filled with praise. The earth is filled with the rage of sinners. No sooner does Jesus take that place, do the princes and the leaders and the kings conspire. This is literally the fulfillment of Psalm 2, the nations and the heathen raging against God. But then finally we see the reward for the servants. And then look at verse 19. And the temple of God was open in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark And there were lightnings and voices and thunderings and an earthquake and a and great hail. And so this will be a time. When heaven will open its doors and people will see the temple that is there. Now we began this chapter with a temple on earth. Now it closes with a temple that's in heaven. And we see the worship of God. We see the sovereignty of God. We see peace. We see rest. They say they open, they they see the ark of the testimony there. In heaven in verse number 19. Hey, guess what? I just found the Ark of the Covenant. Everybody's been looking for it. It's right here. It's in heaven here. And this is a symbol of the presence and power of God. And so we see then that this chapter here, in closing, this is a very crucial chapter. It marks the dividing point between the first half and the second half of The tribulation. It reveals that the Jewish people will have a rebuilt temple in Jerusalem. It reminds us that God is in control and the kingdoms of this world are under his direction. Let me just close with this. When Britain's Queen Elizabeth was a child, her parents had a garden party there at Buckingham Palace. But a rainstorm caused them to move it inside. And so all the guests had gathered into a room there. And Elizabeth was a little girl at that time, and she was there and they were bombarding her with questions. And she paused to all the people and she pointed to a picture on the wall. It was a picture of Jesus. And she said this. She said, that's the man who is the real king. That was a good statement from a little girl. She pointed to Jesus and she said, that's the man who is the real king. This is what we know. That Jesus is our real King. And the Bible says, one day every knee shall bow, every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Have you acknowledged his Lordship in your life? Let's bow for prayer tonight. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. I just we we we took a lot in here in chapter 11 of things that are yet to take place in that time the Bible calls the tribulation And the thing that we can draw from this again is that God is in control. Beloved, God's in control. And that Christ will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He does now, but he will take his literal throne. And I just want to ask you, have you trusted Jesus as your Savior? Have you bowed to Him as your Lord and as your King? And can you worship him as your Savior and your Lord? And that's what we must do. Confess him as Lord and King. Give yourself to him as a believer. Like we said this morning, present your body a living sacrifice. Father, thank you again for your word and so much here to digest. But Lord, I pray that this will remind us that we are on the winning side. We are victors in Christ Lord, we know that there's going to be a time of judgment for this world. But thank God for those that are in Christ, there's no condemnation. There's only victory and blessing yet to come for those who know you. Bless these words to our heart, Father, we pray in Jesus' name.