Well it's good to see you here tonight. And uh I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of uh Daniel, chapter number nine. We spoke about this on on Sunday morning and I'm gonna get a little more in depth in here. You you poor folks that are left behind, you're gonna have to listen to me now for the next uh half hour or forty minutes. And uh we're gonna deal with a prophecy that we dealt with this morning that is one of the most incredible prophecies in the Old Testament If you were here this morning, you uh got a glimpse of that, how specific the scripture is when it talks about the coming of the Messiah And uh in this beautiful prophecy of Daniel's 70 weeks, we see uh how this basically talks about the coming of the Messiah. What I want to do is just go into a little more depth to this because Really there's a lot of things I couldn't get to this morning, uh Sunday morning, uh in a half hour it's hard to just deal with a lot of some of the details. So I want to do some of that tonight, but I want to start off by just reviewing of what we talked about this morning. Look at Daniel chapter 9 and starting at verse number 20. And while I was speaking and praying and confessing my sin and the sin of my people, Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God for the holy mountain of my God. And yea, while I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I am whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning being caused to fly swiftly touched me about the time of the evening oblation. Now, as we had talked about this morning, this is Daniel who had been in captivity in Babylon for a long, long time. He was carried away in Babylon with the first invasion When Nebuchadnezzar went into the city of Jerusalem, he was part of Nebuchadnezzar was part of God's judgment against the people of Judah because of their sins. And Exiles were carried away into Babylon. Daniel was a teenager when he first went to Babylon. By the time, however, he writes this here in chapter 9, he's a very old man. And by reading the book of Jeremiah, he understood that the seventy-year captivity was just about up. And yet there were so many questions in his mind about the future for Israel, the future for God's people. And so God sends in answer to his prayer, God sends the angel Gabriel And the angel Gabriel is sent verse 22 to inform him. And it says, he informed me and talked with me, and I said and said, Oh Daniel, I am come forth. To give thee skill and understanding. That is, God sends the angel Gabriel to tell Daniel about a prophecy with regard to the nation of Israel. And notice what I want to call we see the we see the prayer, we see the prophecy, but then the period in verse number tw uh verse verse twenty-four, seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city to finish the transgression to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy And so there are 77s, 77-year periods that God said will basically complete The plan that he has for the nation of Israel. That's four hundred and ninety years. So in essence, God is saying, in this four hundred and ninety year period that God has carved out God will fulfill all of the purposes that He has for the nation of Israel. That's important to understand. And because it says very specifically in verse 24 The seventy weeks are determined upon thy people. We see not only the prayer, the prophecy, the period, but the people. God has determined this upon thy people, meaning Daniel's people speaking about the Jews. God is not finished with Israel. God has made promises to Israel that he is yet to keep. And then we also see the place in verse 24, upon thy people and upon thy holy city. And we said that the holy city that is being referred to there, of course, is the city of Jerusalem. And then finally, we uh not finally, but continuing, we see the purpose In verse 24, we saw six goals that are given, six things that God wants to accomplish in this 490-year period. The first three of these things have to do with the abolishing of sin. And I think this all had to do with the first coming of Christ and his work on the cross, sin being dealt with. But the last three things I think will be accomplished or fulfilled at the second coming of Christ. And he said in verse 24, the last three of these things, eternal righteousness will be ushered in for the nation of Israel. We don't see that right now. We don't see everlasting righteousness in Israel right now, do we? No, we don't see that now. So evidently God's going to accomplish that in the future, and then prophecies and visions will be no more, and the Holy of Holies will be anointed And then the next thing we talked about this morning was the program. Look at verse number twenty-five. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks and three score and two weeks and the street shall be built again and the wall even in troubless times Now, the angel again says to Daniel, pay special attention of what I'm going to say. And then notice how the text divides up these 490 years or these 77-year periods into different groups. First you have the uh seven weeks, that's forty-nine years. And then he adds to that sixty-two weeks, which is four hundred and thirty-four years. So there are two different segments here. And then that leaves one week. uh of seven years that still has to happen. Now, when do the 490 years begin? That's a big question. And if you're with me here this morning we talked about that. Now, let me just also say, I'm gonna, again, this is not like a typical sermon. We're gonna go into a little bit of depth here, okay? So if you're behind on sleep, I guess you could catch up here during this sermon. But you might want to pay attention because I think it might help you a little bit to learn some of this because God's given this to us so we can know But let me just say that there's debate in the theological world, the scholarly world, about when this commencement of the 490 years begins. Um I told you this morning, the right view, but anyway, um There are different views out there. And let me just give them to you. Some scholars that symbolize the sevens. Generally take the decree of Cyrus, which is in 538 B. C. , as the beginning date for the 77s. Cyrus made a proclamation to the Jewish people to return to Palestine and to rebuild the temple. The problem with that view is there was never really a decree to rebuild the city. And remember that here and what we see in Daniel's prophecy that the four hundred and ninety years begins when there is This command to restore and to build Jerusalem, not just the temple, but the whole city of Jerusalem. Now, uh they'll argue and say, well, you know, even though it was Jerusalem was not mentioned, uh it it still included permission to rebuild the city. Well the problem with that is they didn't rebuild the city, it still remained in ruins for the next hundred years. Which is why I don't believe that the Cyrus proclamation is the beginning of the count of the 490 years. Other scholars will suggest uh the decree the first decree of Artaxarx East to Ezra, that was the starting point of the 77s. And again the problem with that view is there's no specific command to rebuild the city of Jerusalem. So that doesn't work. And that's why I told you that the Bible really tells us when this begins. And it's in Nehemiah 2, verses 1 to 8. In that story, Nehemiah is the king's cupbearer. Artaxerti sees him sad after talking to him about why Nehemiah says, My homeland, the city, Jerusalem, is in ruins. And then King Artaxerxes gives him permission to go back to Jerusalem and do what? And rebuild the city. He even gives him the resources to do it. He granted uh Nehemiah access to wood and all the other things that he would need to rebuild the city. And in Nehemiah 2. 8, Nehemiah says, And the king granted me according to the good hand of my God upon me. Now that is when the actual b uh d uh beginning of the 490 years starts. That moment that Artaxerxes gave permission to Nehemiah to go back and rebuild the city. And that day was March the 14th, 445 BC. Remember, I told you that this prophecy is incredible because, and also I told you that, remember that the Jewish year is 360 days, not 365 like our calendar. And if you add all those days together, the four hundred and eighty-three years, you come up with a hundred and seventy-three three thousand eight hundred and eighty days of of that of that four hundred and eighty three years. You confuse. Okay, but just think From the beginning of March the 14, 445 B. C. , if you start counting 173,880 days, which is the sum total of 483 years, you know what you come up with? You count those days and you go forward in the calendar and you'll come to April the 6th, 32 A. D. Which is the very day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday and officially presented himself as the Messiah. And that to me is why this prophecy is so incredible. Because it gets us to the very day when Jesus came into Jerusalem. Now in these first forty-nine years there was troublesome times. Yes, Ezra and Nehemiah bear that out, but they were able still to finish the temple and the city. So all that happened just like scripture says. And then we also talked about the not only the construction of the city, but the coming of the Christ. I just gave you This incredible prophecy when Jesus rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, fulfilling, I think, the prophecy that Daniel may hear about when the Messiah will present himself in verse number 25. From the command to restore the city unto the coming of the Messiah, it happened just like Scripture says. And so that, again, is just a fascinating, fascinating prophecy. But then I want to continue on this and talk a little bit more about what happened. Because I want you to notice next what it talks about. Look down at verse number 26. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be what? Be cut off, but not for himself So what happens next when it says that after he presents himself, after the 69 weeks, the Messiah will be cut off. And what does the word cut off here mean? Well The word cut off here, Qurat in Hebrew, is a common verb, and it actually means literally speaking to cut off something. Sometimes it's used in the Old Testament to talk about the cutting of the flesh. or cutting into stone. It can be used to talk about eliminating something, removing something. And I think it's used in the sense of uh in that way, this is a prophecy about the crucifixion of the Messiah. The Messiah will come in, he will present himself and after the 69th week, he will be cut off There in fact there are two things that will happen after the sixty-ninth week. The Messiah will be cut off. That is, Jesus will be crucified And so sometimes after he presented himself, and we know that how it happens in the New Testament, Jesus rode in, presented himself as the Messiah, and the people, at first, they shouted, Hosanna, Hosanna! But then a few days later they were shouting what? Crucify him. They rejected their Messiah. And he was cut off. He was crucified, just like Daniel's prophecy says. And then and so at this point the the Jews didn't recognize their Messiah. They didn't see Jesus as the Messiah. In fact, the Jewish people did not understand that the Messiah would come to die for sin. That he would be the suffering servant. Evidently they didn't understand Isaiah 53, where it says that the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. They didn't understand those prophecies. They didn't understand Psalm 22. And so basically they rejected their Messiah. The cross became a stumbling block. to the Jewish people and the nation of Israel. In 1 Corinthians 1 23, Paul said this: we preach Christ crucified unto the Jews a stumbling block, and unto the Greeks foolishness. They just could not understand how the Messiah had to die by crucifixion. And so this was a problem. They rejected their Messiah. And so notice where it says in verse 26, where it says, he will be cut off. The Messiah will be cut off, but not for himself. That's an interesting phrase there. Some people translate like this, and shall have nothing, because the Hebrew literally reads but not for himself. So the King James I think translates it very literally. Others try to translate it and say, well it means the Hebrew here enlo is the idiom and not have. In other words, it w it it'll be nothing for him In other words, some people take this to mean that when the Messiah is cut off, it'll look like to everyone that he was a failure, that what he did was a failure. And um but I don't think that that's really the sense here. I think the sense is when Jesus came and he died, he didn't do it for himself. Who did he do it for? He did it for you. He did it for me. I I guess we could say that to some who looked upon what happened there, they may look upon it as if Christ's ministry was a failure, but it was not a failure. It might outwardly look that way to people who don't know the Word of God or know the Scripture. But friend, it was nothing of a failure. It was a victory for us. It was a victory for the Lord Jesus over the kingdom of darkness. And so we see then the crucifixion of Christ, which would happen after the sixty-nine weeks, but also the conquest of the city. Look again at verse number twenty-six where it says The Messiah be cut off, shall the Messiah be cut off, but not for himself, and the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary, and the end thereof shall be with a flood And unto the end of the world were desolations are determined. Now the angel tells Daniel, Another momentous event after the Messiah is cut off, the temple and the city of Jerusalem shall be destroyed. And beloved, that's exactly what happened in history. If you know the history of the city of Jerusalem, you'll know that after Jesus was crucified. That the people there had rejected their Messiah. God allowed the Romans to come in and completely destroy the temple and take over the city of Jerusalem. It was the destruction of the city of Jerusalem there, and that happened in 70 A. D. And notice in verse 26 where it says, the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Now a lot of people ask the question in verse 26, who is this prince here? The people of the prince that shall come. Now, there are some people that say that the prince mentioned here in verse number 26 Is actually also Christ. Look at it. And the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary. Now I think, let me tell you who I think this is. I don't think this is Christ. I think this is Antichrist. You say, why is that? I think this is also the little horn that Daniel mentions in Daniel 7, the king of fierce countenance that Daniel mentions in chapter 8, verse 23. This is the man who does according to his will Daniel 11, 36, and the man of sin, the son of perdition, has talked about 2 Thessalonians 2. 3. Now why do I say that? Because the phrase, the people of the prince that shall come Will be the ones that will destroy the city. Now let me ask you a question. In 70 AD, if you know your history here about the destruction of the city of Jerusalem, was it the Jewish people that destroyed the temple? No. Was it the Jewish people that destroyed the s the city? No. Who was it that came in and destroyed the temple and destroyed the city? It was the Romans, right It was the Romans that did that. We know that. That is clear from history. And so the the uh people of the prince that shall come are the Romans. And if he is the prince of those people, that means he comes out of Rome. Or we could say the Roman Empire. And that's what it's referring to. It's not referring to Jesus Christ here. Alright? And Josephus understood this to be the fulfillment of Daniel's prophecy when the city was destroyed by the Romans in 70 A. D. He talks about that. In Luke chapter 19, verse 36. We won't take time to look at all that. Jesus went down the west side of the Mount of Olives towards the city. Again, he was praised by all of the people. But when he went into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, remember the Bible says in Luke that he wept. He wept because he knew that all the worship and the praise that the multitudes of the people were giving him, that was all superficial worship. They really didn't really intend to receive him as their their messiah because the proof is later on He was crucified and they rejected him. And so Jesus wept over the city of Jerusalem. And then he prophesied of what was going to happen to that city. And and he basically said that uh the city will be encompassed roundabout and it would be a total destruction of the city. Because the people did not recognize this thy day. They did not recognize that on that great prophetic day the Messiah had officially presented himself to the people, and they walked away from that. And so again, in fulfillment of that prophecy of Daniel, but also later Jesus on Palm Sunday, that's exactly what happened in history. And let me just give you a little bit of history of how it all took place. There was a revolt by the Jewish people. The Jewish people had a hatred for Rome and its presence in Judea. In fact they hated Jesus because he would not overthrow the Romans. He didn't come to do that at that time and the people didn't understand it. And as time went on there were protests against the Romans and it became more vocal and groups of zealots and rebels began to carry weapons. And they would go out at night looking for Romans to kill, Roman soldiers to kill. And and and they and they murdered some at night. And this increase in violence brought an uprising of the people against the Roman Empire. Finally in May of A. D. 66 The Roman garrison was overrun, and Jerusalem fell into the hands of the rebels there, the Jewish rebels that were there in the city of Rome. And what happened in the result of that? Well, the the Roman Emperor at that time was a man by the name of Nero, and he gave Titus Uh Flavius Vespasian, he was a hero of the Roman conquest of Great Britain. He gave him the order to go and to subdue the r the revolt that had broken out in Jerusalem and uh and of course he went and there was he brought his legions there to the city of Jerusalem. Of course he surrounded it. He did all of that. That was AD sixty-seven. Six thousand Jews from Galilee were basically Uh let me give you a background of someone who was also there, Josephus. He was among slaves that were taken from Galilee to go and build a canal in Corinth, and uh he Knew the Roman army because of that, and he became the writer, the historian that wrote about all that took place there in uh Jerusalem during that time. Now in the spring of 68, um there was something that happened that caused the fighting in Jerusalem to stop for a little while. And that was the death of Nero. Nero committed suicide. A new Emperor Vespasian was put on the throne. However He sent his armies back to Jerusalem in seventy A. D. The final assault on Jerusalem in the spring of seventy AD be began, and it was just a horrible, horrible thing. I don't have time to get into all the history of that. But it was just a terrible, terrible thing. And Josephus writes about the famine. He writes about the cannibalism that took place because the Romans had surrounded the city. People inside were starving to death and dying. And it was just a terrible, horrible scene until finally the Romans broke in and they they they set the temple on fire, they destroyed the temple, they pushed They literally pushed it off the side of the Temple Mount, the stones and the rocks from that temple, fulfilling the prophecy of Jesus who said, about the temple, not one stone will be left upon another. When they set when they put the temple on fire, the gold from the the top of the temple melted and it went down in between the cracks of the bricks of the temple and the Roman soldiers wanting to spoil the war trying to get at that gold literally tore the bricks of the temple apart. And again, fulfilling the prophecy that Jesus gave about the temple being destroyed there. And so Let me just move on. I have so much here and I only have a little time to finish up. But let me talk to you about the next thing, the parentheses. The parentheses. That was the those are the two events that took place after the 69th week. The crucifixion of Jesus, and then of course the conquest of the city of Jerusalem. That happened just like Daniel prophesied here in this prophecy. But then there is the parentheses because there is a gap that exists between the 69th week and the final 70th week. Now, again, this is a source of debate. But let me just there are some people that don't believe that there's a gap between the 69th week and the 70th final seven-year period. Of when God is going to fulfill his plans for the Jews. I believe that basically on God's prophetic clock, God called a timeout after the 69th week. You know why? Because after the Messiah went to Jerusalem and he presented himself. What did they do? They rejected him. And then God destroyed the city of Jerusalem and the temple. But I think that after the 69th week, when the people, the Jewish people, rejected their Messiah, God We could say called a timeout on his prophetic clock. And the 70th week has not yet started. Why? Because in the interval, in the gap, what did God do? He turned to the Gentiles. To offer the message of the gospel to the Gentiles. And I believe that we are living now in that gap. We are living in between the 69th and 70th week. And the big question is, when does the 70th week begin? Well, we'll talk about that. But first of all, let me talk about this gap that I believe that we're in. Now, a lot of people will Not believe that. There will be certain scholars that say, oh, we're not, there's no gap here. All right. But let me remind you in verse 24, God said that there were six things he would accomplish in that 490 years. Three of those things we know have been accomplished, but those other things have not. Again, for example, is there everlasting peace in Israel right now? No That's why I don't believe that the 490 years are up, because God said by the end of the 490 years, there would be everlasting righteousness and peace in Israel. Is the temple the holy place anointed? There's not even a temple there. Is there still sin in the world? Of course. Some of these prophecies are not yet fulfilled. And again, what happened? I think again God stopped the prophetic clock and there is a gap. Again, if you notice verse 26, notice how it starts, and after three score in two weeks. And so these things took place, the crucifixion of Messiah, the destruction of the city, happened after And then in verse 27, there are events that will happen that initiate the beginning of the 70th week. Look at verse 27. And he shall confirm the covenant with many for what? One week. That begins the last week. That begins the 70th week. So what does this imply? There's a gap between week number 69 and week number 70. Dr. Stephen Miller, who wrote a wonderful commentary on the book of Daniel, the New American Commentary Series, and uh was my professor in the seminary, said this. If the sixty-nine sevens, four hundred and eighty-three years, concluded with Christ's first coming, and the final seven, seven years is terminated by Christ's return, there must be an interval of time between the end of the 69th and the beginning of the 70th week He says the text also indicates that the 70th seven would not follow the 69th immediately. And I think that he's right there. He's absolutely right. The 69 weeks were complete. They were fulfilled. Christ crucified, city destroyed. The 70th week will begin, but I don't think it has begun yet. You say, when will the seventieth week begin? I believe, beloved, according to the scripture, the seventieth week will begin when Jesus Christ comes back. And when he comes back, you know what? He'll turn to the there'll be followed by seven years of what? Tribulation. That'll be the final week, the seven-year period of tribulation, and during that seven years, God will turn again to the nation of Israel, and Zachariah says, they will look upon him whom they have pierced. They will finally see and understand that Jesus Christ is the true Messiah. But right now, in between the 69th and 70th week, this is called the time of the Gentiles. This is the church age when God has turned to the church. Now, let me just say this. Old Testament prophets did not see the way we see today. They didn't see gaps. Gundry wrote this. R. Gundry said the possibility of a gap between the 69th and 70th week is established by the well-accepted accepted Old Testament phenomena of prophetic perspective. in which gaps such as that between the first and second event are not perceived. In other words, he's saying that prophets in the Old Testament, when they gave their prophecies did not discern or see the gap between the first advent of Christ and the second advent of Christ. They didn't see that. We see it now But the prophets were unable to see it. Remember 1 Peter 1. 10, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently. Sometimes they would prophesy things and not fully grasp all the deep meaning of what God gave them in those prophecies. And they were unable to discern a gap between the first coming and the second coming. But sometimes we see that gap in just single verses. From some of the prophets. For example, the familiar Christmas prophecy, Isaiah, when he says, For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. When did that happen? That happened the first time that Christ came to the world, right? God gave us his son, the eternal son of God. But here's the rest of the verse. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. When did that happen? Was the government on his shoulder the first time he came? No. The government nailed him to a cross. The government was not on his shoulder. That will happen when Jesus comes again. He will be the government. He will set up his thrown there in Jerusalem. So in the same verse, you have the prophecy that jumps between 2,000 years or more, between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ. Now Isaiah couldn't see that. We can now look back and see that. But let me give you another example of a double prophecy. It's in the book of Zechariah. Listen to Zechariah 9:9. This is about Jesus coming into Jerusalem. on Palm Sunday. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, daughter of Jerusalem, see your king comes to you, righteous and having salvation, gentle and riding on a donkey. That was the prophecy of Zechariah about the coming Messiah. Let me ask you a question: Was that literally fulfilled? Yes He literally came into Jerusalem on a donkey. He presented himself as the Messiah. And so that was The first advent of Christ. But the next verse says this: And I will take away the chariots from Ephraim and the war horses from Jerusalem, and the battle bow will be broken. And he will proclaim peace to the nations. His rule will extend from sea to sea, from the river to the ends of the earth. Now there's nothing like that that happened at the first coming of Christ. That did not happen there. Once again, a prophet looked into the future and he saw all this, but he did not discern that there was a gap. between the first coming, when he would ride into Jerusalem, present himself as a Messiah, and when he would indeed proclaim peace to the nations, and he would rule from sea to sea. That did not happen at the first coming, but it will happen at the second coming. So we see in that one single prophecy there, a gap. And by the way, those who are on millennial and post millennial They want to take the first verse that I just read, verse nine, and interpret it literally, and then they want to interpret the next verse figuratively. How do you do that? If you take verse 9 literally, you're going to have to take verse 10 literally That's all I would say about that. There's a gap between the first coming and the second coming of Christ, and this is what we know as this church age. Just write down a few verses here. Look in Ephesians 3 9, and to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ. And write down Colossians 1. 26, even the mystery which has been hid from the ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to the saints, Paul said this was a mystery. This this this this interval period when God would turn to the Gentiles, this was something that was hidden in the Old Testament, but now is made manifest. Again, Ephesians 3, verse 3, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery, as I wrote aforetime a few words, whereby when ye read ye may understand my knowledge of the mystery of Christ What was it, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of man, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit, verse 6 That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel Paul said, this was a mystery here. And now it's being revealed here by Paul and his writings. In Romans 11 25, Paul said this: I would not have you, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery Lest you should be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part is happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentile comes in. Paul said, Look, this blindness, this rejection of the Messiah that Israel has That's in part, it's going to be that way until God is done with this age of the Gentiles, until the fullness of the Gentiles comes in And I believe, beloved, that God has a number of those who will come to Jesus Christ and confess Him as Lord and Savior. And when the last Gentile convert is converted, I believe God's prophetic and the times of the Gentiles are over. God's prophetic clock will start again. Jesus will come back, and that will usher in the final week, the 70th week, which will be, as the book of Revelation says, the Great Tribulation period. And so Uh there's more I can say about that again. But let me get to the next point here. We've got seven minutes. I will let you out on time. All right. If I don't, my wife is going to be upset because you have choir rehearsal right after this. But anyway, just kidding. I I'm the one that's in control of my family. Anyway, look at verse number 27. Look at verse 27. This is what I call the prince. And he shall confirm the covenant. With many for one week, and the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the ablation to cease. For the overspreading of abominations, he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate. And so notice where it says, he shall confirm the covenant with many. Now again, the question here about verse 27 is, who is the he there? Again, there are scholars that say, well, this is Christ. This is Jesus. You know, but I have a problem with that view, and I'll tell you what it is. First of all, I think the he here is the prince that is spoken of in verse 26. Who is that? The people of the prince that shall come, this Roman uh this this Roman or someone that comes out of the Roman Empire that's spoken of in verse 26. Again, some some interpret this to be Christ, the anointed one that's spoken of prior in verse number 26. But again, I think there's two people in verse 26. There is the Messiah who is the anointed one, and then there is the prince, the people of the prince that shall come. I think those are two different peoples. One is Christ, the other is Antichrist. Now some say they're both the same, they're both Christ. For example, E. J. Young takes this view. And when he says he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease What he means is that he believes that this is Christ and Christ will, because of his work on the cross, will cause all the Old Testament sacrifices to be unnecessary. So therefore All of his sacrifices will cease because of Christ's work on the cross. Now, I believe absolutely that because of what Jesus did on the cross, the sacrifices of the Old Testament are no longer necessary. There's no question about that The question is, is that what this verse is teaching here? That's the question that I have here. Most scholars believe that's not what is going on here. E. J. Young, who is a you know a great Westminster scholar and all that. His interpretation, however, is not supported by the context. He also believes, look at verse 27, it says, For this man he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week. And in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and oblation to cease. So Young basically says, look, this is Christ. And when he confirms the covenant, what he's talking about is the covenant of grace. That's talking about salvation. And so with his death on the cross, sacrifices are no more necessary, and his covenant he will initiate with people, which is the covenant of salvation. That's the way E. J. Young and others view this. This is all talking about Christ. But the big problem with that is simply this. When Jesus initiates the covenant of grace with you and me, let me ask you a question. Does it only last for seven years? No, it doesn't last for seven years. Let me ask you a question. How many of you have been saved longer than seven years? Okay? You need to thank God that you're still saved Because your salvation wasn't just for seven years. Your salvation was eternal. So if you believe this was Christ and He's initiating a covenant of grace, you would have to believe that it's only going to last for seven years. Which I don't believe that at all. I believe that you're saved eternally. So So obviously then this can't be speaking about the covenant that Christ now let me just say another argument that they'll use is they'll say now well the number seven is really Figurative, it's symbolic, it's a number of perfection, and it actually means eternal salvation, really. So all of a sudden you want to take the numbers in this chapter and all of a sudden not be literal now You want to be figurative instead of literally in the way that you interpret them? And again I ask people that take these views, where do you get off being literal in the first part and then all of a sudden you dump the literal interpretation later on? How do you do that? What is the justification for that? All right? I know that many of you people here you're not really thinking about this, but I'm speaking to all my Presbyterian friends when I say that. Be honest with you. But anyway, that's a subject for another time. But the he in verse 27 cannot be Christ at his first appearance. It put uh the the antecedent to he is simply points back to the people of the prince. That is the nearest Antecedent to the he in verse 26. It has to speak about this Roman prince that will come, and that is simply beloved the Antichrist. The Antichrist will come when the 70th, at the beginning of the 70th week, he will have a covenant of peace with Israel and then afterwards he will break that covenant. He will be the leader of uh the the revived Roman Empire of the EU or whatever, however that plays out in history. And he might even offer to help the Jewish people restore the temple, rebuild the temple. of Orthodox Jews, they want to rebuild the temple there. He might even come along and say, look, I have the re resources, I have the ability, I want to help you. to restore this temple. He wants to have a time offer peace and restoration for all the Jewish people. Ezekiel 38 even predicts that Israel will feel so secure because of its protection by the Antichrist That her villages will be unwalled and it'll be all unprepared for war. But then suddenly, midway through, he will break that covenant And in the book of Revelation, when it talks about the tribulation period, the first part of it is called tribulation. The second three and a half years is called Great Tribulation. But again, it will be a time when God will be working. God will turn to his people, the Jews. They will recognize their Messiah whom they have Pierced, and the Bible says Israel will come to know Christ and Israel will be saved. And so let me just give you now I went over a whole lot real quick here. You can literally spend weeks on all of this getting into more detail. But let me just give you a few words of application and we'll be done tonight. First of all, when I study prophecies like this, What it does is it causes me to be thankful to God that he has revealed his plan to us. Aren't you grateful that God shows us in his word, his plan, and what he's going to do? We are privileged That God would open these things up to us in His Word. Secondly, God's plan should cause us to be filled with great confidence. We can see what's going on in the world. We can know what God is doing in this world. It should also cause us to have more of an eternal focus. Most of us are only focused on our own kingdom, the here and the now. We're only concerned about our own life, our own, you know, our week tomorrow. That's all we're concerned about. Our own little kingdom. We're all focused on us and what is in our world. But you know what? As believers, if you're truly a believer in Jesus Christ, the kingdom of God ought to be the thing that means the most to us. We ought to have that eternal focus. We ought to have that focus on the kingdom of God and what God is doing. And then the fourth thing I would say as we close, it should give us a burden for the lost. You know, Jesus came the first time to be the Savior. Now is the time for salvation. Now is the time for people to know Jesus Christ. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, he is coming again, and when that happens, the opportunity for many to come to Christ will be gone When Jesus comes the second time, he'll be coming as the judge, not as the Savior, but as the one who will judge the world in righteousness. So now is the time for us to be busy sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ, pleading with our loved ones, pleading with our neighbors. To come to Christ, sharing with them the hope that they have in the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what prophecy should do to us? It shouldn't make us, you know, go around with headline hysteria. It should give us a passion. To go out and share Christ with others. It should make us evangelists, carry the hope of the gospel to all those around. We're out of time. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, again, we just thank you for your word. And for the amazing prophecy about the Messiah. Not only the first coming of our Savior, but also his second coming. And so many of the songs that we even sing around this time of year portray that second coming of Christ when you will come. And rule the world, and no more will sin and sorrow grow or thorns infest the ground, but you'll rule the world, With truth and grace. And Father, how we thank you for that hope that we have in Christ. And I pray, Lord, that this would just increase our love for you, increase our faith. and our boldness to share Christ with the world around us. Bless your word to hearing hearts here tonight, Father, we pray. In Jesus' wonderful name.