It's good to see you here tonight in God's house, and I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to the book of Romans, chapter 5. As you know, we're studying Romans. And I hope that you're enjoying this. This is a very theological book book. It has a lot of doctrine with reference to our salvation. And so I hope that you're benefiting from this. relearn, learn and relearn some of these things about our salvation and how great the salvation that we have is. And so tonight I want to talk about the blessings of justification. And I heard about a man who uh was on a cruise to come to America. It took him a lot to save all of what he could to purchase a ticket to come to America. And while he was on the ship Uh he stayed in his cabin and he didn't have a lot of money. It took all the m money he had just to get the ticket and so he couldn't really purchase food uh to eat on the s on the ship. And so he brought some uh cheese and crackers with him and uh he stayed in his cabin to himself and uh on this long haul he decided just to eat there his little bit there in his cabin. Now he would watch people go to the dining hall and uh and eat food and and he longed to eat some of that food. It sure did look good and and uh but he didn't have the money. And so finally he made it to America and the captain was greeting everyone getting off the ship And this man looked really weak and emaciated and the captain said, What happened to you? He said, Well, you know, I took all the money I had just to buy the ticket. I didn't have money for food. And the captain said, Didn't you realize that when you bought the ticket, everything on the ship is free You could eat for free. And uh now if that was me, I'd run back on the ship and start eating, you know. But he didn't realize it. You see, I can't imagine anyone who is that foolish. that uh would not realize all the access that they have uh with the purchase of a ticket. Unless it is the Christian, the believer that has been saved, but they really don't understand all that they have in salvation. Or maybe they're not utilizing all the resources and all the blessings that we get because we are saved. Friend, do you understand the manifold blessings that God has for us now that we are saved? And this is what this chapter here, verses one through eleven, is all about. The apostle Paul is going to talk to us about some of the blessings that we have now that we are justified. Now remember here in Romans, in chapters one through three, Paul was kind of harsh with us And he talked about the doctrine of sin. He began talking about the bad news before he talked about the good news. And he made it clear that all men are guilty before God. And what by the time you get to the middle of chapter three, um every mouth should be stopped. Everyone is silent, knowing that all of us are guilty before God. But then at the end of chapter three Paul begins to talk about the nuts and bolts of justification. And then in chapter four, he gives us a beautiful illustration, a model of justification in the life of Abraham. He is the perfect model. uh to point to to show what it means to be justified by faith. He was a gentile when he got saved, when he was justified, and yet he was the father of the Jews. And so he's an example for both Jews and Gentiles of what it is like to be justified. Now when you get to chapter five, what he's going to do is begin to list for us or talk about all of the blessings that we have now that we are justified. And what I want you to see tonight in this passage are just six blessings we received with justification. And here's the first one. Number one, we have peace with God. Look at verse 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. So therefore, it's based on all that we've already heard and learned, everything that we just learned about Abraham, that he was justified by faith. uh not by works, he was justified by grace, not by the law, he was justified um before a religious distinction. And this justification is to all men. Based on all of that, now that you're saved and you're justified, you have peace with God. Now this is an incredible blessing. And now remember our definition of justification is the gracious act whereby God declares the sinner righteous in Christ by And so we are declared righteous. The moment we put faith in Christ, God the Father declares us legally Justified, we are righteous. And you've heard I'm sure the old uh saying, Justice if I'd never sinned, all those sins are paid for. We are justified before God. You say, how can God do that Look back in chapter four, verse seventeen. Let's review. It says, As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations before him whom he believed, even God. Listen to this, who quickeneth the dead, and calls those things which be not as though they were. He calls those things which are not as though they are. Now, look at me, friend, I'm a sinner. But you know what? God called me righteous Because he has the authority to do that. God can call those things they're not as though they are. And so by the authority of God, he has declared me righteous. in Christ. And friend, he's done that for you too. And so that's the blessing. I'm guilty and yet God has declared me righteous. How could he do that? Because of Jesus. Jesus the sinless one, Jesus who took all of my sins and your sins on the cross, and so because of the justification of or the propitiation of Jesus, I can be declared justified. And because of that, now We have peace. Notice where it says peace with God. Now, this is not to be confused with the peace of God. You see, there's peace with God and the peace of God. Now, peace with God, that has to do with our standing before the Lord. The peace of God has to do with our state of mind. Peace with God, that's our position. The peace of God, that's our practice. Of peace with God, that's objectively stated. The moment God declared me righteous, I had peace with God. But peace of God, that's subjective. That's based on my inward feelings. That deals more with my sanctification than it does my uh justification. And so there's two things here. We don't want to confuse them. A believer can have peace with God and yet not have the peace of God. Understand that? I'm I have peace with him But there may be times in my own life when I don't have the peace of God on me. But you see, you can't have the peace of God unless you have peace with God. The peace with God has to come first. And that happens the moment that we are justified. Now you say, why? Well, because before salvation, did you know that humanity is at war with God? There's hostility in the heart of man towards God. And friend, if you don't believe this, just go out into a public place and just start talking about Jesus. Just say Jesus is Lord. In fact, just say Jesus is the only way. Jesus is Lord. I remember one time I was over in um Ethiopia and I was with a bunch of converted Muslims and uh we had a Muslim imam. And that particular day when I went to lead them in a Bible study, it was a Muslim holy day, and and the Muslims were all out in the streets dressed in other garments and marching all around, and I went to this house to have a Bible study with converted Muslims. And ended up baptizing a few of them in the bathtub that was there in that house. But when I went into the courtyard, the Muslim Iman came out and he said very loud, Jesus is Lord And I said, keep it down a little, would you please? All around us were these Muslims. And uh and friend, if you want to stir a little bit of hostility, just say Jesus is Lord. And you know what you'll find? When you're in the barbershop, just say, you know what, guys, Jesus is Lord. He's the only Savior. You know what? You're going to stir up a discussion, won't you? And what you'll see is hostility in the heart of man against Jesus. We see that every year at Christmas time, right? When when the Lord Jesus starts getting a lot of attention, we have all these people that want to take shots at the Savior. And they they say blasphemous things. I won't repeat any of them. I can't stand to hear them to begin with. But there's this hostility in the heart of man towards God. Look in Romans chapter 8. Look at verse number 7. Notice what it says. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be. The carnal mind is the mind of the person who's lost, and the Bible says it's at enity against God. And we already saw this, remember in Romans 1, where it says that these people did not like to retain God in their knowledge, but they were backbiters, haters of God. And so this is true of lost humanity. There is this hatred. You say, oh well Someone might debate and say, Well, I'm not at war with God. Here's a lost person that might hear this and say, Oh, you don't you don't know what you're talking about. I have good feelings about God. I'm not at war with God. Okay. Well, then he's at war with you. Because the Bible also says that. You say, why? Why would God be at war with lost men? One word, sin. Sin, because he's a holy God, and God must judge sin. Isaiah 48, 22, there is no peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked And then Psalm 7 verse 11, God judges the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day. God is angry with the wicked every day. Now we don't like to hear verses about this, friend, but it's they're true. Because he's a holy God, and this is an expression of his righteousness and holiness that he hates sin and he's angry at the wicked. Psalm nine verse seventeen, the wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God. Now we already saw this in Romans 1, so we don't have to really uh dwell here a long time, but remember when Paul said, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all un godliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress or push back the truth. They are pushing away from the truth. And so when a person comes by faith to the cross and they receive the Lord Jesus and they They are justified. The first blessing is now there's no more hostility. There's no more war. There's peace with God. There will be no judgment in the day to come, because all of your sins have been judged on the cross on the Lord Jesus Christ, and so now there is peace with God. You realize how wonderful this is Because I'm going to tell you something, dear friend, all of us one day we're all going to die if the Lord Jesus doesn't return. We're all going to face death. You heard the old saying, when people sometimes are nearing the end, someone will say, Well, make your peace with God. Make sure you make your peace with God. But friend, you don't need to worry about that if you're justified because you already have that peace with God. He's already made that peace with you. And it's a wonderful blessing. And again, Colossians 1. 20, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, because of what Jesus did now, there is peace between your soul and God And it is a wonderful thing to know that you have this peace. So we have peace with God, but here's the second blessing. We have access to God. Look at verse 2. By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. Now, here's another blessing, friend. Do you realize that you have access to God? You have access. Now I think that sometimes We think lightly of this because you know if you're not careful you can hear something so often that you think lightly of it and you really don't value it the way that we should as believers. But friend, I want to tell you that this whole concept of access was a monumental idea in the minds especially of Jewish people. And there were many Jews in the church at Rome that Paul was writing to. So I can imagine that when Paul said this, perhaps they just were tremendously impacted by these words. What we have access with God? Because in the Jewish mind there was no access. And you remember that all the way back in the Garden of Eden, right after Adam and Eve sinned against God, what's the first thing that had to happen? They were expelled from the Garden of Eden They were expelled from the very presence of God. Why? Because sinful man can't experience access with God. So they're kicked out of the garden, so to speak, and there's a flame a cherubim with a flaming sword that's put there at the entrance of Eden. So that sinful man cannot come into God's holy presence. And then you go also into the Old Testament, and you remember in Exodus chapter 19 This is right after God delivered the Jews from Egypt. They come to Mount Sinai there in the wilderness, and there's where Moses will get the Ten Commandments. But before that, God makes a covenant with Israel If they will be his people and obey his laws, then he will be their God, and they'll be a peculiar people. They'll be a priest of God, a nation of priests. unto the Lord, a holy people that will show forth the glory of God. And what did the people say? All that the Lord says, we'll do. And God said, okay, great. Moses, hear the stipulations of this covenant, and God gives the Ten Commandments. But you remember what was happening the whole time all that was going on? On Mount Sinai, there was thundering, there was lightning, there was the sound of trumpets. And it was a very fearful, scary prospect. The people couldn't even go near Mount Sinai because God's presence was there at the top, and they couldn't even approach Mount Sinai. In fact, if even an animal got close, that animal had to be put to death. And so this was all showing that sinful men can't approach a holy God. And then you have even the tabernacle, and then later on the temple, even when God dwelt with his people, with his kind of glory. When the tabernacle was put right in the center of the camp, and all the other tents, the tribes were camped around that tabernacle, even when the Shekinah Gloria hovered above the tabernacle, still people couldn't go into that tabernacle when God's presence was there, because it was just God was holy. And even the priest, when he went into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement, Had to spend up s stay up all night confessing his sins, getting ready. It was a very fearful thing for him to come into the Holy of Holies. Because it could mean his very life if he had sin in his heart or in his life. And so when he entered in, he entered in with great fear. And so all of these things were what Jews were taught from the time that they could understand these concepts. They were brought up with this whole idea that we can't have access to a holy God But friend, I want to tell you all that changed. When did it change? It changed with the death of Jesus on the cross. And you know this as well as I do. That the moment that Christ died, the veil in the temple was torn from top to bottom, which shows that it wasn't the work of any man. That veil was about the width of a man's hand There's no way that a man could tear that veil, but it was God who tore the veil, which is a symbol of access to God. And write down this verse, you know it well. Hebrews 4:19. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. And then Hebrews ten, verse 19, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus. And so now we have access. What a blessing that we can come before a holy God. And friend, you say, well, You know, now we just we just kneel in prayer and we don't have a sense of his presence right now. Sometimes we do, but not the way we will one day when we get to heaven. You realize when you get to heaven, you're gonna have access You won't have to stand outside the gates. We will be right there in the presence of a holy God because we have access into his presence. What a blessing. So, and then also look at verse 2 where it says, and we wherein we stand in this grace. We're not working to earn God's favor. So that we can come into his presence. We stand in this grace. Grace is not our destination, it is our dwelling place. We stand in grace because of what Jesus has done for us. I heard a story about a little boy that wanted to go see the king. He went to Buckingham Palace and tried to get in the gates and he was seized by guards. He didn't know any better. And he was kind of hurt that he couldn't get in to see his king until a man dressed in a nice business suit came and said, What do you want, little boy? He said, I just want to come into the presence of my king. He said, Follow me And this man walked right past the guards, the guards all snapped to attention, saluted him. This man was the Prince of Wales, he was the king's son He could get them into the presence of the King. And friend, you know what? We can come into the presence of God the Father because of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. We have access. So we have peace with God. We have access. Write down number three. Here's the third one. We have hope in suffering. Notice the end of verse 2. It says, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulation also, knowing that tribulation works patience And patience experience and experience hope, and hope maketh not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. So we have hope in suffering. And really it says here that we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God at the end of verse The word rejoice here is a word that refers to a kind of a confident boast. It's a strong word that speaks of rejoicing at the highest level. And so we rejoice in this hope. And what? Hope of the glory of God. This is the glory is when we will experience what we will experience when we are there in the presence of God one day. And again, friend, if you're saved, all of us will die. But the good news is we're going to be in the glorious presence of God. And this is our hope as believers. Now, when we use the word hope today. The word hope that permeates our world today is a word that kind of means a wish or something that is uncertain that you want to happen, but you're not sure it's going to happen, but you really hope that it will happen. For example, I I hope the Ravens win the Super Bowl. Now somebody said that's a huge hope there. You don't have a whole you know, you know what? I here lately I'm my hopes are getting up here a little bit But I don't know if that's certain. I just hope that it'll happen. Uh, you know, people say, well I hope that so and so gets elected to this office, or I hope that You know, we'll I'll get that promotion there at work. And so really hope today is a wish or a maybe, and it conveys uncertainty. I'm not sure about this, but I just hope it happens But I want to tell you that is opposite of how the word is used in the New Testament. When we say hope today, it's uncertainty. But when you say hope, when it's used in the New Testament, it's absolutely opposite. It is a complete certainty. It is going to happen. In fact, right down Hebrews 6. 19, it says, hope is an anchor for our soul that is steadfast and sure. This hope that we have in the Bible is something that is so certain it's going to happen. You can anchor your soul to it. You can bank on this. This is going to happen. You know, this is the concept I think that gets overlooked. You know, the triads that we read about, faith, hope, and love. You know, we spend a lot of time talking about faith, and we spend a lot of time talking about love, but I think that we don't spend a lot of time talking about hope. In fact, uh in Romans, though did you know the whole book of Romans can kind of be divided this way Chapters 1 through 4, Paul emphasizes faith. In chapters 12 to 16 at the end of the book, he'll emphasize love, fulfilling the law. Love fulfills the law. But in chapters 5 to 8, really the theme is hope. And again, this hope is a certainty. And these chapters kind of revolve around that one central theme. And Paul begins in Romans 5 talking about hope, and he ends in Romans 8 talking about this hope. And this hope is the climax of our faith because it is the certainty, it is the complete confidence that one day we are going to share in the glory of heaven. When I say my hope is in heaven, I hope my my future hope is heaven, it doesn't mean that I'm hoping to go there, friend. I'm going there I know that I'm going to be there. It is a certainty. In fact, my soul is anchored to that certainty that I know that one day I'll be in heaven. I have this hope. And friend, you should have that hope as well Now, having this confidence then, knowing that this is true, that one day we're going to see Jesus, this one thing carries us through trials. It carries us through suffering that we have. Here on earth, having that hope. In fact, write down Romans eight eighteen. We're going to get there. I'm kind of getting a little forward here in Romans, but Romans eight eighteen says this I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us All of the sufferings, the difficulties that we have here now, that seem like they're heavy, that's nothing compared to the glory you're going to have. Really, the sufferings here are kind of featherweight compared to the heavy weight of glory that you're going to get one day when you get to heaven. God is going to pour out that glory upon us. And so we that is this hope, it is having this hope. That helps us to get through the present sufferings that we are going through right now. We're waiting for the full manifestation of the glory, everything that God has for us We don't really know what it is yet. God has revealed it little by little. And we get glimpses of it in the scripture. We hear about it. But friend, one day it's going to be fully revealed to us. And it's going to be wonderful. And that's what we're hoping for, that's what we're looking for. This glory that we're going to get one day in heaven, this future hope, this certainty, knowing all this helps me to make it through. the trials right now, knowing that that future glory is going to come. And notice again verse 3, and not only so, but we glory Now Paul says an amazing thing there in verse three. He says the believer rejoices not only in the glory to come, but we can rejoice in our present sufferings. Wow. Now wait a minute. You say, I can rejoice in our present suffering when it says glory in tribulation. Look at the word glory there. That's the same Greek word for rejoice in verse number two. Different English word, same Greek word. We can rejoice in our present sufferings. You say, man, I don't know of anyone who does that. You know, can we actually rejoice in our trials and our tribulations? Now that doesn't mean that we like what's happening to us. But when it means that we rejoice, we rejoice knowing what is going to happen in the future. We can rejoice knowing that these tribulations that we bear Is doing a work in us now. And of course, we know we have the certainty of heaven. We rejoice in that. But we even rejoice in the trials because what these trials do is it works in us patience here and now. And by the way, the word for patience, look again in verse 3 at the end, knowing that tribulation works patience This is the Greek word hypomone, which simply means perseverance, or we could say endurance. These tribulations, these sufferings. Paul says we can rejoice. Why? Because the tribulation produces a kind of character that has a greater capacity to help us rejoice about the future. And it works in us an endurance. Because no matter how severe or devastating our trials are, they can never take away the promise of our future glory. And it helps us to endure right here and now. In fact, the trial actually increases our glory in the future. Because I want to tell you something, friend, the greater the suffering now that you endure, the greater the glory one day. Suffering is always related to glory in the New Testament. So the bigger the cross that you bear now the bigger the crown that you will be able to cast at the feet of Jesus. The greater the groan here in this life on earth, the greater the glory one day when we get to heaven. So because of that, we can rejoice in the tribulation, knowing that it works patience, uh again, that's just this endurance. And but notice the next part what it says in verse four, and patience experience. That is patience brings about experience. So there's a chain reaction that comes with suffering. Suffering brings uh this this perseverance in us, a greater hope for the glory that we have. And then it brings patience. It helps us to endure. Patience brings experience. Look at the word experience there. The actual, let me give you the Greek word. It's the uh the word that actually means to be tried, to be approved, or to be put to a test for the purpose of being approved. It has the same sense of testing gold or silver, and that rem removes the impurities from the gold and silver. And so here's the idea. He's talking about proven character because my character becomes more proven when I endure the trial. So we could say it like this: that patience brings proven character, or perseverance, we could say, brings proven character. I go through the trial. I learn to persevere through the trial because I have my eyes focused on my future glory. And as I persevere, I'm character is built in me, and then I have this proven character in my own life. And that increases my godliness. This is all the process of sanctification. You see, mark this down. The road to maturity is paved through struggle, through difficulty, through suffering. Any growing saint of God has gone through these times. I mean, ask Abraham. He will point to Mount Moriah. Ask Jacob and he will point to a pillow or a pillow of stone in the wilderness. Ask Joseph, he'll point to an Egyptian prison. Ask the three Hebrew children, they'll point to a fiery furnace, and on we could go, all through the Bible. God has used trials and difficulties to mature his people. God's blessings are poured out from a bitter cup. Ray Stedman one time asked a nine-year-old boy what he wanted to be when he grew up. And the little boy said, I want to be a returned missionary. Think about that answer. He didn't want to just be a missionary. He wanted to be a returned missionary, which means he wanted to be a missionary that went through the fires, went through all the trials, stayed faithful, and returned. From the field having been faithful. That's a pretty wise answer for a nine year old boy. I want to be faithful. And friend, that's what happens when we endure there's this there's this uh proven character. And notice verse 4, and patience experience, and experience hope. That is, all this causes our hope, our certainty, to be even greater. To be even more secure. And notice what verse 5 says. And hope maketh not ashamed. That is, the word ashamed here is disappointment. We could say hope does not disappoint That is, we're not going to be disappointed one day when we go to heaven and we see all the things that God has for us there. This hope that we have, this certainty that we have, is not going to be disappointed. You know, you ever been you ever been promised something? And when the promise takes place, you're disappointed in that once you see it? You know, you're kind of deflated. What's the verse in Proverbs? It says, hope deferred makes the heart sick. When you have hopes and those hopes are not fully realized, you get heart sick. But let me tell you one thing that you'll never be disappointed in. You'll never be disappointed in your future hope of glory. That will never disappoint. And that's what Paul is telling us here. When the Queen of Sheba saw the glory of Solomon, she said, the half has not been told. And friend, one day when you get to heaven, you know what you're going to say? The half has not been told. I fully didn't grasp all that God has for us on this side. I love the story. Of uh when Adrian Rogers and Billy Graham went to the deathbed of the great Baptist preacher R. G. Lee. He was laying there, he was growing weak. They wanted to be there when the Lord called them home. He closed his eyes and they thought that that he had died. But after a few minutes, he roused And he opened his eyes. And according to Adrian Rogers, who tells the story, he called out and he said, Billy, are you there? Yes. Adrian, are you there? Yes. And he said, I want to tell you something. All the sermons that I preached on heaven, I didn't do it justice. He said, I saw it. I'm going there. And I didn't do it justice. I want to tell you something, friend. Your hopes will not be disappointed because of the future in the future glory that you have. And so what are the blessings? We have peace with God. We have access to God in verse 2. We have hope in suffering. And then here's the fourth thing: we have love in abundance. Look at again in verse 5. And hope maketh not ashamed. Because the love of God is shed abroad in our heart by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. We have peace with God, that deals with our past. We have access that deals with our present. We have hope of glory, that looks to the future. But someone might ask, but how do we know all these blessings will not someday dissolve? How do we know that we will not be disappointed? How do we know that that's true? And the answer is because all these things are grounded in One major thing, and you know what it is? God's abundant love. You know while I know that I have this future glory. I know that I won't be disappointed. You say, how do you know that? Because of the love of God. Because of his great love. To you and to me. That's the idea here. Look in verse 5 when it says, Because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given to us. This is how I know that I'm not going to be disappointed. Because this love will continue to be poured out into our hearts. And it's a picture of lavishness being constantly poured out. God doesn't give us his love just a drop here and a drop there He's constantly pouring out his love into us. And by the way, this is one of the ways that you know that you're a child of God. You know how you know? Because subjectively, you sense this love that God has for you Because the Holy Spirit communicates this to you. Again, this is how I know that I'm not going to be disappointed, that my hope is sure, all these things are real, and the way God communicates this to me is through the Holy Spirit inside of me who Constantly is lavishing this sense of God's love in my heart. I don't deserve it, but I sure do feel loved by God. You ever get that sense? You know, you ever you ever say, Lord, why are you so good to me? Why do you love me so much? And I sense this love being poured out Our hearts are filled to overflowing with this sense of God's love. And again, it's the Holy Spirit of God that communicates this to us. And so in those moments in prayer, we sense this. What does the Bible say in Galatians 4, 6? Because you're sons of God, God has sent forth. His Spirit, the Spirit of His Son, into your hearts, crying out at the Father. It is this Holy Spirit in our hearts that teaches us that we have this beautiful intimacy with God This love relationship with God our Father, so much so that we can say what? Have a Father. We can come to God on the most intimate terms using this phrase abba father and this is how we know that we're not going to be disappointed. There is This inward witness of the spirit that we have that constantly tells us and assures us Of God's love that we will not be disappointed in all the things that God has laid up, this future hope that we have We're reminded of it constantly because of the Holy Spirit. It is this subjective witness that says you are loved by the Father. He loves you. And he has many things laid up for you. But there's another thing that lets me know that I'm not going to be disappointed. What is it? Not only the inward witness of the Spirit, but also write down the outward work of the Savior. Look at verse 6. For when we were yet without strength, In due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man, some would dare to die. But God commended his love towards us and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know, another evidence that lets me know that I'm not going to be disappointed, not only the Holy Spirit that works inside of me and tells me I'm loved. But if you ever doubt God's love, if you ever doubt the fact that you'll be disappointed, just look at the cross. Look at what Jesus did for you on the cross. And when you look at the cross and see Christ, how could you ever think that when God promises you something, you'll be disappointed? Or that his promises, the hope that you have, will bring disappointment. No, Paul says, look, when we were without strength, in verse number six, this is the idea. We were powerless to earn our own salvation. We were powerless to please God. We were without strength to live a righteous life. And God knowing all this, what did He do to respond Look at verse 6. In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. And we were all ungodly. That's all us. When God saw us in our weakness, He saw us in this pitiful condition that we could do nothing to earn our own salvation or please him in any way with regard to eternal merit. In this state of weakness, God sent his son Jesus in due time, who died for the ungodly, and that's all of us And then it kind of says this in verse 7, Paul gives the argument in verse 7, for scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet per adventure for a good man some would even dare to die. Now think about this We don't really like to, you know, I don't see much of this going on in the world today. This is Paul's point, where one person is willing to die for another. Where one person will give their life for another. It happens at times, but it's very rare. And if it does happen What probably happens where a person is willing to die for a relatively good person, or someone who is relatively righteous. We can comprehend being willing to die for a good person, or being willing to die for a righteous person. But what we can't comprehend is that someone who would step forward and be willing to die for a wicked, ungodly person. I I I don't think I've ever seen that on a human level. Where someone said, you know what, I'll die For this ungodly person, a person on death row who is guilty of all kinds of horrid crimes, would someone be willing to step forward and die in that person's place? There's a story that comes out of the Revolutionary War of a faithful preacher by the name of Peter Miller, and he lived near a fellow who hated him intensely. And could say nothing good about him. He hated him because of his Christianity and his testimony. In fact, this man violently opposed This pastor Peter Miller. And he ridiculed him. And one day, this unbeliever, this man, was found guilty of treason. And he was sentenced to die. And when Peter Miller found out about this, he walked all the way to the place of where this man was going to be sentenced, and he pleaded with General George Washington. Leader of the revolutionary army, he pleaded with him to spare this man. And Washington listened to his arguments and he said, You know what? I don't think I can spare your friend. And Peter Miller said, friend, he's not my friend. He's my worst enemy. This guy hates me. And Washington was just completely overwhelmed by that. You mean you came all this way? And you argued for the life of someone who is your enemy? He said yes. And Washington couldn't believe that. He said, you know, that makes it different. The fact that you would do this. I'm inclined to spare this man. And in fact he did. George Washington pardoned this man and Peter Miller went to this man who was really right there on the scaffold ready to hang. And Peter Miller went with a pardon. But when this man saw him coming, he said, Oh, you come here to gloat in my destruction or my death. And Peter Miller said, Not at all. I came with your pardon. What a beautiful illustration of love. But friend, that's nothing compared to the fact of what we see. Look at verse 8, but God commended his love towards us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You see, he died for us. We were powerless. We were ungodly. We were sinners. We were enemies. And this is what Jesus did for us. Friend, that gives me assurance and evidence that I will not be ashamed. And so we have peace with God. We have access to God. We have hope and suffering. We have love and abundance. Communicated to us by the Holy Spirit of God and what Christ did for us. And here's the fifth thing. We have assurance of deliverance. Look at verse 9. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him Now if you were here Wednesday night, good night, it's already four minutes after. You guys are not listening fast enough tonight. I'm gonna wrap it up here. You know, if you were here with us Wednesday night, I told you about a rabbinical argument, and sometimes Paul will use this argument. Of course, we're studying Hebrews on Wednesday night. And the writer of Hebrews, which I think possibly could be Paul, uses this rabbinical argument to prove his point. What's the argument? It's called the light and heavy The Hebrew words call the homer, the lighter to the heavy or the lesser to the greater argument. And we see the same argument here. Look in verse 9, it starts out. Much more Much more. The argument is from the lighter to the heavy heavy heavier. In other words, it kind of goes like this. It's a legal term that they used. But it goes like this. If we get all these blessings because Christ died for us, what are we going to get now because he lives for us? Much more. We're going to get much more. If God did all this while we were his enemies, think about this. God did all of this when we were his enemies. Now, what's he going to do for us now that we're his friends? We're going to get a whole lot more. That's the idea here. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath. through him. And really in those two words there, much more. This contains limitless blessings that God has for us. We get so much more We have assurance of this deliverance. And then let me give you the last point quickly here. We have peace with God. We have access to Him. We have hope and suffering. We have love and abundance. We have assurance of our deliverance. But then here's the last one. We have joy in God. Look in verse 11. And not only so, but we also joy in God. through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. And Paul says we have this genuine joy in God that God gives us. The origin of this joy is the reality to know that we belong to God, and then the Holy the same Holy Spirit that sheds this love in our heart also gives us this joy And the object of our joy is God Himself. Our relationship to God Himself. Knowing Jesus Himself. That is our source of joy. So we have this wonderful joy now In the Lord, because of this beautiful, beautiful standing that we have in him. All these blessings And God says, you're not going to be disappointed with what I have for you in heaven. We get all this stuff right here and now. But then one day we're going to go and enjoy our future glory. And it's and it's wonderful. These are all the blessings of being justified, knowing Him. And so I want to ask you tonight. Is this where you are? Do you stand in this grace, as Paul said? Or you have this, do you have this absolute assurance in your heart that you're justified? And That you know that your sins have been forgiven. Because if that's your case, friend, you got all these blessings. All these wonderful blessings. And you know what? You need to think about this. Let these things carry you through the difficult times that we all experience. Let's bow for prayer tonight. We're out of time. I hope that you take these things to heart and remember these wonderful blessings and let this encourage you, my dear friend. Some of you here tonight might be going through a little bit of a dark time. Let these things encourage you. Remember that you have hope even in your suffering. And you have love and abundance because the Holy Spirit reminds you you're loved by the Father. You're his child. And you have assurance of blessing, God says, I have much more for you. I have a lot. I did a lot when you were my enemy, but now you're my friend. And I'm going to give you so much more. So, Father, let these blessings settle in our soul. The thought of these things, let them encourage us. Let it indeed be an anchor for us. Maybe that some folks here tonight need to hear these things. They need to be reminded of what all we have in Christ. Lord, we've heard these things before, but we need to be reminded continually because we live in a world that's bombarding us, our mind, our heart. And we live in difficulty and this sometimes tribulation in this world. But Lord, help us to be assured of this future hope, this hope of glory. May it carry us through Maybe you're here tonight and say, that's that's me. I I just need for God to give me his grace to carry me through and remind me about these things. Be reminded about this hope that I have. Let me say that's me, preacher. Would you pray for me tonight That God will remind me in my heart of these things. I'm going through trials. I need these things. God bless you, dear friends. Hands all over, several of you. I need to be reminded of this hope. This love and abundance, this joy in God. I've kind of forgotten that I need to be reminded. And so, Father, remind these truths again to these your precious saints. Encourage their hearts, Lord. Give them the grace that they need. And the strength that comes from these promises, these assurances. These blessings that we know are ours, Lord. May we tap into them. Help us not to go hungry, but to feed on these blessings. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.