I invite you this morning, please, to take your Bibles and open, please, for the book of 1 Kings. We have normally been studying Ephesians on Sunday morning, but this morning we're going to divert to an Old Testament book, 1 Kings chapter 3, and I want you to look at verse 16. And we're going to be giving you just a special Mother's Day sermon today, of course, because it is Mother's Day. And by the way, let me say happy Mother's Day to all the mothers that are here. We owe so much to mothers. Let's face it, without mothers, most of us wouldn't be here today. So you take God's word, look in chapter 3 and verses 16 to 28. I want to speak this morning about the heart of a true mother. And again, we're gathered to celebrate, I think, one of God's most precious gifts to the world, that is mothers. Motherhood is one of the clearest reflections of God's love that we'll ever encounter on earth. Mothers give, they endure, they sacrifice, they nurture, often in ways that no one ever sees. And so this morning as we celebrate mothers, we're going to be looking at a story, a surprising story in the Bible. This is a story that often gets attention because of the wisdom of King Solomon. But today we're going to focus on something deeper in the story, and that is the power of a mother's love. and how that can inspire us and challenge us. What does a mother's love look like? What does it act like? So to get the setting of this story really and the the the actual narrative that we're going to look at is from chapter three, verses sixteen on down to verse number 20 uh 28. But to really get the context of this the understanding the narrative, we have to get the context of the story. And it begins really earlier in chapter 3. Look at verse number four. In chapter three, Solomon is asking God for wisdom. Solomon is the new king of Israel and he knows that he's not equal to the challenge. How is he going to feel in the footsteps of his great father, King David? And to add to that, the nation of Israel was growing. There was a a baby boom during peacetime. Uh there was the uh former administration, the structure of the government was not sufficient for the needs of the nation. And so all of these things were coming down upon King Solomon How is he going to figure out how to rule this growing nation? He knows that he needs the help of God. So in first Kings chapter three, verse number four, it says, And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there For there was a great high place, a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. So King Solomon goes, he he ha gives a huge offering to the Lord, a thousand burnt offerings. That's a pretty big offering And he stays at that altar all night long, hoping to hear from God. And sure enough, God does come to him and God asks him the question, what should I give you? God knew that Solomon was asking something. In fact, God already knew what he was asking, but he asked the question, Solomon, what should I give you? And look down to verse number seven of 1 Kings chapter 3. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made my thy servant king instead of David my father. And I am but a little child, I know not how to go out and how to come in. Oh God. Now I'm the king instead of my father. I'm just a little child. The Hebrew there means just a little dependent child. I'm insignificant. I don't know how to go out and come in. That's the Hebrew idiom for leadership. David was a leader because he knew how to go out and come in. Joshua knew how to go out and come in. But here is Solomon and he says, I don't know how to lead. I don't know how to go out and come in. And so what does Solomon do? He asked God for something. Look in verse nine. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people that I may discern between good and and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people? Oh God, I need Wisdom from you. I need you to give me an understanding heart. I need you to to give me the ability to discern between right and wrong, between good and evil. And here is Solomon asking God for a divine wisdom. Well, God was pleased with that request because it tells us in verse number 12 that God gave Solomon a wise and discerning heart. Now, how do we know that Solomon had this wisdom? Well, right on the heels of this request, right on the heels of God saying, I'm granting you this wisdom, this is a test that Solomon is given. Does he really have the wisdom of God? And because we're going to see right here, this wisdom will be put to the test. This is what I call a maternal dilemma. Look at verse number 16. This is where our narrative picks up In verse 16, then came there two women that were harlots unto the king and stood before him. Here's a court trial. This is a record of the court trial that was placed before Solomon the judge And this case became a famous case in Israel. It was a legal dispute. It was as difficult as they come as far as legal disputes. Two mothers come before Solomon with this very difficult dilemma. We can call this the sad case of the switched babies. Two babies have been switched by one of these mothers. Both of these mothers were claiming the same child, and Solomon had to identify the real mother. And so first in this case we we could call this first woman the plaintiff, and she gives her side of the story. Look down in verse number 17. And the one woman said, O my Lord, I and this woman dwell in one house, and I was delivered of a child with her in the house. And it came to pass the third day after that I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also. And we were together, there was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house And this woman's child died in the night because she overlaid it, and she rose at midnight and took my son from beside me while thy handmaid slept and laid it in her bosom And laid her dead child in my bosom. And when I rose in the morning to give my child suck, behold it was dead. But when I had considered it in the morning, behold it was not my son which I did bear. So here this woman presents a very sad, very sad story indeed. Her testimony takes us to uh a place in Jerusalem where Evidently prostitution was ex was tolerated w according to the law. Uh it was against the the law of God, of course, but it apparently was tolerated here uh in this time. This is these two women engaged in what one commentator called the oldest profession in the world And the Bible by the way, the Bible has several stories about prostitutes and some where they've become convert converted with with True genuine faith. They become an example of God's mercy and grace. For example, Rahab, we heard about in Sunday school this morning, was a a wonderful example of true faith, and then later also a woman by the name of Tamar. But here we have these two women, and they live in the same house. And while living in the same house, one woman gives birth to a son. Three days later, the other woman also gives birth to a son. And there's no one else living in this house, just these two women. And one night That these two women went to sleep, went to bed just like they always did with their sons next to them. And the next morning, one mother woke and something horrible had happened. The baby at her side that she was going to breastfeed was dead. On closer examination in the morning light, she quickly realized that wait a minute, this was not her baby. Every mother knows her own child. And so this child was the child of the other woman. And then she began to put together what really happened, the terrible truth, that sometime during the night this other mother had carelessly rolled over on top of her son. and accidentally smothered him. It was an awful case of accidental death. Then overwhelmed with bitter grief and yet desperate presence of mind, this grieving mother switched babies in the darkness of night taking the living child unto her own bosom and leaving the other woman with the corpse. Maybe she did this just to avoid the disgrace of killing her own son. Maybe she was just so distraught over losing her own son that she couldn't fathom being childless. But nevertheless, she did this and then she lied about it And said that the living child was hers. And now we have the defendant in the case. The next woman speaks up. Look down in verse number 22. And the other woman said, Nay, but the living son is mine, and the dead son is thy son. And this said, No, but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son. And thus they spake before the king. So again, here the second woman, she interrupts, she gives her side of the story. After all, that's what happens at a trial. Wait a minute, here's my side. No, this is really my son. The dead son is hers. The living one mine And so what happens is the case kind of degenerates into a shouting match back and forth between these two mothers. You can imagine the emotion In that trial between these two that are trying to claim that the living son is theirs. There is very few things that provoke such deep emotions as a child custody battle Years ago, the Baltimore Sun reported a story of babies switched at birth, and the story caused such a backlash, it caused people to ask the question, how can this happen? And uh not to scare you or anything, but the statistics are startling. I was reading, did you know that there are 28,000 babies that get switched in hospitals every year? Some temporarily Very few permanently. That's one out of every four million births, according to Nicholas Webb, who is the vice president of a technology company down in Texas that is designing these little bracelets that you can put on babies so that you can identify the right baby with the right mother. And he says that this trans this translates to one mistake Every 1,000 transfers, he says that when a baby's in the hospital for about two days, there's normally about six transfers. That means taking the baby from the nursery to the mother. That normally happens about six times. And basically he says that There's a case sometimes of babies being switched. Now the good news is that most mistakes are fixed before the babies leave the hospital And now hospitals are taking extra measures to make sure that that terrible mistake does not happen. But the story that we have here is a story of switch babies. It wasn't accidental. It was intentional. And here are these two mothers arguing over this one child or these babies that were switched. And the Bible says thus they spake before the king. This is a very sad situation, and really it causes your heart to go out to all the people involved in this trial. Your heart goes out to the mother who who accidentally smothered her son. Your heart goes out to the mother who's Child was kidnapped and switched. Your heart goes out to King Solomon because now he has to discern who's lying and who's telling the truth. How is he going to do this? This is very difficult. Normally in a case like this you would have witnesses. In order to really to reach a verdict, the Bible says in Deuteronomy, a single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense that was committed. But in this case there are no eyewitnesses, just these two women alone at night, and now they come before the king with this case, and it's a she said versus she said How do you discern who's telling the truth? I mean, this is these are the most difficult things to determine. Parents, you know this. When you have one sibl sibling against the other, it's their word against the other. And you have to find out who's telling the truth. Teachers, sometimes you have to do this with students Pastors sometimes have to do this between husbands and wives that come to him with a case. Who's telling the truth? There are times when it seems like the only person who knows the truth is God. And we know he always knows the truth. But how will God or how will Solomon rather resolve this Again, there's no DNA testing, no hidden cameras. Which woman is telling the truth? Again, this is a serious test of the wisdom of Solomon. So did he have enough wisdom to discern who's telling the truth? Well notice what I call a masterful decision. Now Solomon, after listening to both of these women, in part of wisdom is having a discerning ear to really listen, and I think he listens not only to their words, I think he he listens to their attitudes, he reads their emotions, he reads their body languages. And he comes up with uh a summary, and look in verse number twenty-three. He kinda summarizes, then he said the king, then said the king, This one saith, This is my son that liveth and thy son is dead and the other said, Nay, but thy son is dead and my son is living. Again, he listens, he summarizes. all that he's heard, and then he comes up with his decision. Look down at verse number 24. And the king said, Bring me a sword. We can only imagine how this must have shocked everybody listening. You want what? Bring me a sword. This must have horrified the mothers. What is he going to do with that sword? What's a judge doing in a courtroom asking for a deadly weapon? What's he gonna do? And then the king gives the command in verse number 25, divide the child in half, and give one half to one, and half to the other. Now the people must have looked with absolute astonishment. And some were perhaps thinking, this is the wisdom that Solomon has. This is God's wisdom on him? Are you serious? By the way, did you know that it was common practice in ancient legal tradition When there was a dispute about property, if the king couldn't discern who was telling the truth, he would just take the whole property, divide it in half, give half to one, half to the other. Maybe some of the people are thinking, are you honestly going to treat that child like it's just property and divide the child in half and give half to one and half to another? Was he serious about killing this child? The people were probably thinking this is not wisdom, this is madness that King Solomon would do this. But you know what? There was a method to King Solomon's madness. The king never intended for this command to be executed. He was actually staging a little test He was fishing out who the real mother would be. So he's baiting a trap to see which woman had the genuine maternal love. Now he probably already knew He probably from listening to these women and reading their emotions and their body language, he probably already knew who the real mother was. But here's a test design to make public what he suspected in his heart. And his cruel judicial decision had its desired effect. Because what we see here As before Solomon could slam down the gavel on his decision, the heart of the true mother comes to surface. And this is what I want you to see here in this story. I want you to see what I call three powerful truths about a mother's love. That can inspire and challenge all of us. Here's the first one. Number one: a mother's love demonstrates compassion, not competition. Look at verse number 26. Then spake the woman. whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned upon her son Now here are these two women in this court trial, and they're rivals. They're each trying to win this case, competing back and forth. And when Solomon gives this verdict, the heart of the true mother comes into uh public display because the Bible says in verse twenty six, for her boughs yearn for her son. That's a King James Translation, let me kind of give it to you in a little bit more understandable way. Bows is a Hebrew word, which actually means compassion. A deep love began to come to the surface. And this is a Hebrew word that means a deep, deep compassion. One version reads, She was deeply stirred with compassion over her son. The Septuagint reads like this. I love this translation. Her motherly Instincts were deeply moved. From the depths of her soul, her maternal love was stirred, and you know what, it couldn't be hidden. To see the love of a mother. It was on display before all. No doubt King Solomon, along with all those that were present, could see this passion, this love. Coming out of this woman. And she's no longer concerned about simply winning this case. Her compassion overflowed Let me tell you something about a mother's love. It is rooted in compassion, a deep compassion. And a compassion, of course, is feeling for or feeling with Thank God for the compassion of a mother. Amen. Those of us that have been able to live and have the compassionate love of a mother, you know what? We're blessed. That is a reflection of the love of God. I remember when I was a child around five or six years old, and we lived down in South Baltimore, not far from the Inner Harbor and Federal Hill, and I was walking across the street next to my mother. And I I stumbled and I fell and I hit the cr edge of the curb. My right below my left eye, right on my cheek there, I just uh opened up a a gaping wound and blood was just gushing out everywhere And I honestly don't remember the pain that I felt when that happened. But the thing that I do remember is seeing the pain of my mother as she watched me go through that. And uh again, I don't I don't remember the pain. Uh it the what made an impression on me was my mother sitting down with me next next to me on the curb there and her just crying. with me over what had taken place. That's the compassion of a mother's love. A mother feels her child's pain. She rejoices in her child's victory. She grieves in their sorrows. Mothers are the ones who stay up all night when a child is sick. They're the ones who cheer the loudest at every school event. Not because of performance, but because of love. Many of us have seen or heard stories of mothers who endure hardship, work multiple jobs, just absolutely give themselves. for the good of their child. And today we say thank you to mothers for your compassion. For your compassion to us, But here's the second thing that we see in this story. A mother's love demonstrates compassion, not competition. But secondly, a mother's love chooses sacrifice, not selfishness. Look at the rest of what is written in verse 26. And she said, she's yearning with compassion, and then she says this, and she said, Oh my Lord! Give her the living child, and in no way, slay it. When Solomon in his wisdom suggested dividing the child, again this real mother's heart was immediately revealed. her maternal instincts took over. She would do anything to save her son, anything. She couldn't bear the thought of harm coming to him. Even if it meant that she had to give him up. For the rest of his life. She was willing to do that. She would rather tear her own heart out. If it meant saving her son. And so thus she cried out for the king. No, no, no, no, please don't slay the child. Give that child to her Here's this real mother willing to make any sacrifice necessary for the good of her son. Philip Riken wrote something wonderful in his commentary about this. He said the first mother made the kind of loving sacrifice that some women make when they put up a child for adoption. Unable to care for the child very well themselves, they are willing to suffer the loss of a son or daughter to give the child a better chance in life. Good fathers and mothers make similar sacrifices every day. Instead of doing what they want for themselves, they do what is best for their child. Again, that's the heart of a true mother, willing to sacrifice just for the good of that child, to give up their own rights. Years ago, a mother was making her way across the hills of South Wales. And as she was walking through those hills, she was holding a tiny baby in her arms, and suddenly she was overtaken by a blizzard. And she never reached her destination. When the blizzard subsided, Sirtrus found her body beneath a mound of snow But they discovered that before her death, she had taken off all of her outer garments and wrapped her baby, and then she had mounded herself over that child to keep the child warm. And what they had found was to their great surprise and joy that the child, the baby, was alive and well. She had given her life for her son. Years later, that child grew to be the prime minister of England. His name was David Lloyd George, and he became one of the greatest statesmen of England. But it was because of the love of this Mother, true sacrificial love. And again today we celebrate the sacrifices that mothers make daily on behalf of their children. A mother's love demonstrates compassion, not competition. A mother's love chooses sacrifice, not selfishness. But then here's the third thing that we see here. A mother's love seeks the best for her child, not for herself. Look again at the rest of verse number twenty-six. Then spake the woman whose uh whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned upon her son, and she said, Oh my lord, give her the living child, and in no ey slay it But notice the next rest of the verse. But the other, that is, the other mother, quote-unquote mother, said, Let it neither be mine nor thine, but divide it That's the false mother. She's willing to see the baby destroyed. Yeah, she probably thought when she heard that decree from Solomon, that's a good idea. Yeah, just divide that baby in half. Give give one part to me and one part to her. She wanted the stigma of the shame of her careless action removed. Somehow, the death of the other child would make her feel better. It would bring her some kind of twisted comfort for this other mother to lose her son as well. So in essence, she's saying, you know, uh, if my child died, at least she can't have hers. This is a false this false mother is a sadist. She gets enjoyment over the pain of another person's loss. She enjoys the idea that a baby will be slaughtered. It will make her life better. If it'll make her life better to see this baby slaughtered, well then that's all the better. She's the Old Testament Corella de Ville. Some of you that watch Walt Disney with your grandkids, remember the Corella de Ville? She's the mean woman that wanted to Take little puppies and skin their hide so that she can make a coat. Go watch the video. She had the spirit of an abortionist. If the slaughter of a child will make things better for me, then kill the child. Abortion is nothing less than child sacrifice to the God of self. And this mother, this false mother, all she's concerned about is herself. That's the kind of heart that can never be the heart of a true mother. But the true mother again, she says, Oh no, give her the living baby, just please don't kill him. And by the way, when she said that, she was risking the possibility of her own death because she was bearing false witness before a king. Which could bring, if it was fulfilling the letter of the law, it could ultimately bring death to her, but she didn't care about any of that. She didn't care about her own life All she cared about was that her son be saved. That he have a future. That he have a hope. You could say it like this. The prayer of this mother to an earthly king brought salvation to her son. And even so, mothers, your prayer to a heavenly king will bring salvation to your children. Because our God is a merciful God. praying for her child's salvation, teaching truth even when it's hard, letting go of the child when it's best for them so that they can thrive. You know, parenting is not about possessing children. It's about stewarding them. You know we only have them for a time. But we steward them and we point them to the truth. We point them to Jesus Christ so that they will walk all the days of their life in the ways of Christ. One of the most well-known early church fathers, Augustine, has uh had a godly mother We we call him today Saint Augustine. He wrote many books and he's the one who is uh famous for this the statement that we hear, our hearts are restless until they find rests in thee. People call him Saint Augustine, but he wasn't he wasn't a saint back then. Actually before he came to New Christ, he was a scoundrel. Uh he was an immoral man. Even though he was taught Christianity from a child by his mother, he ended up embracing a kind of religion called Menichaeism, which is kind of a Gnosticism where it's a a religion where you can really pretty much live any way you wanted to, fulfilling the lust of the flesh, and indeed that is how he lived his life And yet his mother Monica prayed all of the days of his life until he converted to faith in Christ. She she prayed for him through his adult years until finally One day he did eventually embrace Jesus Christ. If you ever uh visit Santa Monica, did you know that Santa Monica, California is named after Saint Monica or the mother of Augustine. And the people that were going to name it Santa Monica, there were actually two springs there called Sierra Springs, and they said that those springs uh are in the shape of the tears of Monica who prayed fervently for her son while he was living a wicked, ungodly life. And really the only reason we know anything about her is that because Augustine would later write about her in his book, The Confessions, and he says that the thing that brought him to Jesus Christ, the power that drew him to Christ, that God used. was the prayers of his mother. Moms, don't ever give up praying for your children. Don't ever give up praying for your children. Well, so we come now to Solomon's verdict. What does he decide to do? He saw the reaction of these women. He heard their words. He doesn't need to take a short recess to consider all the facts. He didn't need to pray over the matter. He didn't need to consult anyone else about what needed to be done because he knew the heart of a true mother when he saw it. So look down in verse number 27. Then the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no eye slay it. She is the mother thereof. God had indeed given Solomon the wisdom that he needed, the wisdom that God promised him in answer to his prayer. And uh, you know, this story then really is here in the Bible to confirm the fact that God does indeed give wisdom to us when we need it. And by the way, we need to take that home with us as well. If you're in a dilemma and you need the wisdom of God and you ask for it, guess what? He'll give it to you. Just like he gave to Solomon. And sometimes he'll do it in a way that is shocking to those around about because look at the response of the people. Which the king had judged, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to do judgment And as the people uh witnessed Solomon's verdict, their jaws dropped. They were absolutely astounded. Perhaps the look on their faces went from horror to joy. Maybe there were even some people there in that crowd that their eyes welled up in tears as they saw something beautiful happen, the real mother united with her son And they saw the wisdom of God on display. Justice had been done. The king had reached the right verdict. It seems so simple now. The true mother is the one who will do absolutely anything to save her child. And the word spread throughout the kingdom, don't mess with Solomon. The people marveled at his wisdom. I can't help but think that the heart of this false mother is like that of the devil. The devil is a liar and a thief. He seeks to kidnap your soul for his own purposes. He could care less if you were murdered. In fact, he prefers it. It would make him happy to see you slaughtered. He loves to see souls and children. aborted. But the heart of the true mother reflects the very heart of God. A heart that sacrifices. Just like Jesus did on the cross for us, who took all of our sins upon himself. He who knew no sin became sin for us. He died in our place. A heart full of compassion, the good shepherd who went out looking for the lost sheep, a heart that seeks out the good. Not for himself, but for others. Jesus left the glory of heaven. Jesus came to this sin-cursed earth because he wanted to become our means of salvation. He wanted to be our savior. This woman's love is a reflection of the love of God to all of us. Listen to Isaiah 66, verse number 13. As a mother comforts her children, so I will comfort you. You hear that? God comforts us. Just like a mother comforts her child. God is our comfort. Listen to Hosea 11. 3. I led them with the cords of compassion, with bands of love. I was like those who lift infants to their cheeks. I bent down to them and fed them. Again, this passage portrays God His motherly love, nurturing and caring love for his people. Listen to Isaiah 49, verse 15. Can a woman forget her nursing child? And not have compassion on the son of her womb, even if they forget, I will not forget you. That's what God says. I will not forget you. See, I have engraved you upon the palms of my hands. Remember this, God loves you. He will never forget you Just like a mother could never forget, could never not be compassionate towards her infant child, God will never cease to be compassionate for you. He will never forget you. God has engraven your name upon the palms of his hands. And so what does the heart of a true mother look like? It demonstrates compassion, not competition. It demonstrates or chooses rather sacrifice over selfishness, seeks the best for the child and not for herself. And so today, let us honor the mothers among us who live out this kind of godlike love. Because again, we've been blessed to be recipients of this. And let us also determine to To emulate those qualities in our own life. May we be compassionate to others. May we give a kind of a sacrificial, selfless love towards others. Let us give thanks to God Who also is the ultimate source of all of this love. All of this love reflects the love that God has for us. And today we give him praise. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for the gift of mothers. And how that their love often reflects your own heart. Father, help us all to love as they love, with sacrifice and compassion and selflessness. Teach us to live with that same heart. And Lord, help us by your Holy Spirit to live out this love So that the world can know Jesus Christ. May we live out the love of Christ to others. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never Trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior. I'm inviting you today to come to Him. Come to Him today. Right now, right where you are, right where you're seated, God can hear your prayers God loves you with an everlasting love. And that's why he sent his son Jesus to come to this earth to die for your sins. God is a holy God, he must judge sin. But he's a God of love and he doesn't want to judge you. So to satisfy his holiness and his love, he sent his son Jesus, who took all of your sins upon himself on the cross. God's holiness was satisfied when Jesus was punished for your sins. And now God's love is satisfied because salvation is a gift offered to you today. God's love is reaching out to you right now, offering you the gift of eternal life. If you'll Turn from your sin. That's called repentance. You turn from your sin. You turn towards Jesus Christ and reach out. That's called faith. Repentance and faith. If you reach out in faith and say, yes, I'm a sinner, Jesus, save me. Save me. God be merciful to me a sinner and save me. You can have your sins forgiven. You can have eternal life. You can experience the eternal love of God And friend, if you've never done that, I'm encouraging you to do that right now. Would you just pray right now, right where you are? God, be merciful to me, a sinner, save me And if you pray that, friend, please let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, again, thank you for this beautiful passage and how it reminds us of the love of a true mother. Help us, Lord, to again live out this kind of love each day in our life. And may we give thanks with all of our heart for our mothers and the gift of motherhood. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.