I want you to look at 2 Samuel chapter 9, and uh I want to talk to you tonight. Again, we're looking at the life of David. We've been looking at some principles that will help us to have the same kind of heart that David But tonight I want to talk to you about a concept that is so very important. In fact, I think it's the most important concept in all the Bible. Concept you cannot be right with God. It's really the basis of all of God's dealings with us. And without understanding this concept, you can't really have consistent victory. And you'll struggle with guilt. You'll lack joy. You may not serve the Lord with uh a great motivation if you don't really understand this one truth is One concept. And what am I referring to tonight? I'm referring to the grace of God. This is really the theme that we come to here in 2 Samuel 9. And not you know, grace is not some stuffy theological concept that Ivory Tower theologians kinda ponder over, you know. It is something that is practical It is something that is very real, something very beautiful, and it's the basis of our walk with God. Now we know that in the New Testament the grace of God is expounded upon in many places. The Apostle Paul talks about the grace of But who would have thought that one of the great messages of grace is tucked away here in the pages of 2 Samuel Chapter 9. David understands this and he applies it. And I want us to look at this because really what I want us to see here in chapter 9 is that David really is a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is a type of the greater son of David who is going to come. And also we're going to look at a character by the name of Mephibosheth, and you've probably heard That name before. So as we look at this story, what you're going to see are really some parallels. It's really a beautiful illustration of the salvation of God. Now, this incident that we're going to talk about happens really in the uh in the middle of David's reign. Sections in chapter eight, God gives David victory over his enemies. We're going to see in chapter ten, some enemies will rise up again. But really in chapter ten, it's kind of a continuation of chapter nine in that in chapter nine Mephiboshev receives the kindness of David, but in chapter 10, we're going to see what happens when people refuse the kindness of David. And so really it's kind of the continuation. But here in chapter 9, I want us to see six beautiful qualities of God's grace as it's illustrated. If you're taking notes, just write down number one Grace thinks about us. It thinks about us. Now, again, look in verse 1 of chapter 9, and David said, Is there yet any left of the house? Now again, at this point in David's reign, he has had victory. God's granted him victory. In fact, in chapter eight, verse six, it says the Lord preserved David. The word preserved there really is mean he gave him victory. Same phrase is used in chapter eight, verse six, and verse fourteen at the end of verse fourteen, and the Lord preserved David wherever he went. God has just given David one victory after another, triumph after triumph. He was able to bring the Ark of the Covenant into the city of Jerusalem that he conquered and made the his new capital city and the religious center of the world. So there's just one blessing after another. And David has rest from his enemies. But now here in chapter 9, verse 1, it's a time of Peace. David is just sitting on his throne and he's perhaps thinking about God's grace and kindness in his life. And he asks this one question, is there yet any that is left of Now when David asks this question, he's not directing it to anyone in particular. He's just thinking. You ever do that? You ever just think? And, you know, ask yourself questions. I wonder, you know, if I could do this, or I wonder, uh, you know, and you just ask yourself questions I think that's what David is doing here. He's pondering about this one thing. Is there any left of the house of Saul? Now when you read the first part of verse one, you think when that Wait a minute, why does he want to know who's left in Saul's house? Does he want to exterminate them? Because that was the characteristic of Eastern kings when they assumed the throne. They wanted to exter Three times. It's used here in verse one. Again in verse number three, it's used that and the king said, Is there not yet yet any of the house of Saul that I may show him? Notice He calls it the kindness of God. And then again, the word kindness is used in verse number seven. Again, this is a very important word. The Hebrew word kessed, and it's one of the most beautiful words in all of the Old Testament. And it normally points to God's loyal love, a love that will not fail. It is a a An unfailing love that will not let go. I think of the hymn when the hymn writer wrote, Oh love that will not let me go. That kind of summarizes this idea of testing And normally this word, when you come across the word in your in the King James Version, the word loving kindness, it's normally the Hebrew word Kesed. And let me tell you why, because when the King James translators came upon this Hebrew word of Kesed, they were trying to find an English word that was equivalent to kind of the capture what all of this word means. And they just couldn't find a word that would really capture the whole definition. And so they actually invented this word. And actually this is Miles Coverdale was the one who came up with this word, and he came up with the word loving kindness to try to embro embody in that English word a lot of what What this Hebrew word meant. It is a very weighty word. It's a very important word. It's a word that's used 30 times to describe God's love towards us. And the New Testament equivalent would be the word grace. This is grace. The psalmist said this thy loving kindness, kessing, is better than life. God's grace, God's love to us. Now this was a covenant word. And really when it was used in the Old Testament with respect to two people, it was describing the actions that Now let me tell you what I think is going on here is David. He's sitting on his throne. He's just thinking He's pondering. And I think he's thinking about a covenant that he made many years prior. What covenant was that? Well you probably Go back to First Samuel chapter 18. Let's just look quickly. Go back a few years in David's life and go to First Samuel chapter 18 and look down at verse Verse number three. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. Now what's interesting about the custom of a covenant between two people is some of the things that took place when two people entered into a covenant. And there's a book out called The Blood Covenant written many years ago by H. Clay Trumbull. And uh when a covenant was made between two people, there would be something interesting. There would be the sharing of persons, we could say. They would make an incision on their right wrists and the blood would flow. They would hold their wrists together, and the blood would mingle together, and that signified the mingling of souls. Together, the mingling of their life together. They became unified. They normally in this custom they would um they would drink a cup of wine as a token of their covenant together And so uh as one person said it was the cup and the cla the cut and the clasp and then the cup, you know, those three parts to it uh when that when a person made a covenant And then they would make an intentional scar. They would rub some kind of a soot or dirt into the wrist, hoping to make a scar so that they could remember Now there was also the sharing of persons. If you went into a covenant relationship, you would take off your coat, the other person would take off his garment, you would exchange garments. There was a sharing of possession, which signified if you ever need anything, I'll be there to help you. And then there was the sharing of protection. You would take your weapon, give it to your friend and he would take his weapon and he would give it to you. And so we see all these things happening here in chapter eighteen, where it says Jonathan and verse four stripped himself Now when these people entered into this relationship they had a new term for it and they were not a little bit of a called friends. Now we use the word friend so lightly, but in the Old Testament this meant something. The Bible says a man that has friends must show himself Friendly. And the Bible is called Abraham the friend of God. And so the treatment towards one another in this relationship was called Loving kindness. And so David enters into a covenant relationship with Jonathan. Jonathan, excuse me. And then later on, uh he'll make another promise in 1 Samuel chapter 20 Look at that in verse number 14. Just flip over there. They meet up again. And notice what Jonathan says in chapter 20, verse 14. And thou shalt not only, while I yet live, show me the Kindness of the Lord. See the word kindness there? Exact same word. Kessid. David, you'll show me Kessid. And there's a promise that David makes to John Jonathan. He promises him that he would show Jonathan's family kindness. If anything ever happened to Jonathan, David made a promise that he would show Kesset or kindness. To Jonathan. And that's grace. So I think that one day David is sit seated on the throne. There's quietness all around God has been blessed him abundantly. He has given him rest on every side. He's defeated his enemies. And David is sitting there, and I can't prove this. This is a Sanctified guess. And I think I'm right. I was wrong once before. It's happened. But I think it looks I think David looks down on his And he's thinking about that covenant that he made with Jonathan. And I think it causes him to ask this questioning. So what's the idea? David does not forget the covenant that he made with Jonathan. He remembers him He doesn't forget. What's the application for us? You know, Jesus thinks upon us. Jesus doesn't forget us. We're on his heart. You know why? We're in a covenant relationship with him. He hasn't forgotten that. And you know, you say, when was that covenant made? Long ago? In eternity past, theologians call it the covenant of redemption, when the Trinity met together, and each member of the Trinity agreed to do their part, their responsibility And this was the covenant of redemption. And Jesus agreed that he would go and He would be the sin bearer. He would shed his blood, as it were, for our sins. And on the cross, you could say that the blood of God and man mingle together Because Jesus was the God man. There's a sense in which God was making a covenant with man when Jesus died on the cross. And so uh Jesus I think that the nail-scarred hands of Jesus we're going to see in heaven one day. It's not an accident that he'll bear those scars because those are the marks Just write that in Isaiah 49, verse 15. Can a woman forget her child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? And then God says this, yea, they may forget, yet I Will not forget thee, says God. Behold, I have I have grated thee upon the palms of my hands. Thy walls are continually before me. And so what we learn here is that grace Thinks upon us. God thinks about us. Write down number two. Grace seeks us out. Seeks us out. Go back to chapter 9 and look in verse 10. two. And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Zyva, and when the servant whose name was Zyvah, and when they call had called unto him, unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Ziva? And he said, Thy servant is he. And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God unto him? And so David finds out that there's a servant of the house of Saul named Ziva, and David sends for him and he poses the same question. Isn't there anyone that I can show kindness to? I love where it says, just anyone. Not anyone qualified or anyone worthy Just anyone. And then Ziba kind of informs David, you know, perhaps with a twinge of warning in his voice, what he says to him, and he says at the end of verse 3, and Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan And um he's a crippled David. He has a son. And verse 4, he lives in a place Now, just like David is a picture of the Lord Jesus, and just like David entered into a covenant relationship. Jesus made a covenant and uh he spoke of that covenant, that covenant of redemption. Mephibosheth is a picture of the sinner. Uh he's a picture of us, you know who the Mephibishef is in this story? It's me. It's you. It's every sinner. You say, how does Mephiboshev picture the sinner? Well, think about this. First of all, he was born in a rejected family. He was a grandson of Saul, a son of Jonathan. What about Saul do we know in the story of David? Well he was rejected by God. And why did God reject Saul? Because of Saul's what? His disobedience. It was his disobedience that caused God to reject Saul. And so Mephibosheth now is part of this rejected family because of his father's sin. Think about this. Yeshef was supposed to reign as a as a prince. But now he's dethroned. You might say he is dethroned by disobedience. By the way, did you know that we were all intended to reign as king There was a problem in the Garden of Eden, however, that messed that up. Because of Atom's sin, all of us have been dethroned. We are born in a rejected family We're all in the fat in the family of Adam, and because of Adam's sin, we are all under condemnation. Which is the old saying, in Adam's fall we sinned all All of us are a part of Adam. When God looks upon the human race, he either sees people in Christ or in Adam. And that's the two groups. And all of us here that we used to be in Adam. Thank God we came to the Lord Jesus Christ, but all of us came from a rejected family. But also he was a cripple. It makes it clear in verse 3, also down to verse 13. It says he was lame on both of his feet, and so he he could not walk. And you know the story when Jonathan and Saul were killed in In battle, the nursery worker for Mephiboshev picked him up and ran. She thought that David, the new king, would want to kill him, and so as she's running away, she stumbles, she falls, she falls on Mephiboshev, his legs broke the ball. Was crippled by a fall. And by the way, again, we can say the same thing about us today. All of us are crippled by the fall of Adam. And you know You know what? A lost person uh now again we're we're saved now, thank God for that. So let me back up and should say those who don't know the Lord are still crippled by a fall. And they walk in displa Disobedience according to the course of this world. But here's another thing about Mephibosheth. He was far from the king. Where would where was he living? In Lodibar. Lodibar is It's far north, uh up and it's it's way far north of Jerusalem. It's a long way off. It's on the east side of the Jordan River. And so he's way Way far away in a very little obscure village. He's there hiding out. He's living living in obscurity because he he wants to be far from David. That's the way it is for many lost people today. They want to be far away from God. They don't want to be close to the Lord. They want to be banished from His presence because they really don't know that God really loves them and He wants to do good to them. But they don't know that. Just like Mephiboshev didn't know about David. He didn't know the kind of man David was. He just assumed that David wanted to kill him, and so he's Hiding out. And notice the place it's called Lodibar, the place of no pasture. You know, that's kind of a fitting description of this presence. world. There's no pasture, no place for the soul to be satisfied. There are people that are living far from God in this world. They're looking to be satisfied. Satisfied by the world's pleasures, but guess what? It doesn't satisfy. It just never will. He was far away from David Fearful of David, convinced that David wanted to hurt him. But what's David's response? What does he do? What is a Bible say? Verse 5. Then King David sent and fetched him out of the house of Macher, the son of Amiel, from Lodibar. Now I want you to notice that David goes after him. He doesn't say how bad crippled is he. He doesn't think that he could be useless. It didn't really matter the condition of Mephiboshev. You see, grace doesn't depend upon the recipient. Grace is unmerited favor. And so he sends for him. And also notice that David makes the first move. That's the grace of God. Lefiboshev couldn't come to David. David went to him and sought him out. Grace always takes the initiative. I want to tell you, if you're saved today, it's not because you took the initiative to go to God. It's because God took the initiative to come to you. The Bible says salvation is of the Lord. You know what Why we know that? Because the Bible says in Romans 3, there is none who seeks God. You know, the lost person in and of himself will not seek the Lord, just like Mephiboshev He wasn't seeking David. David was seeking after him. And David went after Mephiboshep, and Jesus came to this world coming after Sinners. The Bible says the Son of Man came to seek and to save that which was lost. So Grace thinks about us. Grace seeks us out. But I want you to write down number three, Grace grants us access Before the king. Look at verse 6. Now, when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face. And did him reverence. He's obviously in fear. I mean, can you imagine when he's in his house? All of a sudden the chariots of the king pull up And he find he probably is thinking, David has finally found me. He's going to kill me. The soldiers take him to Jerusalem, to the palace. He falls down prostrate before King David, he's probably thinking, uh, you know, the execution is coming. I'm gonna I'm gonna die here. But I want you to notice how grace acts towards the sinner. David calls his name personally. Look at verse 6. And David said, Mephibosheth Now think about that. Now David sent a servant a servant to bring him, but the servant stepped out of the way to make room for the king, and the king personally calls Mephibosheth. You know what I think this kind of speaks to me. No one is saved by a preacher or an evangelist. You know that? All the servant can do is bring the sinner into the presence of Christ. So I We can do. I don't have the power to save anyone. Neither does any preacher. But you know when a person is saved? When Christ calls your name personally and he says, Come to me. Just like Lazarus in the grave. Jesus said, Lazarus, come forth. And he came. And friend, that's salvation. He calls to Mephiboshev by name. Let me tell you something, friend. When you got I say God called out to you by name. He called you. Write down Isaiah forty-five, verse three. And I will give thee the treasures and the hidden riches and of secret Places that thou mayest know that I the Lord, which call thee by name, am the God of Israel. That's what grace does. And notice he speaks words of peace to him. Look what David says in verse 7. And David said unto him, Fear not, for I will I will surely show thee kindness. There's that word again. For Jonathan, thy father's sake. And there's a kindness in David's voice. There's a love. There's a compassion. There is this tender tone from the king. And I think that Methibishef can just hear it right off. Hear the words fear, not you ever notice in the Bible, when you see the words fear not, there's always a great promise that follows that. Fear not. I will surely show thee kindness. I will show you grace. This is in Emphatic in the Hebrew. God wants to share His grace with sinners. He wants to share His love. with sinners. And notice why. David asks for Jonathan's sake. Look again in verse 7. I will surely show thee kindness for whose sake? For Jonathan, thy father's Now David had never met Mephibosheth before this, yet he loved them. Why? Because of Jonathan's sake. Jonathan's sake, because of the covenant that he made. You know why God loves us for Jesus' sake? He loves us for Jesus' sake. Ephesians 4. 32, for we are forgiven for Jesus' sake, for Christ's sake. That's why God forgives us. That's why God God loves us. That's why God accepts us into the beloved. Just write down. Listen to Hebrews 13, 20. Now the God of peace that brought again the dead of the Our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant. You see, you know why God saves us from It was because of that covenant that Jesus made in the past. In the past, when Jesus said, I'm gonna be the redemption, I'm gonna shed my blood And so God the Father now saves sinners for Jesus' sake, because of the covenant that Jesus made. That's why And God is gathering through the world a redeemed people that throughout eternity will sing the praise of the Lord Jesus Christ. They will be The church gathered together. And I think the church is it will be God the Father's gift to the Son that they will sing the praise of Jesus all throughout eternity. And that is because of Jesus' Savior. God is calling out and saving people. And I want you to notice also David accepts Mephibosheth and his family. Look down again at verse 7. At the end where it says, Um I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul thy father, and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. By the way, this is mentioned four times. In case you missed it in verse 7, it's also in verse 10. He we bred it all the way at my table, verse 10, verse 11, same thing. Um as for Mephiboshev said the king, he shall eat at my table as one of the king's son. It's also mentioned again down in verse thirteen that Mephiboshef continually ate at the king's table. What a transformation for Mufibachev. Living in Lodibar, that poor place, and now all of a sudden he's living in fellowship with the king. He's at the king's palace. He's eating bread at the king's table continually. He's enjoying fellowship. I like what one person said, you know, when when Methubashef you know sat on a chair and And and pulled up to the table and the linen cloth covered his crippled legs. He looked like the rest of the king's sons. He looked no different. Has. And notice the response that Mephiboshev has in verse 8. And he bowed himself and he said, What is thy servant that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am? You know that's the right response to grace. It's just he's humbled, he's amazed, he's thankful, he bows himself, and he says, Who am I that I should deserve all of this? You ever say that? God's grace is so abundant in your life, and you say, Man, who am I that God would be so good to me? Why do I deserve this. So Grace thinks about us. Grace seeks us out. Grace grants us access before the King. But right down, number four, grace restores to us what we once lost. We see this again in verse 7 when he says, David says, I will restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father. This means all the farmlands that Saul personally privately owned that was probably taken when Saul died, all of that's going to be given back to Mephiboshev. This would have been the his inheritance that was lost, now that is going to be restored back to him. You know what salvation does? Jesus restores back to us everything sent He restores back to us and he gives us an inheritance. Did you know that you have an inheritance waiting for you in heaven? Did you know that you're rich people? You say, Oh, you haven't looked at my I'm not talking about that bank account. You have an inheritance. Ephesians 1:18, that the eyes of your understanding be enlightened, that you might know what is the hope of his calling and what is the riches of his of the glory of the inheritance in the saints, or his inheritance in the saints. That is, we are joint heirs with Christ. Did you understand that? He's an heir of God and we're joint heirs with him. So whatever God gives to Jesus, we partake in that, we share in that inheritance. I heard about a man who was sitting on a street corner, he was crying. Someone came up to him and said, What's wrong? He said, Well haven't you heard Rockefeller died? The man said, Well you're not related to Rockefeller. Why are you crying? He said, That's why I'm crying But you know, we don't need Rockefeller's inheritance. We share the inheritance of Christ. So Grace thinks about us, Grace seeks us, Grace grants us. access, grace restores to us what we lost, and then grace enriches us beyond measure. Look in verse nine. And then the king called to Zibos Saul's servant, and said unto him, I've given unto thy master's son all that pertaineth to Saul and to all his house. Shall till the land for him, thou shalt bring in the fruits that thy master son may have food to eat. But Mephibosheth thy master son shall eat bread always at my table. Now Bethu now Ziva had fifteen sons and twenty servants. And notice Mithubisheth now has all of this He has all of his inheritance back, and all the fruit of that he's going to receive. And if you ever wonder why it mentions how many sons the servant Ziva had, because the answer is In verse 12, because it says, look drop down to verse 12, and Mathibisheth had a young son whose name was Micah, and all the all that dwell in the house of Ziba were servants unto Methibishef. That's because all of them Belong to him now. All of the servants in the house, it was all his. This is grace upon grace. This is superabounding, overflowing grace. He just keeps getting more and more, and that's the way the grace of God is. I read about the English preacher Roland Hill. He once received 100 pounds from a generous man, and he was asked Well, Reverend Hill thought that to give them all at once, all 100 pounds at once, may have been So he decided to give him a little bit of a time. So he would give him five pounds with a note that said more to come. And the next day or a few days later he would give him five more pounds with a note. More to come. And he did the same thing the third day and the fourth day. And this preacher got excited because he knew that he was going to get more, more to come And so he loved reading that message, more to come. And that's the way it is with the grace of God. God will just give us grace, but you know what? There's more to come. God never runs Son, but delivered him up for us all. Will he not also freely give us all things? He just keeps giving his grace. You want one more? All right. Grace thinks about us. Grace seeks us out. Grace grants us access before the King. It restores to us what we lost. It enriches us beyond all measure. But here's the last one. Grace keeps us for the king's return. Keeps us for the king's King's return. Now really to understand this, we have to see the rest of the story. Because really the story about Mephiboshev doesn't really end here in chapter. Chapter 9. We have to fast forward to chapter 19. So just do that. Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 19 and look at the sequel Look what's going to happen. Now let me give you a little context about what's happening in chapter 19. At this point, David's son Absalom had rebelled. And you remember that part in David's life where he had to leave Jerusalem? He had to run for his life because of Absalom. So he's fleeing. Now Bath planned to go along with David, but Ziba. Saul's servant deceived him. And he left without him. He left Mithubishef behind. Here's his cripple. He can't make it on his own. And then Ziba later lied to King David, telling him That Mathibisheth stayed back because he was hoping to have his kingdom restored to him. So he lied to David about Mephibosheth. You know, you have to question his character's Ziva in the story. You ever wonder about him? If he was a man of such means, if he was such a loyal servant to Saul, how come he didn't just take care of Saul's grandson, the cripple? Already. And yet he's kind of a self-serving type person character. And so here he is slandering Bethibisheth to King David, hoping to take away the inheritance, maybe to get it for himself. And so that's what he does. Now David hastily gave Mephibosheth's land to Ziba. And now David is returning. God's given him victory He's coming back into his kingdom. And Lephibuseth goes out to meet David. And so look at verse 24. And the Phibish, the son of Saul, came down to meet the king, and he had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his His clothes from the day the king departed until the day he came again in peace. Now, really, this part of the story illustrates the believer who has really has received God's grace. And he's waiting faithfully for the return of the king. And really the appearance of Mephibosheth that we read about in verse 24, his appearance and his words demonstrate really his response to David's kindness. And really it reveals how God's grace keeps us for the return of Christ. And we notice in verse 24 that his whole appearance shows that he's totally loyal to David. That's what you really see here. You see, Gray Christ keeps us living in loyalty in the absence of our King, knowing that one day he's going to come back. And so Mephibosheth now in verse 24, he adopts the appearance of a mourner. Why? Because a usurper was on the throne and Mephibosheth couldn't enjoy all the all the ju all the joy, the frivolity that was was a part of the court of Absalom who had been so bad to David and had rejected David and drove him out of Jerusalem. Mephiboshev he can't accept that lifestyle He can't enter into those worldly pleasures. Why? Because of the way his king was treated. And he knew that one day his king was going to come back. And so really Mephibosheth's heart as being loyal to his king was Reflected in his lifestyle and in his appearance. That's the lesson I want you to get. Let me ask you a question. Does your lifestyle and appearance Reflect loyalty to your King Jesus. Because here with Mephiboshev it does. You see, right now our King Jesus, he's at From the earth, isn't he? And the usurper, the ruler of this world, is temporarily on the throne. But the day is coming when the usurper will be put down and Christ will return to rule but in his absence the fact that we have received his grace should cause us to live apart from the things of this We can't enjoy the things of this world. Why? A usurpers on the throne. And so we're going to conduct our life and our our appearance and our words in the way We live to show loyalty to King Jesus. That's what we learn here from Mithubishef. I think it must grieve our Lord when those upon whom He has poured out His grace live for worldly pleasures. As if Jesus were not coming back. But then notice grace also keeps us longing for his presence. So look down at verse number And it came to pass when he was come to Jerusalem, that is David, or to meet the king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me, Mephiboshev? And he answered, My Lord, O King, my servant deceived me. For thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass and I will ride thereon to go to the For all my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king. Yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table? What right therefore had Have I yet to cry any more unto the king? And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of the m of thy matters? I have said, Thou and Ziva divide the land And so when David realizes his mistake in giving Ziba the land, he says, You and Ziba, you sh you divide the land. Now scholars aren't really sure about what this means. Some think it means David restores the original agreement. Or maybe he said, You and Ziva, you split the land, you divide it up among yourself. Or this could be a text. Maybe David is Is testing Mephibosheth the way Solomon will later give the test to the two mothers claiming the same baby. But the important thing is the response of Mephibosheth. Look at verse 30. And Mephiboshef said unto the king, Yea, let him take all, for as much as my lord the king has come again in peace unto his own house. He said to the He said the thing that means the most to me is that you're back. That you came back. He didn't want the blood Blessing, he wanted the blesser. He wanted the presence of the king. Many years ago, there was a a ruler in Persia called Shah Abbas. And he loved his people so very much. And to understand them and his needs, he would sometimes mingle with them. And so sometimes he would just wear a disguise And just mingle among the people. And on one occasion he went as a poor man to the public baths, and he sat down next to a common man who tended the furnace there to keep the water Warm. And he talked with this man, and he shared the common food with this man. And day after day, week after week, he would come, and this man grew to love. This uh the shawl. He didn't know who he was, but he thought he was another commoner like him, and he grew to love him as a friend. And then one day the shawl revealed his truth And then he waited, and he expected the poor man to ask for some expensive gift. But the man just sat there gazing in awe. Finally he spoke. This is what he said, You left your palace and your glory to sit with me in this humble place to partake of my common food, to care about Me. He said, On others you may bestow great riches, but to me you have given me a much greater gift. You have given me yourself. And so he said Said, please, Your Majesty, never withdraw your priceless gift of friendship. Never withdraw that. And so a story like that causes me to ask myself, Am I after God for his gifts that he gives me? Or just the joy of knowing God Himself? God's grace should make us long. For his return, for the return of Christ, that we might see him face to face. Because the King Himself is our delight, not just the things that he gives us, the King Himself Is our delight. So let me review with you one more time. Grace thinks about us, Grace seeks us out, grants us Access before the King restores to us what we lost, enriches us beyond all measure, and keeps us for the King's return. Return. Grace Grace keeps us for the king's return. Let me just close with this. In nineteen eighty one, the California police Staced an intense search for a stolen car and the driver. They even placed announcements on radio stations in their attempt to contact the thief. Because on the front seat of the car sat a box of crackers that, unknown to the thief, were laced with poison. The reason that they were there on the front seat was the car owner had intended to use them as rat poison, as rat killer. He wanted to kill a bunch of rats. And so now the police and the car owner were more interested in apprehending the th Thief, not because they wanted to recover the car and put him in jail. They wanted to save his life. Like that thief, many people run From God, thinking that He is after them to punish them. But you know what? God is after them so that He can show them His grace. And his kindness and his love. So that they can know that Jesus bore the penalty for their sins. And if you haven't received Jesus today, that's why he's after you He wants to show you grace. Maybe you're here and you're already a Christian. You've forgotten about this grace. You've forgotten about the great grace of God. You still have been trying to earn his faith. Because it really hasn't you haven't understood this concept of God's Kesset, His grace in your life. Perhaps you've drifted into the world forgetting about His grace. His grace still seeks you to bring you back, to bless you, to enrich you, and to keep you for his return. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Lord, we thank you for the these beautiful stories in the Old Testament. That are so very rich because they illustrate to us New Testament truth. They illustrate to us truth about salvation. And in this beautiful story of David and Mithibosheth We see, Lord, a great illustration of your grace to us as sinners. Lord, we are the Mithibosheth in this story. We're the ones from a Rejected family, crippled by a fall, who wandered away from you, fearing you, not understanding you. And Lord, it was you and your grace that reached out And Lord, you have given us grace upon grace. You have enriched us. You have made us part of your family. You have Restore to us, Lord, that which we have lost. And Lord, even now, you're keeping us until the time that you come again. And Lord, when we think about this, Lord, let this grace motivate us Us to serve you, Lord, like we never have before. Let us think deeply about all the blessing we have in Christ. And Lord, let us say like the hymn writer who said, Oh to grace, how great a debtor. Daily, I'm constrained to be. May we all know that, Lord, we're debtors to your grace. And may Lord the grace that you have invested in us not be in us In vain, may we serve you with all of our hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.