Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter twenty. The Gospel of Matthew chapter twenty. And we're going to look at a parable here. We've been looking at parables for the last few weeks and parables are incredible, insightful stories that Jesus gives that teaches us spiritual truth. This morning we're going to look at this parable in chapter twenty, the parable of the laborers in the vineyard. Bill Borden was uh born with uh you might say with a silver spoon in his mouth. His parents were both descended from British aristocracy. His father made a fortune in real estate in Chicago and in the silver mines in Colorado. And you may have heard of the Borden Dairy factor or maybe seen uh some of the products there. That's where this comes from, the Borden family Bill was already worth a million dollars by the age of twenty-one. That was in nineteen oh eight. The equivalent worth today would be about forty million dollars. He was handsome, he was intelligent, he was well educated and popular. And in 1912, at the age of 25, Bill Borden did two things that made the headlines. First of all, he gave away his entire fortune. He gave half to the United States for God's work that was taking place in the United States, ministries in the United States, and he gave half to missions overseas. The second thing that he did was he chose to sail for missionary work among the Muslims. The first thing he had to do was he had to go to Egypt and learn Arabic, and then from there he was going to go to a remote part of China and there give his life as a missionary. Now, to many of his friends, and even to the public that read his story, all of his actions seemed to them to be very wasteful. Especially when after he got to Cairo and began to try to learn Arabic, after being there for a short while, he died of spinal meningitis. He had apparently thrown away his money, his career, even his life, to what end What made Bill Borden tick? I mean he had literally forsaken all to follow Christ. What will he get in return? What are what are the uh kind of returns on that type of investment? And then there's also the story of C. T. Studd. C. T. Studd was a famous English cricketeer on an English cricket team. Uh by the way, my British grandsons that are visiting with me, I took them to the Oriol game to show 'em what real baseball looks like this this week. Uh none of that British cricket stuff. Real baseball. But anyway, um, pray for the Orioles anyway. Um But anyway, getting beyond that He was a he was a famous athlete, and he gave away his vast wealth and became a missionary. This was a century ago. And his slogan was this, if Jesus Christ be God and die for me, then no sacrifice can be too great for me to make for him. C. T. Tudd, excuse me, C. T. Studd was a wealthy, nationally famous athlete. He put put all that aside. And he served Christ. And he disappeared into the mission field in in China and in India and then Africa. Lost from sight for thirteen years. They didn't know he were realists for thirteen years. Back in a time when communication was hard. Why did he do all that It was he who said, some people love to dwell near church with choir and steeple bell. But I want to run a rescue station a yard from the gates of hell. To the world, he was first, a famous athlete, wealthy, but he made himself last in the eyes of the world. What is he going to get in return? Well, these are the kind of questions that prompted Jesus to give this parable that we're going to look at here in Matthew chapter 20. Jesus gives this parable in response to a question asked to him by Peter. In fact, look at Matthew chapter 19, just back up to chapter 19, and look at verse number 27, and this is where Peter Asked the question. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all and follow thee. What shall we have therefore? And why did Peter ask this question? Well, because Peter had just listened in to the uh interaction that Jesus had between the rich young ruler and himself. You remember the story of the rich young ruler? He claimed to obey all of God's commandments, but when Jesus held up the mirror of the law in front of this guy and told him to give away all his wealth and follow him, he was unwilling to do that. Because the Bible says he had great possessions. Jesus said, sell all you have, give to the poor, follow me, and you'll have treasure in heaven But he was unwilling to do that. So he turned and he walked away. Now Peter, he heard all that and he walks up to Jesus and he says, Look, you know, we've done that. We have left all to follow you. What are we going to get? And the we there in that verse 27 is emphatic. In contrast to the rich young ruler, Jesus, he was unwilling to do all that, but we did. We left all to follow you. What are we going to get? And by the way, the disciples, some of them appeared to have been well off by the standards of their day up until the time they left all to follow Jesus. Five of them appear to have been doing well financially. Matthew was a tax collector Uh they made a good income back then. Peter, Andrew, James, and John, they all had prospering fishing businesses. Peter had his own boat. I mean if you were fishermen and you had your own boat, you were doing pretty good. In nineteen eighty nine when the water got low there at the Sea of Galilee, they uncovered a first century boat, a typical fisherman's boat back in that time, and uh they kind of you know, gingerly took it out of the water and you can see it on display there. I've seen it several times. And this boat is actually large enough to hold thousands of fish. If you had a boat like that, you were well off. So when Peter asked this question, it was a genuine question. Look, Lord, we left all to follow you. What what are we going to get? I mean what what's in this for us? So in response to this question, Jesus Gives Peter just three ideas here, three things. First of all, number one, the promise of rewards. Look at verse number 28, what Jesus said. And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, this is Matthew 19, 28. That ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Now the Lord's response to Peter was not one of rebuke. He didn't rebuke Peter for wanting rewards. It's not wrong to focus on eternal rewards or eternal blessings or to think about those things. There's nothing wrong with that. In fact, a few times Jesus tells us to do this when you're being persecuted, rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. Think about the reward that you're going to get through all of this. Jesus said, Don't lay up for yourselves treasure on earth where moss and rust corrupts, but lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven, where thieves do not break through and steal. And he says, you know, there you'll have reward. Jesus said, if you give a cup of cold water in my name, you will in now wise lose your reward. Nothing wrong with thinking about rewards. They're not demeaning bribes or incentive programs from a sales organization. These are appropriate rewards for a life that is pleasing to God. So Jesus directs Peter's attention to the millennial kingdom. Jesus clearly lets him know what the payoff is going to be. Look, anything that you give up here in this life, and by the way, you can't keep it here anyway. But anything you give up here in this life, it's going to be rewarded back to you a hundredfold in the time of the regeneration, or we could say in the millennium. There's no instant gratification. There's no immediate reward. There's no earthly glory or recognition or reward. We don't get it here. You understand that? This is not the time for rewards. This is not time for the recognition. It's not time for glory. This is the time for sacrifice, for service. But there's going to be a time when Christ will reign in his millennial kingdom. This is the millennial kingdom of Christ. If you don't believe in a millennium, if you're all millennial, this is not for you then. Because you think we're in the millennium right now, which we're not, but anyway. This is coming a literal kingdom. This is what Peter longed for. This is what the disciples longed for. Peter calls this the period of restoration of all things in Acts 3. 21. And Jesus said, Look, in that time to come, you will reign with me on thrones. You'll have positions of authority. You'll be rewarded in that time according to your faithfulness And your service to me right here and right now will have positions in Christ's kingdom. On what basis will this privilege be granted? Look in verse 29 of chapter 19. And everyone that hath forsaken houses or brethren or sisters or fathers or mother or wife or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit eternal, everlasting life And so here's the verse the Lord uses to establish the principle of rewards. Present sacrifice produces eternal privilege or eternal reward. The greater the sacrifice here, the greater the eternal rewards. Now the disciples didn't really seem to grasp this. They were alre always arguing over Who would be the greatest in the kingdom? But what they didn't realize is that in order to be great in the kingdom, that meant that you had to do greater sacrifice and even greater suffering in the present, right now, for the kingdom of God. For the Lord. And we see this in Matthew 20. Fast forward to Matthew 20, verse 20. Look at this real quick. I've referred to this several times in preaching, but This is a request from Jaton's and John's mother, then came unto him, that is Jesus, the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons, worshipping him, desiring a certain thing of him, and he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit the one on the right hand and the other on the left hand in thy kingdom. Again, she was thinking a literal kingdom, wasn't she? Verse twenty two. But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask Are you able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? They said unto him, we're able. No, you're not And he said unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup and be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give. But it shall be given to them to whom it is prepared of my Father. Look, what other words, what Jesus is saying here is that look, you guys, you have your mom ask me to give you a great seat at the table. You know, and by the way the other disciples got angry at that because they're trying to garner position in the kingdom and here they send their mother. to uh to Jesus to ask who can turn down a mom when she asks a request, right? The other disciples got mad, they were thinking, man, why didn't we think of that? And Jesus said, look, you don't know what you're asking. You're asking for great seats in the kingdom, for greatness in the kingdom, but don't you understand that really what you're asking is to suffer right now? That's what you're really asking. Because the greater the sacrifice, the greater the suffering and the service now, then The greater seat you'll have, the greater glory in the kingdom. You understand that? You're going to be baptized with can you be baptized with the same baptism that I'm baptized with? He just wasn't talking there about what her baptism was he. He was talking about the baptism, the immersion of suffering. that he was going to go through on the cross. They didn't know what they were asking. Aren't you don't you thank God for unanswered prayers? Sometimes we don't know what we ask when we pray. And so Jesus says, you know, yeah, one of these days you guys indeed will be baptized with suffering. That's for sure, if you're following me. But This is not my decision to make. This is going to be given of those of my Father. So they were always arguing over the kingdom. And Jesus sums it all up, however. Look at verse 30 of chapter 19. But many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be what? First. Now here's kind of a proverbial statement. It has a little bit of a riddle to it. And basically what he's saying is, look, if you want to be first in the kingdom, you've got to make yourself last here. If you're last here, you're going to be first in the kingdom. Right? If you're first here, then you're probably going to be last in the kingdom. And that's the whole idea here. The world, when they look at believers, especially believers that like Bill Borden and C. T. Studd And others who give up all, and they follow Christ to do his will, and to seek to glorify him, and they give up earthly riches, to them they count it as nothing that they might serve their Lord in the way that God has called them. People of the world look at them kind of those kind of folks and they say, you know what? They're last place, man. They're in last place. But you know what? In the kingdom, they're first. They're first. And the reason they did that was not because they wanted some kind of reward. They were doing that out of gratitude to their Lord. They served the Lord out of just sheer gratitude. So, this is the occasion that Jesus gives the parable. So, uh we we're going to look at this But again, the whole point here is that Jesus' answer to Peter's question, what's in it for me? Jesus' answer is, you know, more than you can possibly imagine, Peter. You can't hold on to any of this stuff anyway. And you're gonna trade all that in for something you can never lose. You you you have to give up what you cannot keep to gain what you cannot lose. That's the whole point. Many of you heard the name of Jim Elliott, the missionary to the Alka Indians, who was martyred in nineteen fifty-six. He was born in the nineteen hundreds in Portland, Oregon. He was handsome. He was y well uh brilliant. He uh w grew up in a Christian home. Uh they said that when he went to college he could do anything. He he really had those kind of gifts. He was He was handsome. They encouraged him to study acting and or pursue writing or public speaking. He was gifted and all those things. But he turned all of that down and he said, I'm going to follow the call of God for my life. Which was to be a missionary. He didn't want to involve him in any himself in anything or any positions that in any way were he felt displeasing to God. And after he left college with all the accolades, he turned away from all of that and said, I'm going to be a missionary. to the Alca Indians in Ecuador. These were a barbarous flesh-eating people. They were so savage that one out of every two in their own society died due to murder. And on January the 8th, 1956, at the age of 29, Jim Elliott and a small group of missionaries were brutally murdered by these Indians. Sometime later, Elizabeth Elliot, Jim Elliott's widow, was asked when uh she was giving an interview and the interview asked, you know, when did Jim die? And she said, well, he died when he was in high school. And they said, no, no, I mean when was he martyred? What didn't he die here? And she said, no, he died actually when he was in high school. It was when he was a teen, when all his friends and peers were living life and doing what felt good and some doing bad. Jim was in his room at his bedside on his knees with his Bible open and he died to his life that he might live and do what God wanted him to do. And it was his famous words that we quote that was penned in his journal when Jim Elliott wrote, he is no fool who gives up what he cannot keep to gain what he cannot lose. Maybe he learned that from this story here. Peter got his answer, but on the heels of this, Jesus gives, here's the third thing. We see the promise of rewards and the principle of rewards, but number three, here's the parable. The parable of rewards. So look at chapter twenty, look at verse one. For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder which went out early in the morning to hire laborers into his vineyard. And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. Like many of the Lord's parables, this plunges us into the daily life of ancient Israel. And the story is really not designed to teach us about labor management, but about rewards. The Lord wants us to think about the attitude of heart which we should have when we serve Him. The whole parable is about the right attitude in service to our God. And we could divide the parable really into two parts. There's the agreement of the workers, and then there's the argument over the wages. The agreement of the workers. Look in verse. Again, verse 1, here's a man, he's a householder. The word householder. Okay despotise, where we get the word despot. In other words, he was completely in charge over this whole household, which was a large household at that time. He ruled over all the large estate. And he went out early. This was real early. Normally the day started in Jewish society at 6 a. m. But he went out even earlier than that. Why? He wanted to hire laborers for his vineyard. Now grapes were the most important crops in all Israel, and the harvest time for grapes was around September, and when they got ripe, they had to get them out of there before the rainy season. And they had to store 'em up. If not, it would be a total loss. And so there was always a urgency to get the g get the grapes out, get them harvested quickly. When finally the harvest time came. And normally the owner of a household like this didn't have enough men to do that work at once. So what he would do is he would hire extra hands to do the labor. And if you wanted extra laborers, you would go down to the Agora or the town marketplace because every day in the morning there were men standing there. They were day laborers, they were waiting for an opportunity to work and get money. They were the comma kind of the on the low end of the scale as far as the laborers. Um they really didn't earn a lot. And uh you know sometimes they would give very little for the work that they did, but they were so desperate that they they had to have something. And so this man goes down in verse number two it says, And when he agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. So here these day laborers, he sees them at the marketplace early in the morning. And by the way, they're they kind of band together here. The reason is for the word agreed. It's symphonia where we get the word symphony. In other words, all these laborers, they all kind of got together and they kind of said, you know, here's our price. And they negotiated a contract. And they agreed, Symfano, we made an agreement, we made a contract, this is how much we are going to get paid for working in your vineyard for a day, which would be twelve hours. It was a denarius, and a denarius was a pretty good wage. A Roman soldier back then made it denarius. That would be equivalent to one day's pay for us today, somewhere around fifty dollars a day or a hundred fifty dollars And that was good. I mean, you know, honestly, they didn't really get that much in that day. And they would get paid at the end of the day. And God was particularly concerned about these kind of laborers because it says in Leviticus, you know, don't hold back the wages of a worker who works for you. Give him his wages at the end of a day. Don't keep them all night long because he sets his heart on it. And he's trying to take care of his family. So at the end of the day, you pay the laborer, and the Bible says that they had agreed for one denarius. They made a contract. I can just imagine these guys coming together saying we're not going to let anybody take advantage of us if we all bind together here and we all make an agreement. We'll all work together, all of us or none of us, we'll work for a denarius And the owner said, I agree for one denarius, you can all go into the vineyard and you can work. And I think these guys, as they went off into the vineyard, thought, good job. He's not going to take advantage of us. We are going to get a denarius for working. Well, notice verse number three, what takes place. And he went out about the third hour. Now the day begins at 6 a. m. The third hour is 9 a. m. So he ha he's got these laborers working at 6, but he still needs more help, so he goes out at 9. And in verse number four, or actually verse three, where it says, And he saw others standing idle in the marketplace, verse four, and he said unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard And whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way. Now there's a little difference here in the negotiation here. There isn't any negotiation. He goes back to the marketplace, he still needs more help. See some guys standing here and says, Look, you go and work in my vineyard, and I'll give you what I think is right. Now here these laborers, they're not negotiating for a price. They're just saying, okay, we'll trust you We'll trust your generosity. You just give us whatever you think is right. I mean at nine o'clock, I mean the time for them really to get labor for that whole day is kind of the the the window of opportunity is closing some. So they go. And they go for whatever the owner is going to give them. And the Bible says they just went into the vineyard. And then notice verse number five. And he went out about the sixth and ninth hour and did likewise. So again, He goes out again. He still needs more help. He goes out at the sixth hour and then the ninth hour. So, you know, he's going out at, you know, at twelve o'clock and then at three o'clock. He's still trying to find laborers because you know he still needs the help. And uh verse 6, and about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing idle and said unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? So now th this is the uh it says here at the eleventh hour that would be about five o'clock. Quentin times it's six o'clock. I mean why even hire these guys now? But he still needs more help, but he just happens to see these guys here at the marketplace. It's still late. I mean they only have one hour of of labor left. Now the the truth of the matter is at this point, uh to hire these guys for the last hour, they would probably be getting in the way more than helping at this point. I mean one hour and then quitting time And and he says to them, why are you here idle all day? Well, they weren't, you know, they were looking for for for labor. No one hired them. I mean they didn't stay in bed, they were there, they were waiting. But no one would hire him. Now, I kinda I could be wrong on this, but I kind of picture in my mind these were probably people that were not as strong and rigorous in their work. You can just look at 'em and see they were kind of weak, maybe old. Um, you know. It's like when we played football when I was a kid growing up and we choose sides, each had a captain. You always pick the best athletes first. And the guys that were left over, you know, they weren't as athletic. All right, come on on the team, you know, we'll we can use you too. You know. Well Here these guys, they probably were not really hardy laborers. And at this point, really, it's the owner being gracious to them. By giving them this opportunity just to work in the vineyard at this point. And look what he says to them in verse number seven. They said, because no man had hired us, he said to them, Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive. These guys couldn't believe their ears. Talk about gratitude. They probably ran all the way to the vineyard before the guy would change his mind. We gotta work one hour. We might not get much, but it's something at least we can have a little bit of bread for the family. And I look at this and it just makes me think, this is a gracious owner. This is a kind owner. He just wants to be good to these men. And again, I don't think he really needed them, but they needed him. So we have two groups of laborers here. We have the early risers. Who came first and they negotiated for a contract, and then we have the latecomers that simply said, we'll work. We're grateful for the opportunity, and we'll trust you to give us whatever you think is right. We're good with that. So The first group labored out of a sense of entitlement. They knew what they were getting. The last group had a whole different attitude for laboring. They labored because they were grateful to be in the vineyard They were just glad for the privilege of being able to work for that day, to be in the vineyard. The first group labored based on a contract. A contract is given based on mistrust That's the reason we have contracts because we can't trust anybody. The last group was based on the trust of the owner's goodness. They didn't negotiate for anything. They didn't sign anything. They just said, hey, we'll go work for you. And whatever you think is right, that's fine. We're just grateful for this opportunity. So we see the agreement of the workers. Here's the second part of the parable, the argument over the wages. Now look at verse number eight. It's It's six o'clock now, it's quitting time, verse eight. So when even was come, the Lord of the vineyard said unto his steward, Call the laborers and give them their hire. Watch the order, beginning from the last unto the first Now the owner is a good man. He knows the law of God. It says pay them before the sun goes down. So here we see the pay. He says, you know, call in all these labors, it says to a steward, and let's start with the last ones and then we'll work our way from the last to the first. Now you now in verse number nine, and when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a denarius. What They worked one hour and they got a denarius. They got a whole day's labor for one hour's work. You can imagine the shock that these men had that started first. They're in the back of the line. And words coming down the line. Guess what he gave those guys? Gave him a denarius, man. These guys are only here one hour. And the guys in the back of the line are thinking, wow, if he gave them a denarius for one hour, and we've been out there twelve hours We should get twelve denarius denarii. So look in verse number 10, what it says. I mean, but when the first came, they supposed that they should receive more. And they likewise received every minute a penny. In other words, they were thinking, man, we should get more. But when it finally got to them, they got a denarius. They got the same penny that everybody else got, even the ones that came the last hour. I mean, wow. This is where they start protesting in verse 11, and when they received it, they murmured against the good man of the house Murmur is, you know, grumbling. Instead of being humbly grateful, they were grumbly hateful. They were angry. They were murmuring at the owner, Oike Despot. The Lord of the vineyard, the one who's in charge. Why? Saying, look at verse twelve, saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal to us, which have borne the burden and the and heat of the day. How is this fair? I mean we've been out there, we've been working for twelve hours, and these guys come in here at the last minute. And, you know, work for one hour and you give them the same thing that you gave us? I mean, how is that fair? Notice verse 13. And he answered, and he said unto them, Friend, I do thee no wrong. Didest thou not agree with me for a penny? Hey, wait a minute. Remember the contract? We negotiated. Now you're looking at how I'm treating these other guys and now all of a sudden you want to renegotiate your contract. Sounds like NFL players to me. Comparing yourself to all the others and what others are getting paid. Not deserve more. If they're getting this, then I deserve this. You know. He says three things. This is what you agreed on. Remember that? I haven't done anything wrong. I mean y y y y you guys got together and you negotiated this and you made me agree to give you a denarius. Look at verse number 14. Take that that thine is and go thy way. That is, literally, take up in other words the the narrative is probably on a table, pick it up and go on your way. Just pick up your penny and get out of here. This is what you agreed on, and I will give unto the last, even as thou even as unto thee. And verse 15 is a key verse here. Look at what it says. And is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Can I do what I want to do with my own money? That is my privilege as the Oikoy despates, I can, as the Lord and the manager of this whole household, owner of this whole household, can I do what I want? Can I be good to someone if I want to be good to someone? This isn't according to fairness. I'm not treating these guys or you for that matter according to fairness because if you really want to get down to it Um, they didn't really deserve the d the denarii either. They got paid well. Normally a day laborer wouldn't get that. I'm not operating according to fairness. I'm operating according to the fact that I can do what I want and I can show my grace if I want to show it. I can be good to someone if I want to be good to someone. That's my privilege. That's what I can do. You don't have a right to be envious when I show goodness to others. Again in verse number 15. Where he says, Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with with mine own? Is thine eye evil because I am good? The problem is not me, the problem is you. You have the wrong heart attitude. I can do what I want. Let me tell you something about God. You probably already know. But I'm here to remind you about things you already know. God is sovereign. He can do what he wants when he wants. And you know what else about God? He's gracious. He's good. And we don't serve out of a mentality of what's in it for me. Or I don't need to negotiate a contract with the God who gave his son for me. I serve out of a heart of gratitude just for the privilege of being put in the vineyard. It doesn't matter what time of the day that I was put in there, I know this: that my God will graciously treat me and reward me according to his own goodness. And you can trust a God like that. That's the kind of God I want to work for. So there's a warning here that Jesus is giving, and in this Parable, it's a gentle rebuke to Peter and the rest of the disciples. It's a warning against a commercial spirit. A commercial spirit. Now, we can in a way understand the response of the twelve hour laborers. You know, wages earned should be corresponding to work done. We get that, but the kingdom economics are very different. God's economics are very different. In the kingdom, we're not working for wages. If you're working for wages, you might not get what God, a gracious God, would give you. you if your motive is in it for what is in it for me how much better just to say Lord I owe you all I owe you all, and I just want to serve you because of what you've done for me. And if you choose to give me whatever, that's up to you. I'm serving because you're worthy. Of my service, you're worthy of my awe, you're worthy of my devotion. I mean, remember this is the issue that Satan brought up. Remember when Satan came to God in the book of Job? And God said, If you considered my servant Job, you've targeted my servant Job. He's a good man. He hates evil. And the Satan said, Oh, he only serves you because of all the rewards. Look at all the things you've given him. I mean, look at him. He's rich for crying out loud That's why he serves you because all the stuff you give him. He's in it for rewards. He's in it for wages. You take away all that or you let me take it away, and he'll curse you. God said, you think so? Alright. I'll let you take it away from it. Let's see what happens. So in this divine contest, whose integrity is at stake here? It's God. Also, didn't know if Joe's faith is real, but really the whole question is this: Is God worthy of our worship and devotion and service based upon who He is? Not just because of the things that he gives us, even though he's so gracious. And you know the story, the devil took away his His his wealth took away his family, took it all away. And the Bible says Job Fell down to the ground, tore his clothes. His wife even said, curse God and die. What did Job say? The Lord gives. And the Lord takes away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. What was Job saying? God's worthy of my service. Even though I don't understand this, even though I'm going through this, God is worthy to be worshipped and served just because of who He is. We don't do it out of a commercial spirit. But also there's a danger of a competitive spirit here. The disciples were always comparing, always competing with each other. Right up until the time of the Last Supper, they were still arguing. Right before the Last Supper, who would be the greatest in the kingdom? And Jesus, I think, was dealing with this competitive spirit and saying, look, don't worry about how I treat others. You just do what I've called you to do. You know, that's it. Once a man was driving with his friend through his friend's hometown, and he became bewildered at an intersection because there was a confusing array of signals and lights, and he said to his friend, I'm confused, I don't know what to do. And his friend said, Look There are your signals. Just obey your signals and forget about the rest of them. That was good advice. You know what? I have to obey the signals that God has given me and not worry about the signals He's given others. You know, I wish I could evangelize like Billy Graham or preach like Charles Spurgeon or I would love to pray like George Mueller or have theological brilliance like B. B. Warfield. I don't have any of those things, but I do have some signals that God has given me and I have to be faithful to that. God hasn't called me to be anyone else but just what he called me to be. And I just have to faithfully serve the Lord and obey the signals he's given me out of love and gratitude for Him saving a sinner like me. That's it. Obey the signals. But then there's a danger of a complaining spirit. They complained. They murmured. Because you see, when you start looking at what God's doing at others, suddenly you feel like you deserve more. And you know what? You already have more than you deserve. You and I, we already have more than we deserve. So why do you serve the Lord? Why do I serve the Lord? What's our motive in it? We're not hirelings. We don't serve for wages. We are children delighting in the fact that God has called us out. And that we can even be in the vineyard, that we can even have the privilege of serving in his vineyard. That in itself is enough, but on top of that, to know that anything that we give up here or sacrifice here for the kingdom of God, anytime we make ourselves last, God is going to make us first. in the kingdom. God will graciously reward us for anything we do for his behalf or for the kingdom of God. And so let's call it what it is. It's a privilege. To serve Jesus. It's a privilege to be used with Him because of what He's done for us. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we are humbled and we are grateful. That you saved us, Lord, by your grace. That we have the privilege of being selected to labor in the vineyard Just to give back a little bit. There's no way we could ever repay you, Lord, for what you've done for us. And Lord, we're not looking for wages. We're not negotiating a contract. We're not arguing to be great in the kingdom. We humbly Skip and run to the vineyard with a grateful heart, thanking you, Lord, that we get this privilege. Lord, banish from us ever the attitude of what's in it for me? We already have more than we could ever possibly Dream. We have so much waiting for us in the kingdom of God. So many blessings. Deliver us from a commercial spirit. Deliver us from a competitive spirit. Deliver us from a complaining spirit. And with joy, Lord, may we invest our life in the kingdom of God. That is the greatest thing that we could ever do. Help us to get busy, Lord. You've done so much for us. You've blessed us so much. Thank you, Father. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you quickly Are you in the kingdom of God? Do you have you trusted Christ? Because friend, that's the first step right there. To make sure you know Jesus. He came and died for you. All of your sins was placed on Christ on the cross. God's wrath fell on Christ. Should have fallen upon me. It should have fallen upon you for our sin. But Jesus was our substitute. And he bore the wrath of God. And he paid the debt of sin. And now he reaches out to you and offers salvation as a gift if you'll turn to him Turn from this world and turn to Christ and say, Yes, Jesus, save me. And if you're not saved, would you be willing to pray that prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I am a sinner and I know that you died for me. Please, please come into my heart Lord, I repent, I turn to you. Save me. And friend, the Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast Passed out. Father, save souls, strengthen the body of Christ. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen