Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter two. We continue our study in the book of Ephesians chapter two. And would you stand for the reading of God's word? We want to read the first three verses with you. Matthew. Ephesians chapter two verse one. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world. According to the Prince of the Power of the Air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, among whom also we had our conversation in times past and the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, thank you for the privilege of worship, the opportunity we have to go to your word, your inspired word So Lord, would you please help us as we study Scripture today? Lord, we know that in and of ourselves we can't understand this unless the Spirit of God illuminates us and helps us. So Lord Take your word and open our eyes that we might behold wonderful things out of it. For your honor and your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A few years ago, there was an article in the New York Times titled Why Doctors So Often Get It Wrong. And he gave a story of a four-year-old boy who was misdiagnosed, and a doctor gave him chemotherapy when he shouldn't have and he almost killed the boy. It also gives a story of a little girl named Isabel who was diagnosed with chicken pox. Only when her organs began shutting down did her doctors realize that she had a potentially flesh-eating bacteria infection. Isabel's father was so shaken by the experience that he quit his financial job and he opened up a a uh a company that was uh designed to help fight misdiagnosis. You would think that today with all of the testing and all of the technology that we have, that misdiagnosis is something that is rare. Uh but you would be wrong. There's an article in the Journal of American Medical Association that said that basically misdiagnosis is killing thousands every year. And the article called this a medical crisis of misdiagnosis. The most important job of a doctor is to make the correct diagnosis. Why? Well, because if you don't get the diagnosis correct, you're not going to get the right medicine, right? You're not going to get the right solution. And so diagnosing the problem is so very important. Now there's a spiritual crisis with regard to misdiagnosis. It's a greater crisis, if you ask me. It is a misdiagnosis of man's condition today. A physical misdiagnosis can cause you to lose your body, but a spiritual misdiagnosis can cause you to lose your soul. If we don't get the correct diagnosis, we will never turn to the right solution. And I'm speaking spiritually here. That's why our passage is so crucial to understand. There are so-called experts today, like psychologists and psychiatrists and philosophers and even preachers that are giving the wrong spiritual diagnosis as to the problem of man today. Everybody has their own theory or idea as to what the world's problem is or what man's problem is. So what's the correct diagnosis? And Paul's going to tell us that here in Ephesians chapter 2. Now, before we get there, let me again just remind you of where we are in our study of Ephesians. Paul begins chapter one of Ephesians with a doxology. He's giving praise to God who blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places. From verses three down to verse fourteen is the longest sentence in the Bible where Paul is describing all the blessings that we have in Christ. And it's really according to the Trinity. God the Father adopts us, he accepts us in the beloved. The Son redeems us with his blood. He forgives us for our sins. He makes known to us the mystery of his will. And the Holy Spirit seals us until the day of redemption. And so this is why we give praise to God. God the Father selects us. God the Son saves us. God the Holy Spirit seals us. And then in verses 15 down to verse 23, Paul is giving a prayer. And what is his prayer? His prayer is that God will open the eyes of our understanding so that all of us together can comprehend all of the treasure of blessings that we have in Christ. We need to understand that. We need to see that. We need to understand the glory of his calling. uh the hope of his calling and the glory of his inheritance in the saints. We need to understand that we are connected to Christ. That That the fullness of the church is the fullness of Christ, that He's the head and word of body, and all of the blessings and power in Christ are available to us, the church, as well. And so Paul reveals all of this. Why? Because this should lead us all to give praise to God for his marvelous grace in our life. But Paul knew that we would never praise and glorify God as we should if we lose sight of the depths of sin from which God saved us. We will not be filled with gratitude for our salvation until we understand what we were. So in chapter two here in Ephesians Paul wants us to remember our past. He wants us to remember what we were before Jesus Christ. He wants us to remember the Lord rescued us from judgment. And Paul, by doing this, is showing us what lost man is like outside of Christ. All who are outside of Christ, what is their diagnosis? And so he tells us this in chapter two, verses one to three. All those who are outside of Christ are dead, they are depraved, sinners before a holy God. And so I want us to examine these verses here today. Why? Well, because we need to remember what God saved us from. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, maybe it's because you don't realize how desperately you need him. And the world today doesn't really realize that because they really don't understand what sin is. I mean sin is not a popular subject, right? The world doesn't talk about sin anymore. It talks about sickness or illness. You don't need to repent, according to the world. You just need to get up. You need to go to therapy. To take care of whatever hang up you have. But that's not what the Bible says. The problem with man is sin. And so We're going to examine these verses together, but before I do, let me just say a word to those of you that grew up in a church or like me were saved at a relatively young age. You may have not had really a wicked task. You never used illegal drugs, you never were immoral, you never had uh you know did any of those bad things that you know others do. Uh you may not have come to Christ because you saw that you were a wretch I know in my spiritual experience the understanding of the wretchedness of my sinful condition didn't really come to me Before salvation, I don't get me wrong, I knew that I was a sinner. I knew I wanted Jesus. I knew that. But as I study God's word more and more, it shines into my heart and it shows me what a sinner I truly am. Before God. I've come to understand that my outward circumstances kept me from all manner of evil. My father was saved when I was 14 years old. And so I I followed in his footsteps. We started coming here to grace. I again I knew I needed Jesus as my Savior. I knew I was a sinner. I didn't realize to the depths of what that was. And because I was somewhat young, uh I never really got into you you might say some of the big sins of the world. I was I was raised in a decent home where my parents taught me to to do what was right. I I never used drugs. I never smoked or drank alcohol. But if I had not been saved at that time in my life, I can guarantee you I would have gotten off into all those things. And I would have gone down a wicked path. Why? Because my heart is corrupt. Because I have a sin nature. And in this text, Paul begins by describing the past sinfulness of Gentiles who are now believers. Look what he says in verse 1 where he says, And you have he quickened. This is he's referring to Gentile believers here. But just so some religious Jews don't smugly think, I'm glad I would have never done those things because after all I'm religious. I I would have never done those terrible things. Well, Paul includes himself and all Jews in verse 3 when he uses the word we. He says this, among whom also we all had our conversation in times past. So even if you have a relatively clean past, God wants you to see yourself in the mirror of God's word, and he wants you to know how desperately sinful we all are. Before God. And so you say, why is that important for me to see this? So that you'll be on guard against the deadly power of indwelling sin in your life. You'll be on guard with that. And so that you'll thank God every day for saving you from eternal hell, which is the consequences of sin, saving you by the grace of God. So I want you to see Paul's diagnosis of men. All those who are outside of Christ, first of all, they're spiritually dead. Look again at verse 1. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In the King James Version here where it says, hath he quickened, notice that the words are italicized. That means they were added by the translators. So that wasn't really a part of the Greek text. Now, Paul will talk later in verse number five about being quickened, about God giving us life. But Paul's main point here in the opening verse is to emphasize man's spiritual condition. The U is plural. The you is emphatic. You were dead in trespasses and sins. All sinners without Christ are spiritually dead. We're not talking about physical death, we're talking about spiritual death. A person is not physically dead without Christ, but they are spiritually dead. They can still walk around, they can talk, they can breathe, they can still think and reason, you know. But they're still spiritually dead. They're not intellectually dead, again, because they can think. Again, they can have knowledge, they can reason. But they are spiritually dead. They are walking around like the walking dead. Baltimore is filled with dead people. They're walking all around, but they're dead. They're dead spiritually. And that's what Paul's talking about. That is their condition. Paul expresses this idea in 1 Timothy 5. 6 when he said, But she that lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. There's a lot of people out there living in pleasure, but they're dead while they live. They're spiritually dead. What's the cause of this death? How does it occur? Again in verse 1. And you have he quickened who were dead in what? In trespasses and sin. Trespass means to fall, to stumble, to deviate, to go in the wrong direction, sin to miss the mark. The mark is God's holy standard. Sin is what's causing man's spiritual death And again, the world doesn't like to talk about sin today. It's rarely mentioned as the problem of man. In fact, man's wisdom boasts that it can solve all of man's problems without God. And man's wisdom says that man can correctly diagnose the problem. And that's why, you know, you have all these counselors out there trying to help people. when they go to them for counseling. By the way, when you go to counseling, you're going to get one or four approaches when you go to counseling. First is the Freudian approach. And Sigmund Freud basically says that the problem of a man is guilt. Freud believed that guilt must be eliminated through self-analysis. And our struggle basically is to strengt is to transcend the stifling codes of moral standards that someone has given us. And that's why we have guilt, because we can't live up to that standard. And so what we have to do is we have to lower the standard. So according to Freud, man's basic problem is that the standards are too high, and the solution is we have to lower the standard. And we have to just be who we are. And then there's another s uh philosopher that comes behind him named B. S. Skinner who says, the problem with man today is he's a victim of his environment. And the reason that man is bad is because the environment is bad, but if you change the environment, that's the solution. Then man will change. So the problem, bad environment, solution, change the environment. And then there's another approach to counseling, and that is by Carl Rogers, who says the problem with man is that he needs encouragement and motivation. The solution, therefore, is to motivate man, to encourage him. But what does the great physician say? What does God say about all that? Here's the fourth approach. And we find it really in the very first book of the Bible, because if you go to the book of Genesis, you don't have to do it now, but you can do it later. In Genesis chapter 3 And if you read from the very beginning, that the problem with man was not that his standards were too high, because God only gave him one standard, and what was that? Don't eat fruit off of that one tree. I think I can handle that. Don't eat fruit off that one tree. You got all these other trees, but this one tree? And why did God make that one rule? To make men morally accountable to God. The problem was not that his standards were too high. And the problem was not that he was a victim of his environment because what kind of environment did Adam have? He had the perfect environment. He was in the Garden of Eden. And the problem with name was not that he lacked encouragement or motivation because God walked and talked with Adam every day. I can't think of a greater encouragement than that. To have the presence of God. You see, the problem with man was that he sinned against God. And all the problems of mankind have come from that one thing. And this is what Paul says, you were dead because of trespasses and sins. The problem with man is that Adam fell in the garden and he missed God's standard. And Paul said in Romans 5. 12, wherefore by as one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And sin brought death. It brought spiritual death. And in time, physical death. But society today says there's no such thing as sin. And they laugh and scoff at the idea of sin. And Satan loves that. He does all that he can to undermine the necessity of the cross. He works overtime to get us to ignore what the Puritans call the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And sadly, even many modern churches clay that claim to be biblical, they minimize sin. And some of them simply avoid the word. They prefer to focus on the positive aspects of the gospel. But let me tell you something, dear friend. There's no need for the gospel if you're not a sinner. And like I said, if you don't understand the diagnosis correctly, if you don't understand the problem, you're not going to get to the right solution. We all want to talk about all the good news, the good news. Listen, there's no such thing as good news if there is no bad news. And the bad news is that man is a sinner. God the Father sent his Son Jesus into the cross not to help us feel better about ourself or to give us therapy. He came to deliver us from our sins. But notice the condition of spiritual death. We see the cause of it. What is the condition? You know, how does you know what does the Bible describe when it says spiritual death? What is it getting at? When is a person considered dead physically? Let me ask you that. It might surprise you to know that there's some disagreement on this in the medical world. I was reading about this this week. Some say a person is dead when their heart stops functioning. But with the development of the heart-lung machine, this definition is kind of inadequate. The machine is able to keep the blood flowing, and the vital signs functioning artificially, and so thus the person kind of remains alive even though their heart may have stopped. They're still being kept alive. Therefore a person is not necessarily dead when their heart stops functioning. Others define death on the basis of a non-functioning brain, a condition determined by a series of tests by EEG. And this checks the response to internal stimuli and tests the nervous system. In other words, when the brain stops functioning, a person is dead. And that is the generally accepted view of death today. And when I read that, I thought, you know, this definition has a striking parallel to spiritual death. Because you know what spiritual death is? First of all, spiritual death means the inability to reason about spiritual matters. The inability to reason about spiritual matters, when a person is unable to grasp spiritual truth That is why when Jesus during his earthly ministry he spoke to some people and they didn't get it. Jesus said this in John 8. 43. He said, Why do you not understand what I'm saying? Is it because you don't hear my word? Well, obviously they could hear them. They weren't deaf, but they could not grasp, they could not understand spiritual truth. Why? They were spiritually dead and they couldn't reason about spiritual matters because of that. Paul also said the same thing. In 1 Corinthians 2. 14, he said, the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God. That's why I can preach here all I want to, but unless God opens your ears for you to hear it, you're not going to get it. God has to make you alive. You have to get it spiritually. And that's what death is like. It's the natural man who lacks the capacity to understand spiritual truth. Why? Because his heart is darkened. Paul also said in 2 Corinthians 4. 4. That and talking about the unbeliever, that the God of the this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not, that the light of the glorious gospel of Christ can't penetrate, appear unto them And so it's the inability to reason, but also spiritual death means the inability to respond to spiritual stimuli. Physical death is marked by the inability to respond. What physical action can a physically dead man do? Nothing. There's nothing he can do. You know, the corpse doesn't hear the conversation going on at the funeral parlor. There's no outward stimuli that that that can cause them to have any response And the question is, what spiritual work can a spiritually dead person do? And again, the answer is none. The inner man of the unsaved person does not respond to spiritual things. His spiritual faculties are dead. There's no spiritual work that they can do. There's nothing that they can do until God first acts. It has to be God. When Adam fell in the Garden of Eden, he wasn't just wounded spiritually, he died spiritually. And so therefore there's no spiritual action that Adam could do to help himself. All those born of Adam are likewise spiritually dead. The unbeliever is not sick, he's dead. He doesn't need resuscitation, he needs resurrection That's why the gospel is all of the grace of God. Death speaks of inability. Until God first draws us to Christ, there is nothing that we can do. You understand that? John said this in 1 John 4. 19, we love him because he first loved us. It has to be God first It has to be his grace. Jesus said this in John 6. 44. No man can come to me except the Father which has sent me. Draw him, and I will raise him up in the last days. And so in case people missed it, John also repeats what Jesus said in John six, sixty-five. And he said, Therefore I say unto you, that no man can come unto me except it were given unto him of my Father. Those who are spiritually dead can do nothing until God, in his grace, draws them unto himself It has to be God who does it first. That's spiritually being spiritually dead. But here's the second thing is Paul diagnoses the problem in men. Not only is he spiritually dead, but he's satanically disobedient. Look at verse two. Wherein in time past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience. And Paul points to two contributing factors of man's spiritual condition. Two times we see the expression according to There are two reference points that man uses, the lost man uses as he walks in this world. When Paul says the word walk, he's talking about your daily life, your practical life. What is the reference point for a lost man who lives in this world day by day? Well, he walks according to the world. This is what we were before Christ. The ever-changing world was our reference point. And how does the Bible define the world? Listen to what John wrote in 1 John 2. 15. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. We're commanded not to love the world. Now when John uses the word world there, he's not talking about the planet, all right? We're to love what God gave us in the planet. Uh don't get me wrong, I'm not a tree hugger, but I love God's creation. He's not talking about the planet, he's not talking about the people, because we're to love the people in the world. But when he uses the word world here, he's talking about a philosophy. The Greek word is cosmos, an arrangement. We're talking about an arrangement of ideas that is out of harmony with God, an arrangement of ideas, a philosophy or a system that makes you act independently of God. It replaces God. That's what the world seeks to do. to replace God with things itself. And so a person who walks according to the world walks and lives as if there is no God. He acts independently of God. He puts himself on the throne of his heart. He's not walking according to what God wants, he's walking according to the world. All that the world can give him, all the things of the world, it's a selfish pursuit John went on to say the lust all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eyes and the pride of life is not of the Father. That's all of the world. That's all a system of selfishness for you're living for all the things for yourself Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, pride of life. The focus is how to get get ahead in this world. But also a lost man walks according to the devil. Again in verse 2, according to the prince of the power of the air The spirit that now works in the children of disobedience. Satan is in charge of the world system. And he's the one who energizes this whole system. And Paul is saying, look, the lost man walks according to the prince of the power of the air. It is his spirit that is working in what he calls the children of disobedience. He's saying Satan is actively working in and through unbelievers to accomplish his purposes, and so those that are lost walk according to what the devil wants. Not according to what God wants. And it's all summed up under the word disobedience. And notice what Paul says at the end of verse 2. Um where he says this, in times past you walked. This is what you were in the past. This should not characterize you today. No believer is a child of disobedience. We're children of obedience. That is the pattern of our life now. But before salvation, we were children of disobedience. And here's the third thing We're spiritually dead, satanically disobedient, but here's number three, sinfully depraved. Verse three, among whom also we all had our conversation in time pass. And the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others Again, Paul uses the word we, includes himself. This is what we were before Christ. We were slaves to our flesh. We were slaves to the desires of our flesh. In fact, man is born with this sinful nature. That's why he says we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. We we sin because it's our nature to do it. A sin doesn't make a sinner. A sinner makes a sin. You know, I can bark, but it doesn't make me a dog. A bark doesn't make a dog, a dog makes a bark. Why? It's the nature of the dog coming out. And sin is our nature. David said, Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin did my mother conceive me. You see, the heart of the human problem is the problem of the human heart. It is to pray. Did you ever notice you don't have to teach a child to do what's wrong? They kind of pick up on that naturally. I mean they they get that. I know some of you are thinking, well, you don't know my grandchild, my little angel grandchild, my little my little rosebud Well let me tell you something. And you say, you know, I don't want you to say or do anything to warp my little rosebud's character. Well let me tell you this. If you don't give your little rosebud discipline, they'll bloom into an idiot. You say, why would you say that? Well, that's such a mean thing to say. Listen to what the Bible says. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him. We got these child psychologists today to tell us, you know, look, just let them be who they are. If if if little junior wants to solve it, dining room table leg off. Make sure you give them a sh a sharp saw so you don't frustrate the little guy. You know, that sort of thing. You just gotta let them develop Don't believe that lie, beloved. The Bible says the rod and the reproof give wisdom. But listen to this: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. You leave a child on their own, you let them develop without discipline, without correction, and the Bible says they'll bring you shame. Why? Because we have this sin nature And we are in bondage to that sin nature. You don't believe me, try this experiment. Take ten toddlers, put them in a circle, put one beautiful, bright, shiny toy in the middle, and see what happens. Child psychologists don't understand this in nature. They think that every child is born like a car and neutral. They can go one way or the other. They have no disposition towards bad or no disposition towards good. They're kind of in neutral and we just have to just Show them the right way so that they'll put you know they'll go forward in the right way. No, you don't understand. The Bible says this. You weren't born in neutral. You were born with the gear shift in reverse. Everyone is born headed in the wrong direction. Your disposition was is not in neutral. All of us have a disposition towards evil because of the sin nature. You understand that? That's the problem. People say, well, my free will, I have a free will. Yeah, the only problem with your free will is that it's in bondage. You have a free will, but it's a limited free will. You see, there's something higher than your will, and that is your desires. And you always do according to the thing that you desire the most. You ever notice that people just do what they want to do? You ever notice that? They do what they want to do. And your desire has control over your will. In fact, your will is in bondage to your desires This is what Paul said when he said this, in times past, you walked according to the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And we're by nature children of wrath. You walked according to your desires, and your desires were corrupt because you have a sin nature. You are a child of wrath. So your will is in bondage to your desires. And you need to understand that. So let me let me illustrate it to you this way Let's just suppose that you're you're in a you're in a big prison cell with it with the the the gate locked. And in that cell, you're free to do a lot of stuff. You're free to take a nap, you're free to exercise, you're free to read a book, you're free to do whatever you can. In that cell, you're free to do whatever you want. But there's one thing that you're not free to do, and that is get out. You're not free to get out. Someone on the outside has to open that door before you can get out. That's your free will. You have free will, all right. But the problem is that your free will doesn't go against the prison of desire. That Prison is your desires that have you in prison. Someone on the outside has to open that door and change your desires. And that is what the grace of God. That's God who does that. You have to have a compulsion. That is different, you see. And so that's what salvation is. So here's the diagnosis. Lost man without Christ is spiritually dead, he's satanically disobedient, he's sinfully depraved. He's in bondage to all of his desires. You say, well, what hope is there? Well look in verse 4. But God. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us. You see, it's the grace of God that makes us alive. It is the grace of God that gives us resurrection to life. That's the whole point. One of the greatest illustrations of salvation, I think, can be found in the words to the hymn written by Charles Wesley, the hymn, And Can It Be That I Should Gain? This was written in 1738. It was written to celebrate his conversion. On May 21, 1738, Charles Wesley was relaxing in the home of a friend of his, a man by the name of John Bray. And early in the morning he heard a voice saying, In the name of Jesus, arise and believe. And he was wondering where that voice came from. And the voice was Brace's sister, who was talking in her sleep. And she said those words. Charles got out of bed. He opened his Bible and he read from it. But he was so convicted by what he heard that voice say, a conviction that he said he never felt before. And he read God's word and he began to read in Ephesians chapter 2. And he came to put his faith In Jesus Christ, in the grace of God for salvation. And then he wrote this in his journal: I have found myself at peace with God and rejoice in the hope of the love of Christ. And soon after that he wrote the hymn. And there's one particular verse in this hymn, I think, that describes salvation perfectly. It kind of really summarizes what Paul is saying here in Ephesians chapter 2. Long my imprisoned spirit lay, fast bound in sin and nature's night. That's what we are before Christ Fastbound in sin. We're in nature's night. We're in darkness. And then he goes on to write, thine eye diffused a quickening ray. There's the life-giving power. There's the life-giving grace of God. And he poetically describes it. Thine eye, God, your eye diffused a life-giving rain. I woke The dungeon flamed with light, my chains fell off, my heart was free. I rose, went forth, and followed thee. That's salvation, dear friend We're all in that dungeon. We're all in chains. In darkness. Until God in His grace diffuses a life-giving ray to us. And we resurrect, and now the chains fall off, and now we are free to follow our Lord. And so the diagnosis for man is that he is a sinner. He's dead in sin. And the only solution for man is salvation through Jesus Christ. The only solution for man is God's grace. Salvation is a spiritual resurrection to life. Where we have to depend upon Christ and Christ alone. Let's bow for prayer together. And friend, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Christ Say, what can I do? All you can do is cry out to mercy for God for his grace. That's what we do. That's all we can do. Said like this the man in the parable that Jesus gave: God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. By your grace, give me spiritual life. And friend, if you've never come to the cross for life, for a spiritual resurrection The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. The very fact that your ears are open to hear this truth and that you have a desire to come, that's God working in you right now. God saying to you, Come to me, come. I want to give you life. I want to forgive you for your sins. If you've never done that right now, would you do it right there where you are in your seat? Say, Lord Jesus, please save my soul. Give me the spiritual resurrection that I need. Change my inner dispositions. Give me grace, Lord. Free me from the prison of my own fleshly selfish desires, so that I can serve you. Be no longer a child of wrath. Friend, pray that, and God will save you. And if you're here today and you know that you're saved, just Paul's whole goal in Ephesians 1 is that we should praise God for the glory of his grace. Just give him praise and thanksgiving for the wonderful salvation he's given you. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.