All right, good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please? Open to the Old Testament Book of Zechariah. As you know, on Wednesday night we're studying this book of the Bible. And hopefully you're getting some insight about this. You've probably never been through a series in this Old Testament book. It's uh largely ignored, but it has a lot of great prophecy in it. And we've been looking at eight night visions that Zechariah the prophet had and how it related to the people of Israel at that time and how it relates to us as well. And uh tonight we're going to look at chapter 5, and we're going to look at verses, well, we're going to actually look at the whole chapter. And chapter 5, actually, what we see are two of the visions that Zechariah had. This will be vision number 6 and vision number 7. And this these visions, let me just tell you up front, have to do with the what I call the rise of Babylon. The rise of Babylon. Now, what is that and and uh what does it have to do with us here today? That's the big question. Well did you know that modern men is asking more questions about the future than ever before because of some of the events that are going on? People just seem to have more of an interest. Recent events have deepened that interest. And many are wondering what does Bible prophecy have to say about some of the things that are taking place in our world today? Not too long ago, Time magazine ran a cover article entitled Apocalypse Now, and the cover read this, The Bible and the Apocalypse, Why More Americans Are Reading and Talking About the End of the World. People just seem to have more of an interest in that and what the Bible has to say. Now, there's a lot of different signposts in the Bible that point to the fact that we are living in the last days. Some men who are much smarter than I, prophecy experts, have talked about these signposts. March Mark Hitchcock talked about seven signs or indicators. that we're living in the last days. And one of the indicators that he mentioned, he said this, he said Iraq will remain in the news as a major player in world politics. And so that's very interesting. He said, you know, looking at the Bible and what the Bible has to say about Bible prophecy, here's one thing to look for. That Iraq will be a key figure in the last days. Now, modern Iraq is ancient Babylon, that empire of Babylon, right? In fact, Charles Dyer, another prophecy expert, wrote a book on this. And he said that there are three major signposts mentioned in the Bible that indicate that we're kind of living in the last days. And he mentioned these three signposts. Number one, the rebirth of Israel as a nation. And we saw that. We know about that, right? Israel became a nation again, uh the the nation born in a day, fulfilling Bible prophecy. Then the revived Roman Empire, that is the European countries will come together and unite together. And of course we've seen that. uh the euro now is the official single currency in in most of the countries there in in Europe and uh you know you have countries joining and countries dropping out and it we're it's still not yet you know revealed what that's going to look like. But one of the things we know is the Bible talks about this revival of the the ancient Roman Empire or the uniting together of these European countries. And the third signpost that he mentioned was the rebuilding of Babylon. And again, Babylon is modern Iraq. Now, if you look in Revelation chapter 17 and chapter 18, what you see described there is the fall of Babylon. And the Bible makes a you know two chapters speaking about this. This is a monumental event when Babylon falls And if you follow the chronology of the Book of Revelation and you're literal in the chronology of it, you would have to say that this is going to take place when the Lord Jesus Christ comes again, Babylon will be destroyed. Which means that if it's going to be destroyed, then it would have to mean it was something a force to be reckoned with. Now This is if you take the Bible literally with regard to Babylon. Now many scholars and Bible teachers have identified Babylon as something other than a literal city. The dominant view is that the Babylon in the book of Revelation, chapters 17 and 18, represents Rome and the Vatican. They believe that's what Babylon is talking about. Um however if you take the Bible and you interpret it literally, um and by the way, if you've been in my 945 Sunday school class, you've heard me talk about this a lot, and I know I'm sound like I'm beating a dead horse here, but Just bear with me as I beat this horse a little bit more tonight. But I I I think, you know, y if you take the Bible and you interpret it literally And not use an allegorizing or spiritualizing approach to scripture like some people do. Some take some take Old Testament prophecies, they interpret some of those Old Testament prophecies literally, and then the other prophecies they interpret allegorically or spirit or spiritualize them. But if you're consistent in your hermeneutics and you interpret literally these Old Testament prophecies, then you would have to say that this is not uh symbolizing something other. There's no deeper meaning to it. Um that Babylon in the book of Revelation 17 and 18 is talking about that city and that country of Iraq. Now again, some people look at it and they they say it's a symbol for something else. This goes all the way back to the Reformation when some of the reformers taking some of the hermeneutics of Augustine, the the father of all millennialism, and were willing to set aside their literal interpretation and adopt a more spiritualized interpretation, and they concluded that The uh Revelation 17 and 18 is a battle against the Roman Catholic Church and the Pope. Because you remember the Reformers in their day, that's who they were battling with. And so they kind of took the battle that they were in and kind of saw that in the book of Revelation, chapter 17 and chapter 18. And this view has dominated the Christian church. But uh most Protestant interpreters since Luther and Calvin have followed them in assuming that these Old Testament prophecies of Babylon um, you know talking about the literal city of Babylon were fulfilled. So they say, you know, Babylon this can't Revelation seventeen and eighteen can't be talking about the literal country of Iraq and the literal city of Babylon because Babylon was already destroyed. And this then it has to have a spiritual meaning. And it means this and they they they put some other meaning to it. Charles Dyer has argued very persuasively that Babylon has not been destroyed as yet, as the Bible has prophesied. And And you know, there's several reasons for this. If you look in Revelation, when John talks about a city, he always um When he talks about a city, he's he's literal. I mean, for example, he starts out the book of Revelation talking about the city of what? Ephesus, Smyrna, um, Pergamos, Sardis, Tyra, Philadelphia. They're all literal cities, right? So when John refers to a city symbolically in Revelation, he lets us know about that. He'll tell us. For example, in Revelation 11. 8, Jerusalem is spiritually called Sodom and Egypt. And John says that. He will let us know that. That when he uses a spiritualizing title for a city, he are or this he'll he'll let us know that if it's spiritualized in any way. Six times in Revelation 17 and 18, Babylon is referred to as that great city, the city. And the symbol of that city is what? It is a harlot, a woman A woman is is the symbol of that literal city. A harlot dressed in purple That's the symbol, and the symbols in Revelation always have a literal meaning, and the Bible lets us know that. The symbol is a woman, a harlot, clothed in purple and scarlet, and she represents that. city, John says in the book of Revelation. And so what does that mean? That means that if we take that literal, That part of how we know that we're living in the last days is that that city is going to have to rise up And Iraq will then be a force to be reckoned with in the end days if God is going to destroy it. Right Everybody follow my logic there. Now, most scholars of the past taught that the city of Babylon would be rebuilt in the end times. And we we remember Saddam Hussein and and during his reign of terror, part of what he wanted to do was to rebuild the city of Babylon because he he saw himself as the new Nebuchadnezzar. And he wanted to make Babylon that the the the central city. And of course he's gone now, but a lot of money has been since he died, a lot of money ha has been sunk into that country Um and some of it by us, the United States. I don't know if you realize that. But long before all of that, a Lutheran pastor, J. A. Sice who was born in eighteen twenty-three on it commented on this. He said, The realization is yet in the future, and we cannot speak with confidence as to how matters will eventuate, but there seems to be reason for belief that the literal Babylon will be restored, and that we are to look to the coming again of that primal city for the fulfillment of what is here foreshone. And then F. E. Marsh, Bible teacher in 1925, wrote an article entitled, Will Babylon Be Rebuilt? And in the article, he said this this writer believes Babylon, an actual city, will be rebuilt. We now give reasons why we believe there will be a rebuilt Babylon. And then A. W. Think in his excellent book on the Antichrist talks about this. There that there will yet be quote I'm quoting him, that there will yet be ba another Babylon, a Babylon eclipsing the power and glory of that of Nebuchadnezzar's day, has long been the firm conviction of this writer. And then he goes on to explain why that the scripture expressly affirms that Babylon will play a prominent part in the end times. And then um There's others I can quote here, but did you know I I I read an article according to an article um dated uh March twenty-four, twenty twenty-two. It read this. Babylon is coming back to life with its famed Ishtar gate to be restored by this summer. Again, this was just two years ago. And the article goes on to say a New World Monuments Fund project in Babylon funded as part of a $3 million donation by the United States in Baghdad The empathy in Baghdad first bestowed in 2018 aims to repair and restore the famed Ishtar Gate by this summer. Then the article continues, Babylon is coming back to life. It is still eerie, grandiose, Hussein-era palaces and guest houses are filled with international artists invited for the Babylonian Festival, and thousands of Iraqis flock here every month. for parties, weddings, and so on, boat rides along the Euphrates River. And I think that's kind of maybe just a little bit of what we may see as Iraq gains power. And Babylon bec b will play a prominent part. Again, if you take the Bible literally, you have to say this, that this is what's part of what's going to happen. Now So let me give you two lessons here. We're going to get into Zechariah here in a minute. All right. So be patient. But I'm trying to set the stage a little bit for the one prophecy that we see. But first of all, I want to talk about the prophecies of Babylon's ruin. Because again, there are some people that say, well, the Bi the Bible talks about Babylon's fall and it's already happened. Uh it's already over with. There's no more history or future for that city because it all Came to ruin just like the Bible says. And again, the question is, is that really true? What does the Bible say about Babylon? Well, one prophecy says it'll be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. It'll be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. Isaiah 13, verse 19, and Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldeans' excellency shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. Now I challenge you to look at the history of that city and tell me when that happened. Because that has never happened. How have Sodom and Gomorrah destroyed? With what? It was destroyed with fire. And if you look in the history of Babylon, that city was not destroyed that way. We read of nothing happening like this in the history of the city. Jeremiah the prophet says the same thing. In Jeremiah 50, he says, Your mother shall be sore confounded. She that bear you shall be ashamed. Behold, the innermost of the nations shall be a wilderness and a dry land and a desert. Because of the wrath of the Lord it shall not be inhabited, but it shall be wholly desolate. Every one that goeth by Babylon shall be astonished and hisset all her plagues And then in verse 26 it says this, come against her from the uttermost border, open her storehouses, cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly, let nothing of her be left And verse 39, it says, Therefore, wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts of the islands shall dwell there, and the owl shall dwell therein. And it shall no more be no more inhabited forever, neither shall it dwell in from generation to generation. And then in verse forty of chapter fifty it says this, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah And the neighboring city is all, saith the Lord, so shall no man abide therein, neither shall any son of man dwell therein. Now again, I would propose that has not yet happened. It has not been overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. Also, the Bible says, Babylon, when it's destroyed, Israel will dwell in peace and safety. And I um I don't want to go through all the passage, but you could write down Isaiah 14, verses 1 to 4. It talks about the destruction of that city. In verse four of chapter fourteen it says, And thou shalt take up a proverb against the king of Babylon, saying, How hath the oppressor ceased, this golden city ceased? And then the Bible says in verse 7 of Isaiah chapter 14, the whole earth is at rest and is quiet. They break forth into singing. In other words, when Babylon is destroyed. All of the earth will be at rest and quiet. And that includes Israel. Israel will be at rest and quiet Well, has that happened? Can I ask you, does Israel dwell in safety right now? No. Of course not. And then also, Babylon will be overthrown in a time called the Day of the Lord. When will this happen? In a time called the Day of the Lord. Isaiah 13 verse 6, how ye, for the day of the Lord is at hand, it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty. And then it kind of goes on to talk about the day of the Lord and Babylon being destroyed during that time. Um and so this is a time during the tribulation. When the tribulation, I think, is yet to come. The day of the Lord, again, if you take the Bible literally, it will happen yet to come. Also, Babylon, when it is destroyed, will never be inhabited or lived in again Again, Isaiah 13, verse 20, it shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation, neither shall the Arabian pitch the tent there, neither shall the shepherds make their fold there. When Babylon is destroyed, God says it will not be inhabited again after that. Well we know that nothing like this has ever happened in the long history of Babylon. Babylon has been conquered. But it's never been wiped out the way the Bible describes it, and it's never gotten to the place where it's never been inhabited. There's always been small communities of people that have lived there. And so, you know, I can go through the history of this. Again, I don't want to bore you with too many details here, but through the long history, um there's always been uh a a remnant of people that have lived there even in the in that ancient city that was in ruin but's never really been destroyed. Uh so in fact in thirty five AD, this is many years after it was taken over by the Persians And then later Alexander the Great, he lived there for a while. And then after that, Strabo, the famous geographer, visited the city. He did he saw the hanging gardens there. There were still people there. 35 A. D. on the day of Pentecost, there were Jews from Babylon in Jerusalem. So Jews that lived in Babylon came to Jerusalem. Again, show you that it wasn't uninhabited. The Babylonian Talmud, which is a commentary on Jewish law, was basically promulgated from Babylon. There was a German archaeologist that went to dig there in that ancient city named Robert Caldaway, and he described the city and its ruins. He said basically there was a lot of debris. But he said that a village was still existing there, even in his day when he was there, a village still existed within the ancient walls of the city of Babylon. And so this prophecy has not yet been fulfilled because God says when it is destroyed, no one will inhabit it after that. But then also Babylon will be destroyed suddenly. It'll be destroyed suddenly. Jeremiah fifty, verse forty four. Behold, he shall come like a lion from the swelling of the Jordan unto the habitation of the strong, but I will make them suddenly run away from her. Who is a chosen man that I may appoint over her? Who is a chosen man that I may appoint over her? For who is like me? And who will appoint me the time? And who is that shepherd that will God compares himself to a lion pouncing suddenly upon an unsuspecting foe. In Jeremiah 51, verse 8, Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed. How for her Take balm for her pain. If so be, she may be healed. And so God says it's going to happen suddenly. So if you put all this together, you kind of get the picture. It's going to happen in a time the Bible calls the day of the Lord. It's going to be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah, meaning with fire. It's going to happen suddenly. And when it happens, no one will dwell in that place after that evermore. And then another thing the Bible says, no stones would ever be taken from it. Jeremiah 51, 26, They shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations, but thou shalt be desolate forever, saith the Lord. Again, when archaeologist Robert Calderway came to Babylon at the end of the nineteenth century, he found entire sections of the city, the the bricks were taken out of that city and used to build other buildings and villages nearby. He found that to be a fact. So, what's the point? The point is that Babylon has not been destroyed the way the Bible describes it. And if it hasn't been destroyed yet the way the Bible describes it, that means that it has to rise. It's going to be destroyed yet in the future. And by the way, if you take all these things All the ways that the Bible and the Old Testament prophesies, Babylon will be destroyed. And you compare it to the destruction of Babylon in Revelation chapter 18, it kind of just all lines up. It'll happen by fire. It'll happen suddenly. No one will have it after that. It'll, you know, it just everything that God said. It kind of all lines up and it happens there. And then here's one final thing. After Babylon is destroyed, God will restore Israel. This is Jeremiah 50, verses 4 And five. In those days and in that time, saith the Lord, the children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together, going and weeping, they shall go and seek the Lord their God, and they shall asked the way to Zion with their faces thitherward saying, Come and let us join ourselves to the Lord in a perpetual covenant that shall not be forgotten. When Babylon is finally destroyed, what will happen is that Israel will be restored, and here they are going to Zion to join themselves to the Lord, it says there. What does that describe? That's describing the millennial reign of Christ. During that time, again, if you put all these together, when Christ returns, sets up his literal throne in Jerusalem. Um this will be right after Babylon's destruction. God will destroy it. Jesus will destroy it when he comes back. The second time it then sets up his reign and Jerusalem will be at rest there. And so You know, since these things have not yet come to pass, as Scripture says, again, I can say this all this can only mean one thing: that Babylon has to rise It has to come to power. The late J. Vernon McGee suggested the following center note. In that day Babylon will dominate and rule the whole world. So That's the prophecies of the fall of Babylon. That's how it's going to happen. It hasn't happened yet. The way the Bible describes it. So I want you to see number two, then, the prophecy of Babylon's rise. The prophecy of Babylon's rise. And this is where we come to the book of Zechariah. I know you've been waiting. This is a study on Zechariah, Pastor Harmon. We've been waiting. We haven't got there yet. Alright, well we're coming. Here we are. This is where we come to the next visions in the book of Zechariah. Now remember in chapters one to six Zechariah sees eight visions, as we said, and all these visions really are about Israel and how God has a future for Israel and a future for Jerusalem, what God's going to do. And they point to the Messiah and the second coming and what Jesus will do there and God's blessing. The first five visions gave hope to Israel. Now, these next visions 6, 7, and 8 will deal with the theme of God's judgment on sin. The sin of individuals and the sin of a pagan nation. So let's look at this next vision, vision number six. This is the vision of the flying scroll. The flying scroll. Look at verse 1. Then I turned, chapter 5, verse 1 of Zechariah. Then I turned and lifted up mine eyes and looked and behold a flying scroll. And he said unto me, What see thou? And I answered, I see a flying roll, or we could say scroll, the length thereof is twenty cupits, and the breadth thereof ten cupid. Then he said unto me, This is the curse that goeth forth over the face of the whole earth For everyone that stealeth shall be cut off as on this side according to it. And everyone that sweareth shall be cut off as on that side according to it So Zechariah looks up in the skies and what does he see? He sees a scroll that is flying. And this scroll is pretty big. Its dimensions 20 cubits by 10. That would be 30 feet by 15 feet. I mean you ever see a plane that had like a banner on the back of it advertising something? That's what this reminds me of. This is uh nothing new. God did this already In Zechariah's vision, here is this giant scroll. Zechariah sees in a vision, looks up, he sees a scroll. It's written on both sides On one side, it proclaims that everyone who steals will be purged away. On the other side, it proclaims that everyone who swears falsely by God's name will be purged away. That is, God will track down every violator and God will punish every sinner, even entering into their homes and consuming the timbers and the even the stones. as it says in verse number four. I will bring it forth, saith the Lord of hosts, and it shall enter into the house of the thief, into the house of him that sweareth falsely by my name, it shall remain in the midst of this house. It shall consume it with the timber thereof and the stones thereof. Now, so this vision, Zachariah sees. And what is this, what is the big picture? What is the message of this? That God judges sin. He hates sin and he judges it. And this scroll represents the law of God. Um the law of God the people have broken. Um or we could say it symbolizes the word of God, even the Ten Commandments. Just as God wrote the Ten Commandments on two sides of the tablet stones, even so this scroll is written on both sides. And here are two sins that are listed here, one of uh stealing and one of bearing false witness, one of lying. And so The whole idea here is that the standard by which God one day will judge the sin of all will be His word, His law. Right? It doesn't matter what man thinks. It only matters what God thinks. We're not going to be judged according to man's standards. We're going to be judged according to God's standards. You ever notice that man's standard of right and wrong changes? That the Bible says man today calls good evil and evil good. Our government is passing laws that are against the laws of God. But those are not going to be the laws by which man will be judged. It will be judged according to God's laws. And God will be so thorough. And that's really the message here. God's judgment is relentless. God's judgment is thorough. This will, God says it'll enter into the house of all those who have violated it, and it will be thorough in its judgment. This could meant to cause fear. That God will judge sin. It's specifically here with Zachariah and the people he's writing to, it's it applies to them. God will judge the sins of Israel. God will not tolerate sin in the life of his own people. So this is God's hatred and judgment of sin, but not only on individuals But also on nations. Now here's the next vision. Look at verse number five. Notice the second vision. This is the vision of the woman in a basket The vision of a woman in a basket. Look at verse 5. Then the angel that talked with me went forth and said unto me, Lift up now thine eyes and see what is what is this that goeth forth. And I said, What is it? And he said, this is an ephah that goeth forth. And he said, moreover, this is their resemblance through all the earth. Now, here is the seventh vision. And in this vision, it's a vision of a woman in a basket. And by the way, Zachariah wrote this vision in 519 BC. Remember, Babylon had already fallen to the Persians, right? This vision shows that a house Will be built in Shinar. Where's Shinar? Shinar is in the land of Babylon. And that it'll rise up again. Alright? That's why this is so important. Written in 519 BC after Babylon came into ruins. And yet here's a prophecy of Babylon rising again to power. It shows this this will happen. In verse 5, the angel asks, what do you see? And you know, he sees five distinct things in this vision. And uh look in verse uh seven, and behold, there was lifted up a town of lead, and this is a woman that sitteth in the midst of the ephah. And he said, This is wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of the ephah, and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof. Then I Then lifted up uh then excuse me, then lifted I up mine eyes and looked, and behold there came out two women, and the wind was in their wings, for they had wings like the wings of a stork And they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heaven. So again, pretty distinct here. What is what does Zachariah see? He sees this big measuring basket, big enough for a woman to fit inside of it. He sees a woman that is in the basket. And what does the Bible say about this woman? Well, it says in verse five, this is iniquity, or this or actually verse number 6. What is it says? And I said, What is it? And he said, This is the ephah that goeth forth. And he said, Moreover, this is their resemblance throughout all the earth. Now that is a difficult translation where it says this is their resemblance. We could translate that like this This is the iniquity of them throughout all of the earth. So what does this woman then represent? She represents sin. She represents iniquity. The woman in the basket. And by the way, it had a lead lid on top of it in verse number seven. So here's this basket. It's got a lid of lead. Why such a heavy lid? Well, the idea there is to keep this woman in this basket. Under control. This woman is the personification of evil. And she's in this basket and she's under control. She's not let out of that basket. Notice verse number eight. And he said, This is wickedness. Again, talking about the basket with a woman in it. This is wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of the ephah and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof. All the evil deeds and wickedness of mankind are represented by this woman. So inside the basket is this woman. The basket represents the evil. And then the lead lid to keep her from escaping out of the basket again shows that God is in control. And this woman will be let out of this basket in God's time when God's ready for it. Which shows again God's in control. And then you have two women transporting the basket. Look at verse number nine. Then I lifted up mine eyes and looked, and behold, there came out two women, and the wind was in their wings, for they had wings like the wings of a stork. And they lifted up the ephah between earth and heaven. So here are these two women, and they're carrying this basket with the personification of evil in it. And they're transporting it from Jerusalem. Where are they taking this basket? Look down at verse number 10. Because Zechariah asks, where are you taking it? And then said I unto the angel that talked with me, Whither do thou beareth the Ephah? And he said unto me, To build it in a house in the land of Shinar. And it shall be established and set there upon her own base. Now again, where is the basket being transported to? It's being transported to Babylon. It's being transported to the land of Shinar. And the Bible says to build a house for her. In that land to build a house, or we could say to build a kingdom, to build an empire for her Now notice it's a woman. By the way, in Revelation 17 and 18, how is Babylon pictured as a woman, a wicked woman, an evil woman, clothed in purple? And here, in Zechariah's day, he sees in this vision this basket being transported from Jerusalem to Shinar. And Set there on the base. And uh I like the way other versions read this. The King James, we read that, but the English Standard Version says this. He said to me to the land of Sinar to build a house for it, and when this is prepared, They will set the base down there on its base. Another translation says, to build a temple for her in the land of Shinar, and when it is prepared, she will be set there on her own pedestal. Another translation to the country of Babylonia to build a house for it. When it is ready, the basket will be set there in its place. When the time is right, it will be placed on its pedestal. And in other words, the woman will be let out of that basket when the time is right, and a house will be built in Babylon when the time is right, when God says, and From that, it'll be a center of wickedness and sin and evil. And this is yet to come Do you remember back in Genesis after the flood, the first city built in defiance to God was what? Babylon. Remember, they had a leader, Nimrod, the Bible called him a mighty hunter. And remember what God said to the people after they got off the afternoon they got off the ark, the command was to spread out, subdue the earth. And in opposition to that, they all instead came together and said, We're gonna build a a tower under the heavens. We're gonna do our own thing. This was Rebellion against God. It was a city that began in rebellion. We could say it's the world's first capital city. And we could also say it might be the world's final capital city. City, because where that evil began, God will destroy it in the end. And the Bible says when Babylon is destroyed, all of heaven will rejoice. All of heaven will rejoice. And so I believe that this means that in the end times, Babylon will become a world center. I think it'll become a world center for commerce and evil. an evil economic system that could be run by the Antichrist there. And so That's why I call this vision the vision of the rise and the fall of Babylon. And God will judge it. So we know if we again if we take the Bible literally that when Jesus Christ comes back. uh from heaven and comes down to earth and he battles against the nations that have come together against him. And he defeats them all. Babylon will be one of those cities that will be destroyed. Jesus will return in power and glory. Babylon will fall. Evildoers will be judged. And uh even though everything looks bad and things are getting worse, don't worry about it. The Lord's going to take care of it all. He's gonna take care of it all. Alright? He's gonna he's gonna come from behind the bottom of the ninth and hit a grand slam. Alright? It's all going to be taken care of because the Lord's going to take care of that when he comes. Even though you suffer for righteousness' sake. Persevere and walking in holiness. And so that's the thing that we need to be prepared for. Now, uh, you know, again, I I take a literal interpretation of Old Testament prophecies. So that's why I believe that this is going to happen. So keep your eyes on the things that are happening in the world and remember what God says in his word. Again, you know, if you take this literally, Babylon will rise, but one day Jesus will destroy it. He will destroy it when he comes back. And remember, I told you there are two cities in the Bible, Jerusalem to have such big significance. Jerusalem and Babylon. Jerusalem is the city of God. That will be forever. We will live in the new Jerusalem. Babylon, the city of man, the personification of evil and wickedness, God will destroy it all. And it'll never be inhabited after that. And so this will take place. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your prophetic word and the light that we get when we study it, and we take your word at face value, literally. It reminds us, Lord, that even though things at times may look out of control and wickedness seems to abound, we know that all of it will be judged, that God's word will not fail. That every person, every man, every nation will be judged according to your word. Pagan nations that have rebelled against you will be judged. Certainly Babylon shows us that. And so, Father, may we submit to your rule and your reign. May we, Lord, have confidence and faith in what you're doing sovereignly in the world as we look out and see the events of the world. We know, Father, you're in control. May it build our faith and give us confidence, Lord, in what you're doing. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.