Thank you so much. Good to see you here tonight. And would you take your Bible, please, and open to Psalm 119? Psalm 119. As you know, we're studying Psalm 119 on Wednesday night, and we're going to look at the 17 stanza out of 22 stanza in Psalm 119 because this is the longest. Psalm in all the Bible, longest chapter in the Bible, 176 verses, and that's because there are eight verses per 22 stanzas. And the 22 stanzas, of course, are after the 22 letters of the Hebrew alphabet. So this is a masterpiece of alliteration And tonight we come to verse number one twenty-nine, uh, right under the Hebrew letter Pei, if you know your Hebrew alphabet, would you raise your hand tonight? Just kidding. Under the letter P. That's equivalent to our English P, of course. And uh look at verse 129. Thy testimonies are wonderful, therefore doth my soul keep them. And of course, all of Psalm 119 is about God's Word and how wonderful it is to have the Word of God. And it's like looking at a diamond, you get a different perspective that the psalmist gives in each of the stanzas. And again, he uses poetic imagery, he uses alliteration, but every time he points us to the scripture and gives us another facet of the beauty. the wonder of God's Word. And that's what I want to talk about tonight, the wonderful word of God, the wonder that we have in God's Word. In 1871, the explorer John Wesley Powell led an expedition down the Colorado River through an area that we now call the Grand Canyon. And uh the first glimpses of those majestic canyon walls just left the most rugged of those explorers speechless. And you can just amour uh imagine looking up at those uh those towering cliffs and seeing the beautiful sunsets and and the beauty of the stars at night. Now I I can relate to that a little bit because some of you know I went on a seven day expedition down through the Grand Canyon with Andrews in Genesis And truly the natural beauty of that whole area is just all inspiring. Some of the most beautiful scenery that you'll ever see And one man wrote in his his journal later when he was going through the canyon, he wrote this, I can only stand and gaze. He said, I am overwhelmed. And he was describing there a moment of wonder. of wonder at looking all of that beauty there. Now we've kind of all had moments like that, have you not? Something that was all inspiring, whether it be seeing snow capped mountains in person for the first time or perhaps holding a little newborn baby And we just have a moment of wonder. And that's what the psalmist, I think, is having here as we approach this new stanza. He's having one of those moments when he is in it has this sense of wonder. And this wonder that he has is not found in some breathtaking scene of beauty, of natural beauty. The wonder that he expresses is over the depth of God's Word, just as the Grand Canyon had that beautiful beauty about it that commanded those men's attention. Even so scripture has this beauty about it that demands our respect, our reverence, and our obedience. You never come to the end of the beauty of God's Word. I've been studying it for years and years and years, and I feel like I still haven't scratched the surface of the depth of God's word. Truly, one of the greatest gifts that God has ever given us is God's Word, because in the written word, we learn about the living Word of God, Jesus Christ. Can you imagine what life would be like if we didn't have the Word of God? Can you imagine what the world would be like without the Word of God? That would be like being in a boat on a dark and stormy night without rudder or compass or or or sale. We would just be lost. And so in verse 129, the psalmist is declaring this wonder. Again, in verse 129, thy testimonies are wonderful. Now the Hebrew word wonderful here is the first word in the verse in Hebrew. So if you were reading the along in Hebrew, you would see this word first. Wonderful. We could translate it like this: wonderful are your testimonies. God. Wonderful. And so that kind of gives a more of an emphasis to it. This this wonder of God's word, again, should stir us. And uh and also even bring us to tears as we'll see by the time we get to the end of the stanza, it kind of moves us from wonder to weeping. The psalmist kind of goes through that. And so what I want us to look at this from that perspective then, looking at a diamond from that perspective, the wonder of God's word and why it's so wonderful And I think what the psalmist does is kind of move from there and just kind of give some reasons why he declares, God, your word is wonderful. It's wonderful. Wonderful. Let me give you some reasons. Here's the first one I think he gives because of the light that it provides. Because of the light that it provides. Look again in verse 129, that latter part. Second phrase. Therefore does my soul keep them. And then in verse 130, the entrance of thy words giveth light. Now the Bible is unlike any other book. If you want to hear the voice of God today, then you just need to read scripture. God's not giving any more visions. Okay? He's already given us a complete revelation in his word. And if you want to hear God's voice today, you need to open up the scripture and read it. Because that and when that happens, it's not going to leave you the same. Because again, the psalmist says here, the entrance of your word, it gives light. And something about when that light springs out. of the scripture into our heart, it does not leave us the same. It doesn't leave us the same. That's how powerful the Word of God is. We don't ever walk away from it the same way. So I see th three movements here in this. First of all, the opening of Scripture. Again, verse 130, the entrance of thy words. The word for entrance here It means to open, literally, to unfold. It's like a door being opened, or uh, if you will, a scroll that is being opened, or perhaps a book that is opening up So I see, first of all, for God's word to have an impact on us, there has to be a literal opening. You have to open up the Bible. Having it in your house is not enough. I know some people, I don't know if we do this still in families, but they used to have it on the coffee table. You know. And that's good to have it there. It's all right. But you gotta open that thing up and you gotta read it. You heard about the preacher that went and visited his family and uh that sat down in the living room and The pastor said uh to the son or to the the father said to the son while the pastor was there, he said, Now son, while the pastor's here, why don't you go get the book that we all love to read together And the little boy uh went and he brought back the Sears and Robot Catalog. We have to open the scripture. Many Bibles have dust on the cover. Spurgeon said there's enough dust on the cover of some Bibles that you can write in the word damnation. There has to be a literal opening, but then a spiritual opening. When we open up the scripture, we also have to pray for God to open up our eyes spiritually. Luke 24, 45 says this about the disciples on the road to the Emmaus. They said, Then open he our under their understanding that they might understand the scripture. And so while Jesus was speaking the scripture, their understanding was opened. You see, without the Spirit of God, we're not going to be able to really understand the Bible on our own. Now, when we read the Bible, we obviously need to use our own intellect and we need to use our own empirical way of learning. You know, uh we learn through seeing, through hearing, through touching, all the empirical ways of learning. Through research and all that sort of thing, and all that is good and it's all necessary. But if that's all you have, you're never going to really understand God's word on the spiritual level. There has to be the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Remember in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, Paul said that. Listen to this in verse 9. As it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither entered to the heart of man the things that God has prepared. Now, a lot of times we use that verse to talk about heaven, and all that is true regarding the heaven, by the way. But the context of this verse is really talking about understanding spiritual truth. And if all you have are just the empirical ways of learning, reading and studying and and all that sort of thing. If you if you approach it like you do any other academic book, like you're trying to pull out information. You're never really going to get it unless you have this sixth sense. And that is the Holy Spirit. He went on to say in verse 10, but God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit. We have to have the help of the Holy Spirit. Without that, it's like trying to read a book in a dark room. You're not going to be able to see. The light has to beam down from the Holy Spirit in order for us to really understand and to really know. Jesus said to you, talking to his disciples, to you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. You should feel blessed that the Holy Spirit is giving you truth because He doesn't do that with everybody. To those who know Jesus, to those who have the Holy Spirit dwelling in them, God gives them truth. He under he opens their eyes to see truth. When I think about this, I think of uh when I was doing PhD studies and I took a doctoral seminar down at Johns Hopkins and we were just Reading through this is the ancient Near Eastern Studies Department. We were just reading through Old Testament texts of in Hebrew about some of the greatest messianic texts in the book of Isaiah. And all the students in there were much smarter than me. They were all Ivy League students and the professor knew Hebrew really well. And when we were reading through those passages in Isaiah, we would have to read them in Hebrew and translate it into English and then give the interpretation And when it was my turn, I always centered my interpretation on Christ. Here it is about Jesus. This is all about Christ. And the rest of them would be there scratching their head and saying, how do you get that? How do you see that? And it's not that I was smarter than any of them. It's just that the Holy Spirit had opened my heart to see some of these greatest passages in the Old Testament that pointed to Jesus Christ. Guess what? All the Bible is about Him. It's all about Christ. And they couldn't see that. They were they were brilliant intellectually, but they didn't have that Holy Spirit. So there has to be the spirit that opens our eyes and then a personal opening, not a not only just a literal opening of the Bible and a spiritual opening of our eyes. But then a personal opening, we have to welcome God's word into our heart. Write down James chapter one, verse twenty-one. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your soul. The word for receive here just means to welcome. Now how do we learn spiritual truth? We don't pull it out of the Bible like someone would pull knowledge out of a textbook. We cleanse our hearts of sin. We keep our hearts clean. We humble ourselves as we approach the scripture. We say, God, teach me and show me. Lay apart, that's the idea of, you know, taking off, you know, filthy clothes. Take off get get the sins out of your life Lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and then you're ready to receive with meekness the word of God. And that's the idea here. That when we have our hearts ready, God imparts truth. So that's the opening of Scripture. Then here's number two under this, the operation of Scripture. Look again in verse 130. The entrance of thy word giveth life. It gives light. Like I said, it won't leave you the same. It will give you light in your life. Spiritual light. Light, it reveals the path. We saw this in uh Psalm 118, verse 105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet and a what? A light unto my feet. to my path. It gives us the path. It shows us the way in which we are to walk. It rebukes the problem. Ephesians 5. 13, but all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light. The light of Scripture exposes our sin, exposes who we are. The Bible is the only book that when you read it, it reads you back. And it reads you better than you read it. It tells you who you are. It exposes sin in our heart. And you ever read the Bible? This happens to me all the time where I'd have to stop, put it down, and say, God forgive me and help me. Because it's this is me and I need to deal with this. But also it restores the person. The light brings life. Jesus said in John eight twelve, I am the light of the world. He that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light. When the word works in us, it changes our thinking, it changes our desires, it changes our steps. And so it just it makes us full of light. So we see the opening and then the operation, but also the outcome in verse one thirty where it says, it giveth understanding unto the simple That's those that are humble, humble enough to admit they need instruction. They're teaching, they're teachable, they're not arrogant. If you come to the Bible arrogantly, you're not going to glean much from it. But the Bible gives grace to the humble. When you come humbly, the Bible says God resists the proud, right? But gives grace to the humble. It gives guidance for the hungry. Proverbs 2. 6, for the Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Listen, if you have a hungry heart When you come to God's word in a humble heart, God is going to speak to you. He's going to give you light. But then also growth for the holy And 2 Peter 3. 18 commands us to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Jesus Christ. Lord and Savior, excuse me, Jesus Christ. And so God's word will do all those things in our life. That is the outcome of Scripture. And so that's why God's word is just wonderful because of the light that it provides. But here's number two that I see in here. God's word is wonderful because of the longing that it provokes. The longing that it provokes. Verse 131. I opened my mouth and panted, for I longed for thy commandments. And so here's the psalmist, and this is a holy longing for scripture. I gotta have the word. You know I think about some people in the morning, the first thing they do when they get up is they have to have a brew. of coffee. You ever see people like that? I've got to have my coffee in the morning. I know some people and I'm not going to mention any names That have to have their coffee before they can operate. Uh but anyway, uh yeah, I'm talking about my my dear my sweet wife Carolyn, you know. She's gotta have her cup of coffee in the morning. But in all fairness, she she has her Bible right next to her cup of coffee, okay? Let me get out let me get out of get out of this trouble that I'm in right here But y you know, that's the way w we should have that same kind of longing for the scripture. And and the and the psalmist here says, I opened my mouth and panted for I long for thy commandments. What a picture this A picture of deep desire. Like a thirsty traveler, he opens his mouth and he pants for the refreshing truth of God's word. Now, there is an allusion to the Hebrew letter pay. Again, if you look above 129, the Hebrew letter uh uh is spelled out there. And um remember I was telling you that Hebrew letters kind of evolve out of pictures. They were first pictures, pictographs, and then they kind of evolved into a shape, into a letter. Like the the Hebrew letter Aleph was a ox. That's our letter A. If you take the letter A and turn it upside down, it looks like an ox with horns And b and and bait was a uh a house, a picture of a house, and Dalit was a picture of a door, and gimbal was a picture of a camel, and on on you can go. Mem was a picture of waves, that's the letter M. You know, you can see the wave in the letter M, right? You guys with me? Just, you know, anyway. Um But so all these were pictures that kinda evolved into letters. that would give a sound. And the picture that was used for the letter Pei in Paleo-Hebrew script, it was a simple circle And sometimes it'll have a line through it, through the middle of it, that symbolized an open mouth. And so pe in the Hebrew it means mouth or open mouth. Okay. Now the reason I bring that up is because the psalmist, I think, is literally using this imagery in this verse. He kind of plays on that in verse number 131, where he says, I opened my mouth and panted. And I think again that's a beautiful poetic way of alluding to the Hebrew letter and saying, speaking of pay, this is how I feel about God's word. I open my mouth because I have Such a longing and a hunger and a thirst for God's Word. This reflects Matthew 5, 6. Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness And so he wants God's divine instruction from God's Word. And then also, this God's Word creates in him a longing for God's intervention in his life. 132 it says this look thou upon me and be merciful unto me as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name. And here he's appealing to God for his mercies. He's essentially saying, Lord, I've read your word. I know how you have dealt with people in the past, how you have helped and blessed people in the past. And I'm asking you to do the same thing for me. Just like you used to do for those in the past. God, please intervene for me. Intervene on my behalf. Lord, I've read your word, how you dealt with Abraham, and how you dealt with Moses, and how you dealt with David. And how you dealt with Israel that called upon you. Now do for me what you have done for them. You ever pray like that? And by the way, that's why God gives us these great narratives in the Old Testament. He gives them to us not just as historical accounts of things that happened, although that's very important because all of our salvation is based on literal history. Things that really happened. These are not myths. These are not fables. These are things that truly happened. All of salvation is based on literal history. But the Bible isn't just a history book, and God didn't write these things down just for us to have history lessons. They were written down for our encouragement. And to build our faith. Romans 5, excuse me, 15, verse 4. For whatsoever things were written. aforetime were written for our learning that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. And so these stories, they are living testimonies of test testimonies of God's power, how He worked in the lives of people, and you know what? What God has done in the past, God will do again for us. in the present and the future. What are you going through right now? I guarantee you you can find someone in Scripture that went through what you're going through. through. And read that and let it encourage you. And use that to say, God, I see what you did for Job. And I feel like I'm in a a trial right now. And Lord, would you do for me what you did for him? Give me that same strength of character. Give me that same solid gold faith that you gave to Job. And so it's altogether right that we that we pray that way and go to the scripture and let it encourage us You know, you've probably heard this story about George Mueller. Some of these stories from George Mueller are almost uh so incredible that you You think, man, did that did that really happen? And this story is a very famous story of George George Mueller, the man in from Bristol that had an orphanage where he took care of thousands of orphans and all he did was just pray and ask God to take care of their need and God answered. But one morning there was no food on the table and George Mueller got all the orphans around the table and he said let's pray for the food and they were looking like what food And uh he was praying by faith. He didn't know where the food was going to come from. But right after he prayed, there was a knock on the door and there was a baker that said, you know, Mr. Mueller, I just uh I you know God laid it on my heart to bake some bread for your children. And I wanted to bring it by this morning in case you needed it. And so there was the bread. And then a milk truck broke down and the milk would spoil. And so the milkman came to him and said, Look, this Our trucks broke down. This milk's gonna spoil. Someone done use it. Maybe your children can use the milk. So there was the milk. And it all happened that very morning. And Mueller later said that he prayed with confidence because he read Psalm 119, 132, Lord, you fed, and he said, Lord, you fed your people with manna in the wilderness. You fed Elijah by with ravens, and I ask you to do for me what you did for him. That verse gave him the courage to pray that way, and God did answer his prayer. So the psalmist prays for divine intervention, but also for divine illumination. Book of verse 135. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant and teach me thy service. And here he's praying for God's favor, for God's smile upon him. And this is the theme that runs throughout the Bible. The smile of God, divine favor, divine illumination. So, God's word is wonderful because of the light that it provides. God's word is wonderful because of the longing that it provokes. But here's number three. God's word is wonderful because of the lawlessness that it prevents. And we see this in verse 133 and verse 134. You see, the Word of God not only directs us towards righteousness, but it also restrains us and rescues us. Us from sin, our own sin, and maybe the sin of others. Look at verse 133. Order my steps in thy word, and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. So he he's this is a prayer for ordered steps. For his life to be in line with God's word. That's a prayer that we should adopt ourselves. God, I want my steps to be in line with what your word says. An unguarded heart will lead you into bondage. The world says, follow your heart. But the scripture says order your steps. By the way, follow your heart is the worst advice you'll ever get. Don't follow your heart. Your heart is corrupt, just like mine, just like all sinners. We need to order our steps according to the Word, according to God's Word. That's what the psalmist says here. And this really is a prayer for God to help him have a disciplined life. Lord, help me to be disciplined. To have a life that's not disciplined makes for a very unstable life. When Jacob was handing out blessings to his sons, he said this of Reuben. In Genesis 49, verse 3. Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity and the excellency of power. So far so good. But notice what he says in verse number four. Unstable as water. Oof. How'd you like that to be said of you? Oh, Ruben, you're my firstborn. Blah, blah. Yeah, you're unstable as water. Unstable as water. Wow. That's not very nice. And then he says this thou shalt not excel. You're not going to excel, Reuben, because you're too unstable. That is to say, you don't have enough discipline in your life So you're never going to excel. And that's really true of us spiritually as well. Unless we have spiritual disciplines in our life, we're not going to be able to excel the way God wants us to. Write down Proverbs 1632. He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh the city. If you can bring rule over your spirit, if that is, if you can have a disciplined life then you're as mighty as a king that can take a city. That's how difficult it is sometimes. You can conquer, if you can conquer your own spirit, the psalmist says within your You're you're s you're mighty enough to conquer a city as well. Um Alexander the Great conquered the then known world at age thirty-three. And it is said that he sat on his horse and wept because he said, I have no more worlds to conquer. But yet he was wrong because he died as an alcoholic at the age of 33. He could conquer kingdoms, but he could not conquer his own spirit. And so the Bible says if you conquer your spirit, you're better than the mighty. And so we need to, by the way, the way that we bring discipline into our life is through the Word of God. That's why God's Word is so wonderful, because it is the chief tool that God uses to help bring discipline into our life. Sorry, I've tried rejected another phone call here. I need to learn turn that thing off. But anyway. And so that's why God's Word is so wonderful, because it will help to kill inward sin that all of us have to deal with on a daily basis because of our sin nature. It brings discipline into our life. And so the psalmist says, Lord, order my steps according to your word. But you that can't happen unless you are in God's word studying it, meditating on it, reading God's word. So let me just give you some, and I'll just do this real quick because we don't have a whole lot of time, but let me give you some ways that God's word helps you to bring discipline into your life spiritually. and how it helps you to defeat sin and temptation in your life, which we all have to deal with. Number one, by revealing sin. God's word exposes sin. It's like a mirror. But also by cleansing and purifying, God's word not only reveals the sin, but it cleanses us. Like water is compared to water. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto, according to thy word, by guarding the heart, memorizing and meditating on scripture. Helps us to guard our heart and our mind, and the Holy Spirit will use that in our heart against temptation when it comes, and it will come. But that's you'll be ready for it if you memorize God's Word. By strengthening our faith, the Bible says this is a victory that overcomes the world, even our faith, and faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. God's word strengthens your faith that gives you the strength to overcome the world. But then also by providing a weapon against temptation It's the sword of the Spirit. By directing our steps, it gives us practical guidance on how to overcome the snares that Satan will surely lay in our path. And by promising hope and deliverance. The Bible says there's no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. You can't say, well, the temptation I had was the most unique temptation ever. No. There's no brand new temptation. It's common to man The Bible tells us that. And God is faithful. He'll not let you to be tempted above that you're able. And so God's word will assure you of God's help when the temptation comes. And forgiveness if we fail. So, God's word will help us in this battle. It'll help us by restraining us from our iniquities. But also the next subpoint here is re reinforces us to spite our enemies. Look at verse 134. Deliver me from the oppression of men, so will I keep thy Precepts. And here the psalmist recognizes external threats, persecution, pressure, mockery, all that can hinder obedience. Sometimes the greatest danger that trips us up from being obedient to our master is the oppression or the obstacles from outside opposition or deception. This is why Paul wrote to Timothy and he said, look, I want you to pray. I exhort that first of all there be prayers and supplication and intercession and giving of thanks. Why, Paul? So that you can lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. That is to say, pray for those that are in authority, kings and all and such and such that are in authority. that you can lead a quiet and peaceable life. Pray for God to remove all of those obstacles, those the the oppression, so that You can obey me. You can obey God's word. That's one of the big prayer requests. Remember when Paul wrote that to Timothy, Nero was the one who was on the throne. And Paul said, uh, you need to pray. Pray for God to remove those things. But it's God's word that gives us the strength. During those times. Notice that his determination at verse 134, so will I keep thy precepts. He is determined to keep God's word despite the outward distractions and the pressures that the world will bring that might Trip us up or seek to hinder us from obeying God. We can't use that as an excuse. Remember Daniel, he purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself. And he stayed faithful to God's commandments. Even in a pagan environment that was very difficult. But here's the last thing, and I need to give this To you quickly. But God's word is wonderful because of the light that it provides and the longing that it provokes and the lawlessness that it prevents. But here's the last thing. Because of the lament that it produces. And look at verse 136. Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy Law. Now again, the stanza begins with wonder and it ends with weeping. He is in wonder over God's word, but then at the same time he weeps Because of God's word, because he sees how God's word is disregarded and ignored and pushed aside And so he says, Rivers of water run down mine eyes. And this is not self-pity, this is a holy sorrow for the dishonor that is shown to God and his word. And we certainly see this in our world today. don't we? People that just have no reverence or respect for the things of God, the word of God, it's just cast aside. And that's a dangerous place for any society to be And so God is dishonored. That's part of the reason for his sorrow. God is dishonored And when God is dishonored, you know what, as believers, we should feel that pain, right? We should feel that. When God's name is blasphemed and dishonored and ignored, when God doesn't get the glory that's rightfully his That should be a source of sorrow for us who love God. For God to be recognized. That's why I hate the lie of evolution. One of the biggest blasphemous lies ever put out because it robs our Creator of the glory that is due to him. The glory that's due to our God. And so the psalmist is in sorrow over that, but also sinners are damned is another thing that we could say because he says, because they keep not thy law. And he understands that disobedience leads to destruction. And the psalmist weeps because he knows sin's end. And you know, when we pray, we come here on Wednesday night to pray, and I'm I'm so glad you're here to do that. We need to pray for the sick and those who are sorrowing. They need our prayers and we need to lift them up. But let's not forget to pray for sinners who are lost. That should be something on our heart continually. I don't know about you, but when I prayed tonight, I had some lost people that I was praying for. That God would turn their heart and bring them to true faith in Christ. Dio Moody said the world does not understand our tears because it does not understand the danger of the soul or the danger that they're in. And that's so true. The world today just does not understand the danger of judgment that they're in. Many laugh, unaware of their fate. They're so irreverent and so The psalmist weeps over that. And so this whole stanza then reminds us that God's word is not just another book. It is a living force. It stirs our longing. It prevents lawlessness. It even moves us to tears. And so this is really a call for all of us just to not take God's word for granted. Not lose the wonder of God's word, because what a gift that it is that He's given us. That's been handed down to us. This word that teaches us all about Christ, that gives us our salvation, teaches us the true way of salvation, and sanctifies us And every time we open it up, light beams from it, and it teaches us more about God. And God speaks to us when we open up scripture and we're in it. That is A wonder that you can have a relationship with the living God through his word that he has given us. And that's the key instrument that God uses. And there are a lot of you know that I've been r uh thinking a lot about John Wycliffe and because I was over there in London or at and actually in Lutterworth, a man called the Morningstar of the Reformation, where he completed the first translation of the Bible into English And uh because for centuries God's people did not have the Word of God, or even people that didn't know the Lord or even know how to be saved. Because they just did not have the light of God's word. It was kept from them, from the church of all of all people. And and Wycliffe saw that this was such a a crime, such a sin, that the people of God not have God's word. And that's what motivated him To translate the Bible from Latin, the Latin Vulgate, which is all he had at that time, manuscripts from the original languages were not yet available in that at that time. That wouldn't come until later after the call. after the fall of Constantinople when scholars came to the West with these uh Hebrew and Greek manuscripts. But at that time all he had was Latin and he translated the Bible from Latin into English and he did it at the risk of his own life because it was against the law for anyone to have a Bible. And uh he rejected all of that. He rejected the decrees of the Pope. He thought Christ was the head of the church, not the Pope. And then from Wycliffe to Tyndale, who translated the Bible in English from the original languages. At that time he had access to Greek manuscripts and Hebrew manuscripts. Manuscripts. And again, he did it at the risk of his life, ended up in prison, and then strangled and burned at the stake because he dared to translate the Bible into the language of And by the way, if you have a King James Version tonight, 80% of the wording in your King James Version comes from Tyndale's translation. We owe a debt to these kind of people. to these heroes of the faith. But I say all that to say, do not take God's word for granted. Do not take it for granted. God has given us a precious gift. We should say like the psalmist, thy testimonies are wonderful. God, they're wonderful. Thank you for the gift that you've given us in your word. And again, the written word points us to the living word, Jesus Christ. Christ. It's all about Christ. Jesus said in John 5 39, Search the Scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and these are they which testify of me, and indeed they are. We learn all about Christ from Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the precious gift of your word. May we say with all our heart, like the psalmist, Lord, your your testimony They are wonderful. They're wonderful. Therefore doth my soul keep them. Lord, give us that same holy longing, holy desire to do your will, to read your word, order our steps, Lord, in your word, and let not any Iniquity have dominion over us, Lord. And make your faces shine upon us, your servants, as you teach us your word. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.