Oh, it's good to be in God's house tonight. And I encourage you to take your Bibles. Open please to the book of Romans, chapter 5. Now I know that you've been with me as we've been studying this passage here in Romans. And as I said before last week, this is kind of a difficult portion of Scripture. You know, uh all the commentaries I read all say the same thing. They say this is one of the more difficult passages. For example, here's a quote from Thomas Schreiner. In his commentary on Romans, he says this quote, our text is one of the most difficult and controversial passages to interpret in all Pauline literature. Another guy wrote this, he said, I know I'm in trouble when I have to preach on these verses. It's not a very uh encouraging thing Another commentator said this, that uh that perhaps it was this passage that Peter had in mind when he said that some of Paul's writings are hard to understand. And so after reading all these commentaries and sermons on these verses, one pastor said this, he said, I begin to wonder if I should look for another line of work. Well that's pretty discouraging when you think about all of that. Now this is a difficult text, but we can we can understand this Um really the main idea is fairly clear, but um there's a lot of detail almost about every word or phrase generates In my experience, pages of discussion and debate among scholars. And we're not going to wade into all of that. What I want to do is just kind of give you a broad overview of these verses, verses 15 down to verse 21. I'm not going to be able to explain everything in every detail. My whole goal for you is to kind of get the kind of the big picture of what Paul's talking about here in Romans chapter 5. And then you can leave saying, you know what, I understand this. I I have a grasp of this. Which is what my hope is. Now remember that the flow of Paul's argument in Romans 5 is very simple. In order to understand how we are in Christ, we have to understand how we are in Adam. And remember I told you before that when God looks down from heaven, he sees really only two people. He sees, or two men we could say, Adam and Christ. You're either in Adam or you are in Christ. And the first Adam is a type of the last Adam, because it says in verse fourteen, who is the figure of him that is to come. So Adam is in a sense a type and figure of Christ. That's why men like Martin Lloyd Jones say that to understand Adam, and in essential understanding Christ. And Paul is even more clear in 1 Corinthians 15, where he talks about the comparison between the two. Just as Adam is the head of the old humanity, Jesus Christ is the head of the new uh humanity. Just as in Christ all that is his is ours, even so, because we're so united to him, that's the way it was when we were in Adam, all that was in Adam, all of his was ours. And so that's the flow of the passage. Look at verse number 12 again. Wherefore rise one man sin entered into the world and death by sin So death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. And remember I told you notice that there's a parentheses at the beginning of verse thirteen. And that parentheses doesn't end until the end of verse seventeen So when you read verse 12, you have to go down to verse 18 to c to continue the thought. Therefore, by the offense of one, judgment came upon all men. to the condemnation, even so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. So you see that that that's the idea. He's he's comparing Christ and Adam. And he kind of begins in verse 12, the one man is Adam. And then he picks up the argument in verse 18 when he talks about the free gift that came upon all men. that we got through Christ. From verses 13 on down to verse uh seventeen is kind of parenthetical where he is really talking about what it means When he says, wherefore by one man sin enter the world, and death by sin. So the idea there's a similarity. By comparing the two, there's a similarity between Adam and Christ. The first Adam was from the earth. The last Adam came from heaven. The first Adam was the king of the old creation. The last Adam was the king of the new creation. The first Adam was tested in a and a perfect garden and failed, the last Adam was tested in a wilderness and he succeeded. The first Adam brought disobedience and sin The last Adam brought obedience and righteousness. The first Adam brought condemnation. The last Adam brought justification. And so you see there's a comparison there between the two. But really, the idea that he's giving us here is that he's really not just comparing, but he's contrasting the two. He's making a contrast. He's showing us the differences between Adam and Christ. And that's really the idea here. We see two persons. We see two acts and we see two results. And so there's the contrast, and why, by the way, why do we do contrast? Because contrast helps us to understand truth more clearly. I really don't have a grasp of light until I know darkness. I really don't understand righteousness until I understand sin. And I don't really understand what it means to be in Christ until I understand what it means to be an Adam. And the reverse is true. I don't understand what it means to be an Adam until I understand what it means to be in Christ. We don't understand the blessing of being in Christ until we understand the curse of being in Adam. And so he gives us a contrast for the purpose of clarifying truth to us. Now, so look at verse 15. Let me just show you the essence of it. But not as the offense, so also is the free gift. Look at the first word there, offense. Or we could say transgression. This is paratome, literally false steps. It has the idea of one deviating from the path This is of course talking about Adam's offense. This one transgression, the one sin of Adam, was bequeathed to everyone. And and then notice the free gift in verse 15. So the the offense then is contrasted with the free gift. The word free gift is the Greek word charisma, grace gift. This is something given. freely by God, given to us in Christ. And so there's the contrast then between the offense in Adam and the free gift in Christ. And I like the way that the ESV renders this. It says, but the free gift is not like the trespass. In other words, when you contrast these two acts The free gift is not like the trespass in a lot of ways. And so, really, what Paul is really showing us here are really two great events in human history. There was the fall of Adam, that's sin. And there was the justification, the giving of salvation that came through Christ. And he says there's a contrast in these things. The contrast between the offense of Adam and the contrast between the gift that was given to us in Christ. And so what I want you to see here tonight are really just seven contrasts, and you say, oh boy, seven points. We're going to be here all night. Not really. I'm going to go through these kind of kind of quickly. But I want you to see the contrast between Adam and Christ, the offense of Adam and Christ's gifts. And so, number one, if you're taking notes, there's a contrast and effect. There is the many versus the much more in verse 15. When he says the gift is not like the trespass, he is saying God's act of grace was out of proportion to the offense. Christ did more than reverse the curse of Adam. He gave us back much more. In verse 15, notice again where it uses the word many, but not as the offense, so also is the free gift. For if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, by the gift of grace, which is one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many or uh has abounded unto many. And so notice Paul's use of the phrase many. And that speaks of the effects of the act of of of both The first and the last Adam. And through the offense of one, Paul says, many be dead. Now some might be tempted to see the word many and say, this means not all are affected by Adam's sin, right? Wrong. Adam said affected everyone. And so when Paul uses many here, it doesn't mean that he excludes some people. He uses the word many to show that there was a huge impact in Adam's offense. One man brought down many. One sin brought down many. We could kind of illustrate what we mean here. Let's just suppose a plane crashed and there were no survivors. And the newspaper headline read this, many killed in a plane crash. Here, many here means all. It does not mean just some survive. It means all. And Paul is using the word many here, not in a quantitative sense. But in the sense of effect, Adam's one sin had a huge effect. It affected many. And so that's the idea there. But Notice the effect of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ's act on people was totally different from Adam's. How is that? It was vastly superior. And in that he uses the term much more. That's why he uses much more in verse 15. Look again, for if through the offense of one many be dead, much more the grace of God and the gift By grace, which is by one man Jesus Christ, has abounded unto many. The work of Jesus was vastly superior We could say, as the term much more indicates. Christ didn't just cancel the effect of Adam's sin, but they provided more than we ever lost in Adam. You know, Christ didn't just restore us when he saved us. He didn't just restore us to innocence. You know what he did? He did much more than that. He did much, the blessing that came through Christ's act brought much more than the condemnation through Adam's act. The Lord didn't just restore us back to innocence. He infused in us the righteousness of God. I have been given back in Christ far more than I ever lost in Adam. That's the idea here. The grace of God gave me back much, much more than I ever lost in Adam. You see, that's what he's telling us here. You know, I I think of uh, you know, many of us remember when the Twin Towers fell in New York, there was this cry to build back uh the uh a tower down there. But what was the idea? We want to build a tower that was taller than the ones that were there. Why? To show that we're not defeated And there's a sense in which in salvation, when you got saved, God gave you back a whole lot more than you ever lost in Adam So much more. And you say, what's the practical idea here? The practical truth of this in verse 15 is that the power of sin, which is death, can be broken, but the power of Christ, which is salvation, cannot be broken. Paul said this to Timothy, our Savior, Christ Jesus, abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And so Jesus Christ broke the power of sin and death, but the converse cannot be true. Sin and death cannot break the power of Jesus Christ. The condemnation of Adam's sin is reversible. The redemption that we have in Jesus Christ is not. And so we have so much And so there's a contrast in effect. There's the many versus the much more. Number two, there's a contrast in results. The condemnation for one sin versus the justification of many sins. Look at verse 16. And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift For judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offenses unto justification. And the focus of Paul's contrast here is the one sin that brought condemnation and the many sins that were justified. You see, one man, one sin by one man at one moment in time brought condemnation of the whole human race. It was just one sin that did it. And remember, Paul already made this clear in verse number 14. Why are we condemned? We are condemned and we bear the guilt of sin because of Adam's sin, not necessarily because of our own, even though God does hold us accountable now. You remember the argument that he uses here in verse 14. Look at it. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses Even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. In other words, even though men sinned from Adam to Moses, God didn't put those sins on the man's account until the law came And so we it would be like this, you know, it would be like getting pulled over by the police for speeding and him not giving you a ticket and it not going on your record, even though you did break the law. Even though man sinned from Adam to Moses, God didn't impute it to their record. And yet men still died. And why? Because of Adam's sin. All of humanity was condemned because of the one sin of Adam. James Boyce illustrated like this, and we know it's impossible, but let's just suppose there was only one sin ever committed in the entire world, just one sin that was ever committed, and it was Adam's sin. And the question is this. If Adam was sin was the only sin ever committed in the entire world, would it be necessary for Jesus to come to earth and die for our sins? Would that one sin be enough to condemn all of us And the answer to that, of course, is yes, because Adam's one sin brought condemnation to all. That's the whole point that he's making here. However, the justification of Christ covered many sins, whereas one sin, one sin by Adam brought condemnation. Justification followed many sins. Christ died to redeem man from the vast number of sins. What does this show? This shows the superiority of Christ His one act brought justification for many sins. And that's the contrast that he's giving us here. It is this contrast of in uh in these two things in results the result of what Adam did and the result of what Jesus did again what does this teach us here? What's the practical truth? God's hatred of sin God hates sin so much that it only took one sin to condemn the whole human race. But it also shows us God's love for sinners. Because God loves sinners so much That he is willing to send his son to take all of the sins that people committed and lay them on his son who would pay for those sins and bring us justification. So again, that's the contrast. There's a contrast in effect, the many versus the much more. There's a contrast in result, the condemnation of one sin versus the justification of many sins. Write down number three. There is a contrast, a consequence, the reign of death versus the reign of life. Look at verse 17. For if by one man's offense death reigned by one, much more they which received abundance of grace And the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ. And very simply, the consequences of Adam's sin was death reigning over mankind. But the consequences of Christ's obedience was mankind reigning over death. And so we could say this, the one-dimensional result of Adam's one act was death. Whereas the result of Christ's one act is life, and that's multidimensional. Again, we didn't just get back just life, but he gives us abundant life. The one effect of Adam's sin was just death, but the one effect of Christ's act was to give us more than just life. He gave us righteousness as a gift. And one day we are going to reign with the Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to reign like kings. We're going to reign in heavenly places. In fact, I've already showed you this: that because of your union in the Lord Jesus Christ, you already reign with him in heaven. You already are united with him, and we are already risen with him. And so he doesn't just give us back life, he gives us back more than life. It's the reign of death versus the reign of life, and the reign of life is so much greater. Than the reign of death that we had in Adam. So there's the contrast in effect, there's the contrast in results, in consequences, the reign of death versus the reign of life. But then here's number four. There's a contrast in extent. There is the all of condemnation versus the all of justification. Look at verse 18. Therefore As by the offense of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation, even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life Now again, in verse 18 completes the thought that Paul began in verse 12. But remember we noted that the verses 13 and 17 were parenthetical So therefore it kind of picks up with the so then from verse number, uh the end of verse twelve that Paul presented in verse twelve. And so we remember that he said, All have sinned. Remember that was the heiress at one time. All men at one time sinned. Consequently, verse 18, judgment. came upon all men under condemnation. In other words, all now bear the guilt and condemnation for Adam's sin. But in contrast to that, we have the all of justification in verse 18. where it says that, again, if you look at it, therefore by the offense of one judgment came upon all men. to condemnation, even so the righteousness of one, the free gift, came upon all men unto justification. So just like all were condemned, all are justified. Now, one qualification here. We know that the all here Are all those who believe. This, you know, some people read this verse and they say, well, this means that ultimately everyone is going to get saved. Friend, I wish that were true. How I wish that everyone, all people, will be saved. But we know from other scriptures that that's not the case. If you believe that everyone, all people are going to be saved, then that means that's kind of universalism, right? And again, I wish in my heart that every person would get saved. But we know that Jesus said that not all will. Those who are on the narrow road are those who come and repent of their sin. And so this all here is a qualified all. All are condemned under Adam, and all those who put their faith in Jesus Christ come to justification. And so we know that that's the case because we have to compare Scripture with Scripture. And again, there are some who look at this verse and they think ultimately all are going to be saved. But again, we compare that with other verses, and that's really just simply the principle, the analogy of Scripture. We know that that's not the case. We know that the all there means those who will put their faith in Jesus and trust in Jesus, those are the ones that will have justification. So again, there's the contrast and effect, the many versus the much more, the contrast and results, the condemnation from one sin versus the justification of many sins. There is the contrast in consequences, the reign of death versus the reign of life. Contrast in extent, the all of condemnation versus the all of justification. Here's the next contrast, number five. There's a contrast in act. The disobedience versus the obedience. Look at verse 19. For as by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. And the focus of the contrast here again is very simple. The disobedience of Adam on one side, the obedience of Christ on the other. The key word in verse 19, you might want to circle is the word made. The disobedience of Adam, many were made sinners. Through the obedience of Christ, many were made righteous. And the word made there has the idea of establishing. Adam's disobedience caused him and his descendants to be made sinners. But the obedience of Christ made others to be righteous. And again, we see here the principle of imputation. The righteousness of Christ was imputed to us. The moment that we got saved, just like the condemnation of Adam was imputed to us when we were in Adam And the thing I want to show you here again is that there's a contrast between the many laws that Christ had to obey versus the one law that Adam had to obey. So Let me just ask you, how many laws in the beginning in the Garden of Eden did Adam have to obey? It was just one. God said, don't eat fruit off of that one tree. I think I could have handled that. You know, everything else, Adam, you know, is free to you, but this one tree, don't eat fruit off this one tree. So it was just one law That Adam had to obey, and he failed just that one law, that one act of disobedience. brought down sin. How many laws did Christ have to obey? Many. When he came to this earth He completely fulfilled the whole law of God, not just in deed, but in attitude. Not just in act, but in his very demeanor. He completely fulfilled all of the righteous demands of all of God's law. He obeyed an act He obeyed in thought. He obeyed in motive. He completely obeyed all of that. So you see the contrast. Adam had one law, he couldn't keep it Christ had all these laws that he wanted to fulfill and obey for the Father and for us, actually for us. And he was able to do all of that. In fact, it was the obedience of Christ that actually gives us righteousness. You see, actually, and I've said this before, that in theology there's a distinction between the active obedience of Christ and the passive obedience of Christ. Now, sometimes people will say, we're not saved by works. But the truth of the matter is, you and I are saved by works. We're not saved by our works. We're saved by the works of Christ. That's the difference. And you see, those works were when he fulfilled all of the law on our behalf. You see, the the passive obedience of Christ is when he simply submitted himself. And he became obedient unto death, the death of the cross. That's what theologians call the passive obedience of Christ This refers to his willingness to submit to the pain inflicted on him by the Father on the cross In his passive obedience, he receives the curse, the wrath of God that was brought down upon him. But then there's the act of obedience of Christ. And the act of obedience Is when Jesus fulfilled all of the law of God on our behalf. He fulfilled all of the moral demands. It refers to his whole life obeying every law. And that qualified him to be the Savior because if Jesus would have disobeyed just one law in one area, he would not be qualified to be the Savior. But he was qualified. He was a lamb without blemish. And that's why one day when we get to heaven, what are we going to sing? Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. He was worthy because of the life that he lived. He fulfills the law's demands. You see, Jesus not only had to die for our sins, Jesus had to live for our righteousness. You see, the illustration I'd like to use is this. What if you were millions of dollars in financial debt? And a rich man came along and said, You know what? I want to pay off all of your debt. I would say hallelujah, thank you. In fact, if you want to do that for me tonight, meet me in the back. I'm not in millions of dollars of debt. I'm just kidding. I am in some debt, but anyway. If you want to help me, check ahead and meet me in the back. Let's just say that you were in debt of millions of dollars. And this man says, I want to pay off all your debt. And so he comes and he pays all of your debt. Well what that does for you is that brings you, you break even. You're not in the red anymore, but you're not in the black. You're just at zero. You're at even But what if this same rich man said, you know what, I want to do more than just pay off all your debt. I want to actually add to your account. Excuse me, I want to add to your account uh millions of dollars more. Well, hallelujah again. Would say go right ahead and do that. You see, in a way, spiritually, that's exactly what Jesus did. With his death on the cross, with his We could say his passive obedience. He wiped out our sin debt because he paid the debt of sin with his own death on the cross. And so that paid for all of our sin debt. But if Jesus came and all he did was die for us on the cross and that was it, all that would do for us is it would bring us back to being even. We would be just like Adam in the Garden of Eden. We would have no righteousness on our account, and we would have no sin on our account. We would be like Adam in his innocence. But Jesus did a whole lot more than that Not only did he die to pay our sin debt, but throughout his whole life, his obedience to all the laws of God built up righteousness in his account And when we come to Jesus by faith, you know what he does? He adds all of that righteousness to us. So not all we're not even. We are record, our ledger, our spiritual ledger before Almighty God shows that we have been given all of this righteousness. So when God looks upon our account, he doesn't see us in debt. That sin debt's been wiped out. And he doesn't see us at even. He sees us having all of this righteousness. Because that was given to us by Jesus Christ. All of the righteousness was imputed to us when we put our faith in him. And that's the contrast, you see. The contrast, again, is between the one law that Adam had to obey that he couldn't obey that brought us sin and brought us condemnation. And then we have all these laws that Jesus obeyed that added to our account all of this righteousness. That's why we say that in this contrast He did more than just restore us back to Adam's original place. He did so much more. So much more. By giving us his righteousness through his perfect obedience. And so this again is the contrast that we see here. So we see a contrast in the effect, the results, the consequences, the extent, the act, disobedience versus obedience. Let me give you the sixth one. There's a contrast in power. Look at verse number 20. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound, but where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And so again, we see this contrast in the power of law versus the power of grace. Now, one of the purposes of the Mosaic Law was to illuminate the sinfulness of people. And it did so by exposing the behavior that was contrary to the will of God. You see, God did this to prove man's sinfulness to man. You see, what the law does is it just really reveals our sin. Where there is no law, we really don't really know sin that well. But when there a law is given, then sin is brought to bear. Sin we could say abounds when the law is given. Let me give you an illustration of this. I was reading a good illustration given by Chuck Swindah. He tells a story about his boyhood. And he says, like many boys, he had a paper route. And like many boys, he didn't really enjoy that paper route. He said, when delivering papers, he would ride his bike across the lawn of homes that had the misfortune of being on the corner And at one particular place he actually wore a narrow trail across that lawn as he would cut through that lawn each day delivering papers. Now he said it wasn't right to do, but there was no sign there that said he couldn't do it. So he just kept doing it. But one day as he rode up, he saw a sign that read in big bold letters, keep off the grass, no bikes. But what he did was he ignored that sign, and he continued riding on that well-worn trail right up to the feet of the waiting owner of the home. Who was there? And as Swindle put it, the man shared with him a few things from his heart about riding on his lawn. And he goes on to say, Whereas before his transgression wasn't really fully seen. I mean he knew he probably shouldn't be riding on the lawn, but you know There was no sign. The sin there wasn't really seen until there was a law there that said don't do it. And then when he transgressed, what did it do? Sin abounded. That sin was fully seen there. And that's the idea here behind the word abound. Look again in verse 20. Moreover, the law entered that the offense might abound. That law revealed the sin. It made it increase. Literally what the word means. It made it increase. That's what the law does. Some people say, well, we're saved by obeying the law. Listen, the law can't do anything to save you. All the law can do is show the increase of your sin. But here's the good news. Although the law causes sin to abound where sin abounds, look at the rest of verse number 20. But where sin abounded, grace did what? Much more abound. Wherever sin abounds, and by the way the word there is hooper, where we get our word hyper, where sin abounded, grace hyper abounds. Isn't that good news? The point is, grace has so much more power than sin. And so the result was that where sin increased, grace increased all the more. Where Adam's sin caused sin to abound, the grace that we see in Jesus Christ superabounded. It overflowed. Boy, what a contrast. No matter how great our human sin becomes, God's grace overflows it. Abundantly it exceeds it. Isn't that good to know? I was reading a story and you probably have heard this. It's one of my favorite stories in in church history. A man by the name of Mel Trotter. Does anybody know that name? Mel Trotter was a lawyer. He became an alcoholic. And he became so enslaved to alcohol that he would literally stay at bars all night. And um he wouldn't even come home. He would go to a bar, stay there, drink. fall asleep. Sometimes they would kick him out and he would fall asleep on the sidewalk. And then when the bar opened up, he would go back into the bar and keep drinking. And word came one day when he was at a bar, Mel, your daughter is sick, you need to go home. And still he didn't go home, he stayed there. And finally they came back and said, Your daughter's going to die, you need to go home. And still he didn't leave. And finally the word came that his daughter died. And for him to go to the funeral And so Meltrotter went to the funeral home and saw his daughter laid out there in the casket. And when people came by and gave their condolences after everyone left, Meltrader reached into the casket and took the shoes off his daughter's feet in the casket, and he pawned those shoes off to get more money. So he can go back down to the bar and drink more. Sin was abounding in his life. But something happened. One day he stumbled into the Pacific Garden mission in Chicago. I don't know if you've ever been to Chicago. And been to that mission. I've been there. Right there in that mission, he heard the gospel and he got saved, and God did a dramatic work of grace in his life. He repented of his sin and he grew in Christ. He became a preacher of the gospel. He became an outstanding evangelist. And you know what he did? He was burdened about men who were addicted to alcohol, and he started over 67 rescue missions from coast to coast. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. Isn't that beautiful? That's the grace of Almighty God. And that's what Paul's talking about here. He's giving a contrast in the power, the law versus grace. But let me give you the last contrast here. There's a contrast in dominion. uh we could say sin versus righteousness. Look at verse twenty one. That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our And really verse 21 is the grand conclusion of the argument in this whole passage. He is contrasting the dominion of Adam's act versus the dominion of Christ's act. And the idea here is that sin may have rained for a time, but the reign of sin is getting weaker and weaker, and the reign of Christ is getting stronger and stronger. That's really what should be happening in the life of the believer. I think of the story in the Old Testament when God anointed David to be king over Hebron. And Saul's kingdom, the Bible says, his kingdom waxed weaker and weaker, and David's kingdom waxed stronger and stronger. There's a sense in which that happens to us. When we get saved, you see our old master sinned. We still have that sin nature. But the reign of sin in us is getting weaker and weaker. At least it should be. And the reign of Christ is getting stronger and stronger, and that'll continue to get stronger until we are dominated then by the reign of Christ and the righteousness of Christ. And so there's a contrast in the dominion. Sin is losing its grip on us. Sin is getting weaker in us. That's the process of sanctification. And the righteousness of Christ, that practical righteousness that we live out by the power of the Holy Spirit, that's getting stronger and stronger in us. So there's the contrast in sin. So these seven things. And if we had a piece of paper, we can kind of line it up one on each side. We Adam and Christ, what we have in Adam, what we have in Christ, the contrast and effect, the many versus the much more, the contrast and results, the condemnation of one versus the justification of many sins The reign of death versus the reign of life, all the way down to sin versus righteousness. But here's the bottom line. All that we received in Christ, the last Adam, is so much more than the condemnation that we received in Adam. That's the idea. That's what Paul wants you to see here in this argument. How wonderful the grace of God is in salvation. That's what we need to see here. Uh let me just close with this. You know, some of you know I'm a history guy. And uh I was kind of reading a lot about British history. I don't know why I have such a uh fascination about that. Maybe because my grandson is British now, trying to figure out that that particular people group But did you know that there's a city in England called Bath? Bath, England. I didn't know this. Do you know why it's named Bath? The city gets its name from famous Roman bath houses, we could say spas that were in that town. You see, when the Romans came into that region in the year 43 B. C. , They saw these mineral springs, these hot springs all around that region. And they built bathhouses there. And that's the center of that became bath. England. And if you go to Bath, England today, you would see a stone marker that is right there in honor of the city's medicinal waters. that they say have blessed so many people through the years. And this is what the monument reads. It says, these healing waters have flowed on from time immemorial. Their virtue is unimpaired, their heat undiminished, their volume unabated. They explain the origin, account for the progress, and demand the gratitude of the city of Bath. I thought that was very interesting. But you know what? That's like God's superabounding grace for us The healing waters of the gospel of grace have flowed, haven't they, from time immemorial? We could say their virtue is unimpaired. their heat undiminished, their volume unabated. Thank God for his superabounding grace in our life. And so friend, again here, this text tells us that when God looks down, he sees you, and he either sees you in Adam or he sees you in Christ. So my question to you is, which one is it? Are you in Adam or are you in Christ? And we can see by way of contrast, it's a no-brainer. It's so much better to be in Christ. Than to be in Adam. And friend, if you're not sure of that, I invite you to experience the superabounding grace of God by coming to the Lord Jesus. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, as we come before you and we look at this passage that is so heavy in theology, yet it's so necessary for us to know. to understand the great blessings that come by being in Christ. How that, Lord, you've done a wonderful work when you saved us, when you took us out of Adam. And placed us in Christ. You took away the condemnation and you gave us justification when we came to you. We are recipients of the blessing of Christ's obedience who gave us righteousness. And now, Lord, we are Dominated by your grace. And the reign of sin has been broken. And righteousness through Christ now reigns in us. How we thank you for these blessings. And Father, I pray if there's someone here tonight that's never trusted Christ. That Lord they would come to Him, that they would make sure of their own salvation. And friend, again, I just want to invite you with heads bowed and eyes closed that if you haven't made sure of your own eternal Destiny, your own eternal standing before the Lord. That His grace wants to save you right now, if you'll come to Him. Say, Lord, I want to be in Christ. Please take me out of Adam. Place me in Christ. I come to you today, Lord Jesus, and I ask you to forgive me for my sin. Thank you for dying on the cross for me. Thank you for living for me. And now by faith I come to you, and I ask you to save me and impute unto me your righteousness. So that before God I'm seen in Christ. Friend, if you'll pray that in meaning and he will save you right where you are, that you might have eternal life. So Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And we pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen.