And look at verse number seven. We're on the last sermon here in Colossians. I bet you thought it would never come. The last sermon in the series. We've been doing this, I'm not sure how long we've been in it and how many sermons. It certainly has enriched me in a lot of ways. I hope it has you as well to learn this great, powerful little epistle. And tonight we're going to look at verse 7 down to verse 18. So follow along as I read these verses. All my states shall Tichekus, or actually the correct way to pronounce that is Tikricus Um the CH there is the Greek letter chi, which is a K sound, and the a accent on the I. This is not a phonics lesson here or anything, but Uh Tychicus. But it's so hard to say that. I'm just going to say Tychikis. Is that okay? This is just in case my uh Greek professor gets this on internet. I don't want him emailing me about this So Tychekis is how I'm going to say it. All my state shall Tychekis declare unto you, who is a beloved brother and a faithful minister and a fellow servant of the Lord. Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose that he might know your estate and comfort your hearts. With Onesimus a faithful and beloved brother who is one of you, they shall make known unto you all things which are done here. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, salutes you. Marcus, sister son to Barnabas, touching whom ye receive commandments. If he come unto you, receive him And Jesus, which is called Justice, who are the circumcision. These only are my fellow workers unto the kingdom of God, whom have been a comfort unto me. And Epaphras, who is one of you A servant of Christ saluteth you always, laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. For I bear r uh him bear him record that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them that are in Heropolis Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you. Salute, brethren, which are in Laodicea, Nymphus, and the church which is in his house And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. And say to Archippas, take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it The salutation by the hand of me, Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen. The hymn, Blessed Be the Tie That Binds, was written by Dr. John Fawcett. It was written, he was pastoring at that time a smore, excuse me, a small and poor Baptist congregation in Yorkshire His salary was 25 pounds a year. That's about $40 a year. And that was kind of inadequate even in that day. A large church in London. Asked him to come and be their pastor and he accepted the call. And so he and his wife began to load their things and they were going to make the long move. They were putting it all in the wagon. And people from the church began to show up and surrounded them with tears and sorrow And they hugged one another and they wept together. And many of the people in the church said, Please don't leave. Please stay. And the pastor's wife looked at him and she said, I can't bear this. I can't bear to leave. And he said to his wife, Well, neither can I. And so they turned down the large church in London with a large salary because they couldn't bear to leave the fellowship of that little church that they had come to love. And to commemorate the event, John Fawcett wrote the song, Blessed be the tie that binds our hearts in Christianity. They had proven that the loving fellowship of saints was more to be desired than money or any of this world's physical comfort. You understand that part of the church is the fellowship that we get out of it. If all you do is come to church and hear a sermon and leave, you're not getting the full import, the full blessing of God's house. Because fellowship is such a rich part of the spiritual walk. And so you're only getting half if you just come and you hear a sermon and you leave. We need each other. We need the fellowship of the saints. John Wesley said, I want the whole Christ for my Savior, the whole Bible for my book, and the whole church for my fellowship. He said, I want to get all of it. Tradition says that the Apostle John, when he was finally allowed to leave Patmos and return to Ephesus, was brought in on a stretcher. And he said over and over again, all the fellowship of the saints. All the fellowship of the saints. You know why? Because he had missed that fellowship, that rich fellowship of believers while he was there on Patmos. Now with that in mind, I think these verses that we just read really teach us that. It teaches us the value of Christian fellowship. That's what all of these things are about that we read. It's the tie really that binds all of these verses together. And that's the wonderful, rich fellowship that we have with one another in Christ. Verses 7 through 18 are more than just a list of names. I know for when we read this it kind of listed read like a uh a early church phone book or Facebook page or something like that However, there's a lot more here to than just a list of names. These are ordinary people who love the Lord and who love one another, and there's a message here for us. Remember, I told you there's nothing in the Bible that's incidental. Nothing. Whenever God puts something in Scripture, He put it there so that we can learn something from it. And so even in the greeting as Paul closes his letter, which was traditional for an early epistle that when you closed out the letter you would give greetings. And normally you would include a lot of names because the mail ran slow back then, and you would try to include as many names as you can in the greeting And so this is what Paul's doing here. Guy H. King calls this a group photograph taken with words. And as we read these words here, we see the warmth and the love that existed between these brothers. And so I want us to look at just a few of these names. You know, really you can preach a series just on this paragraph that we read. But I want to just touch on a few things here tonight. I want you to see five blessings of Christian fellowship that come from this passage. Five blessings. Here's the first one. Number one: Christian fellowship comforts believers. It comforts believers. And Titekus was a comfort to Paul. And this is the reason why he's sending them to Colos to Colossae, where he's sending Titekus to Colossae. Look at verse 8, whom I sent unto you for the same purpose that he might know your estate and comfort your hearts. Paul in this closing he is saying, I'm sending to you Titekus so that he can comfort you Now who is this man? Let's kind of learn a little bit about him. Let's learn a little bit about his character. Actually, back up to verse 7, he gives us a little bit of an insight of the kind of man he is He said, All my state shall Tychekus declare unto you who is, first of all, he calls him a beloved brother. That is, he was loved by the believers. He was a good person to have around. He was a blessing to those who knew him Paul sent him on several errands or and or journeys, and during that time he would get to know the churches, especially in Asia where he was from. And to all the people that he met, he developed a special bond. He developed a bond with the churches. And those who knew him loved him Because he was that kind of a person. But he also calls him a faithful minister, again in verse 7. And a faithful minister, the word minister here at Diconos, where we get the word deacon, and it simply means one who serves He was a servant. He did whatever Paul wanted. He was there whenever Paul needed him. He was willing to go on long journeys with Paul. And through his acts of service, through his kindness, through his servant's heart, he was a great comfort to Paul to have around. And Paul says, now I'm going to share them with you. I'm going to send them to you that he may comfort you. But you know, Scripture mentions them basically five times. And we can draw some conclusions from these verses. The first time it mentions him is in Acts 20, verse 4, and it's with reference to Ephesus. Because he was probably a native of Ephesus. This is the major city there in Asia So he was probably born there and raised there and converted under the Apostle Paul during Paul's long ministry there Which means that if he was there in Ephesus, and I think he was a native of Ephesus, if he got saved under Paul, that means he was there to see some of the things that Paul had to endure while he was there. I'm speaking about the great riot there in that city where the silversmiths came against Paul. And when Paul finally leaves Ephesus to go to Jerusalem, Titekus decides that he's going to go with him. That's what we know. That's what we know from Acts chapter 20, verse 4. He decides to leave everything. This reminds me of the disciples in the Gospels. Where they left their nets and they followed Jesus. Tychekis left his home, he left his job, whatever it was, he left his family If he was married, uh which I probably think he was a single man, he wasn't married, he was a younger man, that if he wasn't married, therefore he left his parents and his brothers and sisters and aunts and uncles, whoever was there He left his family to go follow the Apostle Paul. Now, why was he traveling with Paul to Jerusalem? Well, you remember that Paul was taking up a love offering from churches, from Gentile churches to the church in Jerusalem. Well, why was Paul doing that? Well, you might remember from your reading of Acts that the church in Jerusalem was impoverished. The people, the believers there, were in great poverty And why was that? Well, because there was a famine that hit Palestine during that time. That was prophesied by the the the prophet Agabas there in the book of Acts, and sure sure enough it hit And when that happened, a lot of people lost their jobs. And then on top of that, when on the day of Pentecost, when many Jewish people, when they got saved They stayed there in Jerusalem instead of going back home. And so all of a sudden the church is just filled with all these Jewish believers. And some of the Jewish believers there in Jerusalem that got saved, they lost their job because of their loyalty to Jesus. They were disowned They were they lost their job because of their Jewish friends who were Orthodox. And then you add to that the fact that the Roman Empire was sucking the life economically out of everyone. including the people there in Jerusalem, and you have a church that is filled with thousands of people who are impoverished and they needed help. So what did the early church do? You remember the story. They began to sell their possessions. And they would lay the money at the apostles' feet. Why? So that that money can be distributed among the poorer saints. And you remember one man in particular, a man by the name of Barnabas, who sold a piece of land and laid the money at the apostles' feet. It was an incredibly huge generous thing to do. What was going on there in the early church is that believers were simply loving one another. And and one believer saw another had a need, and so they would sell their possessions to meet the need of another believer. But after that Even that couldn't really meet the need. You can only sell so many things before finally you're out of everything. And now you join them in the poverty. So what was Paul's answer to all of that? Paul's answer was to collect a big love offering from the Gentile churches And send it back to the church in Jerusalem. And by doing so, he would also secure the bond between the Jews and the Gentiles and show that there's not a Jewish church and a Gentile church, but there's only one church. For everyone loves one another. And so Paul wanted to show that love and that loyalty, and so he decides to go to Jerusalem. He has a big love offering, and he's going to take it, and Titeka says, I'm going with you I'm going to help you out on this. And that tells us that tells us a little bit about the heart of this man. He wanted to help these other believers. He wanted to join Paul in this. He didn't mind a long journey, and it was a long journey, a very difficult journey. And you'll remember if you read the book of Acts that Paul, when he makes this journey to Jerusalem Every place he stops there in the book of Acts, there are people warning him about bad things that are going to happen to Paul there in Jerusalem. You remember reading that Certain people that had a premonition, certain uh people that uh were giving kind of a word to Paul, the bad things that would happen. But that didn't deter Paul. He still made the trip all the way to Jerusalem, and guess what? Titeka stayed right there with him None of that scared him. And so he was with Paul. He was with Paul when he went to Jerusalem. He was with Paul when Paul was arrested. He was with Paul through thick and thin. He was with him with him when he went to his imprisonment there in Caesarea. He was with Paul when Paul made his dramatic appearances before the kings could defend the gospel And then Titicus decided he was going to stay with Paul when Paul was sent to Rome in that imprisonment there. Which means that when Paul had the shipwreck that's recorded there in the Book of Acts, that Tychus was right there with him. He was right there by his side. And the same shipwreck that Paul had to endure, Tychekus had to endure it as well Because he was with them the whole way. So when Paul writes about his sufferings, Titekus could say the same thing Because he endured many of them as well. Look what else Paul says about him in verse 7. He is a beloved brother and a faithful minister, and watch this, a fellow servant in the Lord. And the word servant dulas, which is the term that the favorite term Paul loved to use about himself, and he says Tychekus is also a soon dulas. He is a slave with me, a slave of Jesus Christ. He's just as much a servant of God as me. Later on in Titus chapter 3, when Paul is finally released from his first imprisonment there in Rome, And he decides to win her in Nicopolis. He sends for Titus. But he can't leave Titus, or he can't pull Titus out of Crete without sending someone there to take his place And so he says, I'm going to send Titicus there to Crete. So Titus, you can come and you can winter with me. Paul wanted to spend time with Titus. He wanted to invest more in Titus. He wanted to train Titus even more and see how things were going. So he sends Titekus to take Titus' place. This tells me something else about this man Titekus, and that is this, that he has grown alive. Since he was with Paul. He's grown to the point where now Paul can trust him to take a serious and an important position of being over the churches there in the Isle of Crete. And that he can take Titus' place, which means that he has learned to minister the word. He's grown. And then the next time we see the name Titekus. Write down 2 Timothy 4. 12. This is many years later. When Paul writes 2 Timothy, what stage of his life is he in? He's at the very end of his life, right? This is his second Roman imprisonment This is the imprisonment where he's going to die shortly. And he writes 2 Timothy. And he mentions Tichekis. 2 Timothy 4. 12. And Tichekis have I sent to Ephesus. You know why? Again, this is years later, and guess what? And Titicus is still with him. He's still there by his side. Second Roman imprisonment, and he's still there. And Paul says, I'm going to send Tychicus to Ephesus. Why? Because Paul now wants Timothy to come to his side. Because he knows that his days are numbered. And he wants to see Timothy. He wants to talk to Timothy, and he loved him. And so he says, I'm going to send Titekus there to Ephesus and Timothy, I want you to come. Come by my side. Which again tells me that this man Titekus was a man who was dependable, he was loyal, he was devoted to Paul, he was faithful, he was ready to do anything that Paul had him to do Which includes being a interim pastor at times when Paul called upon him to do that. So this is the character of this man But also notice the comfort of him. Look again in verse eight, whom I have sent unto you, I'm sending Titekus unto you for the same purpose that he might know your estate and comfort your hearts I'm sending him there to comfort you now. When Paul writes this verse, we have to back up ten years from Paul's second Roman imprisonment. Let's go back ten years. And really, this is four years since Titicus first left Ephesus to go to Jerusalem with Paul. Four years later, he's with Paul there at Rome. And he's proven himself to Paul. And he's shown himself to be a loyal servant. And Paul says, I'm sending him to you. I'm sending him to you that he might comfort you the way he's comforted me. And so now Titicus is going to take this long journey from Rome to Colossae. And again, it's not an easy journey. He has to cross Italy on foot And then he has to sail the Adriatic Sea, and then he had to cross Greece, and then he has to sail the Aegean Sea, and then he has to walk and land it, and once he lands at Miletus, he has to walk up that steep Lycus river valley, finally into Laodicea and into Colossae. He's carrying this letter, this epistle to Colos to the Colossians He's carrying it in his hand. But this is not the only letter he carries in his hand. Go back to Ephesians real quick and look in chapter 6 and look down at verse number 21. Let me just show you this. Look in Ephesians 6. 21. And notice what it says. But that ye also might know my affairs and how I do, Tychekus, a beloved brother and a faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known unto you all things whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose that you might know our affairs, and that he might what? Comfort your hearts. So you know what else he's got in his hand? He's got the letter to the Ephesians in his hand. He's got the book of Ephesus in his hands, or the book of Ephesians rather in his hand. And so he's got Colossians, he's got Ephesians, inspired scripture. Pretty important here. But also, that's not all. He's got another book in his hands. Look in Colossians chapter four, look in verse nine. With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother. That is, he's going to send Onesimus with him also to go to the city of Colossae. And who is Onesimus, we'll learn about him in a little bit, but he was a runaway slave from Philemon. And really the whole book of Philemon is about Onesimus this runaway slave and how that they have to receive him back now because he is a Christian. And so what does Titechus have? No small job here. He's got three inspired books, Ephesians, Colossians, and Philemon And he's got this converted runaway slave, Onesimus, with him. And Paul says, I'm sending them all back. Titicus is going to come to you. This is no small task here. Glad nothing happen to this guy. He's got a lot on him. And I think that when he got there He reads these letters from Paul to the congregation. That's what they would do. The messenger would read the letter publicly And not only did he do that, he probably expounded more on what Paul's letter was saying. So really the first exponder of the book of Colossians was Titicus. He was the first one to expound it. And he's going there not only to deliver the letter, but also to find out how they're doing. Remember, they were being bombarded with all these false ideas, with all these heresies And Tichekus was going to see how they're doing spiritually. But also he was going to bring them encouragement. Look at the word comfort in verse 8. It is pericoleo, and we know that word very well. We've heard it in so many different contexts, in so many different verses, and it just means to come alongside and help them. And it has the uh this idea. You ever see a parent trying to teach their children how to ride a bike? I mean doing it the right way, not just pushing them and saying, God bless you. Well what does it what does a parent do? They they they walk alongside, they hold them up, they run alongside, they keep them balanced. They might let go a little bit to see if they got it, but they're right there along their side, encouraging them, comforting them, and it's a comfort just to know that they're there. That's the idea behind this word here. Tychikas is going to come alongside them Make sure they don't lose their spiritual balance as they're being bombarded with all these false ideas and false doctrines. And he's just there to do what? Just to comfort them. Just to comfort them. Just like he did Paul. And friend, that's what Christian fellowship does. It just is a place of encouragement. It's a place of comfort. You say, why should I go to church? Because you need to comfort someone else You might say, well, I don't really need it. Yes, you do. But even if you don't think you need it, other people need it. They need your encouragement. They need your comfort. They need some small act of kindness to encourage them, some small service like Titicus would render to Paul to encourage that great apostle. Do you think Paul needed encouragement from time to time? He was human, of course he did And that's why God would send people like Titekus with him. And he was also comforting people by just reading the word, reading the word to a church and then giving a word about it. That's why we come here. That's what Christian fellowship gives. You can't get that while you sit home. You can't get that. Now there's nothing wrong with watching uh sermons on TV, I do that. I listen to sermons, you know, on the iPad and the iPod and all this other stuff. But you know what? There's something that's a wonderful way to learn and I encourage you to do that. But I want to tell you something. Don't l let that replace what you have here in church. Because you can't get fellowship out of that. And so we need the fellowship of comfort. Christian fellowship comforts believers. But let me give you a second thought here. Christian fellowship confirms brothers. Confirms brothers. Look at the next guy here. Look at verse 9. With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother. Who is one of you, they shall make known unto you all things which are done here. And then we're going to see another we're going to look at him, we're going to look at another man. But what we're going to see here now are two men on this list that failed And yet they were restored to usefulness. Isn't it wonderful to know that even though I fail or you fail, that God could still use us, He could still restore us? to where we can be useful. Because let's face it folks, we're all going to fail. We're all going to disappoint. We're all going to fall short. And the first man here is Onesimus. Now who is he? Now again, this is a man that was a slave to another man named Philemon. Now, while the book of Colossians was written to the church at Colossae, the book of Philemon was written to one family that was in that church in Colossae. And the and the family of a man whose name was Philemon. And you might say that Philemon was one of the pillars of the church at Colossae. He loved the Lord, he loved his family, he loved his church and his family was very involved there in the church. And if you were to study the book of Philemon, you would see that most likely the church there in Colossi met in Philemon's house. In fact, right down Philemon verse 2 doesn't have any chapters, it's just verses there. Falim verse 2. The church in your house. So it met in his house. Now who else was Philemon? He was a convert of Paul. In fact, in verse 19 of Philemon it says this. Paul was writing and he says, You owe me your own self. What does that mean? Your salvation. The fact that you're in the Lord, you owe that to me. And so he was a convert of the Apostle Paul. They say, now wait a minute, if Paul never visited Colothi, how could he be a convert of Paul? Paul had a ministry there in Ephesus, which wasn't far away. And more than likely, Philemon, along with Epaphras and perhaps Archippus, the man that we read here, they learned of Paul in Ephesus, and they made the journey to Ephesus to hear him, and they were converted under the Apostle Paul's preaching. And teaching there. Now Philemon had a slave in his household, a man by the name of Onesimus, and he didn't like being in Philemon's house, and he didn't like being a slave, and so he decided to run away And if you're going to run away in that day, you can't run away with nothing. So he had to steal. He had to steal from Philemon He took some resources and he ran away. And by the way, this was a dangerous thing for a slave to do back then because the owner then had the right to put that person to death if he so chose Or to at least punish him in a very severe manner. But Onesimus was willing to make the gamble. And you know what? He runs all the way to Rome. A long way. He gets to Rome. Why did he want to go to Rome? Because Rome was the major city in the empire back then. It had two million people in it. It would be very easy for Onesimus to get lost and all the slaves and the people that were there in Rome. He could just be hidden in that mass of people. Except something happened. When Philemon got to Rome, guess who he happened to bump into? He bumped into the Apostle Paul. You think that was a coincidence? No, that's not a coincidence. That's called a divine appointment Here he is running away in a city of two million people, and he happens to bump into a man who led his master to the Lord. And Paul gets to know Onesimus, and you know what happens? He leaves Onesimus to Jesus Christ. Onesimus now becomes a Christian. What an incredible story that is. It's the providence of God. And you know what? When you think about it, your salvation is no less miraculous because if you think about your salvation You'll have to know that God arranged all the circumstances in your life so that He could get you. So that He could get the gospel to you. He brought the right people or He took you to the right places where you can hear the gospel It's the providence of God. And so he's saved now. Notice what Paul calls him in verse 9. With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. He says he's a faithful and beloved brother. And he's with Paul a short time, yet in that short time, Onesimus proves himself faithful to Paul. And he shows himself to be a beloved brother. And he has the evidence, there's evidence in his life that his conversion is real, that he's sincere. And the real proof of it is this. Onesimus is now willing to go back to Colosse And make restitution for what he's done. He's willing to own up to what he's done. He's willing to face Philemon. He's willing to humble himself and apologize and submit to him again. You know what that's called? That's called the power, the transforming power of the gospel. That's what that is. I remember when I pastored in Tennessee, we had a young man that came to our church. He came from Mexico. He came illegally. He crossed the river at night as an illegal immigrant, made his way to Tennessee, he began going to our church, and he got saved. And after he got saved, you know what the Lord told him to do? You need to go back. And you need that you're you're here illegally. And he put it on his heart and he couldn't get it off his conscience. And so he decided to go back to Mexico And to apply legally to come to the U. S. And you know what? He waited there for years until finally, legally, he was able to come and settle there in Tennessee. And when we had Abby's wedding down there in Tennessee just a while back, he was there. Uh uh just a godly young Christian man who's growing in the Lord. And you know what? I hugged him. I said, man, I'm really proud of you. I'm proud of what the Lord is doing in your life. And this is something about Onesimus. He's willing to go back. And you know what? Paul sends this letter of Philemon. And the letter of Philemon, it's really just one message. Receive him. Bring them back. You receive them as you receive me, Paul said. Because now he's not a slave. He's your brother. He's not just a slave. He's a slave of Jesus Christ. He's a servant of Christ. He's your brother. You receive him. And you know what, beloved? That's exactly what that church did. They received him back to themselves and they affirmed him. Because you know what? That's what the fellowship of God's people does. It affirms. other believers. Even though we have failed. It doesn't matter what your past is like. Once you've been saved Once you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you know what? You're one with all of the people of God, and you're brand new. You are a brand new creature in Christ. And I believe the Apostle Paul loved this man Onesimus because He is an illustration of the principle that all things are passed away, behold all things become new. He's a living illustration of that. And that's what the fellowship does. But there's also another person here who needed to be received. Look in verse 10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, salute you. And Marcus Sister son to Barnabas, touching whom you receive commandments, if he come unto you, receive him. Now, here's another man that needed to be affirmed, to be confirmed by the believers. You know why? Because he he failed the Lord, just like all of us will do. You say, who is he? Verse 10, Marcus, sister son to Barnabas. This is uh John Mark, he's called in Scripture. Sometimes he's simply called Mark. And this tells us that he's the cousin of Barnabas, and he's there with Paul in Rome, and he's sending his greetings. He's right there with Paul. Now it's remarkable that he's there with Paul. You say why? Because if you read the book of Acts, you're going to find out that early on in Paul's ministry, John, Mark, and the Apostle Paul, they had a falling out You say what happened? Well, Paul was planning his first missionary journey, and he was going to take Barnabas with him, and Barnabas said, let's take John Mark. And so they take John Mark with them on their first missionary journey. And after ministering at Cyprus, John Mark abandons Paul and Barnabas when they reach the shores of Panthilia. You know why? This was the dangerous part of the journey. They would have to cross dangerous mountains to get up to Galatia where Paul intended to go, and that was a land that was filled with robbers And the Bible just simply says then John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem. He just quit. He just went back He went back to Jerusalem. In Jerusalem, John and Mark's mother, Mary, ran an open house for believers according to Acts chapter 12, verse 12. And so you might say that he ran home to mama. I don't want to be unfair here. I'm not really sure that's the reason. But you can make a point of that. He ran home to mom. Really, the reason John quit is not really explained in Scripture. Perhaps he was afraid of the dangerous territory they were about to go into. Perhaps he resented the fact that Paul was now taking over the leadership. of this missionary trip from Barnabas. Now Paul, there's a certain part in the book of Acts where you notice that Paul becomes the major spokesman. And Paul takes over. And maybe he resented that. Or maybe he just got tired. Whatever the reason, he just quit. He left, and the apostle Paul didn't like it. And so now after the first missionary journey is over, Paul decides he wants to go back on a second journey and see how all the brethren are doing, and he's going to take Barnabas, and Barnabas says, Hey Paul, I got an idea. Let's take John and Mark again. And Paul says, Are you crazy. Now again this is the Harman paraphrase here. I can just imagine the conversation. I'm not taking John Mark. Why? Well were you there on the last trip? He quit Right when we needed him, he left us. And Barnabas says, well, he needs a second chance. Well then you give him a second chance. I'm not running a tour to the Holy Land here. This is a missionary journey. I'm not taking him. And Barnabas says, yeah, let's take him. And Paul said, no, I'm not. And Barnabas said, you're not being fair, Paul. And the Bible says there was a heated contention, there was a sharp division between Paul and Barnabas. And so what happens? They split. And the Apostle Paul goes one way with Silas, and Barnabas goes another way with John Mark. But now, here's years later, and Paul's in Rome, and guess who's there with them? John Mark. He's right there with them. You say, what happened? Whatever the problem was, it was settled. There was reconciliation. In fact, notice what Paul writes here. Look in verse 10. It says Marcus, sister son to Barnabas, touching whom ye receive commandment, if he come unto you, receive him Paul's saying, look, if if Marcus happens to come to you, he's with me now, and he sends his greeting, but if he happens to come, you receive him. And notice where it says, touching whom ye receive commandments. What's that mean? That means that There was commandments given about Mark. You know why? Because if there weren't commandments given about John Mark, then many of the churches wouldn't receive, and you say, why? Because he had developed a reputation for quitting He developed a reputation for turning back, for being a washout. And so someone wrote a command that now you are to receive John Mark. Because he's turned it around. He's no longer a war shout. He's no longer a quitter. Something has happened in his life. We don't know who wrote that command. It could have been Barnabas, it could have been Peter, it could have been Paul. But he shows up and he's a new person now. This is 12 years later, and now he's fully restored to a place of usefulness. In fact, in Philemon, verse 24, Paul names him. He names Mark and Aristarchus and Demas, my fellow workers. Paul says, hey, you know what about John Mark? He's one of my fellow workers. Whereas before Paul didn't want them, now he says he's a fellow worker. He's got it. He's turned around. You say, what happened in his life? We can't be sure, but let me tell you what I think happened. Write down 1 Peter 5, verse 13. The church at Babylon, elect together with you, greet you. Listen to this, and so does Mark, my son. Now who's writing this? This is Peter And Peter says, Mark greets you, Mark, my son. You know what happened? Peter took John Mark under his wing. And for Peter, he was a restoration project. And by the way, who better to restore John Mark than someone who had failed the Lord miserably? And who had to be restored by the Lord Himself. You remember the story about Peter? What did Peter do? He cursed and he swore and he denied the Lord. And who had to restore him? Jesus Himself. And so I imagine Peter saw Mark and he said, you know what, I know what it's like to fail. I know what it's like to mess up. I've been down that road, so let me help you, Mark. Come over here. And so Peter begins to restore John Mark. And then after this restoration project is over, he gives them back to Paul. And Paul says, you know what? He's useful. I can use him again in the ministry. And you know what? You want to know how greatly John Mark was used? You ever read the Gospel of Mark? You know who wrote that under inspiration of the Holy Spirit? John Mark. We have, he had the privilege of one of four men in all the world to write a gospel about the Lord Jesus Christ. That's how much he was restored. And later on, Paul writes this in 2 Timothy 4. 11. Again, this is at the end of Paul's life. He said, only Luke is with me. Take Mark And bring him with thee, for he is profitable unto me for the ministry. He said, Timothy, when you come, make sure you bring Mark He's profitable to me. What an incredible testimony. Fully restored, fully back to a place of usefulness to God. And you know what, beloved, that's what Christian fellowship should do. It's a place of restoration. It's a place where we restore one another. The church is not a place where if a brother falls, we jump on the wounded and we criticize. God forbid, that is not the fellowship of the church. You know what we do with a wounded person? We go after them, we pick them up, we encourage them We we bring them along we come alongside them, pull them under our wing, we disciple them, we encourage them, and we bring them back to a place of full restoration and full usefulness. That's what the church does. That's what the fellowship does. Christian fellowship comforts believers. Christian fellowship confirms brothers. Let me give you a third thing I learned from these verses. Christian fellowship crosses barriers Crosses barriers. Say what do you mean by that? Well, in these verses we see six names that are here. Six names. Look at verse 10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, salutes you, Marcus. And then he names in verse 11 Justice. And then later on he'll he'll mention Epaphras and Luke and then Demas. Now again, uh it was customary in the end of a letter to fill it with personal greetings, and that's what Paul's doing here. And by the way, if you read Romans, you'll notice that there are 26 different names that he inserts into the end of Romans in Romans 16. He knew a lot of people. But here are these six names. This is kind of an eclectic list of people. And notice that the names here, Aristarchus and Marcus, and Justus, they're Jews. Say, how do you know that? Look in verse 11. And Jesus, which is called Justice, who are of the circumcision. That is, they're Jewish Christians. They're Jews. And the others, Epacchas and Luke and Demos, they're Gentiles. You say, what's the point? So here you have Jewish and Gentile Christians together in unity and love. And you have to remember, this is in a day when the world was divided racially. We think there's racial division today, but it's nothing like it was back in Paul's day. R. Kent Hughes wrote this. Language, national animosities, and differences in religion and culture had divided the world of that day into hostile camps that could only be held together by the sword. You know what he meant by that? It was the government that was holding these groups together because they could never be together without the government at the point of a sword, keeping peace. And we see a lot of that today. Today there are government programs and things legislation is trying to unite people From different races, and there's nothing wrong with that. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that, but I am saying this: that legislation can't change the heart of man. It just can't do it. You know what changes the heart of man? The gospel of Jesus Christ. It's only the gospel that can take the heart of a person and fill it with love to where that person now loves everyone, no matter social background, racial background, nationality, it doesn't matter. That heart is now filled with love. And this is what we see here. Both camps coming together, Jews and Gentiles. And by the way, this was God's plan from the very beginning. God's plan from the beginning was to bless Abraham and his family so that they in turn could what? Be a blessing to all the world That was God's plan that the gospel goes from Jews to Gentiles. And we see that in the Old Testament. We get a glimpse of God's missionary purpose. That's why God sent Jonah to Nineveh. Here's a Hebrew prophet going to a Gentile country. To preach salvation. And you remember the story, Jonah said, I'm not going. And God said, Yes, you are. Jonah got on a boat to go one way, and God put him on a submarine to go back the right way. But God said, You're going. That was part of God's missionary purpose. And we see this in the life of Jesus when he went out of his way to go to Samaria to speak to a woman. Samaritans were hated by the Jews because they were half Jew, half Gentile, and this hatred between them lasted for 400 years, and yet here is Jesus bringing the gospel to this Samaritan woman as a paradigm and a pattern of what he expected of his disciples that the word of God, the gospel, should go all over the world and tear down all these boundaries that were put up You know how powerful the gospel is? It could take someone who is a radical member of ISIS and save an individual in that group and fill their heart with love. So that whereas there was hatred and the very person they wanted to kill, now they they they embrace them and they love them and they hug them. That's what the gospel can do. You say, how do you know that? About a year ago I met a young man who was a member of Al Qa Al Qaeda until he got converted and I shared the word with him and you know what he did? He hugged me. And you know what he said? He said, I love you, brother You know why? Because of Christ. Because of the power of the gospel. Let me give you the fourth thing. Christian fellowship comforts believers. Christian fellowship confirms brothers. Christian fellowship crosses barriers. But here's the fourth thing. Christian fellowship carries burdens. Carries burdens. Where do we see that? Look at verse 12. Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you. Always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. For I bear him record that he hath a great zeal for you and them that are in Laodicea and them in Heropolis. You say, who is the Paphras? This was the man who carried a great burden for these believers in this church. And the burden is evidenced in the manner in which he prayed. Now we've already learned a little bit about Epacras. He was perhaps the founder of the Church of Colossae. If not the founder, at least an important person in the founding of the church. And some scholars even believe he was their pastor. And he's the one who traveled all the way to Rome to tell Paul about this dangerous heresy, this Gnostic heresy that was threatening the church and bewitching some believers. And he's the one who came to Paul to begin with. And now he's still there with Paul. And Paul says he has a burden for you. He prays for you. Someone said if he's the pastor of the church, why is he all the way in Rome with Paul? Because he felt this was necessary. He needed the help of the Apostle Paul. Why didn't he return with Titicus and Philemon? He wants to spend more time with Paul. He wants to learn. And Paul calls him again a doulos in verse number twelve. And the best way he can help the church is to pray. And Paul says he does pray so fervently. Notice how he prays in verse 12, always laboring fervently for you in prayer. Laboring fervently, agonizami, where we get the word agonize. He's agonizing in prayer. Now Paul is writing this as an eyewitness. Paul says, I see him, and he agonizes for you in prayer. By the way, this word agonize is used to speak of an athlete in a grueling competition. It's the word translated fight in John 18, verse 36. The same word used to speak about the agony of Christ in the garden in Luke 22, verse 44. This man is in agony in prayer for you. Praying for you. Wrestling with God. Alexander McLaren said true prayer is the intense energy of the Spirit pleading for blessing with great striving. And that's what we see here with him. Now there are times in our prayers when we may be a little more leisurely. The Bible says pray without ceasing. And there are times when you may be doing something and you're praying at the same time. You might be driving and praying You may be doing the dishes and yet you're praying, or some cure and you're praying, and that's all good and fine. And there are times when we have prayers like that, but I want to tell you, beloved, there are times when God calls upon his people to labor fervently in prayer To the same way an athlete would compete. And with pain, verse 13, where it says zeal, that's a word translated, pain, and other places in Revelation 16, 10, and 11. The word is used to speak of intense pain. And so this is a man who is in intense pain, Paul says. He hurts over you. He's praying over you. That is a pastor's heart there. He's praying fervently. Prayer that costs nothing accomplishes nothing, said one man. But notice what he prays for. Look in verse 12 again. That ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. He's praying for their spiritual maturity, for them to be fully developed. And this is what every pastor wants for his congregation, spiritual maturity. Spiritual completion. And notice with the word complete there, this word actually means fully persuaded or convinced. He's praying that they would be fully assured and persuaded about the truth. And that's a good prayer to pray right about now because you know that they're being bombarded with all these false ideas, and here's this pastor, and he is laboring in prayer, and he's to the point of pain and he's praying. Lord, I want them to be fully mature spiritually, and I want them to be fully persuaded about the truth of the Word of God. That nothing will move them. That they'll be people of conviction and not be moved away. Similar prayer in Ephesians thirteen, where Paul said, So we all come to the unity of the faith and knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man In verse 14, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every slight and wind of doctrine. And that's the same prayer here. And so what is he doing? He's carrying a burden. for the church. And it's a prayer burden. And again, that's what Christian fellowship does. We pray for one another. We carry each other's burdens in prayer. As we come together and we hear of what some believers are going through, the crisis, we pray fervently on behalf of our brothers and sisters, and we carry each other's burdens. And let me give you the last thing. And we'll be done. Christian fellowship comforts believers, confirms the brothers, crosses barriers, carries burdens, but then finally it communicates blessings. Christian fellowship communicates blessings. And then these are just closing words here. But I want you to notice that these are words of edification, exhortation. Building up, this is what Christian fellowship is all about. And let me just draw it together. Look at verse 15. Salute the brethren. Or first he says in verse 14, Luke the beloved physician and demons greet you. Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea And and Memphis and the church which is in his house. And so he's these are his final words. He's saying, you know, tell everyone hi there at Laodicea. And Memphis and the church that is in his house, it's interesting the churches in those days met in houses. It wasn't until sometime later the third century that church buildings began to be developed. And then look, notice verse 16. And when this epistle is read among you, cause it it be read also in the church of Laodicea. And then ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. And this kind of gives us a clue of how it worked back then. When Titekus would deliver these letters and read them. You know what they would do? They would make their own copy. They would make their own handwritten copy so they'd have a copy on hand. And then they would send a letter over to another church, and that other church would send a letter over to them So when Tichekus got to Ephesus, he read the letter there, and then he went to Laodicea, and he read the letter there. You say, what's the letter of Laodicea? It's not the letter of Laodicea, it's the letter from Laodicea, and I believe it was simply the letter of of the book of Ephesians. It was read first in Ephesus, and then it was read in Laodicea. And Paul said, once it's read there, I want you to bring it over and read it in Colossi. And the and the Colossian letter, I want you to circulate and read it all around. And so these letters were circulated all around back then. And that's how it happened. It would be the reading of Paul's letters. And then again, they would make their own copy. And so they're edifying one another with the word of God. But look at verse 17. And say to Archipas, take heed to the ministry that thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfill it. Now it's interesting that Paul says that, and I happen to think that Archipels is the pastor of the Church of Colossae. And what is he saying to him? Paul's saying, listen, see to that you fulfill your ministry. Why did Paul say that? Because Paul had just got done listing a bunch of men who had been faithful in their service, and Paul is in a way saying, I want you to be like that. I want you to fulfill your ministry the way they fulfilled their ministry. Titicus, he has fulfilled his ministry. Onesimus has. Aristarchus has. Mark has. Justice has. Luke has. I want you to do the same. I want you to fulfill your ministry. I want you to be as faithful as they have been. And you know what, beloved? That's a word for all of us tonight. We need to be as faithful as these. This portrait of men. They were all faithful, with the exception of one man, and we know who that was, right? Who is he, Demas? But with the exception of Demos, they were all faithful, and they all fulfilled the word of God, and they were all used by God. They were just ordinary people. ordinary believers that were surrendered to the Lord, that did whatever the Lord wanted them to do, whatever the Lord called them to do, whatever ministry the Lord gave them, and they were faithful to it and they fulfilled it. And you know what? The Lord used them. And you know what? God will use us too He'll use you too. And so we need to take heed on what Paul says. That we fulfill whatever ministry the Lord has given us. That we be faithful to it. And then finally, notice the last verse, verse 18. The citation, by the hand of me, Paul, remember my bonds. And so Paul, he takes the pen in hand. Now remember he would dictate the letters to an ammuensis or a scribe that was there. But when it came time to sign the letter, Paul took his own hand and he would sign the letter to show that it was authentic. And so Paul says, I'm signing this, a salutation by the hand of me, Paul. And then he writes a little note there with his own handwriting, remember my bonds. Paul said, don't forget me. Remember that I'm in prison. So remember that. You know what? It's easy to forget people that we think walk on a different plane than us. But Paul needed the prayers of God's people just like everyone else. And so Paul says, Remember my bonds. I'm still here in jail. And grace me with you. So what does it say to us tonight? It says to me that these portrait of people that we looked at They were people that God used, and we need to be as faithful as they were. And we need to communicate uh the same thing that they did, the Word of God, and encourage one another, and we need to be a part of a Christian fellowship that comforts One another, that confirms one another, that crosses all the barriers that are made by man and shows real Christian love, that carries each other's burdens in prayer, and that communicates blessings to one another. Because that's what Christian fellowship is all about. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we just are so grateful for these verses. And it just shows us how marvelous the Word of God is. And how wise you are, Father, that in inspired Scripture you would include such personal, intimate things. To remind us that these were people just like us, flesh and blood, real people that you use greatly. And these words here so resonate with us, Lord. It encourages our heart because we know, Lord, if you can use common ordinary people like them, you can do the same for us. And it reminds us, Lord, that we can we can be a blessing the way they were. And we can have the same kind of fellowship that they had because we're in Christ. So, Lord, let these words speak to our heart. Help us to see how valuable it is to be a part of Christian fellowship, a Christian fellowship that loves you, that comforts one another, confirms one another. That carries each other's burdens and blesses one another. Lord, let that be true of us in an even greater way. We know it already is. But even in a greater way. So speak to our hearts tonight through your word, and we'll give you the praise, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.