Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6. Your Bible should probably fall open to that if you just hold it. We've been in it so much. But look in chapter 6. We're going to read again this passage about the believer's armor. So chapter 6, starting at verse 10, would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Verse 10 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness And your feet shot with the preparation of the gospel of peace, and above all taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to t to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me Father, we come before you today now and ask that you help us to seek truth together. Lord, control our minds so that we focus on the text. And Holy Spirit, would you please just give us illumination, enlighten our minds to understand truth, that we may apply it to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Sir Henry Hotspur, Percy, was a famous English knight that was known for his bravery. And during the Battle of Shrewsbury, when he led a rebel force against King Henry VIII, something interesting happened. Henry IV, I should say. According to several historical accounts, Sir Henry Percy removed his helmet in the chaos of battle, possibly just to get air, possibly to rally his men But that was a fatal cho a choice. Because in that moment when he removed his helmet, he was struck in the head by an arrow. And of course this was a a fatal wound. And his death basically broke the morale of his forces and it changed the course of battle and ultimately it changed the course of history. So here's this man. He goes out into battle. He has all of his armor on, he even has his helmet on, but he takes it off just for a minute, and that was a fatal mistake. Here in chapter 6, verse 17, when we're talking about the believer's armor, the Apostle Paul talks about the helmet of salvation, and he says that we should take the helmet of salvation, meaning put on the helmet of salvation. And leave it on, don't take it off. Paul is urging us that in the spiritual battle that we're in, when we go into battle, don't take off your helmet. Don't go into the battle spiritually bareheaded, we could say Satan is our foe and he aims his arrows at your mind. He wants to undermine your confidence. He wants to undermine your identity in Christ, your assurance in Christ. And if your mind is unprotected, you can be spiritually shaken. So we want to look at this next piece of armor. As you know, we've been looking at the armor of the believer one piece at a time. Paul says, put on the whole armor of God, the whole panoply. of the armor that is every piece, don't leave one piece off. So we've been looking at these pieces one at a time. We've looked at the belt of truth. We've looked at the breastplate of righteousness. We've looked at the shoes of peace and the shield of faith. And today we want to focus now on the helmet of salvation. Why is this helmet so important? Why is this vital? in your Christian walk. And we want to examine it under the three headings that we have been using for each piece of armor. We want to talk about the adversary, then we want to talk about the armor, and then finally the application. So here's number one, the adversary. Why do we need this helmet? Well, Paul has already made this clear, and we'll just talk about it again, that you're against a spiritual foe, not a physical foe. A spiritual enemy. Look again in verse number twelve of chapter six, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. In the ancient city of Ephesus, of course Paul wrote this letter to the Ephesians, there was a legendary wrestler. And he was strong, he was swift. He was seemingly invincible, and match after match he emerged victorious, and crowds marveled at his strength. But there was a secret behind his strength and his success. The wrestler wore around his neck a little amulet. And in that little amulet there was what is called the Ephesian grammata. These were mystical words believed to invoke supernatural powers. And he believed that wearing this charm around his neck gave him special power in all of his wrestling matches. And eventually the secret came out, and finally his opponents began to challenge his ability to wear that that charm around his neck, and the officials then said, You can no longer wear your Ephesian grammata. You can't wear this charm. And he was forced to compete without it. And for the first time he lost. when he took off that charm. You see, the wrestlers believe that they were not just wrestling against a man, they believed that they were wrestling against spiritual powers, invisible powers that they could not see. Now the Ephesians to whom Paul wrote this letter knew this story very well. And so they understood exactly what Paul meant when he said, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers. against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. This is no physical match. We are against a spiritual foe. Satan, our adversary, he does not fight fair And he is an an invisible foe, but thank God because of Jesus Christ, he's not an invincible foe Because he gives us, Jesus gives us the ability to stand against him. But the question is, where do we meet Satan? When we come against him in spiritual warfare, where do we meet him? Well the battleground where we meet the devil is our mind. It is our mind. Remember when Satan came to tempt Jesus? It wasn't a geographical battle. They went to several locations, but really the battle was the mind. It was Satan giving ideas. It was Satan giving lies. And how did Jesus deal with those lies? He answered back with the truth of God's word. The Apostle Paul said it like this in 2 Corinthians 10, verses 3 to 5. For though we walk in the flesh, we do not war after the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalt itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Back in March, when we were over in Greece, we visited the ancient city of Corinth. And as you walk into that ancient city, if you look to the right, getting above the landscape there, was a big hill called the Acro Corinth. And on top of this massive hill was a fortress. And back in Paul's day it was heavily fortified. It was a fortress with thick walls. It was a stronghold that sold that that served several purposes. There were prisoners that were confined in this fortress. They were trapped behind these thick walls, unable to escape unless someone from the outside intervened and was able to rescue them. So a lot of times these fortresses that would stand upon these hills were prisons. And this is the idea that Paul is using here when he writes to the Corinthians in chapter ten, verse three, when he says again that That the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God, to the pulling down of strongholds. In other words, the idea is that the fortress is an idea That keeps people in prison. There are a lot of people today that are imprisoned to Satan, not because they're wearing literal chains, but because he has them in a fortress of a lie. an idea, a philosophy that is against the Word of God, that is against the truth. They're held into this massive fortress. And the question is, how do we get them out? They need help, they're in prison. What is how do we do warfare against that? Well, let me tell you that the weapons are not carnal. Your wit and your own human wisdom is not going to be able to deliver people out of these fortresses. There's only one weapon that can stand against that. That is the word of God. The truth of God's word. The power of the gospel is what delivers people from these fortresses. But we don't use physical weapons. We can't use a gun. We can't use a bomb. We can't use literal weapons when we storm these fortresses. We have to have the truth of the Word of God. But the thing I want you to see is the battleground is the mine. Ideas and imaginations have to be cast down. They have to be destroyed. They have to be torn asunder. And so again, it's in the mind. That's where Satan does battle. A. W. Tozer said, what comes into our mind when we think about God is the most important thing about us. And Satan desires to control your thinking. He desires to control your mind. The Bible says, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. And so the mind is the gatekeeper of the soul. What you allow to shape your thoughts will shape your behavior. It will shape your emotions. Eventually, it will shape your destiny. And so if Satan can just manipulate your thoughts, if he can just get into your mind, put ideas and lies That's why Paul said, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind We have to daily renew our mind. It is so important that we guard our mind. That's why Paul says you have to bring into captivity every thought. to the obedience of Christ. Why? Because unguarded thoughts become ungodly strongholds. Anxiety begins with a fearful thought. Lust begins with an impure imagination. Bitterness begins with a rehearsed offense. When there's an offense against you, you can't seem to let it go, you rehearse it over and over again, you're in a prison of bitterness. It started in your mind. False doctrine begins with a subtle twist of the truth. Just as a city without walls is vulnerable, even so a Christian without a guarded mind is vulnerable to Satan. Stephen Cole writes this. He said, I'm amazed at how many Christians do not mind their heads. They swim in the current of worldly ideas and entertainment without doing developing a Christian mind They are oblivious to the godless philosophic assumptions that underlie worldly thinking. They buy into the postmodern idea that there is no such thing as knowable absolute truth in the spiritual and moral realm. These careless Christians ignore and sometimes even ridicule the need for sound doctrine. They want experience, not doctrine. They want good feelings, not careful thinking. This is why the helmet of salvation is so very important, because we have an adversary that attacks the mind. So let's look at number two. Let's talk about the armor. What is this helmet of salvation that Paul talks about? And take the helmet of salvation. Take again means literally take hold of, put on your helmet. What was the Roman helmet? What would it look like? What was it made of? You've probably seen images of this on TV. watching uh perhaps a Ben Hur or some of these other shows where they give Roman uh Romans in all their armor. The Roman Galaya is what it was called. It was iron made of iron or bronze that would fit over the whole head. It was fitted with cheek guards and a neck plate. And sometimes for the sake of comfort a soldier would put in a line their helmet with a something comfortable like a sponge or some kind of felt or material. At the time of Christ, there was a plume of horse's hair that was placed on the top of the Roman helmet In earlier times this was to make the uh soldier look taller, thus more intimidating. You know, added a few inches to his uh his his height. The Roman soldier's helmet protected his skull and his neck from the enemy's weapons and falling debris. And a soldier was identified by his helmet. Did you know that? Just like today in football. w we distinguish a team by their helmets. A Roman soldier could be identified which union he belonged to, his rank and so on. That could be identified by the helmet that he wore. There were various colors of the plume. that was used and so on. But the helmet also bore the crest or the insignia of the Roman soldier's unit, reminding him of his identity, reminding him also of his allegiance. But of course the helmet was absolutely necessary in hand-to-hand combat. The primary target for a fatal blow was the head. If you lost your helmet, you were exposed, and surely you would fall and die. But the question is, what does Paul mean by the helmet of salvation? He connects this physical helmet with Salvation. And what does Paul specifically mean when he talks about salvation? Now, as you can imagine, as in other areas in the Bible, there's a division over the interpretation of this. Biblical scholars uh debate as to which is the correct interpretation. They read a lot of wrote written a lot of material on this. These are guys that have too much time on their hands, but I'm just kidding. But uh What are the various views? What is this helmet of salvation? Well, there's one view that says the salvation that Paul talks about here is assurance and security. Another view says that the salvation is really in reference to the future hope of salvation, the idea that uh a future glorification at the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And another view says, well, the helmet is Christ Himself. The helmet symbolizes Christ as the source of salvation. Putting on the helmet is putting on Christ. And then another view says that It is really speaking up about the protection of the mind through doctrinal truth. The helmet protects the mind, grounding it in doctrinal truth. So it's the doctrinal truth that really is being referenced here. And then another view says that salvation that Paul talks about here is ongoing sanctification in the believer's life. See what I mean? All these guys are debating over all this. You know, what does this really mean? Well, let me just say this. These are all good views. When I was reading over this and studying them, I was thinking, you know, I can't bring myself to say that any of these views are wrong. Because really all of these things are in view here, if you ask me. I'm not running for office or anything, you know. They're all right. But honestly, I think that I would just say this. When Paul says helmet of salvation, he is referring to God's full salvation in the believer's life. Which would include all of these things. All of these are a part of that full salvation. And again, the Greek grammar, verse 17, where it says, and take the helmet of salvation, is a genitive of opposition. You say, what does that mean? Really very simple. It just means that both nouns refer to the same thing. The second term gives more specific information about the first term. So we can literally translate it like this: the helmet, which is salvation. The helmet, which is salvation. So putting on the helmet of salvation means that you're thinking about all of life from the perspective of God's full salvation. When we put on the helmet of salvation, we don't think the same way anymore before salvation like we thought before salvation. We see things differently now that we have the helmet of salvation on. We relate to people differently now. that we have the helmet of salvation on. Just think about this. Your mind controls every aspect of your life, does it not? It controls how you think, how you relate to others. Everything is connected to our mind. And now that we have the helmet of salvation on, we relate to people differently than before salvation. We now love people who we avoided before. We now view lost people with compassion and understand where they're headed, and we have a yearning in our heart for them to come to know Jesus Christ. We now live differently in this world. This world is no longer our home. We understand that our home is in heaven. We're just passing through. When we try to make this world our home, God will stir up the nest and make sure that we understand that we don't belong here Our home is in heaven. We live now for an eternal kingdom. Jesus is our king. We view everything, values, money. Entertainment, the arts, politics, from the perspective now of being saved. Understanding the doctrine of salvation equips us to stand firm. in this world and all the ungodliness that we counter in this world and all the schemes of Satan. We go through the trial or heartache or sorrow. We now view this from the perspective of our salvation. We don't look at the trials and the troubles of the same way that we would have when we were lost. In fact, as a believer, James says, we count it all joy when we fall into diverse trials and temptations. You say, now wait a minute. Do you rejoice in the pain? No. We rejoice in the product. We rejoice in what God is doing in our life, knowing that That that trial produces patience and let patience have her perfect work, that we might be perfect and entire, lacking nothing in our life. God uses it to build us spiritually. So therefore I think Paul is emphasizing the entirety of salvation, past, present, and future, the way we relate to all of life. All of salvation. Salvation has three stages. Past, we were justified. Present, we are being sanctified. Future, we will ultimately be glorified. So salvation means God has rescued you from the penalty of sin. This means we understand that we're sinners, we are hopelessly lost, we understand that we were dead in trespasses and sins, as Paul wrote in Ephesians 2. 1. But God opens our eyes. He shows us the beauty of Christ and the gospel. The Holy Spirit convicts us of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. That is our our lack of righteousness, our own sin, and we know that we're going to stand before God in a future judgment and the Holy Spirit convicts us and we see the gospel and we see our need and we run to Christ for salvation. And we put on the helmet of salvation, understanding that we have been delivered from God's great wrath, a wrath that includes eternal punishment. And so we appreciate the helmet of salvation that is provided in Christ because we understand our fallen condition. Putting on the helmet of salvation means that you understand that salvation is a gift. That there's nothing that we can do to ever earn it. It's all of God. Paul said earlier, for by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. If you're from a Roman Catholic background, you may not understand this truth because the Catholic Church teaches that you have to add good works to God's grace in order to merit salvation. Oh, faith is is uh is is a needed ingredient, but you have to add to your faith. It's not God's grace alone. You have to do some works. I want you to know that's absolutely wrong. That's incorrect. You can't add anything to what God has done in Christ. And so tragically there are many people that miss out on God's salvation, which requires you to simply receive it by faith. received a gift that was provided completely by Jesus Christ on the cross. To put on the helmet of salvation means you properly understand the reason for Christ's death. Some people wonder Why did Christ have to die on the cross? When someone wrongs me, I just forgive them. Why can't God just forgive me? The answer is because God is perfect and holy and just and you are not. And God would compromise his holiness if he just forgave sinners. God's holiness must be satisfied. And when there's a sin, there has to be a punishment for that sin to satisfy the holiness of God. And God, who is also a God of love, didn't want to punish you. So he sent his son Jesus. And in his sinless life and his blood satisfied God the Father's holiness. On the cross. Salvation means that God has rescued you from the penalty of sin But also salvation means that God has rescued you from the power of sin. When God saves us, He makes us new creatures in Christ. He plants in us the seed of righteousness. We have the Holy Spirit now living inside of us. Whereas before we were unbelievers walking in the futility of our darkened mind, as Paul described in Ephesians 4, now we have a regenerated mind. Now we see things differently. Now we're able to see the beauty of Christ. And now we're able to see the truth of God's word. And now because we have been given the righteousness of Christ that has been imputed to us, and also an imparted righteousness that is given by the power of the Holy Spirit. Putting on the helmet of salvation means that we learn to walk in victory over sin. But you know where it starts? It starts in the mind. It starts in the mind. We have to kill our s sins on the thought level. We can't let lies Dominate our mind. We have to bring our thoughts into captivity. Again, that's why Paul said, don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. It's a daily thing. And you know how you renew your mind? Through saturating it in the Word of God. Jesus said, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. This is the truth of God that sanctifies us. Putting on the helmet of salvation means we grow in our assurance As you grow in obedience to God, you should be growing in assurance that He has truly saved you. Now, most modern evangelistic training instructs us. When we share the gospel with someone, we're to give them an immediate assurance. Right after the person prays to trust Christ as Savior, we tell them all, write down the date, the time, and the place. And don't ever doubt But let me tell you something. A day and a time and a place is not a biblical basis for an assurance of your salvation. It's just not. Maybe our Puritan brothers were a little wiser than we are. They viewed assurance as a blessing that God gives us as we grow. in faith and in obedience. But the first line of assurance is this: have you trusted Jesus Christ alone as your Savior? Have you done that? But the second question, having answered that, yes, the second question then must be, how do you know that your faith is genuine? How do you know it's real? And by the way, the book of 1 John is devoted to answering that question. John said, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life. The apostle goes through three lines of evidence that your faith is real. Do you confess Jesus as the Christ, the Son of God, and human flesh? That is, do you have a biblical true understanding of who Jesus is? And do you confess him as your Lord and Savior. Do you love the brethren? Because if you've been changed, you're going to have a natural love for God's people. You'll love the church. You'll love being a part of the fellowship. And do you obey Christ's commandments? Hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his. commandments, there will be a pattern of obedience in your life. By the way, I'm finishing up a book on this subject. It should be published in a few months. Free commercial right here. It's called God's Threefold Court, how John provides assurance for the believer. But putting on the helmet of salvation means that you daily affirm your faith in Jesus Christ as your Savior as your Lord. Loving your fellow Christians, obeying Jesus commands Salvation means that God is rescuing us from the power of sin, but also salvation means that God will rescue you. from the presence of sin. This is the third stage of our salvation. It's called glorification. One day we'll be taken out of this world. Either through death or through the second coming. Like the great Scottish expositor said, Alexander McLaren, I'm not looking for the undertaker, I'm looking for the uppertaker. And we heard that quoted a lot, but it's going to be one way or the other. Either we die or Christ comes back. But what happens to the believer at that point? Well, we are guaranteed future glory. You understand that? Future glory. We will have a brand new glorified body. We have a home in heaven. All the sorrows and the burdens of this life are gone. And when you get that brand new glorified body, guess what? There will be no aches and pains. You won't need Ben Gay in heaven. This is what the Apostle Paul may have been referring to in 1 Thessalonians 5. 8, where he says, But let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love. And for a helmet, the hope of salvation, that future hope that we have, this guaranteed glory, where we're made just like Christ. We remember this hope when the devil comes to try to fill us with despair and discouragement. Perhaps you're wearing down physically, your body's getting old, you're dealing with illness. We see this suffering, however, through the helmet of salvation. We remember that God gives us grace for the burdens today and a future glory. The Apostle Paul talked about this. He said in 2 Corinthians 4, 16, For which cause we faint not. I mean, can you imagine the aches and pains that the Apostle Paul had? I mean, he was stoned so many times, whipped and beaten. But he said, For which cause we faint not, for though the outward man perishes, yet the inward man is renewed day by day, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding eternal weight of glory. Paul says, the groans now, the glory later. And whatever burden that you're bearing now, it is nothing in comparison with that future glory that you're going to have one day. He said in 2 Corinthians 5, 1, for we know that if our earthly house at this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. And then he said, For in this we groan earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven. Wearing the helmet of salvation means with full assurance that Christ has saved me. He is saving me, and he will save me. He has a future home there laid up for me in heaven, and I will receive one day future glory. But while here no weapon formed against me will prosper, because salvation is my covering. It is my covering. So that's the adversary, why why we need the helmet helmet, the uh the armor, what the helmet of salvation is. But quickly Let me talk to you about the application. How do we put it on? How do we put it on? Just let me give you a few practical suggestions here. Number one, this is very simple. Believe the gospel. Just believe it. The most precious message in the world is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The greatest message in the world, this treasure that God has given us Believe it. You cannot wear the helmet of salvation if you're not truly saved. This isn't some kind of religious ritual. It's a relationship with the risen Christ. Trust that Jesus died for your sins, rose again, and offers full forgiveness. If you'll just put your faith in him and his finished work, repent and believe the gospel. Examine your heart, make sure. That you're trusting in Christ in Christ alone. Number two, here's the next thing, and I've said it before. I'll say it again. You'll hear me say this many times. Preach the gospel to yourself. Preach the gospel to yourself every day. Remind yourself of the gospel. Remind yourself that you're in Christ. Just as soldiers regularly inspected their armor, believers must daily remind themselves of the truth of the gospel. There is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. He who began a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus. Christ. Your life is hid with Christ in God. Fear thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. Over and over again, remind yourself of the gospel and the promises of the gospel. But then here's the the last thing. Guard your mind. Guard your mind. Don't leave your mind open to Satan's whispers. Refuse it. Refuse to dwell on the fear and the guilt and the condemnation and the despair that he wants to put into your mind. Replace them all with the promises of God. Focus again on Christ and the gospel. The Bible says, thou wilt keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee. Putting on the helmet of salvation is keeping your mind on Christ. When you're tempted, when you fail, when you're anxious, put on the helmet of salvation. And again, I agree that Christ is our helmet. He is our salvation. In the book of Isaiah, long before Paul's letter, we're told that God Himself wore this Helmet. Listen to this, Isaiah 59, 17. For he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of salvation. upon his head. This divine warrior who came to save us now gives us his armor. And the helmet he wore in victory is the one he places now on your head in grace. Take it. Don't forget to wear it each day and every day. Don't forget your helmet. I'll close with this story. In 1994, Deion Sanders was then playing for the San Francisco 49ers. You know I had to get into football in this sermon, right? It was moments away from the kickoff on a nationally televised game when a bizarre issue arose. He couldn't find his helmet. Somehow in all the pregame prep and locker room chaos, his helmet went missing. Well he was ready to get out there and high step it. But he couldn't get on that field without his helmet. The equipment managers were scrambling, the clock was ticking, the team was preparing for battle. But they had to go into battle without their star player because he still could not find his helmet at the time of kickoff. Dion was panicked. Teammates were distracted. The whole delay disrupted the whole team's focus. They were all out of rhythm. Now eventually. He would find his helmet, but a lot of the game had already been played. But they would go on to lose that game. A critical loss. The analysts who were commenting on the game said that they were convinced that The reason they lost was because of all the the confusion at the beginning of the game, because Dion could not find his helmet. Imagine this in spiritual terms. Paul said, take the helmet of salvation. Why? Because the helmet protects you, it protects your head, protects your mind. It gives you your identity in Christ. It gives you your assurance of victory in Christ. Without your helmet, you are not prepared for the battle. You're not prepared. The helmet is not optional. Don't leave it in the locker room. Friend, put it on. Remember who you are in Jesus Christ. Let Christ be your covering. Let Christ be your crown, your confidence. He who has the Son has life. So put on the helmet. Fight the good fight of faith. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you that you have in Christ given us all that we need. All that we need. Christ is all. Christ is all Thank you, Lord, for the the equipment that you give us in this ungodly world. In this world where Satan takes aim at believers, especially those who are earnestly trying to live for you, he takes aim. He goes for the fatal wound, he goes for the mine. Lord, help us to remember that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. That in Christ we can cast down every imagination, every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. Lord, may we wear the helmet of salvation. May we put it on, keep it on, and not take it off in the midst of the battle. Lord teach us how important it is. Give us the mind of Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give an invitation to those who are here today who may not know Jesus Christ as Savior. Maybe you have never put on the helmet of salvation because you've never been to the cross. You've never put your full faith in Jesus Christ. You've always depended on something else. But all of those are carnal weapons, friend. They're not going to get it done. Your only hope is Christ. And what he did for you on the cross. Will you come to him by faith? Would you put your full faith in Christ and get that assurance of salvation? To know that you're in Christ. Would you just reach out in prayer and just say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. I want to adorn the helmet of salvation. And I call upon you to save me. And for those of us who are believers, may we remember our identity in Christ. Keep that helmet on. Father, bless your words to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen