All right. I invite you to take your Bible, please, open to the book of Psalm 119. And you know on Wednesday night we've been And a journey through Psalm 119. And tonight we come to verse number 73. We're going to deal with this next stanza, verses 73 down to verse number 80. And uh as you know, uh we've been uh dealing with this chapter, stanza by stanza. There are 22 stanzas in Psalm 119. Just as there are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. This is a masterpiece of alliteration. And the psalmist, when he writes this, he he is writing this based on the Hebrew alphabet. And uh that's why there's twenty-two sections with eight verses each, and each of the eight verses begin with the letter of the alphabet that is a subtitle of each of the sections. So he's kind of going through Aleph, the first letter of the Hebrew alphabet, to Tav, the last letter. And he is just uh talking about the Word of God and his dependence on God's Word. And uh it I was telling you before that um the letters that we have here, the Hebrew letters They evolved basically from pictures. Um when in the invention of writing, it originally started out with pictures and then it kind of evolved to letters. And some of the letters still kind of uh speak of the picture that it represented previously. And the reason I bring it up is because this is uh if you look above verse 73 you see the subtitle um yod or um we call it yod. But this is the Hebrew letter, a very s small letter, and it's in the shape of what we in English would be an apostrophe. Kind of like just a little curved line there. And originally the picture before evolved into a letter was that of a hand. So uh yad in Hebrew means hand. And I think there's no accident that the writer here refers immediately after this letter, in the very first verse of this stanza, verse 73, he refers to the hands of God. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. And so he I think it's uh he's referring here to the work of God's hands. This seems to be the main idea in this stanza here. Verse seventy three pr represents Or presents really the poetic imagery of God as being a potter who fashions us like a potter fashions clay. And uh this is a metaphor for God that is used in other places in the Bible. Job said this in the book of Job, thou hast made me as the clay. Job 10, verse number 9. And now this is certainly true physically, you know, we're nothing but dust. The Bible says, Out of dust we came and and to dust we will return. Reminds me of the little boy that asked his mother, he said, Mom, is it true that we're made out of dust and we're going to return the dust? She said, Yes. He said, Well, I just looked under my bed and someone's either coming or going. Isaiah 64, 8 says this, but now, O Lord, thou art our Father, we are the clay, thou art our potter, and we are all the work of thy hands. And this is how the Psalmist is presenting God in verse number 73. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. And so this emphasizes the sovereignty of God, his ability to shape his people. to the way he wants them. You know, we sometimes think we're the ones in control, but you know what? It's God who's in control. The psalmist said this, write down Psalm 100, verse 3. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that has made us and not we ourselves. God is the one who is making us. We are his product. Now you remember in the Bible in the Old Testament in Jeremiah chapter 18, God sends Jeremiah the prophet to the potter's house because he wanted Jeremiah to study the work of a potter. as he put the clay on the wheel, and he wanted him to learn from that how God works with Israel. He said this in Jeremiah 18, verse 6, O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as the potter? Saith the Lord, Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in my hand. So God sends Jeremiah down to the potter's house. This is a very familiar trade in uh ancient Israel. Every village had its own potter. And you know what I go over ha have done in the past, archaeology in Israel, every dig site we have, has all kind of broken pottery all around it I mean it was just such a big part of the ancient world, pots and pottery. But God had something that he wanted to teach Jeremiah. And Jeremiah went down to the potter's house and he saw the potter skillfully working. He saw a wheel, uh there was a big wheel on the bottom and a little wheel on the top, and the big wheel the potter would work with his feet and uh And the little wheel on the top is where he would put the piece of clay, and as the wheel was turning, the potter would use pressure to shape the clay. And all that is a beautiful picture. You know, we are in this wheel of life, and the wheel is constantly turning. We constantly have this routine of life, and God is using the wheel of life. to help shape us and the pressure of his hands or the circumstances that we in that we're in, the things that we face. We are the clay that is on the wheel. And you know what? The clay has one job to do and that is to yield to the potter Just yield to what the potter is doing. And so this is the picture, the beautiful picture that the psalmist is giving us here, and that we see also in the book of Jeremiah. Um and so what I want you to see here is that what God is gonna w what he wants to do with us uh from this section. He again we're looking at it from the perspective of a potter as he deals with the clay. And again, this is something that we see throughout scripture. Even in the New Testament, um, Paul uses the same kind of uh imagery, for example, just write in your margin Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his what? We are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus on the good work. That's a imagery of a craftsman making and crafting a beautiful work. To the Corinthians, he said this 2 Corinthians 4, 7, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. What is he saying? We are clay vessels. What is the treasure in these clay vessels? It's the gospel. God has entrusted to us the beautiful treasure of the gospel in these simple clay vessels. He wrote to Timothy. He said this. He said, But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also vessels of wood and earth, and some to honor and some to dishonor. And then he said this if a man purge himself of these shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctify the meat for the master's use. Again, that's the same kind of imagery there. We are vessels that God is making, and he wants to make us a vessel unto honor. So looking at this imagery then, let's just kind of look at this psalm from that kind of vantage point. And you know, Psalm 119 is kind of like a diamond. You can look at it from several different perspectives. But I want us to look at it at this perspective because this seems to be what the psalmist is doing here in this stanza. So I want you to consider two things. First of all, the process of the divine potter What are some of the things that the divine potter uses to shape us? Well, he uses divine punishment to shape us. Look at verse 75. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right. And judgments here speaks of God's punishment to his people. And the author was seeing God's hand of punishment on Israel because of their sin. Remember, this is a young captive being carried away into Babylon. He was part of the nation that was uh uh being carried away because of the sin of Judah. And uh he saw the suffering of God's people as a result of the Babylonians that God sent. God used the rod called the Babylonians to punish his people Habakkuk declares this in Habakkuk 1, 5 and 6. He said, God raised up a bitter and hasty nation to execute judgment on Judah. So this was God's punishment. In Jeremiah 25, 9, God refers to Nebuchadnezzar as the king of Babylon, as his servant, and declares that he will use him to bring judgment against Judah. And so this was God's punishment to his people. Now God's punishment was basically to bring them back. His ultimate purpose in disciplining his people was to bring them back into a place of fellowship. And that's always the reason God will use punishment with us. He is a faithful father, our divine potter. And so God will punish his children to bring about holiness. the fruit of righteousness in our life. But also he uses deep pain to shape us. Look again in verse 75. The word afflicted. I know that Lord thou that thy judgments are right and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. And we looked at this word affliction last week because he spoke of it several times in the last stanza, but we see it here again, and the word affliction simply is a word for suffering, to be bowed down with suffering. And uh God will allow suffering to shape us. God uses it in our life, as we said so many times before. God will use suffering to expose sin in our life. Suffering can reveal areas of our life. Where we're not living in accordance to God, and God will use that to get our attention, prompting us to repent and to seek his face. God will use it to strengthen our faith when we tr learn to trust God. In a greater way, in the midst of all of our sufferings. He wants to deepen our faith. It deepens our love for God. We it can basically prompt us to respond to the Lord with greater devotion, with greater love. But also, of course, it brings us closer to the Lord and ultimately God uses it to conform us into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so God will use divine punishment. He'll use deep pain. But here's another thing, another process the Potter uses. He uses difficult people to shape us. Look at verse 78. Let the proud be ashamed, for they deal perversely with me without a cause. Now the psalmist again he had to live among the cruelty of the Babylonians. And he was experiencing um just all types of uh persecution. He says they deal perversely with me for no reason. Perversely refers to lies. or false witness. They're speaking lies. They're saying things that are not true. They're slandering me. This word can refer to all different types of lies and deceptions. And so this psalmist was living with very difficult people. You ever have to live with difficult people? Don't raise your hand. Uh I think all of us do here in this life, right? We need to understand that, however, that God will use, he'll put difficult people in our life as a way to refine us. Someone said that difficult people are God's grindstone, the tool to hone your character. How many times do we look at difficult people as you know, our enemy or our thorn in the flesh and we kind of look down on people like that and if that's our normal first response But have you ever considered that God might be putting these kind of people in your life to sanctify you, to humble you, to make you more Christ-like? Is is that something that we should think about? Of course it is. I mean you pray for patience. He puts you behind a grandma on traffic doing 20 miles an hour in a 45 mile an hour zone, and you're late. That's that's you think that's an accident? No. You pray for discernment, he gives you conflict and situations where you have to depend upon the Holy Spirit to give you wisdom You pray for sensitivity, he gives you a boss who fails to consider the the pressures closing in around you. He's not considered of you at all All those things, again, are instances where God is answering your prayers by putting difficult people in your life that He can use them to refine you, to mold you, and to shape you into the person that He wants you to be. What should our response be? Well, what was the response of the psalmist here? It motivated him to focus more on God's word. He was determined to meditate more on scripture. Look again at verse 78 at the second portion of it But I will meditate in thy precepts. It had a sanctifying influence on him. And that's how the divine potter uses difficult people that he places in our life. Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, He said, I say unto you, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, bless them that curse you, pray for them. Which despitefully use you. Jesus gives us instructions on this very thing. And then also in the book of Proverbs, we see many principles. of how we should deal with difficult people that God might put in our life. Write down Proverbs 12, verse 16. A fool shows his annoyance at once, but a prudent man overlooks an insult. We need to learn to be patient and overlook insults that might be put to us. Proverbs 20, verse 3. It commends peacemaking. It is one's honor to avoid strife, but every fool is quick to quarrel. You ever meet someone who's just ready to argue at the drop of a hat, ready to quarrel? Proverbs 10, verse 12 encourages love. Hatred stirs up conflict, but love covers a multitude of sins. And so I think again, God may use difficult people to teach us humility, to refine our character, to humble ourselves before the Lord. God gives grace to those who are humble. But here's another thing that the divine powder will use. He shapes us. He uses divine or delightful providences to shape us. Look at verse 76 and verse 77 Let I pray thee thy merciful kindness be for my comfort according to thy word unto thy servant. Let thy tender mercies come unto me that I may live, for thy law is my delight. He not only uses difficulty to shape us, but he uses the delightful providences that he puts in our life to shape us as well. Twice in these verses, he uses the word mercies. I want you to see that in verse 76 and verse 77. God's mercies are new every morning. In verse 77, he refers to tender mercies. And then also he also refers in verse 76 to merciful kindness. It's the Hebrew word kessed here. And so the word here is Kesed that he uses again and again. Kesed. And actually, it's a word that means God's steadfast love. And let me just tell you that this Hebrew word Kasset is a very difficult word to translate because it has so many different layers of meaning to it. For example, it could mean loyalty, steadfast love, mercy, goodness. It encompasses all of these things. And again, it's a very difficult word to translate from Hebrew into English because the bottom line is, as in the case of many Hebrew words, there is no real English equivalent that really captures the whole meaning of this Hebrew word. And so it's difficult for translators to deal with this word when they come to it. And uh let me tell you what the translators of the King James did. They combined Two words together to try to convey the meaning of this Hebrew word Kesed, and they came up with the word loving kindness. Loving kindness. That's a word that they coined. Actually, we can't really say it was the translators of the Hebrew, uh, the King James uh version from uh that really came up with this word. We have to even go back farther than that. They were actually borrowing the word from a translator, a man by the name of Miles Coverdale Who translated the Coverdale Bible? Of course, you probably perhaps have heard of that English Bible. And this word loving kindness first appears in his translation of the Hebrew to English. But here the King James translators use another translation. They call it merciful kindness to kind of express another nuance of the meaning to this word, but it's the same Hebrew word. Merciful kindness. And I I love that translation too because again it kind of captures some of that meaning. Isn't God merciful and kind to us every day? His mercies are new every morning. Every day God demonstrates his faithful, loyal love to his people with his delightful, loving, providential acts. If you just look at your day-to-day, you can just kind of look how God and the just very small things extends to you, extended to you his love and his mercy even in today. with all the things that God has done for us even today. We need to be in tune with what God is doing around us. And by focusing on that By seeing those things, it really has an impact on us. It provokes us to love and wonder in our hearts to God. For example, let me write down a few verses, have you write down a few verses. Psalm 26, verse 3. For thy loving kindness is before mine eyes. and I have walked in thy truth. The psalmist sees the Kesed of God. He observes it. And what does it make him want to do? Walk in God's truth. God, I see your loving kindness. I see your mercy. And I want to walk in your truth. He goes on to say, I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go with dissemblers I have hated the congregation of evildoers. I will not sit with the wicked. I will wash my hands in innocence. So will I come past thine altar, O Lord, that I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving and tell of all of thy wondrous works. This is all his response to him noticing the loving kindness of God. The delightful providences of God. It should motivate us as well to live a pure and a righteous life, just like it did the psalmist. It should inspire us to trust in the Lord. Write down Psalm 36, verse 7. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God. Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. Observing the loving kindness of God, again, should inspire us to greater trust in the Lord, to run to Him, and to trust in Him. And on we could go. Psalm 63 verse 3, because thy loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee. And you know, you can just go through the book of Psalms and you can see so many verses just like this where the psalmist is seeing the loving kindness of God and how it has an impact on his life. And makes them want to serve and worship God. And Psalm 107, verse number 43 says this Whoso is wise will observe these things, even they shall understand the loving kindness of God God. These things again are the providential actions of God on a daily basis. The wise will observe them, the psalmist says, and then you'll understand the loving kindness of God. But these are just some of the tools that the divine potter uses to shape us into the people that he wants us to be. That's the process. Of the Divine Potter. But I want you to see number two, what I call the product of the Divine Potter. As we continue looking at this stanza through this motif of the Divine Potter, we Can I ask, what are some of the things that we see here that is developing in the life of this man as a result of God's work in his life? And these are some of the same things that God develops in us. Well, first of all, enlightenment. Back up to verse 73. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn thy commandments. He gives us a gr a heart that desires to learn God's Word to a greater capacity. He longs for a deeper grasp This is not a casual interest. This is a yearning that he has born out of the sufferings that he has gone through. The same God that fashions us physically can fashion us spiritually, he can fashion our mind, and he can give us a greater understanding of the Word of God. And again, God will use affliction. In that, because affliction, as I've told you before, is one of the things that God uses, but he uses it to give us a greater insight and understanding in God's word. I've read, you know, where this has been echoed across the centuries. A scholar of Scripture is not made in seminary. A scholar of scripture is made in the school of affliction. I'm not saying that formal education is not valuable. It is. Obviously, I believe in it. But there's nothing like the school of affliction to teach you the Word of God. You know, sometimes we read verses best when our eyes are washed with tears. We are able to see things more clearly in Scripture. And withdrew our desperation. And again, it was Martin Luther who uh was very famous for saying this that when he was learning scripture, he had three masters. Uh one was uh meditation, you learn God's word through meditating in Scripture, and then through prayer Uh and then we we see this by the way in the Psalm 119. He constantly refers to meditating in God's word. You could argue that Psalm 119 is one constant prayer of him asking God to help him understand God's word even But then Martin Luther said, the third master, and he said, This was my best master, that taught me the best about Scripture was affliction, suffering. He said, I rely on these three to teach me God's truth, and so should we. But enlightenment is the product. from the work of God, but then also encouragement. Look in verse number 74. They that fear thee will be glad when they see me. One of the most powerful ways God uses our affliction is to transform us into a source of encouragement for others. What do godly people think of when they see you? When they see you coming, what is their response? I'm not talking about your enemies. I'm not talking about people that are mad at you. I'm talking about godly people. Do they rejoice when they see you? That that says a lot about you and them as well. And here the psalmist he's saying, you know, God, your people, those that fear you When they see me, they rejoice. They're glad because I've hoped in thy word. You see, the psalmist has become an example of someone that learns to trust God's word and God is blessing and prospering and he becomes an encouragement to the others that are going through what he's going through And that, of course, is true today. You become a source of strength to other believers when you persevere through suffering. When you continue to trust in God's word, people will take encouragement from your life. And so I pray that's true of you. Look again where he says, again, they that fear thee will be glad when they see me, because I have hoped in thy word. Now the ungodly that saw this man, they didn't like him coming. They were his enemies, but the godly, oh how encouraged they were. Because they saw a man who feared the Lord, and because he hoped in God's word. And we need more of that in church, beloved. We need more people like that in church that are encouragers, not critics. But seasoned saints who've walked through the dark valleys with their Bibles in their hands and they come out with a deeper trust in God, what an encouragement that is to other believers. But then also endurance. Endurance. And uh you we can we kind of see this in verse 75, and then in verse 78, and also in verse number 80. Because if you put these verses together, you see really a vivid picture of the psalmist's endurance through difficulty. Verse 75, he trusts in the faithfulness of God even in affliction. Again, look at verse 75. I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. So he trusts the Lord and the faithfulness of God in his affliction. Verse 78 Let the proud be ashamed, for they deal perversely with me without a cause. But I will meditate in thy precepts. He commits to God's word, even when he's unjustly attacked He just continues in God's word, and in verse number 80, let my heart be sound in thy statues that I be not ashamed. He seeks a blameless heart that will endure without shame. And again, all these verses demonstrate the psalmist's perseverance and determination to maintain his faith in God, even though he's gone through a very difficult very, very difficult time. And that's what trials and affliction does. It gives us an endurance, a perseverance. And by the way, that's what God wants to do in your life. He wants to make you strong. It just seems like believers, the least little difficulty causes them to quit on God or quit on, you know, church And sometimes we question whether that person is really a believer. If it takes just one, the least little trial will cause people to faint. But what God wants to do is he wants you to develop patience. That's what James wrote. Let patience have her perfect work. And patience is perseverance. God wants you to learn to persevere because it it builds you up spiritually. It fills in all of the gaps in your life. It makes you complete and mature as a believer. That's the kind of perseverance and endurance that God wants to see in your life and in my life. Just to be persevering through difficulty. But then also edification. Edification is another product. Look at verse 79. Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies And again, here's another instance where people are turning to him, and uh they're turning to him here and learning God's word. Um, and they want to know God's testimonies. And so he's helping to edify the church. This is what God wants you to do as well He's working in your life through his divine uh hand, the hand of the potter, and he's producing in you all these things. And one of the things he wants to produce in you is some li someone who is able to edify all of the other people that are in God's house. You understand that's why we're here here? The Bible says we are to edify one another. 1 Corinthians 14, 26, let all things be done under edifying. 1 Thessalonians 5. 11, wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify one another, even as also ye do. In Romans 15 verse 2, let every one of us please his neighbor for his good to edification. And that word edification just means to build up We are to build up one another. We're to edify one another. That's what God is producing in us, this ability to edify. And again, that's why we come to church. That's why we gather together here at God's house. Why? To encourage one another. Some people say, well, you know, I don't need church. Well, actually you do. And other people need you here in church. So that you can edify someone else. You hear that people watching live stream that are too lazy to get up and come to church? You should be here unless you're sick or providentially hindered. You know, I I'm tempted to cut off live stream completely because it's weakened the church. Because people are more liable to depend on that instead of being here and giving yourself one to another in fellowship and edification. But that's the whole purpose of the church. You're to be here to edify one another. And you can't do it if you're not here. Alright, let me get off my soapbox. But that's why we have a Wednesday night service. Did you know Wednesday night services were started in the seven in the mid uh nine 1900s And uh it became common because God was working mightily and people were getting saved and they wanted to come together just to really pray for what God was doing and and and a prayer service was basically developed in the nineteen hundreds. It kind of evolved into more of a Bible teaching and preaching service, but originally it was a time of prayer. And uh that's why we're trying here on Wednesday night to get back to let's pray, let's take some time and pray. And pray for others. Pray for one another. Don't let your mind drift. Go to God in prayer. Pray for other people because we need the prayers of God's people for each other. That's all part of edifying the body of Christ. It unifies and encourages God's people. It generates devotion to God Which is what we want. It brings God's promised blessing. But also here's the last thing: earnestness. Verse number 80. Let my heart be sound in thy statutes. that I be not ashamed. And here the psalmist praise for sincerity, that his heart might be right with God and men. Sound is the idea of blameless, uh without fault, free of blemish, uh sincere, not a hypocrite. I want to he wanted to be a sincere person in his faith So he wanted his heart to be sound in God's statutes, that I be not ashamed. So we see here then the process of the divine potter. He uses punishment and pain and difficult people and delightful providences. What does he produce in us? Enlightenment, encouragement, endurance. Edification earnestness. But you know what? That's just a little bit. The potter's not finished. He's going to continue working on us until he calls us home. We're still his work in his hand. That's the cry. We look in verse number 80, and uh it is the cry of a man who is still on the wheel. Let my heart be sound in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed. And we're like that. We're all still on the wheel. Psalm 119 is not about arriving, it's about becoming. It's about what God is making us into. And he's making us into a vessel of honor, a vessel where we can hold the treasure of the gospel and we could share it with others. And sometimes God has to press hard. Sometimes God has to use pain and different things to mold us. But he is making us. But always his hands are there on us. When Michelangelo was asked how he created his statue of David, he replied, I just removed everything that wasn't David. And God is doing the same thing with us. He's chiseling away at us, but you know what? He's removing everything about us that is not Christ-like. That is not Christ, because he's molding us into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what we have to do? We just have to yield. As clay, our job is to yield to what God is doing. So let's bow for prayer together. As we bow for prayer, let's pray with the psalmist this prayer. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me, and give me understanding that I may Learn your word. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for how you encourage us through it. Lord, help us to be like this psalmist. Help us, Lord, to recognize your hand that's working in our life. And Father, may you produce in us enlightenment. May we learn your word. And may others see us and be encouraged because we have learned to trust in your word, even in our afflictions. And our sufferings. May we persevere and endure. Have a strength that comes from you. May we learn to build one another up, thinking of others, not ourselves. And Lord, give us a earnestness, a sincerity, so that, Lord, when people see us, we're not ashamed because there's nothing hypocritical about us. And Lord, we know that your work is still taking place. You're not finished. So, Father, may we yield in every air of our life. Make us more like the Lord Jesus Christ, we pray, in his precious name.