It's good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take your Bibles out. Open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter one. We're doing a series on Sunday night through First Corinthians. And tonight I want to talk about the superior wisdom of God. When Harvard University was founded, the motto that they chose, of course, they put it in Latin, Veritas Christo et Ecclesia. which simply means truth for Christ and the church. That was the motto of the college at the time. And the symbol was a a crest that showed three books. One of the books was face down And that was to symbolize the limitation of human wisdom, the limited capacity of human wisdom. But how many of you know the Harvard's change some? It's no longer a place where they train uh preachers for the preaching of the word. That was the original reason for the college. And they've changed their motto. It's no longer truth for Christ in the church. Now it's just truth. They took off Christ in the church and also they've changed their their crest. Now it the crest is a book that's faced up. And what it stands for now is the pride of man and the power of human wisdom. It's the exact opposite. Whereas before, those who understood the scripture, those who understood the word, knew the limitation of human wisdom. Now they think that human wisdom can accomplish anything. What can human wisdom accomplish? That's the question. And what happens when we put our faith in human wisdom? Really, this is the issue that the Apostle Paul dresses addresses here. in First Corinthians and in the rest of chapter one and in all of chapter two, this is what he takes aim at. Now you remember the background of the writing of this letter. You remember that the church at Corinth was uh a church that had a lot of problems. Paul founded this church on his second missionary journey. He was there for a year and a half and uh established a church there. He moved on to Ephesus and others came and built on the foundation that he had laid there. Later Peter came and then Apollos And while Paul was in Ephesus, a delegation from the church at Corinth came to visit him and began to describe to Paul some of the problems that the church was having. Many of the believers there were acting carnally. There was immorality that was going on in the church. Believers were not morally pure One brother was suing another. In fact, this was happening often in the church. They were abusing their spiritual gifts. They were not loving one another as they should. There was all kind of division and cliques and contentions that was going on in the church. And so there are all these things the Apostle Paul has to deal with. But really, they're not really the underlying problem of the church. These are all fruits. The root problem It's what was manifesting these fruits here. The base cause of the problem was something that was more deeper. And I think Paul takes aim at the underlying cause for all of the other problems they were having that were being manifest in the church. There was this one root cause. And you know what the problem was? It was their love of and dependence on human wisdom. That was the real issue. That's why in chapter one, when Paul says basically, when he talks about division in verse ten, he says, I beseech you, speak the same mind. He doesn't go into a a detailed treatise of how to be unified, he doesn't do that. Because he realizes that there is a root problem. What was causing their division? It was a love of human wisdom. Why were they lining up behind teachers? I am of Paul and I am of Apollos and I am of Cephas. Why was there this factualism in the church? Because it was part of the culture. It was part of the ancient culture of the Greeks that were in love with human wisdom. In fact, the word philosophy comes out of Greek culture. It's two Greek words. You know what it is? Phileo, love, Sophia, wisdom. It is the love of wisdom. And the whole culture was built around philosophy. I mean, that's what they love. You know, today we we love our sports. We love our entertainment here in America. Back then, they loved their wisdom. They loved their philosophy. The whole culture was built around love of wisdom. And the city of Corinth had as many as 50 identifiable philosophical parties and movements that people identified with. Just kind of think of that in terms of today. Can you imagine we have the Democrats and the Republicans politically? Can you imagine having 50 parties to follow after? That's what it was like in the city of Corinth. There were all these different philosophical positions, and each had its own views of man, man's origin, man's significance man's destiny, man's relationship to God or the gods, according to their philosophical notions. And along with all this love of philosophy, there was the person who was considered a hero in that culture back then, and this was called the teacher of wisdom These were called sophists after the Greek word Sophia. They were men who traveled around and they were teachers of wisdom and they would come into a city and they would speak, they would draw a crowd, and then if people liked them, they would Follow them. They were virtuoso orders. People loved to hear them give great speeches. They could hold audiences spellbound with their ability to speak on any subject and they would always give a speech always for a fee. They would always charge a fee for it. They ran expensive schools and they charged tuition And it pretty much this is what would happen. They would they would basically come into a city, they would hand out flyers, they would advertise that they're going to go in a certain place at a certain time. They're going to speak on any issue that they're given The crowd would assemble and they would ask for any topic that they wanted to hear declaimed or spoken about, and so a person would give a topic, and then that person would, this teacher wisdom would just go and expound with great rhetoric on that topic. And if the people really liked them, then they sent their children to be tutored and trained under this teacher, and he would charge them a tuition. And so that's how he would build his expensive school. These teachers of wisdom were all over. And there was a fierce competition that were among these teachers of wisdom. When they would come into a city, they were competing with each other for disciples. And the word that was used for their disciples is the same word we see in the Bible, Methetes. These were their personal disciples. And so there was a stiff competition in the city between these teachers And one man in his book called Declamations talks about going into the city of Corinth and hearing these teachers of wisdom and hearing the zeal of their disciples And what they found was there was this competition that was so fierce that the disciples of one teacher would listen to another teacher and criticize and laugh and scoff at the other teacher. They would praise their own teacher of wisdom, and they would make fun of any others. And by the way, they were taught to do that. And the word that was used for this is zealotas, it's where we get the word zeal from And so all of this was going on in the culture around the city of Corinth. And all of this behavior was seeping into the church. Because in the church, they were treating ministers of the word the same way disciples were treating their teachers of wisdom. Go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Look in verse number 10. Remember what the Apostle Paul said. He said, Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that ye shall Speak the same thing, that there be no divisions among you, that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. Verse 11, for it has been declared unto me of one of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you. Now this I say, every one of you saith, I am of Paul, I'm of Apollos, I am of Cephas, I am of Christ. Same behavior. Lining up behind a teacher. Exalting their teacher, and then maybe even causing division by making fun of the deficiencies of another. Look in chapter 3, look down in verse number 3. It says, For ye are yet carnal, for as there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? For while one saith I am of Paul, another I am of Apollos Are ye not carnal? Paul says, you know, you're acting just like all of the rest of the people of the city. You're walking carnally. You're acting like other men who don't know the Lord. By saying, I am of Paul and I am of Apollos. That's just like these Greek teachers and their pupils. That's what they teach them to do. You're not supposed to walk that way. That's not supposed to be a part of the church. And so here's the thing I want you to see. The divisions that were taking place in the church was because people were still in love with Greek philosophy and Greek wisdom, and that behavior was coming into the church But also, they referred to Greek philosophy to justify their immoral behavior. Later on in 1 Corinthians, Paul's going to talk about immorality And what he does is he he will quote the slogans that they were quoting of the day. You see, there were people in the church that believed they had liberty to do whatever they want, and they would quote Greek philosophy to justify their immoral behavior. You know what they would say? They would say, meats for the belly and the belly for meat. That was a Greek slogan. That came out of Greek wisdom. And they would also say, all things are lawful. Again, that's Greek philosophy. And Paul would use the yes but argument. He would say, yes, all things are lawful, but all things are not expedient. He would come along and correct them on that. So they were using human wisdom to justify their sinful behavior. They were using human wisdom to justify sin in the church and how it should be treated. They were using human wisdom uh to uh settle disputes. That's why they were taking one another to court, rather than depending upon the church to deal with conflicts among believers. They were depending on rather upon the wisdom in the courts and Paul says, Listen, don't you understand that the least esteemed saint in the church that is saved and has the Holy Spirit has the ability to handle these things? You don't need to go to court to do that. Why did they do that? Because they were depending on human wisdom. So the root problem of the church at Corinth was their love of human wisdom. It was dividing the church. It was wreaking havoc on it. And by the way, let me just say that we still have that problem in the church today. Rather than trusting in what God says in his word, we resort to human schemes. We resort to philosophy. We try to we we go to the world for counsel when really we have all that we need right here in the Word of God. I believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. I believe that God has given us what we need in the Word of God. We don't need to go to the world for the world's wisdom. to handle things that are in our life. We have the word of God to do that. And so there are church ministries being built on the wrong foundation of human wisdom using innovative methods and means to appeal to the flesh to get people in the church and all these other things going on. rather than just depending on the word of God. And there's another problem with human wisdom, that is it's a serious obstacle to spiritual growth Depending on human wisdom and philosophy will short circuit your spiritual growth. Because you're trusting ultimately in man rather than God. And you can't grow if you're trusting in man rather than God. You can't advance spiritually. Jeremiah said, cursed be the man that trusteth in man, that maketh flesh his arm. whose heart departs from the Lord. When you begin to trust in worldly, man-made wisdom, your heart doesn't go close to the Lord, your heart departs from the Lord Because you're not depending on God anymore. But on the other hand, Jeremiah said, Blessed is the man that trusts in the Lord, whose hope the Lord is. For he shall be like a tree planted by the waters. And so it will stunt spiritual growth. Now with all that, what is Paul doing here in the rest of chapter 1 and chapter 2? He's basically saying this one thing God's wisdom is superior to man's. God's wisdom is greater than the wisdom of man. Man may call God's wisdom foolishness. But the foolishness of God is better than man, Paul said. In fact, look down in verse number 25. Because the foolishness of God is wiser. than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. We could really put the word foolishness in quotation marks because Paul is really quoting other people. When they call God's wisdom foolishness Paul says, well let me tell you something, the foolishness of God is wiser than man. It's better than man. It's stronger than man's wisdom. It is superior to man's wisdom because the world calls God's wisdom. foolishness. And then in the rest of chapter 1 and chapter 2, Paul gives seven reasons for the superiority of God's wisdom. Seven reasons. Now let me Lay tell you to relax. We're not going to go through all seven tonight. I can already see the look on your face. We're never going to get through seven. You're right. We're not. And so this is going to kind of be divided up But this is all the rest of Chapter 1 and Chapter 2. He gives one really one big long argument Now normally when I preach a sermon, what I try to do is I try to look at a text, look at the a complete argument within a paragraph, and then try to present that argument. The only problem with this passage is the argument goes on for two long chapters. So there's no way to get all of that into one paragraph or one sermon. And so I want to give you just part one tonight. Seven reasons why God's wisdom is superior to the wisdom of man. Here's the first one. It's superior in its power. Look in verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. And here's the thing I want you to see. God's wisdom begins at the cross. You say, what is God's wisdom? It is the message of the cross. That's the wisdom of God. And we see in verse 18 there are two attitudes towards the cross of Christ today. Two attitudes that people have about the cross. What are they? First of all, some people see the cross as foolishness. Paul said, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness And the word here for preaching, as I've told you before, there are different words in the New Testament that talk about proclamation. There's one which is uangelion, which means to per to preach the gospel, to present the gospel. That's not the word used here. There's another word caruso which means to proclaim victory or triumph. That's not the word used here. This is the word logos, and it has the idea of logic And I think Paul here is referring to the logic. You know, think about these Sophist teachers of wisdom. They were always thinking rationally, they were always thinking logically, and to them the logic of the cross just didn't make sense And you know what? It still doesn't make sense to people today. It is the actual message itself, the logic of the cross or the uh is to them that perish foolishness. Now when we say the word cross, it is one word that talks about all of the revelation of God's plan of salvation. When we talk about the preaching of the cross, we're talking about the doctrine of salvation. We're talking about propitiation. We're talking about atonement. We're talking about the fact that Jesus came to sin the Son of God. and fulfilled the law on our behalf, and took the sins of the world upon himself, and satisfied the wrath of God, and now salvation is a gift that you receive by faith. It is that whole message of salvation there. And the world to them, they say it's foolishness. The word foolish here is the word moros, where we get the word moron, dim-witted, senseless, silly, a sluggish mind. You see, the word foolish is not referring to the manner of proclamation itself. I've heard preachers preach that. Well you know, a guy gets up and he preaches and it looks foolish, but that's the way God uses it. No, that's not what it's talking about. It's not the actual act of preaching It's the message itself. And to these who love wisdom in Corinth, these teachers of wisdom, the message on the cross was foolish. It just didn't make sense. It wasn't some deep philosophical teaching. It wasn't deep enough for them. You know, to them, they wanted some complex philosophical system But do you know something about the gospel? It's very simple. It's very straightforward. Even a child can understand it. And yet, on the other hand, it's so very deep. It's so very incredible. You know what? There's not a person here that fully understands everything that took place at the cross. It's too majestic. It's too hard to even comprehend everything that was going on there. Oh, we know a lot of it. God has revealed a lot of it to us. But there's so much there. And so they the world, you know what the world says today about the cross? Oh, they say, man, that's that's foolish. That's moronic. They don't understand how a man, a Jewish man who died 2,000 years ago on a wooden cross can change somebody's life today. They just don't get it. They just don't understand it. It doesn't allow for man's merit. It doesn't allow for man's attainment It doesn't allow anything that man can contribute. You know what? We contribute nothing to our salvation. And you know what? That strikes against the pride of man because Religious people want to be able to say, I've done something to make some kind of contribution to my own salvation. But friend, you, if you really understand the gospel, you make absolutely no contribution It's all of God. And that's why the world says, I can't understand this. We can't get our mind around the cross. Human wisdom cannot understand the cross of Christ. The German philosopher Nietzsche called Christianity a religion for weaklings. He mocked the idea of a God who could be crucified. Some years ago, Josh McDowell debated a well-known Muslim apologist in Africa, and at one point the Muslim tried to ridicule Christian faith by saying that Christians are riding in the back of a crucified man. And Josh McDowell answered by saying, you're right. We're riding on the back of a crucified man, and he is going to take us straight to heaven on his back. And that's true, but the world they don't get in. And by the way, that's why some people they when we sing about the blood of Jesus Christ They just don't understand that. They call it a bloody religion. And, you know, sad to say there are even some places where the the blood is being removed from the hymn books in certain places because they think it's offensive. It's offensive to people's sensibilities. And that's people who just don't get it. You just don't understand the wisdom of the cross. And so there are some who think of the cross as foolish But look in verse 18. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But watch this, but unto us which are saved, it is a what? It's the power of God. And the word saved here, past and present, those who are being saved. Those who are continuing to be saved. You know what? People are still getting saved today And they're continuing to be saved, and more are added to the church. And for those whose lives are changed to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. And as Christians, haven't we seen God just take a life and through the cross change that life and they're going in a totally different direction? We see the power of the cross in people's lives. And I've said this before. We started coming to grace when I was uh 14 years old and my mom and dad came to grace. Pastor Johnson was preaching on a Sunday night, my mom and dad came to church. And uh they came forward and they received Jesus Christ as their Savior. And I want to tell you, when my dad got home, he was not the same person. I can tell you that. I I saw the power of the gospel before I ever heard it And I saw it change my father. I saw his disposition. I would go by his room. He would be on his knees reading his Bible. I'd never seen that before in my life. And there was a hunger for the things of God. There was a desire to obey the Lord Jesus Christ. And I saw all those things. I saw the power of the gospel change a heart. And then I heard the gospel. Thank God my father didn't say to me, you know what, we're going to give you a choice of whether or not you can come to church. That's not my dad. He said, you're going to church, get ready. And don't give me any lip about it. And I didn't. I didn't want to go to church, I'll be honest with you, but I went. And you know what? I started to hear the gospel. And then I began to understand. The gospel is the power of God. And it changes the heart. Look at the word power there, dunamis. Where we get the word dynamite. And it has the idea of miraculous power. You see, when dynamite goes off, things aren't the same afterwards And when the gospel is preached in all its power, things are just not the same. That's the power of the gospel. And you know what? Nobody has the power to change a person except God. Only God can do that. I can't change anyone. And you can't change anyone. Every once in a while, you know, I'll do marital counseling and uh one person will come and say, I w I know I'm trying to change my husband, I always say, Don't do that So you don't have the power to do that. You let God change the heart. Because only God can do that. And he does it through his word. He does it through the power of the gospel. And so God's wisdom is superior to man's wisdom because of in its power. But also number two in its permanence. In its permanence. Look at verse number 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world. Now Paul's argument here is just simply this. Human wisdom will come to nothing, but God's wisdom is eternal That's why God's wisdom is superior. And first of all, he gives a scriptural argument to prove his point. He quotes from the Old Testament. You know, Paul was an Old Testament scholar And he knew the Old Testament. So first he quotes from Isaiah 29, 14 to make the point that the wisdom of man will be destroyed. The wisdom of man will be swept aside. And in order to understand what Paul's talking about here, we have to understand the context. What is he referring to here in verse 19? And he's referring to that time in the Old Testament when Sennacherib, who was the king of the Assyrians, had come to Jerusalem. He was systematically going through the world. He was conquering one town at a time. And he came to Judah and Jerusalem. And they were next on the list of cities to be conquered. And the the army of Israel was not anywhere near where they could protect themselves against this mighty man and his army. And so Hezekiah had a problem. And by the way, if you read the story in 1 Kings 18, you'll see that Hezekiah sent the letter out to terrorize all the people in the city. And basically in the letter he said, listen, all the other cities, there was nothing they could do to stop me, and there's nothing that you can do either. They all prayed to their gods and their gods didn't help them. You can pray to your God if you want to, but he's not going to help you either. And so he terrorized the people Now you know what was going on inside the city of Jerusalem? Hezekiah got together with his counselors, his generals, and said, okay, what are we going to do? We've got to do something here. And so they formulated some plan. You know what their first plan was? Let's just try to buy them off. Let's give them silver and gold from the house of the Lord. And that's exactly what they did. If you read the story, they went into the treasury, they gave them all the silver in the temple, they gave them all the gold in the temple. They even talked took the gold off the temple doors. And gave it to Sennacherib, hoping that would appease him, hoping that he would bypass what was that? That was the wisdom of the wise. Trying to come to a conclusion, trying to handle this problem. And you know what happened? Sennacherib, he took the money and said, thank you very much, we're still going to invade. So what could they do? And then God stepped in. In Isaiah 29, 14, this is what God said through the prophet Isaiah. He said this. He said, therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people. Even a marvelous work and a wonder. For among for the wise For the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid. God says, look, I'm going to do something here, and you know what? I'm not going to need any of your wisdom to do it. I'm not going to need any of the wisdom of man. The wisdom of the wise men shall perish. And you so what happened in the story? Well, you know the story. God sent one angel And he destroyed 185,000 of the Assyrian soldiers. And problem solved. Judah was not saved by human wisdom. In fact, human wisdom failed. It came to nothing. How were they saved? They were saved by the power of They were saved by God's wisdom. And so Paul is quoting this when he says, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. You see, man's wisdom today thinks that it can tackle any problem. It can handle anything. And they boast in their own ability to take care of anything, but you know what? Man's wisdom will fail. Only God really is the solution to the problems that we have. God can take care of those. You know, but man's wisdom still thinks to its own effort that it can take care of things. Proverbs 14, 12. There's a way that seems right unto man But the end thereof are the ways of death. There are always people who want to give their opinion about things. But they don't want to come to church. They don't want to read their Bible. They don't want to consider the things of God. Because if they do, it might threaten their philosophy. It might show them how wrong that they really are. And so Paul says, look, a man's wisdom never helps. Man, in this situation, it's feudal. But then he gives a rhetorical argument. So look in verse 20. Then he says this. He puts together a string of rhetorical questions. And I think what Paul's doing here on purpose is he's imitating these teachers of wisdom You know why? Because part of their speech, part of their rhetoric, they would like to put together rhetorical questions. You know, that was part of the eloquence. And so Paul says, well, I can do that too. And so he gives a string of questions. Look at verse 20. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Had not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? So he strains together these questions, I think, in a sarcastic tone. In other words, he's saying, where are the smart people who are going to solve all the problems? Where are they? It all fails. People talk so much today about how great education is, and I'm a believer in education, but education can't solve man's problems. Can't do it. Human wisdom with all its education never really solves or has solved anything. You say, well, wait a minute now, we're living in uh houses and we have all this technology, you know. Uh a while back we were living, you know, in rural areas in the boondocks and now we're living in cities and homes and we have all these things and yeah, you know what? Man is just as sinful and immoral today as he was back then. In fact, he's more so. So Paul says, first of all, where is the wise? And here, just write down Isaiah 1912. I think he may be referring to that verse where it says, Where is the wise? And Isaiah was talking to Egypt And Isaiah said, Egypt, you're in trouble. You've gone after false gods, you worship them, but now you've denied my truth. And so where are all your wise men to help you out of this problem? Paul says, where is the wise? Then where is the scribe? The word for scribe here is Grammatas. By the way, the word wise sophists. Where are your wise teachers now? Where are the grammatos? Where are the ones who write things down? Scribes who write down wisdom and then give it others to read Where are they? And then where are the disputers of this world? This is the one who investigates and argues. This is the philosopher. Paul says, where are all your philosophical arguments now? Where are they? The world is still the same. They still have no answers today. Scholars, scribes, and skeptics, none of them. Can help. None of them. And then Paul says, has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? And uh again, he's just saying human wisdom has never helped you and it never will. It comes to nothing. One day, Benjamin Franklin was talking to a great atheist. He uh this atheist wrote the book, The Power of Reason, and this atheist said to Ben Franklin, he said, What do you think about the Bible? And and of course Ben Franklin knew that this man was sculping and Ben Franklin said back to him, listen, those who want to spit in the wind, basically spit in their own face. And basically that was a good answer because what he was saying is this, you don't believe the Bible? Well then you'll pay the penalties for that yourself if you don't believe the Bible. You're just you're it's going to come back on you. The wise think they're so smart compared to God's wisdom. But friend, if you don't accept the wisdom of God, that's only going to hurt you. So, God's wisdom is superior in its power. It's superior in its permanence. But then write down here's number three, it's superior in its product. And his product. Look in verse number 22. Excuse me, 21. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. And what he's saying here is that God's wisdom leads to the knowledge of God. The wisdom of the cross is the preordained way that God uses to reveal man to himself. You can't get to know God through human wisdom. It's not the way it happens. Philosophy doesn't bring salvation. You study all the great philosophers of the world, you know what? None of them will lead you to God. And that's not how people get saved. You will not know God through the philosopher or through the psychiatrist. And I'm not saying that going to a psychiatrist is always wrong. I'm just saying that's not the way you're going to get to know about God. That's not God's way to do it. Just think if we've had philosophers for ages, and what do they know? What do they continue to give us? Really no answers. Wars just continue to increase Spurgeon said this. He said, God said, Worldly wisdom, I will try thee. Thou sayest thou art mighty, and that thine intellect is vast. God gave man four thousand years to find him through their own wisdom. God gave man a vast intellect, a universe to study, stars to make its canopy, fields and flowers adorn it, floods roll over its surface, and God said, My name is written on it. The invisible things from the creation of the world are clearly seen. God said, Here are my works, find me out. And God gave man space enough And data enough and intellect enough and philosophers and orders, yet none of them led man to God. Because philosophy is not the way that man gets saved. How does man get saved? He gets saved through the foolishness of preaching. Through the simple presentation of the message of the gospel, this is God's ordained way to change men, to change the heart of man. Human wisdom in the end gives nothing. Now, you know, I like to talk about four sources of counseling. You know, if you ever go to a counselor, you're going to get one of four sources, maybe one more, but let's let's talk about four. First of all, there's Sigmund Freud And he basically says the problem with man is that his standards are too high, and so man doesn't do what's natural, and so that's why he has all this tension and stress and Someone has to lower the standards, and so he probes into that person's background and says, let's just find out who put these high standards in your life, and let's let's shift the guilt onto them. How how strict was your mother? Well my mother was very strict. She wouldn't let me push my mush off my high chair. And she was very, very strict. She would sometimes punish me. And oh yeah, she well, you know what? It's her fault. Let's just shift the guilt onto somebody else. That's Sigmund Freud. Then there's B. S. Skinner who basically said man's problem is that he's a victim of his environment. The reason man is bad is because the environment is bad. And if you want to change men, you need to change the environment. And then Carl Rogers, he basically says men needs encouragement and motivation And so the problem is he's not being encouraged enough. He's not being motivated enough. But then there's God's view. You know what God says? You go to Genesis 3 and you'll find out what the problem of man is In the beginning, God put man in a perfect environment. He gave him one standard. It wasn't too high. Don't eat fruit off this one tree. It wasn't the problem with man is not that his standards were too high. God only gave him one, and that was for moral accountability And he put him in a perfect environment. The problem with man is not that he's a victim of his environment. The environment doesn't make man. Man makes the environment. And the problem with man is that he is not that he lacked encouragement and motivation, because in Genesis 3, the Bible says God came down and he walked in the Garden of Eden with man every day. Now friend, if I just came to my office one day and saw the Shekana glory of God waiting there and said, you know, Jerry, come in, I'd like to talk to you, that would be pretty encouraging. And Adam had that every day So what was the problem? Man sinned against God. And you know what the solution is? Salvation through Jesus Christ. And so you have to choose what you're going to believe. You have to choose what is man's problem and what is the solution to that problem. But we have all these great philosophers Sigmund Freud and B. F. Skinner and Carl Rogers and Abraham Maslow and Carl Jung and all those other guys that come up with all these complex Philosophical systems, and you know what? None of them lead people to God, and none of them have the answer. The answer is in the simple preaching of the cross of Christ That's what Paul is saying. God's ordained way for people to get saved is through the simple preaching of the cross. Look again in verse 22. For the Jews required a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom. We preach Christ crucified unto the Jews the stumbling block and unto the Greeks foolishness. In other words, you know what? When the Jews heard the message of the cross, they stumbled over it You know why? Because in the Jewish minds, they were trying to establish their own righteousness through obeying the law, and they couldn't understand that God had already provided righteousness through faith and the finished work of Christ. And when they heard about the cross, they stumbled over the cross. You know why? They were looking for some great sign. They were so busy looking for signs. I mean, read the Gospels, you'll find they were always asking Jesus, give us a sign, give us a sign. But they had the greatest sign right there in front of them, Jesus Christ. And they stumbled over the message of the cross. They stumbled over it. Because to them, a person being crucified hung on a tree was a curse to God. They just didn't get it. They didn't understand that Jesus became a curse for us. We were the ones that deserved the curse, but he took that curse upon himself. They stumbled over the message of the gospel. And what about the Greeks? Well, it says unto the Greeks, foolishness. To the Greeks, the message of the cross is just simply moronic. It's not hard enough. It's not philosophical enough. It's not deep enough. It's too simple. And so to the Jews the message of the cross was a stumbling block. To the Greeks it was foolishness. But notice what Paul says in verse 24. But unto them which are called both Jews and Greek Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. And so, dear friend, to those of us who know the power of the gospel, we know what it produces. We know what it can do. And it's superior to man's wisdom because man's wisdom can't produce anything But God's wisdom produces changed lives. That's why God's wisdom is superior And so this is what Paul's doing all through the rest of chapter one, and in chapter two he's going to give one other argument after another, and he's trying to convince the Corinthians to do what? Throw away the wisdom of man. You don't need it. What you need to hold to is the wisdom of the cross, the wisdom of God, because in that you have all that you need. And it is the cross that unites us That's what is causing the division? Going after all these different philosophical approaches is dividing the church, but it's the wisdom of the cross. that brings us all together. You know what unites us here tonight? Jesus Christ and him crucified. That's what gives unity to the church. And that's what we rally around. That's what we preach. We preach Christ crucified. Let's bow for prayer tonight. We'll finish this later. So Lord, we thank you for your superior wisdom. We thank you for the power of the cross. We thank you, Lord, that your wisdom is permanent. It's not fading. It won't ever go away. It's eternal. Man's wisdom will come to nothing. And we thank you for what it produces in our lives. So Lord, help us, Lord, to cling to the cross of Christ. To hold fast to the cross, Lord, even though it's under attack, even though there are those who would belittle it to us who are saved. It is the power of God. And so, Lord, keep us near the cross of Christ. Keep us focused. May we be like the Apostle Paul, that we are not going to glory in anything save the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And may that be our prayer. Bless these words to our heart, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.