Chapter one. And on Sunday nights we begin a series through this little epistle. It's little, but it's so very powerful. And I pray it'll be a blessing to your heart. And tonight I'm gonna Preach on the gospel still works. The gospel still works. I want you to look in Colossians chapter 1 and let me read the first eight verses as you follow along. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timotheus our brother, to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colossae, Grace be unto you in peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you have to all the saints. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before, and the word of truth of the gospel, which is come unto you and is in all the world. Bringing forth fruit as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew of the grace of God in truth. As ye also learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant Who is for you a faithful minister of Christ, who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit. Now, if you notice as we read these verses here, the Apostle Paul, the real central thought as he introduces this letter to these believers is the idea of the gospel. It's central in these eight verses that we read. Now the gospel, as you know, is the power of God unto salvation. It's the most powerful message in the world today. But sadly, there are some churches and preachers who have lost confidence in the power of the gospel. Now, they wouldn't come right out and say that verbally. But their actions and their mannerisms demonstrate that they no longer have faith in the gospel to do the work of God And they have traded in just the straightforward preaching of the gospel and preaching of the word for the techniques of Madison Avenue, where they try to market things and get people to come to church. And they do all these things and they run the ministry as if it's a circus rather than a place to meet with Almighty God. Well, Paul shows here in this introduction to this letter that the gospel is powerful and the gospel still works. And what we see here in these first few verses is the Apostle Paul rejoicing in the gospel and the fact that it is has power to change the lives of people. And so I want to give you just three thoughts tonight. If you're taking notes. And here's the first thought. And these are really just three things that I see in this introduction. Three things that we should do with the gospel of Christ. Number one, write this down. The gospel should be continually celebrated. The gospel should be continually celebrated, not only for what it does in our lives personally, but in the lives of others. Now notice again where we see it in Paul. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. Now Paul is an apostle. He was officially sent by God And this wasn't Paul's idea to be an apostle. You remember his story and how he was converted on the road to Damascus. He was going to persecute Christians. And he was met there by the Lord Jesus Christ. And God had called him as a chosen vessel. to preach the gospel to the Gentiles. And so he says, I'm an apostle by the will of God. And so we see the power of God in the life of Paul. But also, notice the next one, and Timotheus, our brother. We see the power of God in the life of Timothy. Now, Timothy, his testimony is not so dramatic. Timothy was a man who grew up in a home where he had a godly heritage, a godly mother and grandmother. And on the first missionary journey, when Paul went through Lysra, he met Timothy, and Timothy got saved. And on Paul's second missionary journey, as he went through that region, he brought Timothy with him because Timothy was gifted and ready for ministry. And so Timothy was a man who was saved also and changed by the power of God. Now sometimes we hear testimonies from people who were saved out of a wicked background and committed terrible sins. before they were saved and they get up and they give such a dramatic and a and and powerful testimony that sometimes there are Christians sitting there in the pew that say, well, you know, I don't have that powerful dramatic life story. I grew up in a Christian home and I just simply received Jesus and sometimes they may be left to think that my testimony isn't as effective as the a testimony of someone else Or my life wasn't as sinful as this person when I got saved. Well, friend, let me tell you that that is simply not true. The power of the gospel was just as real for Timothy as it was for Paul. And you know what? All of us, before we're saved, we're all dead in trespasses and sins. We all are sinners. We all are under the wrath of God. We all are dead. We all are in the same spiritual condition. Some just manifested in greater ways than others, but we're all in the same boat. We're all dead spiritually. When you go to a funeral home, you don't say, well, that person looks deader than this person over here Right? Hopefully you won't do that. Because there's only one kind of deadness. And it's the same spiritually. We're all dead in trespasses and sins. And so Paul rejoices in this greeting. We see the power of the gospel in the life of Paul and Timothy. But look in verse 2. And also to the saints and the faithful brethren in Christ, which are at Colossae. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Paul is referring now to what the gospel has done in the lives of many of these saints that are in Colossae. Now, as he greets them, keep in mind this one thing. He has never met these people personally. He never went to Colossae He is writing to people that he's never face to face ever seen before. But he rejoices. And notice what he calls them saints. They're set apart. They're faithful brethren in Christ. These are a Wonderful terms where Paul is expressing the oneness that he has with believers that he's never even seen before. Isn't it wonderful? Sometimes you can meet believers via correspondence and feel a oneness with them, knowing that they're in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that happens to us from time to time when we get letters or emails from people that know the Lord And we have a connection with them because of that. And so Paul rejoices in what it does for them. But notice he rejoices because of the way the gospel is communicated. Look, he rejoices because the gospel is received by faith. Look in verse 4. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus That's a cause to rejoice in the gospel, because the gospel is received by faith. It's not by works. It's not by religious ritual. It's not by what we do. I think it was H. A. Arnside who first said there are only two kind of religions in the world, there's do religion and done religion. You either practice due religion or done religion. Some people think salvation is by what they do. And others believe that salvation is by what Jesus has already done. And they put their faith in the finished work of Christ. And those are the only two religions. And there may be some people here tonight. You may think, Well, salvation is by what I do. If I can just be a better person, if I can just go to church, if I can just Do all these things, friend. You'll never get saved by religious works. It's by putting your faith in what Jesus has already done. Salvation is received by faith. And thank God it is, because if it were due religion, we would all be going to hell. And so it's received by faith. But then notice also it results in love. Look again in verse 4. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love which you have to all. the saints. When a person gets saved, they're filled with love. Love for all believers. And that's another reason Paul is rejoicing in the gospel because the gospel just produces in us a wonderful love for all saints and for all people. The gospel can take the meanest person that you've ever met and make them the most loving person, the most kind, gentle person. Now I remember I saw this in my life as a young believer. I remember years ago as a teenager growing up here at Grace, I went down into the city and would visit in the city on Saturdays, and you know how we pick up children that come to church. And I remember one time reading a book that said you should spend about three hours visiting, visit all the children that come, and then visit for new people. And that's what I try to do every Saturday, about three hours. And I would go by the same houses and check on the kids. There was one particular house that I would go to, and the father was a really mean guy. In fact, I hated to go by that house. And it seemed like he was waiting for me there every Saturday because he knew I was coming. And I mean he was waiting there and I would say hi, I just want to make sure the kids are coming. Well they come every week, don't they? Well well yes they do Uh well what makes you think they're not going to come tomorrow? I said, well, I don't know. Uh but he was mean. I mean mean. And there were times when he was so very hostile he would even use words of profanity when I would go by. I remember years later, I had lost contact with that man. Years later, I was walking down the street in Baltimore City. I don't even remember why I was there But I just remember it was in the same general area, and there was that man, he saw me, and he started walking towards me. Well my first reaction was to turn and run. Really it was. But he looked a little bit different, and as he got closer to me, he was smiling and he came and he and he sh and he stuck out his hand and he said, I'm so very glad to see you. He was so kind, he was so gentle And he said, I just want you to know something. He said, I want you to know that I'm a Christian now. He said, I got saved. He said, I came to the end of my rope. He said, I went to church and at the invitation I went forward and he said this is what he told me. He said, this is what I prayed. He said, Lord, whatever you have given that red-headed kid that comes by my house, I want you to give it to me That was his prayer. Now I recommend better prayers for salvation. Would you get the idea? You see, and what happened was God took a mean person and he made them loving and kind. That's what the gospel of Jesus Christ does. It is received by faith. It results in love. You'll have love in your heart. In fact, this is one of the great evidences of true salvation. Friend, if you don't love God's people, if you don't love the church, you better examine whether you really know Christ. Because the Bible says very clearly, 1 John 5, 1, whoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God, and everyone that loveth him that begot Loveth him that is begotten of him. If you love the one who saved you, you're going to love all the other ones that he saved. Because we're all in the same family. I hear sometimes people say, Oh, I love Jesus, I just don't love his church. Well, friend, Jesus and his church are inseparable. The church is the bride of Christ. You can't say, I love Jesus, I just don't love his bride. Try doing that to someone. Hey, I love you, I just don't like your wife. That's not a good way to talk to someone. No, if you love me, you're going to love my bride. You're going to love my wife because we're one. And so it is with the gospel of Jesus Christ. When you get saved, you're going to love his people. And so the gospel is received by faith. It results in love. But notice the next reason Paul celebrates the gospel, it's rooted in hope. Look at verse number five. For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. The hope of the gospel is eternal life in heaven. And so it's rooted in this hope. Now remember, I told you before, the word hope is not a hope-so the way we use it today. In the New Testament, it is a no-so. It is a divine certainty. This is part of the gospel message, the certainty of the blessings that God has laid up for us in heaven. You realize you have a lot of blessings that God has stored up for you in heaven? That's our hope? Look at the word laid up there in verse number five. It is to mean in store or in storage. Or reserved. You ever go to a store, want to buy something, and they say, oh, I'm sorry, sir, we're out of out of that out of storage on that. And you're disappointed. Or you make a reservation at a restaurant and you go there, they say, oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Harmon, we gave your reservation to someone else. Because we weren't sure whether or not you were coming. So we gave your reservation away. Friend, let me tell you something. God will never treat his children that way. When God stores up something for you, it is going to be there. I'm not going to get to heaven and say you've got to say, oh Jerry, listen, we gave away your seat to somebody else. Or all those blessings I had laid up for you that I promised to you in the Bible, well, we're out of storage on those. That will never happen to a believer. Our hope is a certain hope. It's fixed. 1 Peter 1, verse 3. Listen to this. Blessed be the God of our Father, of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope. By the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, listen to this, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away. Listen, reserved in heaven for you who are kept by the power of God. Through faith unto salvation. To get that God is reserving you for the blessing And is reserving the blessing for you. It is all kept by the power of God. And so we have a hope in heaven, and that hope is certain, it is fixed. And this is, by the way, the reason why some believers here now are willing to sacrifice the present-day comforts And the present-day ease of this world, to go out and to live for the kingdom and make sacrifices. Why? Because they are filled with the hope that they're going to have in heaven. They know that that hope is real. You see, sometimes we'll say to our children, don't sacrifice your future on the altar of the immediate. Don't do something now that's going to sacrifice your future. The world has this idea, we want what we want, and we want it now But the Christian who understands their hope has a different perspective. In contrast to the buy now and pay later attitude, the believer has the idea of pay now and receive your rewards later. in heaven. And that's why we read of many great Christians who through the years have been willing to make sacrifices for the kingdom. Because they are basing that on the certainty of the hope that God has laid up for them that is in heaven. Romans 8. 18, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And so Paul rejoices in this aspect of the gospel, that it's received by faith, that it results in love, that it's rooted in hope. Now here's the second thing I want you to write down. Not only the gospel should be continually celebrated, but here's number two. The gospel should be confidently circulated. It should be confidently circulated. Look at verse number 6. Now again, he's referring to what he said in verse 5, the word of truth of the gospel, verse 6, which is come unto you As it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you since the day ye heard of it, and knew of the grace of God in truth. Now here's the point here. The gospel was being circulated in that ancient world, in that first century. It had come to them, the Colossians. And Paul said, it's going out into all the world. You see, the gospel is a powerful message, but friend, in order for the gospel to be effective, it has to be circulated, it has to be shared. It's not going to do anyone any good if we just hold the truth of the gospel for ourselves and we don't tell anyone else. And God has entrusted us the church We can make it even more personal. God has entrusted you, his child, to circulate the gospel. This was not entrusted to angels. This is entrusted to the church. God could have circulated his gospel any way he wanted to. He could have used angels. But God, that was not his choice. And by the way, God has no plan B God doesn't have a plan if the church doesn't work out, if the church fails in getting the gospel out, well here's my plan B. He doesn't have a plan B. He has you and I. And that is what we're left here for. You know why when we get saved, God doesn't take us automatically to heaven? He leads us here so that we can circulate the gospel in this world. So that we can get it out. And by the way, this was one of the things that motivated the Apostle Paul so very much Listen to 2 Corinthians 4 verse 1. Seeing therefore we have this ministry. Paul says, seeing, God has entrusted to us this ministry. What ministry? The ministry of getting the gospel out. The ministry of preaching the message of the new covenant, of telling sinners that they can be saved by grace. He says, therefore, seeing we have this ministry As we have received mercy, we faint not. You know what Paul is saying? I don't quit. You know why I don't quit? I don't quit because God has entrusted this ministry to us, to people, to the church. Then he goes on to say in chapter 4 verse 3, if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. If we don't get the gospel out. Those who are lost are going to suffer for that. And then he says this in verse 7, but we have this treasure and earthen vessels. What treasure? The treasure of the gospel. God has committed the treasure of the gospel to us who live in these earthen vessels. What a great responsibility and privilege that we have. And so we have to get it out. Notice how this gospel is circulated. It's circulated individually. Look in verse number 6. It says, which is come unto you. He's talking to the Colossians. He was talking to the church. You see, here's the question. How did this church of Colossae get started? It got started by one man who brought the gospel to that region. One man. And who was it? Well, look in verse 7. As ye also learned of Epaphras. Our dear fellow servant. They learned the gospel from Epaphras. Now, how did Epaphros learn it? He learned it from the Apostle Paul himself. You see, here's the background of how this church started. This church was located in what is called the Lycus Valley. This is kind of a triad of cities there. There was Laodicea and Heropolis and Colossae. Colossae was the smallest of all these towns. And this church was really started as an outgrowth of Paul's ministry in the church at Ephesus. Paul was in Ephesus for three years. And the Bible says in Acts chapter 19, verse 10, that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. In other words, Paul's Ephesian ministry was so effective that the word was getting out. And there was a man by the name of Epaphras who came from Colossae to Ephesus and he heard the preaching of the word from the Apostle Paul and he was converted to Christ. And you know what Epaphras did? Epaphras went back to Colossae, a place that Paul himself had never visited But he went back to Colossi and he brought the Word of God with him. And he shared God's word. And by the way, there was also another man in the city of Colossae, a man by the name of Philemon. Does that sound familiar? That's another book of the Bible. Paul wrote a personal letter to Philemon because what happened was Hippacarus came back, he shared the gospel, people got saved, Philemon got converted And Philemon was a businessman. He had a big house. And he said, let's start a church in my house. If you read the epistle of Philemon, there was a church in his house. pastored by a name of a man by the name of Archipas, who is probably Philemon's son. And Paul gives greeting to Epipha, who is probably Philemon's wife. And so what happens is his family is converted, his son becomes the pastor of that church, and a church is started there in that city of Khalasi because of one man who took the gospel back to this city. By the way, Epaccharis became a key leader in that church. You know, there's a good lesson there for all of us, and that's this. God doesn't need an apostle or a full-time Christian worker. To start a ministry. What he needs are just faithful people. People who are willing to be used by Almighty God. And if you're here tonight and you say, Lord, I want you to use me to start a ministry to help reach someone else, I guarantee you that the Lord will hear that prayer. Because he's involved in getting the Word of God out to other people and God is able to use you. You don't have to be called a full-time Christian service. In fact, really the point is all of us as believers, we're all to always be in service for the Lord. No matter what your vocation may be And so here's a layman who went back and he shared the word of God and the word spread and a church was born. And by the way, in the first century and the early centuries of the history of the church, that's how the church grew It wasn't through professional evangelists. It wasn't through great preachers, although there were some. It was by common people. That were sharing the gospel. In fact, I want to read you from one church historian. And I want to read you what he says. Lloyd Perry said this: for 400 years, the Christian church had no great preacher by rhetorical standards The first great preacher was Chrysostom, yet during those centuries, he says, Christianity conquered the Mediterranean world by faithful the faithful witness of a common believer. Get that? The faithful witness of the common believer. And so it's to be spread individually. Let me ask you a question. Are you doing your part? Epaphras learned the gospel and he learned how to share it. And that is a responsibility that all of us have. As you sit here tonight, are you able to share the gospel? Do you have the skills to do that? You need to learn that if you don't. And learn it so God can use you. So it's it's shared individually. But then here's the next thing, internationally. Internationally. Look again in verse 6. Which is come unto you. as it is in all the world, and bringeth forth fruit. Now I've read where some commentators say, well, Paul here is just really using hyperbole. when he says it's in all the world, because surely at this time the gospel had not yet gone out into all the world. In fact, some critical scholars use this verse this phrase here in verse 6 to criticize Paul and say, this is not true. Paul is not being truthful here when he says the gospel has gone out into all the world because at that point in church history it could not have possibly gone out into all the world. But let me explain to you what the Apostle Paul is saying here. In verse 6, when he says, which is come unto you, and then that saved verb expresses as it is in all the world. Now the word come here is a present active particip of which we can say it like this. It is continuing to come. It is continuing to progress into all the world. That's what the Apostle Paul is saying. He's not saying that it's already blanketed all the world. He is saying it's on its way to do it. It is on its way. It is progressing. It is growing. It is going out into all the world. And wherever it goes, it bears fruit. There's power that comes as a result of the word of God going out into all the world, affecting all the world. Remember the parable of the leaven that Jesus gave a woman with a leaven? She put one little piece of leaven in a big uh three measures of meal and it permeated all through that meal and that's the idea of the gospel that is permeating and is relentlessly spreading into all of the world it is progressing through all of the world. That's what Paul is saying here. It's on its way. It's moving out. And he's also saying that the gospel is transcendent. It is not just for one people group, it's for every people group. It's for everyone in all the world, no matter what nation, no matter what culture, no matter where a person is on the social ladder, the gospel is to all, for all people and to all of the world. Matthew 24, 14. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations. And notice again what it says in verse 6, and it brings forth fruit. Friend, I'm going to tell you something. The word of God, the gospel, is going to have an impact. It just will. It's just the power of God. And really, I've said this before, it's really not the messenger, it's the message. If you just get the message out and you make it clear, you know what? God is going to use that. And he's going to build his kingdom. I want to tell you, we're living in an amazing time with the internet that we have today. And when Pastor Johnson preaches on Sunday morning and those sermons go out on television And then they're put on our website. And you realize that people all over the world have access to that website. And people can listen to that or watch that from any place in the world. So literally from this pulpit here, the Word of God is going out through all the world. I know that the sermons I preach here, they're also put on a website called Sermon Audio. I was looking at this when I was studying this passage. I like this this website because Every month they give me a report of where the sermons have been downloaded, what place in the U. S. , and what place in the world. Every month they give me a report. And let me just- I just read this when I was getting studying this sermon. As of the end of May, there have been 60,000 sermon downloads. into all of the world from sermons preached here in this pulpit. Isn't that incredible? We're living in an incredible time when the word of God can go out. And and and we hear, Pastor Earl, myself, I'm sure all of us are hearing from people who are hearing the word of God from this pulpit, and they're being affected. You know why? Because the word of God, the gospel, when it is preached. It's going to bear fruit. It just is. It's the power of God. Now, here's another way. It spreads individually. It spreads internationally, or it's to be circulated internationally and then circulated intelligently. Look in verse 6. And knew of the grace of God in That is, there are many messages out there that are false messages, but the gospel is the true message. It is given in truth, and it must be preached in truth. And this leads to the third and final point. Write this down. Not only the gospel should be continually celebrated, and it should be confidently circulated But here's the last point. The gospel must be courageously communicated. Courageously communicated. You know why? Because we're living in a day when there's so much error out there There's so much false doctrine and false teaching. And this is not new. This started in the early church. The Apostle Paul, on one hand, was constantly preaching the gospel, and on the other hand, defending that gospel. Message. He had to engage sometimes in what we now called apologetics. Apologetics is not apologizing for the message The word apologia means to defend the message. And we have to constantly defend the purity of the gospel from all of the error that is out there in the world. And that's what I mean when I say the gospel must be courageously communicated. Because there are a lot of preachers out there that don't want to face the fire. They don't want the opposition. They don't want to confront error. They want to have an easy ministry. They want to be liked by everyone. And so they're not courageously defending the gospel. They're capitulating on every side. I'll tell you something, friend, beware when all men speak well of you. If you're preaching the truth of the gospel, you're not going to be liked by everyone. Because the gospel is a message that the world finds offensive. But Paul writes this letter to stand up for the truth of the gospel Again, look in verse 7, as ye learned of Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ. Now why does Paul mention Epaphras specifically here in verse 7? And why does he write this letter? To the church of Colasi, to people he's never seen before. He's never met. Well, let me tell you what happened. This church of Colossae was growing. God was blessing it. But there was a heresy that started to invade that church. And it was a mixture of Gnosticism and Lalism. And this heresy was so dangerous that it threatened the ministry. And in fact, there were some people that were beginning to believe some of the errors that they were being taught. Now at this time, where was Paul? Paul was a prisoner in Rome. This is one of Paul's prison epistles. He was in Rome. And while he was there, he was under house arrest. People could come and see him, but he constantly had a Roman guard chained to him there under house arrest. And Epaphras knew that Paul was in Rome. And he wanted help. He was not yet at the spiritual level where he was confident to contend against this error that was seeping into the church. So you know what Epaphras did? Epaphras took the 1300-mile journey from Colossae to Rome, which took a long time to get there. And traveling back in that day was very dangerous. It was hard. But Epaphras saw this heresy as such a threat that he needed to go and talk to the Apostle Paul. And so he went and took this journey. He found Paul under house arrest there in Rome. And by the way, guess who else he bumped into there in Rome? He bumped into a slave by the name of Onesimus. Onesimus was the slave owned by Philemon. Philemon was the man who had the church in his house. He was one of the good friends of Epaphras. And what happened to Onesimus? Onesimus ran away. He tried to get lost in the crowd at Rome. And while he was there providentially, he bumped into the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul gave him the gospel and he was converted to Christ. And so there in Rome, Epacchus meets up with Paul and Onesimus. And while Epaphras is there in Rome, he tells the Apostle Paul about all of the things that are going on and the danger of this heresy. So you know what Paul does? Paul writes this letter of Colossians. So again, a church he's never seen to people he's never known, yet these were people that were a result of his faithful preaching in Ephesus And so he writes this epistle, and he puts it in the hand of guess who? Onesimus, the runaway slave. who is now a Christian. And not only does he put the letter of Colossians in his hands, but Paul also writes another letter, the letter of Philemon, a personal letter to Philemon. And he puts that in the hand of Onesimus. And Onesimus now is to take these two letters back to the church at Colossae. And to Philemon. And by the way, the personal letter of Philemon was Paul saying, listen, forgive Onesimus for what he's done and receive him as a brother. Receive him as you would receive me. And if he's if he's uh if there's any debt, anything on his account, put that on my account. I'll take care of it when I come And so that's how this letter of Colossians is delivered to the believers there in Colossae, to the pastor Archibus. Who is perhaps the pastor of the church there in Colossae? Now, what heresy does Paul deal with? And I'm just going to touch on this because as we go in this series here in Colossians, We'll learn more and more about some of the assaults against the gospel of grace. But in a nutshell, what was this heresy? What was the teaching? Very simply that Jesus was not enough. That you needed more knowledge. If you wanted to reach spiritual perfection, if you wanted to reach enlightenment, that you needed more than Jesus. After all, this was an early form of Gnosticism, and the word Gnosticism simply means knowledge, and they believe that salvation was attained by knowledge. It was esoteric. You ascended a spiritual ladder, as it were, through knowledge, through secret knowledge. And Jesus didn't have that knowledge In fact, Jesus was just one of many eons that had descended from the Father, but he wasn't the highest one. And you needed to bypass Jesus and go on. You needed more knowledge than Jesus could give. You needed more wisdom than Jesus could give. Simply put, Jesus was not enough. You needed more. Now, by the way, that heresy has not left the church. It has come in other ways. It's been packaged in other ways. Even some Christians have packaged this by saying, oh, well, we can give you the Word of God, but you're going to need more than just God's Word. Let me tell you something, friend. You don't need any more than what you already have to live a godly life. The Bible gives us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. And I'll tell you furthermore, you have all that you need in Christ. You don't need any other wisdom. You don't need any other philosophy. You have everything you need in Christ. You can become perfect, complete in Jesus Christ. And that's the message that the Apostle Paul gives us here. In fact, look at a few verses here with me. Look down in verse number Chapter 2, look down in verse number 3. It says, In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And who's that? That's Jesus. We say, in Jesus. are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Look in chapter 2 verse 4. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you. With enticing words. There are a lot of people out there that can beguile you and say, oh, yeah, Christianity is good, but you need to add to what you learn from the scripture, you need to add this philosophy You need to add this. No, friend, all you need is Jesus. All you need is the Word of God. Look in chapter 1, look in verse 28. Whom we preach. But as we preach Christ, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, watch this, that we may present every man perfect in Christ. And so this Gnosticism was an attack on the sufficiency of Christ. It held out for the promise of something more. But friend, there's nothing more than Jesus. There's nothing more. And Paul sums it up in chapter 2, verse 10. Look at this. This is really a key verse. And ye are complete in him. Which is the head of all principality and power. The word complete, telios, fully mature, without need of anything. I think this was a philosophical term that was used by the Gnostics to talk about their ascending to spiritual perfection. Paul takes that word and says, no, you don't, it's not Gnosticism that makes you complete. It's Christ. that does it. So beware of any philosophy, of this idea of any kind of any kind of mysticism. Or sometimes you hear people saying, Oh, you need another spiritual experience. Friend, I believe in getting as close to Jesus as you can, and every day ought to be a walk with the Lord. Every day ought to be a spiritual experience. But you don't need an extra experience besides salvation to give you any more than what you already have in Christ. You have everything that you need. You know what the second blessing is? Finding out what you got in the first blessing. That's the second blessing. If you can realize everything that you got when you first got saved, then friend, that's the second blessing. Because you're realizing that all that you have, you have it through Jesus Christ. I would illustrate it like this. You know, I think I may have said this before, but it fits the point. You know, years ago And I'll just mention one person here in this church, Brother Jack Boschoven, faithful man. Years ago, he bought me a computer program called Logos. Now, you know, I was happy studying the Bible and with my books before he bought me this. I didn't need his help on that. But you know, he had pity on me. He thought I needed help in preaching So he bought me this software package, and I didn't realize all that it had. I mean when I first started using this, I was blown away that everything that was in there And really, I'm still learning all that it has and all I can do with it. But what happened was I started making the transition from doing everything on paper to doing everything electronic on computer And you know what? Many times I would be out in a Christian bookstore and I would say, man, I need that book. And I would buy it, pay a lot of money for it, only to realize that I already had that book in that program It was waste. And that's happened several times. So now I don't buy anything until I look at the library in that package to make sure I don't already have it. You know what? And I say that to say there are Christians out there saying, oh I need this and I need this. And what they don't realize is that you already have it You already have it in Christ. You just don't know that you have it. You say, well, how do I know that I have it? You have to leave read the library here And this library here will tell you everything that you have in Christ. And you know what you're going to find? You're complete in Christ. You have all that you need. And so this talks about then the preeminence of Christ. Let me show you one more verse and we're going to be done. Look in chapter 1, verse 18. Here's a key word. It says, And he that is Christ is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. That in all things Jesus might be first. Jesus wasn't just one of many eons of beings that ascended from the Father. No, he is preeminent. He's God. He's the first. And the word preeminent, this is the only time this word is used in all of the New Testament. Now we'll see this word as a compound word with other words, but as an individual word, pro tuo, this is the only time we see it. And it simply means first place, above all, first in rank. Jesus is above all. He's first, he's God. And so Christ is preeminent, and that's the theme. Remember years ago we used to wear these pins that said Jesus first. Jesus first. That was a good message. And that's really the message of Colossians. Jesus is first. He is preeminent. And so in chapter 1, Paul talks about the preeminence of Christ, affirmed. He affirms the preeminence of Christ. In salvation, in redemption, in creation, in being head of a church, in the ministry of reconciliation, and all these things, the preeminence of Christ. is affirmed. In chapter 2, the preeminence of Christ attacked, Paul shows all of the attacks against the preeminence of Christ. Philosophies and mysticism and asceticism and all these things and he shows that Still Christ is preeminent against all of these attacks. And then in chapter three and four, the preeminence of Christ applies How do we live under the preeminence of Christ? And he gives us principles for holy living. But this letter defends the purity of that gospel. Thank God for Colossians Thank God for the message of it. We need it today in the church. And so what do we do with the gospel? The gospel should be continually celebrated. Because it's received by faith. It results in love. It's rooted in hope. The gospel should be confidently circulated. And then the gospel must be courageously communicated. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we we thank you for this precious gospel. Lord, may we never lose confidence in the power of the gospel. And Lord, help us always to be ready not only to rejoice in what you've done in our life, to celebrate the ministry of the gospel in our life and how it changed us, but also, Lord, to confidently share the gospel with others. Lord, you have chosen us to do this. This is a responsibility entrusted to every believer that we get the gospel out. And then, Lord, give us courage to stand. And may we realize the message of Colossians, that in Jesus Christ we have all that we need. All that we need. Christ is all and in all. And Father, we thank you and we praise you. In Jesus' precious name, amen. Amen.