You take your Bibles and open, please, to the book of 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2. And I want us to look today at verses 1 through 3 of 1 Peter chapter 2. Would you stand please for the reading of God's Word? 1 Peter 2 verse 1 Aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and endings and all evil speakings, as newborn babes desire than sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. And if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today. Pray with me. Father in heaven. We thank you for your precious word, for in it we learn of our Savior Jesus Christ. We think of the words of the song that we sang this morning, Beyond the Sacred Page. Help us to honor and love your word because it's through your word that we have fellowship with you and our Savior Christ. Teach us from it, Lord, help me to be clear today. I pray in Jesus Many years ago I took my first trip to Africa. I've been to Africa many times. I'm I'm trying to count in my mind, I think seven or eight times. that I've actually taken a trip to Africa. But this was my first trip and this would be something that I would never forget. I remember I flew into Cameroon to a place called Douala, Cameroon. And then we drove for two days over dirt roads to reach the final destination. We we stopped the first day in a little town called Bominda. I remember just a little side note about that. One time I was teaching in a seminary to a young student. I asked him, I said, where are you from? He said, Oh, you would never know where I'm from I said, well just test, try me. You know, I might know. He said, well, it's in a small obscure town in Africa. It's a place called Bemenda. I said, well, I've been there. He was shocked. We stopped in that first little town of Bominda and spent the night and then drove out the next day and finally reached a little jungle mountain village. A town called Endu. And there in that town was a Baptist seminary that had been there for about a hundred years. It was planted there by Baptist missionaries. And all week that week I preached the word of God. All every day from morning till evening on the last day I preached six times an hour each And after about the sixth time I was losing my voice and I said, you know, this is enough for me. And the moderator got up and said, Can you just preach just one more time? Just one more time. I said, Well, I I tell you what, I need to go lay down for a minute for a little while. Whoever's here, I'll preach one final sermon. So I went and laid down. I got back up and went Would see probably about five hundred people. And uh when I got close to the chapel I That many people there. They're gonna want to go home and you know they've been listening all day long to me. When I got there that night, there was a huge crowd of people standing outside the chapel. My first thought was the door of the chapel But as I got closer I realized that I was wrong. That the whole chapel was just they couldn't get any else into the chapel. It was just crammed full of people And there were people standing outside with the windows of the chapel open, hoping to be able to hear the word of God as it was being preached. I was just I was just shocked. I was shocked. Now that's not a commentary on my preaching because anyone who went there and preached the Bible would have gotten the same result. That's more a commentary on The hunger that these precious people had for the Word of God. They couldn't get enough of it. They were desperate to learn more of God's word. You know, I've never had that kind of response here in America, just so you know. Normally if I go over about a half hour people are looking at their watches, going, okay, it's been good, but uh when you're gonna land this plane here Yeah. Someone just gave me permission to go an hour. They just did you hear that I say that because it's a matter of the hunger that people have for the Word of God. I have to confess that I look around in many Christians in America today. I don't see that kind of hunger for God's word. I'm not a medical doctor, but I I I hear that they say that if you don't have an appetite, there's something wrong there physically I think the same could be said true scarcely. If you don't have an appetite for the world probably something wrong. Something wrong with you spiritually. I was reading a book and G. I. Packer reports that in the book he said that there was a Puritan preacher. who once apologized to his congregation for preaching two hours. And their response was, please go on, don't stop. Now I'm not going to preach for two hours today. I'm not going to even preach for one hour. Your permission to go longer this morning. What I'm trying to say is this is really my feeble attempt to motivate all of us here to have a greater hunger for the Word of God. A greater desire for God's word. Job said this in Job twenty-three, verse twelve Neither have I gone back from the commandments of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. You might remember Job was going through a time of trials, and his friend said, well, Job, it's because you've been disobedient. And Job said, no, that's not the case. In fact, in my list of priorities, I exalt God's word of It's more important to me than I've esteemed the words of mouth more than my necessary food. Can we say that of us? How high is God's word on your list of priorities? Now, Peter is trying to help us to understand how important it is. And look again in verse number two, where he says, As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk that ye may grow thereby. The word desire here is a very strong word to crave, to strongly desire. It's the same word used in Psalm 42, 1 when it says, as the deer pants after water, so my soul pants Pance after you, I crave you, I crave your word. And by the way, this is an imperative verb Now I I used to read this, you know, it's a fact that if you're saved, you know, you're going to kind of have a desire for God's word, just like a baby desires milk. You're going to have that natural desire for the word of God. And there's a sense in which that's true. However, The verb desire here is a command. God is commanding us to desire his word. And so he's saying to all of us here today, you have a craving for my word. And that implies that there's a sense in which we can control our appetites, our spiritual appetites. Do you have a spiritual appetite for scripture? That would be the question. Do you value Do you When I think of this, I think of the psalmist in Psalm 1. Why don't you just turn there for just a minute and we'll we'll come right back to I want you to see these verses here. And I want you to see the psalmist, what he has to say about And I just want to read a few verses with you. Psalm 1 Notice where it says, I will delight myself in thy statutes. I will not forget thy word. I'm not going to forget your word, God. Verse 24. Thy testimonies are also my delight and my counselors. Look down at verse number 35. Make me to go in the path of thy commandments, for therein do I delight. Look at verse 47. I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved. Look at verse 48. My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved. I will meditate in thy statutes. Look down to verse number 72. The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. Wow, can you say that? I'd rather have your word than to hit the lottery. To have thousands of gold and silver Look at verse 92, where he says, Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction. You know what gets you through trial? That's what gets you through the scripture. Look at verse 97. Oh how meditation all the day. Thou hast made me wiser than my enemies. I have more understanding than all my teachers. He's constantly meditating in God's word. He has wisdom that surpasses even those who eleven thy testimonies for they are the rejoicing of But thy law do I love. And beloved, we can just continue to go through all the way, and I'm going to skip a bunch, but all the way to verse 174. Where he says, I have longed for thy salvation, O Lord, and thy law is my delight. Towards God's word. Does that reflect your heart? Longing to hear and to know and to learn God's word? Is it more precious to you than silver and gold? Do you That's your daily food. I think one characteristic of backsliding is one one uh sign of backsliding is that there's no longer the hunger, the desire for the Word of God. So Peter exhorts us back to 1 Peter 2. He tells us, you need a desire You need to build build up that appetite for Scripture. And so I want us to look at just three things quickly here in this passage. that I hope will help increase our desire for the word of God. Number one, I I call this a metaphor to appreciate. Peter is using a an analogy, a metaphor to help us appreciate the word of God. Now there are many analogies for scripture. For example, the Bible says the word is like a hammer God is like a fire that can melt and sometimes God is like a sword that can pierce and cut, only it doesn't cut The word of God is like water that cleanses us. David said, Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, it's a light unto my path. There are many analogies used of the scripture, but here he compares scripture to milk. And there are certain things he says about this milk. Look again in verse 2. His newborn babes desire the sincere milk. This is a word that means pure. Not watered down. You know, back in this day, uh dishonest merchants used to water things down And they would m water down milk before they sold it sometimes. And Peter was saying, look, what you need to pray for is the word of God. It is not watered down. It is pure. And that means that the Bible gives it to you straight. It tells you the truth about yourself. It's the only book that when you read it, it'll read you back. It'll reveal just exactly who you are. It just seems to know exactly where we are and what we need. It's not uncommon sometimes for people to come up to me and say, you know, did anyone tell you about what happened to me this week? Because your sermon seemed like it was right at me. As I say something, you were preaching straight to me. Or preacher, you were looking at me when you were said that. I'm not I'm not here aiming at anyone, okay? But you know that's the character of God's word. God's word will hit us right where we are. It'll meet us right where we are. It's the pure, unadulterated word of God. And you know what? As preachers, we're not to water it down There are churches and preachers that are watering down the Word of God. You know why? Because they want to be liked. They want to make everyone feel good about themselves. Now I want to be liked, but I'm called to give it to you exactly as it is I I'm it's like one preacher used to say, he goes, you know, I'm not um the chef, I'm the waiter. I didn't cook the meal, I just deliver it. Hopefully without messing it up. Trying to make you like me, that's like going to a doctor who doesn't talk about the sickness. He just kind of gives you sugar-coated pills to make you feel good about yourself rather than getting at the root of your problem. The Word of God gets at the root of our problem, and most of the time that problem is sin. It confronts us where we are about our sins, and it gives us the ability to really come to God in true repentance. So the word of God is is pure, but also is rational. Again in verse 2, where it says, the sincere milk of the word. Now, let me just say that there's a Greek word here in the text that We don't see sometimes in English translations, and it's the word logoton, and it just simply means rational or reasonable. The same word used in Romans 12. 1 where it talks about our reasonable service. And what Peter is saying is that God's word is it's it's to be taken as the milk of the word, it's to be taken spiritually rationally. That's how we get it. We get it through the mind when we communicate truth. I know that there are some church services that are more designed to get people, you know, emotional. You know, they want people to get that certain feeling, so all the service is designed about getting people all worked up and get those emotions worked up. And people leave very emotional, but they haven't really been told anything. God doesn't make a change just like that. You know where he begins? He begins with the mind. He imparts truth to our mind. Beware of any religion that That bypasses the mind and goes straight to the heart, tries to control your emotions. You see, God's desire is for you to know the truth, and you know what will happen? That truth will move your heart It goes from the mind and then to the heart and then from the heart down to the will. It changes who you are, but it starts in the mind. That's why Paul said that you know we are renewed in our minds, that we're transformed by the renewing of the mind. And that's what Peter is saying here. God's word is rational. And so we have to get it into our mind. But then also it's just simply nourishing. Because he compares it to a mother's milk. You know, God in His wisdom has designed a mother's milk as the perfect food for newborn babes. Doctors tell us that it will immunize a baby from illness, it nourishes a baby for growth. And that's what God's word is. Peter's saying, what a mother's milk is to a baby, God's word is to a believer. And you know what? There's a difference, however, in this analogy, it breaks down. You know why? Because we know that babies will eventually outgrow their mother's milk, but as a Christian, you'll never outgrow the Bible. You'll have the Bible all over your life. You need this to nourish you. He's very simply saying this is God's major source of nourishment. You need to be in God's word. And I've got to tell you one fear that I've had as a pastor, I know that during this whole COVID outbreak, folks have been doing what is necessary, what is wise. uh for them to to keep themselves safe. And I I think that's all good. But the one concern I have is that since we're not in church as much, we're being removed from the nourishment that we normally receive Which simply means you need to do it, amp it up more in your own personal life. You need to be in God's Word every day. You need to make sure you're getting the nourishment spiritually that you need. Because friend, if all you're listening to is the world, and it's the world that's informing your mind, it's going to have a detrimental influence on your spiritual life. You need to be in the Word of God because that is your nourishment. And so there's a metaphor to appreciate, but then there's a motivation here. I call this a motivation to apprehend. Again, Peter is saying You should have a desire. Just the way a baby desires milk. Now I have to confess I didn't really appreciate this until Carol and I had our own newborn baby for the first time. And you know what that's like, any parent here. It doesn't matter what time it is, when the baby wants milk, it wants milk. Most of the time it's three AM And they cry and they want it. You ever notice you try to satisfy a baby with something else and they they will have none of that? You can use a little, you know, what they call pacifier for a little while, but after a while they'll spit it out and demand milk, right? Peter's saying the same thing about us, you know, we need to have that kind of desire. When you go to a place that's not giving you the word of God, you need to find a place that is. Don't settle for cheap substitutes. We need the nourishment of Scripture. And so, how do we get that kind of desire? Well, first of all, there are sins to lay aside. Back up to verse 1 in chapter 2. Wherefore, laying aside all malice All guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings. Peter's kind of telling us here, probably one of the reasons why we're not really motivated to get into God's word is because there are things in our life that's hindering that Appetite. Sin can keep you from the Word of God. As a young Christian, I wrote that down in my Bible. Sin will keep you from this book, or this book will keep you from sin. This is a sense what Peter's saying here. If you don't have a proper appetite for scripture, maybe it's because there are sins that you haven't laid aside. And he named some here, all malice And that word malice there is just a basic word for evil, general wickedness, sinfulness. Guile, that's really just deceit, being deceitful. Hypocrisy, that's spiritual phoniness Originally it meant someone who wore a mask as in a play back in that day. Actors wore masks for their dramas. That's the kind of word here. You're wearing a mask. It's not really you. Endings, that's wanting what others have Resenting others' blessings, bitterness, grudges, evil speaking, that's very obvious what that is, just speaking bad of someone else. All of these things Peter names, and he says, You need to lay this aside. You need to get it out of your life. Now, Peter doesn't give us some formula for do that for doing this. You don't need years of therapy and someone delving into your past to lay these things aside. No. As a Christian, you just stop doing it. You have the ability. And by the way, the word lay aside here, we've seen this expression several times, and you've heard me refer to it. It's like taking off a filthy garment Taking off dirty clothes. That's not a hard thing to do, but that's the idea here. When now that you're saved, you're taking off the garments of your old life. You just lay it aside Now through the power of the Holy Spirit, you can stop doing it. Just stop it. Because those sins will and these are just a few. There are many more, of course. These things will affect your appetite for the things of God. If you don't have an appetite, it's because you need to lay aside some things. But also positively, not only there are sins to lay aside, but there's a savior to love. Look down at verse number three. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. What does he mean by that? We could translate like this. Since you have tasted that the Lord is gracious, if you have been in God's word, you know what you've experienced? The goodness of God The grace of God you've tasted for yourself. And this is based on Psalm 34, 8, where it says, Taste and see that the Lord is good. If you have in the past tasted in your own personal experience The goodness of God, the grace of God, you know how good it is. And we get this through the scripture. What do we know about Jesus outside the Bible? Literally almost nothing. What do we know about salvation outside the scripture? Nothing. This is the source in which we learn of Christ. We learn of salvation. And so we have tasted, and it tastes good. And you know what he's saying here? You ever notice it's very natural? When something tastes good, you know what? You're gonna crave it more. You're gonna want more of it. Anybody here have a favorite food? You know, you crave it sometimes. It tastes so good. And you want more of it. This is what Peter is saying here. When you experience the goodness of God, Specifically through salvation. You know what? You're going to want more of it. You're going to want more. I remember when we first got saved. My dad got saved and he he was a father that made us come to church. Thank God he did, and I got under the gospel and I got saved. And I remember my mother bought me a Bible, my first Bible. And uh I s the first book of the Bible I read through was the book of Matthew. I just started reading the book of Matthew, and I remember just being so captivated by the gentleness and love of Christ in the gospel. And by the time I got done finished reading Matthew, I thought, man, I want more of this. I started, I found some other books of the Bible to read and study. And as a young Christian, I had this voracious appetite to learn more of God. And that's what Peter's talking about here when you're when you get saved and you experience the goodness of God and then you read Scripture And you see the grace of the Lord and you see it more and more, you know what? You're gonna want more of it. You're gonna crave it more. An appetite is developed by Eating well, eating good, nutritious food, right? It's the same with scripture. The more you get God's word into you, the more you're gonna want it, the more you're gonna desire it. So how is your appetite? Are you reading scripture? Let me give you the last thing. We see a metaphor to appreciate. A motivation to apprehend, but lastly, a method to apply. You say, how do I drink it in? How do I get God's word in my life? It was very simple. First of all, just read it. Just read it. It's amazing to me how many Christians do not read their Bibles. And you might be thinking, well, I'm not a reader. Well, friend, if you're if you're a Christian, you better learn to be a reader. Because this is how God communicates his truth to us. But by the way, we're living in a day today where, you know, you can you can have the Word of God read to you. You we have MP3 players and CDs and even our telephones where you can download an app and someone will read the scripture to you. I think it's better to read it yourself, however, just to look at it and see it. But you better just learn to read the scripture. Did you know that if you spent fifteen or twenty minutes each day just reading the Bible, you could read through the Bible in a whole year It's not that hard. Find a good study Bible and just read the scripture. Just keep reading it. And again, that'll be something that will build your appetite for scripture more and more. Read it systematically. Just start with a New Testament book and just start reading. There are so many different methods out there of reading the Bible. Just find one that works for you. But read it systematically, read it consistently each day. The key to good spiritual health is your nourishment, having it every day make sure every day you're reading God's word and then read it prayerfully as you're reading the scripture pray the prayer of the psalmist Lord, teach me thy statutes. Lord, open my eyes that I can behold wonderful things out of your word. And then study it. Just observe what you're reading. You know, ask the questions as you're reading the scripture. Who's this written to? What's the purpose? What is the subject of this? Why is the writer writing this? What is the purpose behind it? Ask those questions. I like to have you know these questions and I like what I call read and record and reflect. I'm taking notes as I'm reading, I'm reflecting on these questions, who, what, where, why And I'm taking down these notes and I'm thinking about what God's Word says. You know, I was never really a good student until I got saved. You know, I was never a good student. I you know, going through school because I really didn't have an interest in academics, but when I got saved. And I learned about Christ and I read scripture, that all changed. I wanted to learn more. I wanted to read more. I wanted to study more I'm an average student at best, but I found something that I loved, and that's learning about Christ through Scripture. And that's why I studied, and that's why you should study. We read it, we study it, we taste it, that is, we meditate on it, we think about what we have read. You know, when I'm sitting forward in my chair, I'm studying, I'm pulling things out, when I lean back in my chair, I'm thinking about it. I'm meditating on it And I'm thinking about what it means to me. God, how it should this how should I apply this to my own life? How can this change who I am? Because again, when God begins to make changes in your life, through the scripture. He does it in your mind as you meditate on it, you think about it, and be you'll start to automatically make those changes. Meditation is the key to applying truth to your life when you think about it continually over and over. And so there's a method to apply. Let me just leave you with this. Again, J. I. Packer in the book A Quest for Godliness. He tells about a Puritan preacher in the 1620s named John Rogers. And in his sermon, he bore down on his 500 hearers for neglecting the Bible. And so first the preacher he personates God to the people, pretending to be God, talking to the people, and he says this, quote, I have trusted you so long with my Bible. It lies in such such houses all covered with dust and cobwebs. You care not to listen to it. Do you use my Bible so? Well, you shall have my Bible no longer. And then uh he he takes the Bible from the pulpit and it seems as if he was going to carry it away. But then John Rogers, he kinda spins around to the congregation and he impersonates the people to God. He kind of falls on his knees and he begins to plead, Lord, whatever you do, do not take your Bible from us Burn our houses, destroy our goods, only spare us your Bible. Do not take away your Bible. And then he impersonates God again. Say you so? Well, I will try you a little while longer. Here's my Bible. I will see how you will use it, whether you will love it more, observe it more, practice it more, live more accordingly to it. And then at this point, Thomas Godwin, who was another preacher who was there, who later became a powerful preacher in his own right. He said that the entire congregation dissolved in tears. Godwin himself, he said that after the service that he it took fifteen minutes for him to get his composure to leave because it made such a powerful impression on him as well. If you don't have a craving for God's word, there's something wrong. And God wonders why. Just think if God took his word from us, where would we be? One of the greatest gifts that God has given to mankind is His Word, His inspired Word. Let's not neglect it. Let's make sure that we're using it, that we have a desire for it. It should be a daily part of our life. It is our nourishment. It is our strength. It is something that we should delight in and love and prize above all other possessions. The Word of God. Let's bow for prayer together. So let me ask you, how is your appetite? Do you really have a desire for God's word in your life? And if not, why not? You need to do a little bit of a spiritual examination in your own life. If a person claims to be a Christian and never picks up their Bible, I've got to question whether you really know the Lord. I've got to question whether you're really saved. Because the most natural thing in your life is going to be a desire for the Word of God. So ask God right there where you are. Just tell the Lord, Lord. Am I really truly saved? Seems like the desire for your word has been waning in my life. God help me and forgive me for feeding on the junk food of this world. So much so that I'm losing my appetite for the things of God. Lord, help me to lay aside these other things, to lay aside the sins and the weights that beset me. That keep me from having a passion that I should have for spiritual things and the things of God. Whatever your need is, why don't you just spend just a moment, reflect on this, and pray. Ask God to help you And if you're here today and you've never made a decision to trust Jesus as your Savior, I just want to encourage you. In the Word of God, it tells us of what Jesus did for us on the cross. The Word of God is our source of salvation, in that it tells us of the sinless Son of God who came to this world. Took your sins and mine on himself on the cross and paid for our sins with his own death so that you might have salvation So that you might have forgiveness of sins. And if you've never trusted Jesus, I would encourage you right now, right where you are, would you just reach out in prayer and say, Lord Jesus, I know you died for me. Please come into my heart and save me. Forgive me for my sins. I turn to you today. I put my faith in your work on the cross for my salvation. And if you pray that prayer, let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian faith. Father, again, we thank you for your word. Speak to hearts today. For your sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.