And so I want to speak this morning on the mother that saved a nation, the mother that saved a nation. And so I want to talk to you today about Hannah. You know, when God raises up a godly leader, he normally starts with a godly mother. And Hannah was used by God to bring salvation to the nation of Israel. And Samuel would be the prophet that God would use to bring salvation to this nation, to bring it back to God. As you read through the book of Judges, you're going to find this is a very difficult period of time for the nation of Israel. There were no leaders, there were no godly men But you come to 1 Samuel chapter 7, and what we see are the prayers of a prophet who will bring revival to the nation. But before there is Samuel the prophet, behind that was Hannah, the godly mother. And so I want you to see three lessons that we can learn from the story of Hannah today. And really, if I could just give you the sermon in one sentence, it would simply be this. Godly mothers Face their problems with patience, prayer, and praise. That's certainly what we see here of Hannah. She is a model for this. Godly mothers face their problems with patience. prayer and praise. So here's the first point. Godly mothers face their problems with patience. Now go back to chapter one and look at verse number one. Now there was a certain man of Ramoth Zophim of Mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkana. And look at verse two, and he had two wives, the name of the one was Hannah The name of the other was Panina. And Panina had children, but Hannah had no children. Now, as we read of the life of Hannah, what we're going to find out is that she didn't live in a very ideal situation. She had problems Sometimes we make the wrong assumption that if we live a godly life we will not have problems. And friend, that's just simply not true. We come to church We see others smiling. It looks like everything is in order in their life. And so we think, you know, they must not have any problems. And if we just come to church and we live a godly life, we won't have problems. And and friend, that is simply not the truth. Some of the most devoted saints in the Bible had many problems. Hannah certainly did. Now she had a family that did worship the Lord. And her husband was a man by the name of Elkanah. He was devoted, if you look at verse number three. And this man went up out of the city yearly to worship and sacrifice unto the Lord of hosts in Shiloh. At that point Shiloh was the place that was in the center of Israel where people would go. And you remember that God commanded in the law that three times a year at least you were to go to the place of worship. And they would go to the various feasts, the feast of unleavened bread, the feast of weeks, the feast of tabernacles. And Al Canaan was a very devoted man, and he did that. In fact, it says in verse 7, and he did so year by year, and she went with him to the house of the Lord. We admire Hannah already because she's right there by his side They go and they worship together in the house of the Lord. It's important that a woman support her husband in his desire to worship God. And Hannah certainly did that. But that didn't mean they didn't have problems. And that didn't mean that Hannah's life was ideal with no problems. In fact, she had some. What were some of the things that she faced? Well, first of all, there was a depraved society As I told you before, this time frame, when was this in the Bible? This was during the days of the judges. Remember what the Bible says about the days of the judges? Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. There were not many godly spiritual people in that time. Israel was at a spiritual low, a lack of godly leaders in the land. In fact, in verse number 3 here of chapter 1, when they went to Shiloh, we notice that the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, they were the priests of the Lord there. And if you read on, you'll find that these two men were not godly men, they were wicked men. That tells us something about the condition of the spiritual leadership at that time. Eli was a passive father. He didn't correct his sons, and so these sons were doing all kinds of wicked things. They robbed the people that came to Shiloh Who brought their sacrifice? They were abusing women. This was a very difficult time. You know, one measure of a nation's moral and spiritual condition is how women are valued and honored You can tell a nation by how they honor and value their women. And if you look in the book of Judges, what you'll find is at the beginning of the book There is a father who honors his daughter. Caleb honors his daughter, makes sure that she has a good husband and a good inheritance, but after that things just kind of go down Women are not valued. There's Deborah. She's a woman in charge of the nation. And you know why? Because there was no real really spiritual men that would step forward. Barak the general said he was going to go out to battle against Sisera, but he would only go to battle, he said to Deborah, if you come with me. Can you imagine a general asking a 90-year-old woman to come to battle with him? That's not valuing a woman if you ask me. You call me crazy, but I don't think God designed women to be on the battlefield. I know that's somewhat controversial. I honor womanhood too much for that I'm not saying that women are not valuable. They're valuable in all kinds of ways. All kinds of ways. One of the greatest blessings that God has given mankind is womanhood and motherhood. We're blessed by that. But I see in the book of Judges they just don't value that. Here's a general asking a 90-year-old woman to go on the battlefield with them. And then after that, Jephthah sacrifices his daughter and human sacrifice because he didn't have enough faith just to trust in God. Samson abused women for his own lust, and then in judges there's the story of Micah who steals from his mother, and then he lies to her. And it just continues to go down after that. But here in this same period of time, but incidentally in that same period there is a woman named Ruth. That is in the time frame of the judges. And God exalts her. While man is devaluing women and motherhood at this period, God is exalting it. And he points to individual women during this period, who were women of virtue, godly women. One of them is Ruth, but a certainly another one of those women that God exalts here is Hannah. And during this time, the Bible says the word of God was rare. In fact, look in chapter 3, verse number 1 where it says, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord, and the word of the Lord was precious in those days. That is to say that there were not many prophets preaching the word of God. This was the dark ages of Israel. That's why Israel needed a leader. Israel needed a godly man. And God was going to use Hannah to provide that. But she lived in a depraved society. But also she lived in a divided home. There was another problem she faced. Look in verse number two. And he had two wives, this is Elkana, and the name of one was Hannah, and the name of the other Penina. Now here's a man who has two wives. And this was a major source of conflict in the home. Whenever a man places two wives under one roof, he's going to have trouble The Bible does not condone polygamy, although it's mentioned several times in the Old Testament. God tolerated it, but it was never viewed in a Good light, it was always in a negative light. God's original plan is one man for one woman for life. And anytime that is violated, there's always going to be problems. And so here's Hannah. She's in a divided home, but there's another problem, not only a depraved society that she lived in, and a divided home that she lived in, there was also her dreaded condition. Look again in verse number two, where it says uh and Hannah, but at the end of verse 2, but Hannah had no children. That is to say that she could not bear children. This made matters worse. One wife, Peninah, had children Which in that culture was a sign of God's blessing, but the inability to have children was just the opposite. It was considered a great reproach and shame. And this was a shame-honor society in which they lived. And to make matters worse, the Bible says El Cana favored Hannah. Look at verse number four. And when the time was that El Cana offered, he gave to Beninah his wife and to all her sons and daughters portions. But unto Hannah he gave a worthy fortune, for he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her wound. And so meat was a luxury in that day. And Alcana, when he divided portions, would always give out generously to the family, but when it came to Hannah, he always gave more because he favored her. And this perhaps made Tanaina jealous, and so to get back at her, she would cruelly tease Hannah. because of the fact that she could not bear children. And so here's a home situation that is less than ideal. This was difficult for Hannah to be in this situation. She lived in a divided home. There was constant conflict in that home. But you know what we read of her is that she was patient. She bore all of this patiently. What did women do in this time when they could not have children? Hannah desperately wanted to have a child, she couldn't have a child What did women do back then when this happened? Well if you're reading the Bible, you'll find there are several responses. We don't have time to look at it, but Genesis 30 tells us of the story of Rachel. She was in that position. You know what she did? She got mad at her husband She said to her husband, give me children or I die. And Jacob looked at her as like, I'm not God. How can I do that? But she got angry at her husband. And then there was another response that they had, and that is that there were some mothers back then that would use a surrogate mother. For example, in the story of Sarah, when she couldn't have a child, she said to Abraham, here, take my handmaid, and when she has the baby, that'll be me giving you a child. Rachel also did this. She said, Here's my handmaid, take her, and then I will bear her on my knees. handmaid to have the baby, she would actually put that handmaid on her knees while she gave labor, as if to say, I am the one that's giving labor to this child. That was the situation, and that's what Rachel tried, but still it brought no satisfaction. And then some tried superstition That's another thing that Rachel did. She couldn't have children, and so she thought that perhaps there were some superstitious ways that she could tap into these, you know, the archaeologists found little figurines that were supposed to be fertility figurines that if you carried them with you, that supposedly it would give you the ability to bear a child. And also there was uh what was called the mandrakes back then. If you read Genesis 30, Rachel found some mandrakes. This was a uh kind of a a a plant, a flower when you pulled it up, the root of it kind of looked like a little potato. It was in the shape of a man normally. They would pull them out of the ground and they would eat these mandrakes, thinking that the mandrake would give them the ability to have a child. It's kind of like a superstition. I remember my mother telling me once when uh she was a little girl, she had freckles all over her face, and she was tired of The children making fun of her for her freckles. And so she heard that if you go into the woods and find a tree stump, and there's water in that tree stump, then if you wash your face with that stump water, all your freckles will go away So she went into the woods, she found a stump with water, she washed her face with the stump water. And she said sh sh she was so disappointed the next morning when she woke up and looked in the mirror and she still had those freckles You know, I imagine Rachel when she ate those mandrakes and still was unable to bear children was at the peak of frustration. Now Hannah did none of those things. Hannah didn't get angry at her husband. She did not get angry at God. She didn't get angry at her adversary. She didn't try any superstitious or sinful method What did she do? This is the second thing that we learn about a godly mother. Godly mothers face their problems with patience, but number two, godly mothers face their problems with prayer This is what Hannah did. Instead of all of that, she went to the Lord. Notice what it says in verse number number nine. So Hannah rose up. After they had eaten in Shiloh, after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon the seat of a post of the temple of the Lord, and she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. You see, Hannah knew that the ability for her to have a child rested in the hand of Almighty God. He was the one who was sovereign. Verse 5 says, It was the Lord that shut up her womb. And it says the same in verse 6. She understood that God had the power for her to be able to bear a child. And so she goes to prayer. She goes straight to God in faith. And notice the passion of her prayers. We see this in verse eight, nine, and ten. She weeped with tears in verse eight. In verse nine it might indicate that she even fasted. She got up from the meal This was the meal that was normally eaten at the at the feast there at Shiloh. They had gone to Shiloh to worship, and then after worship to have a a a meal. But she got up from that And verse 10 says, and she was in bitterness of soul, and she prayed unto the Lord, and she wept sore. She goes out of the tabernacle, perhaps, to herself, and she's praying. And there's brokenness. And there's passion in our prayers. Someone said the reason our prayers don't get answered is because they're so cold they freeze before they get to heaven. Hannah's prayers were filled with passion and brokenness and bitterness of soul. When's the last time you prayed like that? You prayed with tears, with passion. Notice the promise of her prayers in verse number 11. And she bowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thy handmaid, And remember me and not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto thy handmaid a man child. Then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. So as she's praying. She makes a vow unto the Lord. She makes a promise. We call Hannah really the mother of faith promise because she really models that whole principle of faith promise So you might remember we about over a year ago we had a faith promised banquet. It's the idea of giving to God, actually God giving through you to his work. That's the whole principle there You say, man, I look in my bank, I don't have much to give. The principle of faith promise says, God, if you give to me what I don't have, I'll give it back to you. That's the promise. The faith is, Lord, if you give it to me I'll give it back to you. There's the faith, give it to me. Here's the promise. I'll give it back to you. It's the principle of God giving through you, using you. And this is what Hannah is doing here. She so desperately wants a child. And by the way, there was a great need in Israel. And what was the need? The need was for a man of God, a godly man. We already saw that. The word of the Lord was precious. There was not a lot of godly men around leading the nation. And she knew the spiritual condition of the nation. She understood that. And so she said, Lord, if you give me a son. I promise I will give him back. She made a vow, which is really a Nazarite vow. I will dedicate this child to you. He will be yours. For you to do with him whatever you want. That's the faith promise that she made before the Lord. And so the Lord honored that. Notice the perspective over prayers. Look at verse number 11 where she says, O Lord of hosts. That's the title of a God who is sovereign. She knew that God could do this. She had faith in that. The sovereign God. Now this title is used a lot in the Old Testament, but Hannah is the first person to use this title in the Bible. O Lord of hosts, the God who is sovereign, the God who dwells between the cherubim, the God who rules over all Lord, you do this. She understood that God was powerful enough to do that. And notice the power of her prayers. Look at verse number twelve. And it came to pass that as she continued praying before the before the Lord, that Eli marked her mouth. When it says before the Lord there, literally the Hebrew says before the face of the Lord, as if she was in the presence of the Lord. The prayers of this mother were right there in the presence of God. There's something about the prayers of a mother, a mother that knows how to lay hold of the Lord, to be in the presence of God. That's what Hannah prayed like. She was there in the presence of God. So we see the passion of her prayers We see the promise that she made, the promise of her prayers, the perspective she understood that God was sovereign. He can do this. We see the power of her prayers when she was there in the presence of the Lord asking this But notice the peace of her prayers. Look at verse thirteen. Now Hannah, she spake in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she had been drunken. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. So here's Eli. He comes along. He sees Hannah there praying there right by the tabernacle And as he sees her, his first thought is that she's drunk because she's she's mouthing words, but nothing is coming out. There's an intensity about what she's saying. And the first assumption that the high priest makes is here's a here's a drunk woman. And by the way, this speaks about the wickedness of the culture back then, about what was going on around the house of the Lord, where people were coming more for the festivity of it than the worship of it. Perhaps in his walking around, he saw this several times where people were drunken. And Eli comes along and he sees what he thinks is just another drunk woman There at the tabernacle, and at first he rebukes her. But notice her response to him in verse 15. And Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord. I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Count not thy handmaid for a daughter of Belial For out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto. And so frankly, we wouldn't uh blame Hannah for getting angry at Eli at this assumption But she has too much respect for spiritual authority to do that. And she very simply says, No, my lord, I'm not drunk. I'm not a daughter of Belial. Someone who has no reverence. Someone who has no respect. She said, I'm pouring out my soul before the Lord. And when Eli realized that he had made a mistake, notice what he says to her in verse 17, then Eli answered and said, go in peace. And the Lord God of Israel, grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him And she said, Let thy handmaid find favor in thy sight. So the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad. The idea is that she had peace there. She had prayed, she poured her heart out, and when Eli saw this and realized he made a mistake, he said, God will grant you. This was a prophetic word from Eli, and she took that as being from God. That God was going to hear her. And immediately the peace came. You ever pray so hard and so long until finally there's a breaking in your heart and there's a peace? And there's a sense in which God has heard me, and I know now that God is going to give me what I ask. In his time he'll do it. That's the sense that Hannah had at this moment, when the man of God said to her, You will have this child, she was immediately at peace. And so notice then therefore the product of her prayers Look in verse nineteen. And then arose up in the morning early and worshipped before the Lord, and returned and came to the house at Ram to Ramath, and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her Wherefore it came to pass when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son and call his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. God remembered Hannah. She had a son. The name Samuel is actually a word play in the Hebrew. It's a combination of two Hebrew words, one meaning es of And the second meaning given over. And so it could say we could say it like this, asked of and given to. Samuel was a child that was asked By Hannah and given to her by God. That's the idea of the name. God had given him, and Hannah was actually also going to give him back. So there's all that involved there in that name. And ultimately she will fulfill her vow. Now, beloved, it's one thing to make a vow to the Lord, but it's another to fulfill it If you ever make a vow to God, you better be careful that you fulfill that vow. And Hannah does this. In verses 21 to 23, her husband continues to go to the House of the Lord year by year. But now Hannah stays back. She will have to pay that vow, but she knows that she needs some time to prepare her son, to wean her son. And normally weaning took place at about the age of five back then So she knew that she had about five years with her son to prepare him for his future role. And she does that because she knows that when she takes him, look at the end of verse 22, where she says that he may appear before the Lord and there abide. Forever. Forever. She's saying to her husband, Look, when I go back to the house of the Lord and I take him there, I'm going to have to leave him there. It'll be forever. That'll be it. So she has five years to work with him, five years to train him. By the way, parents, we need to realize that we only have a a limited amount of time with our children before they're gone. Five years she had. Normally we have more time than that, thank the Lord. But five years. Someone wrote, give me a child until he's seven, and I don't care what with you what you do with him after that. If I can have until he's seven, I can invest in that child all that they need to learn and know. And there's a certain sense of truth to that. Children at a very early age are so fallible, they're so teachable. And she pours into this child. All her heart And then she weans and look at verse twenty-four and when she had weaned him, she took him up with her with three bullets and one eighth up of of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of the Lord in Shiloh. And the child was Young. Look at verse 26. And she said, she meets Eli and says, O my Lord, as thy soul liveth, my Lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here praying unto the Lord. For this child I prayed and the Lord hath given me my petition which I asked of him, therefore also I have lent him unto the Lord And by the way, the word lent here actually means it's a perfect, completed action to give once and for all. I'm going to give him unto the Lord as long as he lives. He shall be given, we could say, lent to the Lord, and he worshiped the Lord there. And so she fulfills her vow. She goes back to the house of the Lord. Can you imagine this mom with a little five-year-old boy? And she had made up for him a little linen ephod, so he kind of looked like a little priest there with his outfit Because she understands that he's going to be serving around the tabernacle there, and that for the rest of his life he would be serving the Lord there. In fact, the Bible does tell us that Samuel, you know where he slept If you read 1 Samuel carefully, he slept in the holy place. That's a good place to sleep. A little boy. He was literally the Lord's. He slept in the tabernacle. He slept before the Lord. The Bible tells us that in chapter 3. Right there where the lamp of God was. Where the lamp of God went out. And you remember the story that as a little boy, sometime later, he heard for the first time the voice of the Lord calling out to him. God indeed would call him. God indeed would use him. Samuel would indeed be the prophet that would lead Israel back to God. He would bring revival to the nation of God. God so honored Hannah and her prayers. So we see the payment of her prayers. She fulfills her vow. And then if you look in chapter number two, here's the third point. Godly mothers face their problems with patience. Godly mothers face their problems with prayer. The third thing, godly mothers face their problems with praise. And we don't have time to look at it because our time is gone. But if you look in the first few verses of chapter two, you know what Hannah is doing? She's giving praise to God. She's praising the Lord with all her heart because she knows that the Lord has done this. I want to tell you that God honors the prayers of godly mothers. Thank God for the faith of godly mothers. Thank God for their praise that they give to the Lord. And how God used this woman. I'll close with this story. I can't help but think of this. There was a got a woman once who prayed. She was a woman who lived through the depression era. She lost her husband. He died at an early age. But she got both of them were Christians, but she learned to live on her own with her children to make it through that difficult time because she was a woman of prayer. And she lived for a long life. When she finally died, her pastor was asked to do the funeral and he went to her apartment and went through her Bible and he noticed that in her Bible there was a tear-stained prayer list there And on that prayer list she was praying for all of her children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren. And some of the requests on that prayer list were that her children and grandchildren would serve the Lord and that God would raise up a preacher out of that And I don't mean this to sound self-serving, but that was my mother's grandmother. I believe that God honored her prayers. I believe that the reason God's been so gracious to allow me to serve him is because he honored the prayers of someone else. Thank God for the prayers of our mothers and our grandmothers. Where would we be without them? Thank God for the Hannahs. Thank God for the godly women who face their problems with patience. Perseverance, prayer with praise. And today we honor them. We thank God for them. Let's bow in prayer today. So, Lord, we thank you for our mothers. Thank you for women of faith. We know, Lord, that in this life there's not going to be any ideal situation in the home. We live in a depraved society. We lived in a in a time, Lord, when the home is being bombarded, motherhood is being maligned. We live in a very difficult era, just like Hannah did. But thank you, Lord, for the mothers who know how to face their problems. And they do it with prayer. And I pray, Father, that this would be an encouragement. Lord, we can all follow the example of this godly woman. Help us, Lord, not to run from our problems. Help us not to get angry at you or others. But To go to our knees in prayer and learn to lay hold of heaven and present our case before you because, Lord, we know that you are a sovereign God. And we know that prayer changes things. And so Lord, I pray that you'll this will be an inspiration to all of us, that we would be people of prayer. And heads bowed and eyes closed. It may be that here today God has spoken to your heart. You might be facing a situation where you need to go to God in prayer. No one else can help you but God. Maybe you've tried all the other ways. But you haven't really gone to God and said, Lord, here's my situation. And in desperation, I cry out to you and I say, Lord, you be my help. You're my helper. Let me say that's my prayer today. May God help me. I'm coming to him today in faith, faith alone, saying, Lord, you be my helper. You be my God. And so, Lord, I pray that you'll see the hearts of these These your servants, Lord, who are facing problems. And that Lord, you would help them as they lay hold of you. May we have the faith of Hannah to lay hold of heaven. So that Lord you will move heaven and earth on our behalf. Bless these, Lord, who are here, who've asked for your help. Thank you again, Lord, for the godly mothers that have touched our lives, that have impacted our nation, just like Hannah did. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious and wonderful name, Amen.