Well, would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6, as we're in a study in Ephesians, and we're looking at specifically verses 10 down to verse number 18 on the armor of God. And would you stand for the reading of God's word? We want to read a few of these verses here. Ephesians chapter 6, starting at verse number 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day and having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins your loins girt about with truth. And having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, and above all taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your precious word. Lord, we uh we we live by your word. Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Now we need to hear from you. So Lord, please, you are the Lord of your church. Speak to your people through your word. Draw people close to you. Save souls. Strengthen the body of Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You perhaps have heard of the uh the Greek myth mythological warrior called Achilles. He was strong, he was brave according to Greek mythology, he was nearly invincible. But despite all his might, he had one fatal weakness. It was his heel. Now, as the story goes, when Achilles was born His mother was given a prophecy that he although he would be a great warrior, he would be mortally wounded in battle. And so she tried to protect him by dipping him in the the the mystical river s sticks by dipping him into the r this protective waters, supposedly it would give him an invisible armor But there was one problem. When she held her infant son to dip him into the water, she grabbed him by the heel. And that one part of his body then was unprotected by those waters. And that is where he received his fatal wound. He was mortally wounded in battle in the heel. This is where we get the expression, you've heard of it, the Achilles heel, right? And Achilles heel is our Place of weakness. What is your Achilles heel? Well, as Christians, we too are engaged in a battle. It's not a battle with flesh and blood. It's a spiritual battle as we've been learning as we've been looking here in Ephesians chapter 6 And like Achilles, we are only as strong as the weakest part of our armor. That's why Paul tells us in Ephesians 6 that we are to put on the whole armor of God. Don't leave off any peace. And in specifically we want to look at today verse number fifteen, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of Peace. Now that might sound like a gentle phrase, but it's actually a call to readiness. It's a call to stability. It is a call to spiritual protection. Because in ancient warfare, a soldier's footing could make the difference between victory or defeat. You had to have good footing And even so without peace in your heart and clarity about the gospel, you will be ex you will be exposed spiritually Kind of like Achilles. So as we examine our text today, we want to find out what does it mean to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace? Now again, we've been studying here in Ephesians chapter six. If you're new with us here this morning, we've been looking over this this important part of Scripture, and we've been looking at each of the pieces of armor. But the central command that we have studied here in this passage is the command to stand. We see it in verse number eleven. I've gone over this with you before, but again want to emphasize This word stand. We are to stand against the wiles of the devil, verse eleven. And verse thirteen, that you might be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand. And then again in verse number fourteen, stand therefore. And we said that the word stand, the Greek word is the exact same Greek word translated resist in James chapter four verse seven, resist the devil and he will flee from you. So to stand is to resist the devil and all his wiles. And in order for us to stand effectively effectively we have to put on the whole armor of God. Now we said that the word put on here is a word that in the Greek literally means to clothe yourself with permanently. You put it on and you don't take it off. You keep your armor on at all times. And we need to put on all of the armor. Now, as we read this passage, we notice that there are six pieces of armor. Again, we've been looking at each specific piece. We looked at the belt of truth and the breastplate of righteousness today. We look at the shoes of peace. And we're going to use the same basic pattern as we look at this piece of armor that we have for the other two. We're going to talk about the adversary And then we're going to talk about the armor, and then we want to talk about the application. So first of all, the adversary. Why do we need this armor? Well, beloved, Satan uses doubt. He loves to use doubt. There's an old fable that says the devil once had a sale and offered all the tools of his trade to anyone that would be willing to pay. And he laid all out his tools there on a table. There was hatred and malice and envy and despair and sickness and pride and lust and all the other tools that he uses. But there was one particular tool that was set aside. It was not for sale. Kind of a wedge shaped, well worn tool. And someone said, Why isn't that one for sale? And Satan said, Because I cannot bear to part with this one weapon. It is my most powerful weapon. And labeled on that weapon was doubt. He said, With it I can open doors that are tightly shut. I can wedge in this this door open and uh when I can wedge in doubt, then I can use all of my other tools. Doubt is the most powerful weapon in Satan's arsenal. Now, what is doubt? Doubt is simply wavering faith. It is questioning the truthfulness of God's Word. It is essentially saying, I'm not sure if I can trust God when He says something. Think about that. Can God be trusted And doubt in scripture is always uh listed as a negative thing and it's portrayed as uh kind of an instability A hindrance to prayer, a hindrance to spiritual growth. Write down James chapter one, verse number six. But let him ask in faith nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double minded man is unstable in all of his ways. Now James compares a doubter to sea waves. I don't know if you ever have been out on the bay when uh in a boat. My father had a boat. Every once in a while he would talk me into going fishing with him and my brothers. I had to be careful because I knew when I got on that boat, I never knew if I was going to get off of it They love to stay out all the time. I rem one time we were out there on that boat and some dark clouds came in and some winds kicked up and and it began to rain and I said, Dad It looks like a storm's coming. He said, You're right, son. And he opened up a door on the boat and he put a raincoat on it and he threw his line back in the water. That's not quite the response I was looking for Wanted to get out of there, but that that storm rolled in and that boat went up and down, up and down, up and down. It was kind of like being on a roller coaster, an endless roller coaster. And James is saying that's what a doubter is like, like a sea wave. A doubter is someone who is up and then they're down. They're up and down. A doubter is someone who's spiritually bipolar could say bipolar, you could say. The word for doubt is actually the Greek word di krino. Crino meaning to think, we get the word cranium or mind or brain. Die is to divide or in half or to think twice, we could say, so a doubter is someone who thinks twice. One moment they are believing God and the next moment they're not. They have a second thought. That's why James says a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. The second thought of doubt undoes that thought of faith. You remember when Peter went out walking on the water? He saw the Lord, or he heard the Lord, and the Lord said, He said, Lord, can I come under the water with you? And Jesus gave him one word, come And Peter believed that word, and he stepped out of the boat. He began to walk on the water. And you know the story. When he looked around at the winds and the waves, he he had a second thought. The second thought was, I can't walk on water And down he went. And of course, Jesus was right there. He reached out. He picked him up. And then he said this, Peter, why did you, Dycrino, why did you think twice? Why did you doubt? That's what a doubter is, someone who thinks twice. And doubt can hinder a believer's prayers. They can hinder a believer's relationship with God. Now, how do we know that Satan uses doubt? Well, we saw last week that Satan can plant thoughts into the mind of a believer. He has that ability, and he loves to plant seeds of doubt into the minds of believers and non-believers alike. And we know this because this is how Satan is presented in the Bible. Satan is the first doubter in history. And in Isaiah chapter 14, it teaches that Satan doubted the sovereignty and the authority of God in heaven. Satan planted the first seed of doubt into the heart of man. We know that in Genesis chapter 3, where he planted that seed of doubt into the heart of Eve. And again, you can hear the hiss of the serpent in Satan's word. Yea, hath God said. Hath God said. And it was that was designed to get E to doubt the word of God. And Satan's tactics tactics have not changed. 2 Corinthians 11. 3, Paul said this, but I fear lest by any means as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ. Satan is using the same tactics, and Paul is warning the Corinthians, and he's warning us to be careful. Satan wants you to doubt the word of God. God made a clear command. He said, When you eat of that tree, you will surely die. And Satan contradicted that. You will not surely die. Or he wanted E to question that. Yea, hath God said. You see, Satan puts a question mark wherever God puts a period And if he can get you to question the word of God, he can rob you of your peace. I think of young people that have studied God's Word, then they go off to some university where these scientific theories are given without God. And they are taught to question the word of God. That is of the devil. The devil wants you to say, oh, you know, the devil, or excuse me, the Bible is a nice book, but it's not absolute. I mean it's not absolute on everything. And if he can cause you to doubt the word of God, he can open up to you all kinds of possibilities of false doctrine. That he can get into your heart. He wants you to doubt the goodness of God. He said to Adam and Eve, God knows that in the day you eat, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God's, and you'll know good and evil. God's trying to hold out on you. He doesn't want you to have this wisdom, this knowledge. And that's what Satan still does today. He'll say to you, God is out of touch with your knees. God messed up when he you went through that trial. God forgot about you. God means well, but he just can't quite control everything. This is what Satan tries to do in every heart. But especially he wants you to doubt the gospel of Jesus Christ. He wants you to doubt your salvation. And there are several ways that he does this. First of all, he distorts the message of the true gospel. He wants to confuse people about what the gospel truly is, the true meaning of the gospel. And again, this goes all the way back to the beginning when God prescribed a way of salvation. Cain came along and dis decided to devise his own way. And the Bible says Cain was of that wicked one. And the Bible in the New Testament also says, talking about false teachers, that they have gone the way of Cain. There are all kinds of teachers and preachers out there today that are giving a different version of the gospel, but beloved, there's only one gospel. But people distort that. They distort the true gospel. For example, there's this no lordship heresy that is out there. It distorts the nature of true saving faith. And basically it says that it's possible for someone to receive Jesus as Savior and not as Lord. I mean you can come to him as Savior. You don't have to obey him and listen to everything he does in your life. You just come and you just get saved, but don't submit to him as Lord. But John makes it clear in 1 John that true-saving faith is marked by a life of obedience. Hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandment. Commandments. There is no salvation. You can't divide Jesus up that way and say, well, I want him as Savior, but not as Lord. No, friend, you're not the one that sets the terms for salvation. You confess him as the Lord Jesus Christ. And the nature of true saving faith is to submit to his lordship. And then the gospel is under attack today from Christian psychology, which denies the sufficiency of Christ and the gospel, and this has flooded into the church. You can believe in Jesus for your salvation, but in order to deal with your psychological and relational problems, you need insights of psychology I mean, the gospel can't deal with your real problems, after all. You need more than Christ, you need more than the Holy Spirit, you need more than the Bible. You need a professional therapist. But this whole view assaults the transforming power of the gospel. Does the Holy Spirit produce his fruit in us, or do we need psychotherapy to help him out? No, the gospel has power to transform every life and to deal with all of your problems and to change you more into the image of Jesus Christ. The Gospel is under attack from the Seeker Church movement, which applies Americ American marketing principles to the church And you they have to ask the potential customer, all of you are potential customers, what it would take to get you to come to church, and the customer will answer something like, Well, I'd like an upbeat short service that relates to my felt needs Try to tell me how to succeed in my family and at work, how to cope with all my problems. Give me music that makes me feel good. Keep it light, keep it, especially in the content. And throw in some entertainment, throw in some drama, do some really special effects in your media, you know, some light and smoke wouldn't hurt. Keep the sermon the sermon short and humorous. By all means get rid of that hellfire and damnation. I mean, that's depressing. So the church marketing folks went to the drawing board and they designed a church around felt needs, you know, uh all the services designed around felt needs. And that's also, let's get a Starbucks coffee. thing going, you know, where people can come in and get a Starbucks and then you have a gym where you can make sure you stay in shape and all that sort of thing. And you know And so basically what they do is they they design a program that that will water down the gospel. Basically people come and it's really try Jesus, he can help you with all your problems. And people kind of treat Jesus like an idol where you can get out of him what you want for your life. Their own version of Jesus and and the gospel is lost in all of that. Hey so in the pastor we have a cafe. All right, I had a cafe. We built one. That's so you'll stay awake during my sermons Listen, there's nothing wrong nothing wrong with having some of those things, but if you think that is gonna add anything to the gospel, my friend, you are sadly mistaken. Any of those things can add nothing to the power of the gospel, the message of the gospel. I don't have time to deal with all the attacks on the gospel. This new perspective of Paul that attacks the nature of justification, open theism, which attacks the sovereignty of God, wokeism, which attacks again the transforming power of the gospel. And all these cults have their own works based salvation and mysticism and all those things that are out there. But Satan's goal in all of this is to distort the clear message of the gospel and to get you to doubt. the power of the gospel. That's his whole method. He wants you to doubt the promises of the gospel. He whispers to you and says, oh, that's too good to be true. God will forgive you for all your sins and all you have to do is Put faith in Christ. I mean, come on. There's something that you have to do. God will forgive all of your sins. Are you sure? All of your sins. He causes you to doubt God's love and grace. He tells you you still have to earn God's love. You still have to meet up to God's standard, and he robs you of peace. So what's the armor that God uses to help us? Again in verse 15 and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Now again, let's consider two questions. What Are the shoes. What were the shoes that he's talking about here? Now the strength of a soldier and thus of an army was based on their shoes. They had to have sturdy shoes. And so, even before the Roman era, if a soldier had uh if an army an army was considered weak uh and a source of defeat if their shoes were Broken. For example, in Isaiah chapter 5, verse 27, Isaiah is describing an invading army and the strength of that army. Listen to what he says. None shall slumber nor sleep, neither shall the girdle of their loins be loose, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken. And so a strong army had shoes that were strong and durable. A soldier had shoes that were strong and durable. Now the Roman soldiers wore heavy military shoes called caliga. And these were half boot, half sandal. They were kind of tied on with thick leather straps strapped halfway up the shin. The sole was made of several thick layers, about three-quarters of an inch thick They were studied with hobnails on the bottom. That was to provide excellent grip no matter what surfaces they were on, making them ideal for marching and fighting. They were a very important part of the soldiers' equipment. Now, why were they important? Well, they were important for three reasons. Number one, for standing. Standing. When an invading army uh attacked, they had to be able to withstand Remember, that's the term that Paul uses, to withstand in the evil day. That's a military term, to stand against an enemy army. Now remember, Roman soldiers sought, or excuse me, fought side by side in tight formations. And these sturdy hobnil boots enable them to dig their feet into the ground and to hold their position next to the uh to the soldier next to them. They would fight in a formation that was called the testuto, which was in the Latin it means tortoise. And what it is is they would take all their shields, hold them out, they would form a big square, make one really giant shield, so to speak But they had to be shoulder to shoulder, standing next to each other, and if any soldier broke ranks or slipped and fell, the enemy could come in and leave his comrades vulnerable. Paul used this military term when he wrote to the Thessalonica church, and he said that they had not held their place in the line of battle. This is what he said. They were unruly. 1 Thessalonians 5. 14. They were disorderly. 2 Thessalonians 3. 6 and 7. This is a military term for breaking ranks. It has the idea of standing together Shoulder to shoulder, but one soldier slipped and they broke ranks and the enemy got in. That's the term that Paul's using there. Shoes were needed for standing, but they were also needed for fighting. These hobnail spikes gave the soldier firmness of footing. So that while he was engaged in hand-to-hand combat, he wouldn't slip and fall, because in battle, if you slipped and you fell and you were on the ground, you were a goner. You had to be able to wield the sword and make quick moves without slipping and falling. So they were necessary for fighting. But they were also necessary for marching. Marching was an essential part of a soldier's life. Armies were judged by how quickly they could march and move. Especially long distances. Now today armies they have modern vehicles to to get them around, but back in Paul's day, soldiers moved on their feet. Therefore they were called foot soldiers. Oh, the Roman term for that, the ancient Roman term were called bootmen. And so they had to have shoes that were durable that protected them because the enemy many times would put traps along the path, sometimes wooden spikes that could penetrate the foot, and if that happened and a soldier was wounded he couldn't fight So they had to have shoes that were heavy and soles that couldn't be pierced. Even the best soldier is rendered ineffective if his feet were no good. And so they were so very important. Now the question is, how does all of this apply for the believer? We looked at the adversary, we looked at the armor. Thirdly, notice the application. Paul says that the spiritual armor are the shoes, and the shoes represent what? Peace. The gospel of peace. Without the gospel of peace, we will be vulnerable. We'll have a vulnerable heel, you could say. The peace of God rooted in the gospel gives us the footing that we need to stand firm in the battle. When Paul says your feet shod, the word shod there is a word that just simply means to bind or to tie on. The idea of, you know, you put the g the gospel of peace on your feet, you wear it, you bind it just like a soldier would lace up Those shoes, you put the gospel on your feet. The word preparation, when he says in verse 15, and your feet shot with the preparation of the gospel, simply means readiness. So it's the idea your shoots are your shoes are strapped on and you are prepared, you're ready for the enemy. You're ready for whatever. You're ready for standing or for fighting or for marching. You're absolutely ready. Now, Paul calls it the gospel of peace because the gospel brings peace in four different ways. Let me tell you those. Number one, the gospel gives us peace with God. That's our position. Did you know that before you were saved, you were at war with God? Or God's at war with those that are lost. The wrath of God is on those that are not saved. The Bible says that the wrath of God abides on them. They're already condemned. But when you come to Christ, And you're saved. Listen to what Paul said in Romans 5. 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. This is not an inward subjective piece, we'll talk about that later, but the piece that Paul's talking about here is an objective bloodthought piece. It was bought and paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. Our standing before God is we're no longer at war. We're at peace. There's peace between the sinner and God. There's peace between you and God. The war is over. The gospel of peace was brought through the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. The moment you repent, you put your faith in Jesus Christ and his atoning work, you're no longer at war with God. You see, you can't stand against the devil if you're still standing at odds with God. So that means you have to understand the gospel. You have to understand everything that the gospel means. And how that you must simply by faith trust the finished work of Jesus Christ, that and nothing else. Don't let the devil distort that gospel It is the gospel of peace. That means we have to understand that we're sinners. There's nothing that we can give for our own salvation. Nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. We have to come to terms with that. And we have to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And you're no longer at war with God. You're at peace. Now Satan causes doubt by telling you that God is still at war with you. He wants you to doubt The love of God, but friend, that's why you have the gospel of peace, your feet are shod with him because you're standing before God in peace because of what Christ has done. Listen to what Paul wrote in Colossians 1:20. And having made peace through the blood of his cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. Through the cross, peace has come. And along with that, God is now sanctifying us. But here's the next thing. The gospel gives us peace with ourselves. That is an assurance. This is more of a subjective peace. You see, wherever God saves a person, whenever God justifies a person He also brings with that a subjective peace. All right? Write down Isaiah 32, verse 17, a great verse. Listen to this. And the work of righteousness shall be peace, and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance forever. Wherever God imputes his righteousness, he always also gives with it that inner Peace. Paul also uses this as a military term in Philippians 4 7. And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through. Christ. Keep is a word that means to guard, like a sentinel, a soldier guarding. The peace of God should guard your heart. And whenever the devil comes and he begins to question your salvation and he wants you to doubt You know what you need to do? You need to go back to that gospel. And you know what you should do each day? You should preach the gospel to yourself every day. Remind yourself. That your hope is on Christ and Christ alone. You see, the devil wants you to doubt your salvation. God wants you to have the peace of assurance. And you do that by remembering what the gospel teaches. And God will give you that subjective peace. But oh here's another thing. The gospel gives us peace with each other. This is our unity. Paul spoke about this earlier in Ephesians 4. 3, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of Peace. As believers, we don't have to get unity. God has already given that to us. What we need to do is to keep unity. We have one Lord, one faith, one baptism. We have one hope of our calling. Paul talks about all that in Ephesians 4. We are being brought together because of the gospel. And you know what Satan would like to do? He would like to divide the army. He would like to divide the church. But I want to tell you something, friend. We stand as we stand together. Don't let Satan divide the church. If you know of anyone that's going around gossiping and slandering, that's the work of Satan. He's the slanderer. He's trying to divide the army, divide the church. Don't let Satan do that, friends, because if he can do that, he makes others vulnerable to his attacks. But then here's the net the last thing. The gospel gives us peace for others. This is our mission. Peace with God, that's our standing. Peace with ourselves, that's our assurance. Peace among ourselves with each other. That's our unity. And then peace for others. This is our mission. Our mission. And what is our mission? We are to take this message of peace to the world, that they can be reconciled with God. That is the message of the gospel. Paul said this in Romans 10 and 15. As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings And Paul is quoting from the Old Testament, Isaiah 52, 7. We carry the message of reconciliation everywhere we go. We are marching forward. You see, the feet were the shoes were not just for standing, they were for marching. And we need to take this message of the gospel of peace. To the world, everywhere we go. That's why the shoes had to be durable. Because we have a long march. We're marching forth with the gospel. At the Battle of Marathon, when the Greeks defeated the Persians, a Greek soldier was sent with a message, and he had to carry it from the plains of Marathon to Athens, which was a distance of about 26 miles. And he ran that long distance and he took the message to the magistrates. What was the message? The message was the war was over, victory had been achieved. Now today when people run the marathon, they commemorate that one event. Twenty-six miles. When that message was given. In the spiritual realm, we are the ones bearing the message of good news that the war was fought at Calvary. Christ won, peace is now being offered to those that will come to Christ and repent. That's the message of the gospel. That's the message that we take to anyone who will receive it by faith and be justified. That will answer that call of salvation. And so just as Achilles' downfall came because of unprotected feet, even so a Christian without the gospel of peace is spiritually exposed. And so do you have peace with God? Do you have that? Do you know the peace of God? Are you standing in that peace? And are you willing to carry this message of peace to the world? This is part of our armor. We put it on, we keep it on, we live with it every day, standing in that wonderful peace that God gives us. Let's bow for prayer this morning. And if your heads are bowed and eyes are closed, can I ask you, friend, are you at peace with God? Do you know? That you have this position of peace, that you're standing at peace. Have you come to the cross? Have you come to Christ? To be reconciled. If not, right now is the time. Don't put it off. Right now, put your faith in Christ, His finished work. Come to him today and say, Lord, I want peace. Peace with you. I want to put on the gospel of peace. Forgive me for my sins, Lord. I turn to you. I put my faith in the finished work of Christ. And if you're a believer, you already have those seat shods, friend. Stand firm. Don't let Satan Bring doubt into your heart. When he does, go right back to the message of the gospel. Preach the gospel to yourself. Remind yourself. Of what Christ has done for you and your standing, your position before Almighty God. If Satan can continue to cause you to doubt your salvation, he can make you ineffective. Friend, hold on to what Christ has done. Not feelings. Feelings come, feelings go. Feelings are deceiving. My warrant is the word of God. Naught else is worth believing, wrote Martin Luther. Stand firm in the message of the gospel and be willing to take this message to the world whenever God gives you the opportunity. Father, bless again your word to every heart here today. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.