Now take your Bibles and open please to Psalm twenty three. Uh I know you know that Psalm very well. You read it very well this morning. A very familiar chapter in the Bible. In fact I think sometimes it's so familiar if we're not kidding This has been the favorite chapter for many Christians. It has comforted so many people through the years. One historian wrote this, talk about Psalm 23. It has sung courage to the army of the disappointed. It has poured bomb and consolation into the hearts of the sick, of captives in their dungeons, of widows in their pinching grief. of orphans in their loneliness. Dying soldiers have died easier as a result of having this read to them. Ghastly hospitals have been illuminated. It has visited the prisoner and broken his chains. I thought that's good. That's so true. This psalm has really ministered to so many people. Now Psalm 23 was written by David, we know that. Written by a shepherd, about a shepherd. And it has a really wonderful message in it for us today. And that is because, do you know that God calls you sheep? You know, you're sheep. There's many things that the Bible uses, many images the Bible uses to talk about the Christian. The Christian is like a soldier. We're in a fight. The Christian is like a priest. We're constantly giving uh you know sacrifices to the Lord, spiritual sacrifices. When you worship this morning, you're giving your sacrifice to God. I hope you gave a good sacrifice Morning. We're continuing to do that even as we listen to God's Word. We're soldiers, we're priests. When it comes to imagery as far as animals, the Bible calls us sheep. Now that's not a compliment I just want you to know that, in case you were wondering. You know, God could have said, you know, you're as wise as owls, or he could have said, you are as courageous as lions, but he didn't. He said you're sheep. Now I don't know about you, but sheep are not very intelligent animals. Uh hate to tell you. In fact, you know, I've been to a circus as a child. I saw all kind of trained animals. Lions and tigers and bears. Oh my, someone just said that. We've seen elephants, dogs doing tricks. You can even train a pig. But I have never seen a trained sheep. At the circus. Just doesn't happen. They're very hard to train. They're just not that smart. But also they're directionless. They have no sense of direction. You know, all the animals of the animal kingdom have some kind of sense of direction. Birds know where to migrate. Uh animals can find their way home. If you drop a cat off in the woods, he'll meet you in your park, in your driveway when you get home, right? Some of you tried that, right? Drop a cat off and that cat's there waiting for you When you get home, beach at home. Animals have a sense of direction, that is, except for sheep. And listen to what the Bible says. All we like sheep have gone what? Astray We've all gone astray because sheep have no sense of direction. Another thing about sheep is that they're defenseless. They have no sense of they have no ability to defend themselves. You know, it seems like every animal has some kind of defense. I mean deer have its antlers and porcupine has its quill and even a turtle has its shell and a skunk, well you know what they can do. But it seems like sheep have no defense. They're just absolutely defenseless. They need to be protected. Another thing about sheep is that they're disturbable. That is they're very easily disturbable. They're very nervous animals. They're very stressed animals. It doesn't take a whole lot to really cause them to fear And so the whole idea is simply this, that sheep, if they're going to survive, they have to have a shepherd. They can't do it on their own. They have to have a shepherd. Now I have good news for you today. You do have a shepherd. And his name is Jesus Christ. He is your shepherd. And this is what David is writing about here. He's writing about a shepherd and his sheep. And I want you to notice two times he uses the phrase, he leadeth me. Look in verse two. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me And verse number three, again, he restores my soul. He leadeth me two times. That's really what he's the focus of this whole chapter, is just following the leading of your shepherd. Just follow his leading. That's the essence of the whole Christian life. The Christian life is about following your shepherd. You know, sometimes as preachers and pastors, we have the tendency to make the Christian life more complex than it really is. But honestly, folks, it's not rocket science. You want to be blessed? You want to be happy? You want to be holy? Follow your leader Follow your shepherd. And we see this all throughout the Old Testament, by the way. Remember when God came to Abraham and He said to Abraham, He said, Look, get thee out of your of your country, go to a land I will show you, just follow me. And what was the next verse after that? And I will bless thee. Abraham, if you just follow me, I'm going to bless you. Remember what God said to the whole nation of Israel? He just said, follow my leading. He was that pillar of cloud and pillar of fire by night. It was his Shekinah glory. It was God's glory just leading them Through the wilderness, and God said to the whole nation of Israel, if you just follow me and just follow my leading, I will bless you. And that's what God says to us today. God says, look, if you want to you want to be blessed, then just follow my leading. And that's what this psalm here is trying to persuade us to do. In fact, what we're going to see are just really two images. We see the image of a shepherd and his sheep, and then at the end of the psalm, we see the image of a king. And a banqueting house with his guests. You know, our shepherd is also our king. And that's what we're going to see here. But what I want you to see in this chapter are seven blessings. That you receive when you follow his leading. Seven blessings. Again, do you want to be blessed? Because I want to tell you something. God wants to bless you. Friend. He is a gracious God. He's a merciful God. And he delights in blessing. And so God wants to bless you. So here they are. If you follow the shepherd's leading, number one, there's provision. Just write down provision Look in verse 1. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Notice who the provider is, the Lord. Notice in your Bible, that's in all capital letters And anytime you see that that's the sacred name for God, it's called the tetragrammaton. In other words, the four-letter name. This was the name was so holy that Jews never even spoke that name because it was too holy to even utter, and that comes from the tradition of Moses when God said to Moses, I am that I am. Moses never really spoke that name back, but he replaced it with another word, Adonai And so we really don't even know how to pronounce that name. There are really 27 different variations on how you pronounce the name of the Lord, that holy name. We call it Yahweh But we don't really know how to say it. It's so holy. And the idea here is who is your shepherd? It is that holy God. That great God is your shepherd You need to rejoice in that. Because the sheep are only as safe as the shepherd is strong. And you have a mighty God, and He is your Shepherd. He's the good shepherd. Write down Isaiah 40, verse 11. He shall lead his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arms. We have a mighty God who is loving and strong, and he's the one who is your shepherd. And he wants to lead you. He wants to bless you. But not only the the uh provider. But notice the provision in verse 1, I shall not want. And the word want there simply means lack. And it just means this that when you follow him, you're not going to lack for anything. God's just going to provide for you He's going to take care of you. It might be here this morning. You're a little worried about things. You're worried about provision for your family. Listen, if you follow your shepherd, you're not going to lack. He's going to take care of you. He just will. He's just Gracious. You know, this is a lesson the Lord taught me when I was a college student. I remember going to college and and uh you know trying to pay your way through and my parents were doing all that they could. were giving as much and as they could. And I was working a third shift job and um you know getting off in the morning and trying to go to class and Uh still it didn't seem to be enough to get through college and pay your bill and pay all the expenses and uh the college I went to they had a w financial withdrawal list that if you didn't pay up your bill you were financially withdrawn after a few weeks And while you were sitting in class, they would bring this list into class. This was the dreaded financial withdrawal list, you know. You're sitting there in class, you're hoping your name is not on that list. And I remember one one morning I had gotten off work, worked all night, and sure enough they read the list and my name was on it. I had to leave class. That's kind of an embarrassing thing I remember walking down the hallway saying, Lord, I'm doing everything I know to do. And Lord, I just need you to help me if you want me here. If you're leading me to study for ministry And while I was walking down the hallway, a guy walked up to me and he said, Hey, someone left this for you. And he gave me a check. And it was from a guy I never met before, still haven't met him. And I took it to the business office and I said, how much is it going to take for me to get back in to school? And they said, it's going to take you $323. Guess what the check was written for? $323. The exact amount that I needed to get back into school. So yeah, you can give the Lord a hand, right? I still haven't met this guy, but it was the Lord who did it. And of course I put the check down and said, well, here it is. Yeah. No problem. I remember one time I was in seminary, I had a Carolyn, four children trying to go through school and I was was short. But when I got up to the pay the bill, I knew I was two hundred dollars short, but I put the money down, the lady said, you know, you're two hundred dollars short, but you know what someone a week ago left two hundred dollars on your account and said they wanted you to have this. You know the Lord does things like that. You know why he does things like that? To let us know he's going to take care of us. And some of you could you you could you could testify the same thing this morning You can get up and say, Well, you know, the Lord did this. You know why? Because when you follow the leading of your shepherd, you're not going to lack. You might not have all you want But you're gonna have all that you need because he's gonna take care of you. And that's what it says. But really, this is going farther than just material provision And really, it's the idea of total contentment. And what you're going to find is as you follow the leading of your shepherd, that you're going to be content with him You're going to be content with him in your life. Not just material things, but he's going to be the source of joy and satisfaction in your life. So that you're totally content with him. Like one little girl when she quoted this verse, she said, The Lord is my shepherd. That's all I want. That's a good rendering of that verse, I think. When the Lord is your shepherd, you're going to be content with that. Now here's the second thing. Not only provision, but then there's peace. Look at verse number two. two. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. That's a picture of peace. You know sheep are very nervous and edgy animals, very fearful. Sound familiar, we're like that, aren't we? We can get stressed. Philip Keller wrote in his book about a shepherd looks at the 23rd Psalm. He wrote this. The book was based on his experience as a shepherd. And this is what he wrote. He tells the story of how a flock one day began to stand peace Simply because a jackrabbit jumped out from behind some brush and it scared the sheep and they began to run. And he tells that story to talk about how nervous and edgy Sheep really are. They get stressed. And what they need is they need peace. They need peace. And I think about ourselves, you know, we can get stressed out if we're not careful. Like Dr. Adrian Rogers said, we're we're we're all stressed up and we have no place to go. And w we're kind of like that. I was reading about one uh one book, the Executive Survival Manual. It has a chapter on executive stress, and the authors basically gauge the impact of pressure on people They call them these stress factors life-changing units. And they the greater number of units, the greater the risk of some kind of emotional or physical illness. You're gonna have it. So they they name a life event and then they give it certain life-changing units, what they call. That's how they do it. And they have a whole list Here to kind of gaze yourself. I guess they want you to kind of measure your units to find out how much stress you're under. And so they give all these things, divorce 73 units, marital separation 65, death Uh 100, death of a spouse or family member, jail 63, injury or illness 53, being fired at work 47, retirement 45, and on it goes all the way down to Christmas. That's coming, right? 12 units and then traffic violations and they want you to add up all your units and to see how stressed you are. I don't recommend this I added mine up and I'm due for a heart attack anytime. But but some of you may be due for death if you add yours up here. Now how true is all this? I don't I don't know. I honestly don't know how legitimate this is, how true to life it is, but I do know this we all are under stress And we need peace. And where does that peace come from? It comes from your shepherd. If you follow his leading, you know what he's going to give you? He's going to give you peace. Because notice what it says, he makes me to lie down in green pastures. He leaves me beside still waters. How does he give us peace? I think the key there is his own presence. Look at the word he in verse 2. He maketh me lie down. He leadeth me. You know what that means? That he is with me. You know what gives us peace? The presence of our shepherd. You know why sheep are able to lie down peacefully? Because they see their shepherd is right there, and so therefore they know there's nothing to fear. As long as he's there, there's nothing for them to fear because they know that the shepherd's going to be. And that's why we need the presence of God in our life because He is that source of peace. One time a young preacher went to an older saint and uh he was trying to comfort her, and he read the verse Hebrews 13:5 For he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. And he was pointing out that in the Greek, you know, he had just learned Greek and he was really happy about that. And he said, you know, in the Greek There are five negatives in the Greek. I will not, I will not, never, never, never leave you nor forsake you. And that dear old saint said, Well, you know, uh God might have to say it five times to you Greek fellers, but once is enough for me. I will never leave you. I will never forsake you. It is the presence of God. And where it says He makes me to lie down in green pastures You know, the shepherd would just take them to certain pastures where they could graze. And if you read about sheep, you know that the most important time for sheep were after they would graze in the morning. uh with this lush grass with the dew on it. They would spend the rest of the day just lying down because that was a time for them to basically digest what they have eaten and they grow. That was an important growing time and so the shepherd was very careful. to help them to lie down because of that important time. And you know what? God knows it's important for you, as his people, to learn as you feed on his word, to also spend time with him digesting what you have. Learned, given you peace as you spend time with the Lord. Ezekiel says this in Ezekiel 34:15: I will feed my flock and I will make them lie down. God feeds you. I hope that when you hear God's word, whether it's in a Sunday school class or here in church, you don't just rush out and just forget it. But that you'll go and you'll think about it. And even during your devotion time during the week, and I hope you all have time when you spend time with the Lord, reading the Word, thinking over what you have already learned, maybe when you've taken notes in church And then you're praying and you're meditating on that, you know what that is? That's peaceful time. You read the lives of great Christians, you're going to find that those who have had great success in their spiritual life were people that have had quiet time with God. Where God very peacefully would minister to them. So there's one blessing is provision, one is peace, but also write down purity. Look in verse 3. He restores my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake. Then there's purity. Look at the word restore there. It's an interesting word. It means to turn. Well sometimes this word is used in the Old Testament to speak about repentance, like to say he turns me or turns me back. That's the idea here, but really what it's in the reference to Sheikh Did you know that studying sheep, you know what happens to them sometimes? Sometimes they get so woolly, they get so filled with wool that when they lay down or they fall down, they can't get back up And they actually turn over, kind of like a turtle. You ever see a turtle turned over on a shell? He can't get back on his feet. You know, sheep can get that way. They get heavy, and it's called being cast down. Cast down Sheep. David kind of plays on that in another psalm. When he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Sometimes Sometimes we can get cast down. And sh shepherds, if they were uh very diligent in what they did, they would at times have to find these cast down sheep and put them back on their feet. Because they were cast down. And that can happen to us at times. You say, what's can cause us to be cast down? Well, the excess of our life Things that don't belong in our life. It could be things that take away our passion and desire for the things of God. It could be sins that weigh us down. Desires that weigh us down, things that just need to go from our life because it's not helping us to grow. You know what happened to happen to a sheep that's like that? They need to be shorn. They need to have some wool removed. That's the idea. They need to be restored. And so it is with us spiritually. You know, sometimes God, when he's leading us, will take things out of our life because it's not helping us in our sanctification. It's not helping us in the paths of righteousness. And so the Lord will remove those things. He'll take them out. It might be a relationship, it might be something, whatever it is, anything that That uh dampens your passion, your desire for the things of God. God's got to remove it. He wants to put you on the path of righteousness For his namesake. And so he is sanctifying you. He's doing his work in your heart. There's purity. But let me move on. Let me show you another one. Then there's protection. When you follow the leading of your shepherd, there's provision and peace and purity, but then protection. Look at verse 4: Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. And sometimes when we follow God's leading, he will ask us to walk through difficult valleys. That's just part of the Christian life But you're not in that valley alone. What is this valley of the shadow of death? You know, some scholars think that when David refers to death, he's actually referring to an old ancient Canaanite myth. Death was kind of personified. We would call him today the Grim Reaper. You know, I can walk through the valley of the Grim Reaper and not be afraid. There's ancient stories that of course are missed, they're not real But s people back in that day would kind of believe some of those things, like the false god Baal went through the valley of Ma the valley of death, and death seized him and killed him And yet David is saying here, you know what? I can walk through the valley of the Grim Reaper, and I don't have to be afraid. Why? Because he's with me. Me. And I don't have to be afraid. I can walk up to death's door, knock on the door, and not be afraid, Lord, because you are with me I don't know. It may be some people here today, this year you've gone through the valley of the shadow of death. But friend, you don't have to be afraid of that. God's gonna go with you through that. He's gonna help you through that. I think of the story of Donald Gray Barnhouse. He his wife died and she left him two small children and he was trying to help his children cope with death uh and you know they'd lost their mom and they were walking down the street And a big truck passed by on the street and the shadow of that truck just passed through them. Just a shadow just walk pass through you or another object. And then he looked at his children and he said, Did that shad Shadow hurt you to his children. And the children said, No, Dad, shadow didn't hurt. He said, That's right. You see, it's not the truck that hit you, it was the shadow of the truck. And you see, what hit your mother was not death, but the shadow Because if you're a Christian, the shadow of death can't hurt you. You're a child of God. And we'll see that at the end of the Psalm because if you're a child of God, you live in the house of the Lord forever And some say this valley is just simply difficulty. There is such a valley there in the Holy Land called the Valley of the Shadow of Death. It really, it's a little valley, kind of a miniature Um Grand Canyon. It starts in Bethlehem and it kind of cuts its way down towards the Dead Sea. It starts 2,700 feet above sea level and cuts all the way down to 30 thirteen hundred feet below sea level and shepherds would lead their sheep through this valley. On the map today it's called Wade Kelt. They would lead their sheep through this valley because they would bring them down to the low pastures around the area of Jericho where they could feed. on the lush grass that was there, and then during other seasons they would lead them back up into the plateau of Bethlehem to feed the sheep there. But they were constantly leading them through this valley And it was a fearful thing because in those valleys there, in those crevices, sometimes there would be bandits and robbers and predators, and when sheep would have to go through that valley, it was always a very fearful thing for sheep. But they had their shepherd leading them through. And so David is using this. He's saying, you know, when we go through that valley You just remember you don't have to fear because you I don't have to fear any evil because you are with me. Actually, there's a place Playlon words here in the Hebrew. The word for evil is Ra, the word for shepherd is Roa. I don't have to fear Ra because I have Roa with me. The shepherd is with me. He is my protector. Write down four Psalm 40, excuse me, Isaiah 43, verse 2. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you, and through the rivers, they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through the fire, it shall not cons consume you or burn you. God says, I'm going to go through this with you Reminds me of a story that was told by the great preacher Alexander McLaren. When he was sixteen years old, he got a job. Uh he his family had a farm just outside of Glasgow, but his job was in Glasgow It was about six or eight miles away, so he couldn't walk back and forth it was too far. So he would during the week walk to his job and stay there and spend a night and then on the weekends he would go But one day his father came to him and said, Alexander, I want you to come home Friday night because your mother and I we miss you. And we want you to come home Friday night instead of waiting for Saturday. Well, Alexander McLaren knew that between his farmhouse where he lived and his job, there was a dark valley. And people had been known to be killed in that deep dark valley. It was a very fearful ravine to walk through. So he said to his dad, he said, Dad, you know, I'm going to be tired on Friday. Just let me wait for Saturday. And his father said, No, we want you home on Friday night So that Friday night after work he got off. The sun had already set. It was already dark. He started on his journey. He got to the very mouth of that ravine. And boy, he was afraid. And so he thought, you know what, I'll just whistle. Maybe that'll help. Sure that always helps, you know. I'll whistle. He's whistled, started into that valley. And then he began to talk like he had an imaginary friend with him. He was thinking, you know, if there's someone down there, they'll think it's two people instead of one. That'll help. But as he got down into that ravine, he He saw a stirring. He could barely see, but he saw something stirring. And his heart was just filled with fear. And he saw a silhouette beginning to approach him. And again, he was just terror stricken until That form got closer and closer, and finally he could see who it was. It was his own father. And he said, Alexander, I just wanted to come and meet you and walk with you. I thought we could walk through this valley together. And Alexander McLaren said, you'll never know the difference that made. That trip that was once very fearful And one that caused me to dread now brought me such joy and such peace. Why? Because my father was with me. And he walked through this valley with me. Now friend, I'll tell you this. I don't know what valley you're gonna go through, but I know this, you're not gonna go through it alone. You're not gonna walk alone through that Valley. The Lord is going to be there. He's going to go through it with you. There is protection. There's provision. There's peace, purity, protection, and then there's plenty. Look in verse number five. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of my enemies, thou anointeth my head with oil, my cup runneth Over. Now here's where the imagery shifts from that of a shepherd to that of a king. Now you're the idea is a king, and you're being invited to his banqueting house, and notice how he prepares a table Before you. The shepherd is also our king. And sometimes he'll lead us through the valley, but sometimes he'll bring us into a banqueting house. You know that's what God does for us. He invites us to feast with him. And notice where it says, You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies, thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runeth You know there was a custom back then when you hosted a person for a meal that if after you know you you wanted them to leave You you you you wanted to do it in a very polite way, you didn't want to just say, you know, it's time for you to go. So here's what you would do. You would you would fill that person's glass halfway up And if you filled it halfway up, that was a sign like, okay, after this, hit the road. If you wanted them to stay longer, you would fill their glass up until it was overflowing. You see, that's the idea here. Notice where it says, my cup runneth over. God doesn't just bless us halfway. He blesses us fully. That's what God is to us. He just gives us so much. There's plenty. But then there's also power. Notice where it says thou anointest my head with oil. Again, there's a it's referring to another custom. Did you know at dinner guests If you were a person hosting someone when they came to your house, you would anoint them with oil, kind of a perfume or a a cologne. That was just customary in the ancient Near East. Uh in fact there are m Egypti showing guests having their heads anointed with oil. Ecclesiastes 9 8 says this, let thy garments be always white, and let thy head lack no ointment. And that's referring to that oil that is used to anoint a person. And what is oil used to speak of in the Bible for us as Christians? The Holy Spirit, right? It's the power of the Holy Spirit that God gives us He anoints us with oil. And by the way, you know what? We need the Holy Spirit every day, don't we? We need a fresh anointing. But God is so gracious that He will anoint us with the oil of His Spirit. He will help us. He will give us power. There's nothing that we can do without the help of God. We need the power of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. He anoints us with oil. But then I've got to move on quickly. There's more I could say about that, but let me give you the last one quickly. The seventh one is pleasantness. When you follow the leading of your shepherd, there's a blessing of provision, peace, purity, protection, plenty, and then power, and then lastly, pleasant. Look at verse number six. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And this is just the blessing of God. We get all these blessings, and then you know what happens after we die? We dwell in the house of the Lord. What a blessing. Let me just show you this one, say this one thing, and then I'll be done. Jonathan Edwards is a great preacher of the past. And he preached a sermon one time called The Pleasantness of Religion. And he actually preached this when he was 19 years old. He had taken a church that actually split away from another church. He talked them into going back into the church. He kind of preached himself out of a job, so to speak. But he did a good job preaching the word to this group until they went united back to their church. But during that time in his life, he preached this sermon called the pleasantness of religion. And when he says religion, he's talking about Christianity. Christianity, the pleasantness of Christianity. And here is the whole theme of the sermon. He said we should be Christians because of the sheer pleasure that it brings. And he wasn't talking about the pleasure of heaven one day, which we're all going to have. He was talking about the sheer pleasure of being a Christian here in this life. He said it's such a joy, it's such a delight to be a Christian here and now. That you should want to be a Christian just for that one reason alone. Just for the joy of it. And this is what he's saying. He's saying that as a Christian, you have a greater ability to enjoy all the blessings of this life. Because you recognize that they're from God. And we can enjoy these things with no guilt or no sorrow because we don't cross the line. We don't sin. We just enjoy all the riches of His goodness. And we attribute it to God, and by doing that we enjoy God even more. That was his pleasantness argument that he used. And it's a good argument. I don't know about you. If you're if if I were not saved, I would want to get saved just for the pleasantness of being a Christian. It's wonderful to be a child of God. And I think this is what David is saying. Surely goodness and mercy follow me all the days of my life. Isn't God good? He's so good and he's so merciful. And this is what David is saying, and then after that we get to go to heaven? I don't know about you. I I just want to follow his leading. I want to follow the leading of my shepherd. And I want these blessings in my life. And God wants to give you all of these blessings. I love the song that we sing. Wherever He Leads, I'll go. That's Should be our prayer today. I just want to follow his leading. Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you, Lord, for your provision, your peace, your purity that you bring to our lives, your protection, your plenty, Lord. You give us so much The power that you give us. You anoint us with oil. The pleasantness that we have, Lord, in this life, just of knowing you and enjoying all these things as gifts from you We don't just enjoy the gift, we enjoy the giver. So, Lord, we thank you for all these things. And I pray, Lord, that we will be motivated more than ever just to follow your leading in our life. to follow our shepherd. And Father, I pray for some that are here today that have no shepherd. They haven't followed Christ. They haven't taken that first step. To come to him as their Savior. May that today they realize that they're missing out on so many blessings. May they today choose to follow the shepherd. In their life. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never made that decision to trust Christ, I'm inviting you right now to make a decision to follow your shadow. Because you know what he's going to want you to do? The very first thing is to come to him and repent and turn to him as your Lord and Savior. And if you haven't done that, friend, I want to encourage you. That would be the greatest decision that you ever made Turn to the shepherd. He wants to bless you. Would you be willing to pray right where you are? Lord Jesus, I know that I need you in my life. I'm burdened down by sin. Please forgive me, Lord, of my sin. I turn to you today with all my heart. Please come into my heart and save me. Would you be willing to pray that right now? Just say, God, be merciful to me Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you pray that meaning, He'll do it. Right where you are, He'll save you. And if you're here today and you say, Well, I'm already a child of God. Well, let me ask you, have you been following His leading in your life? If not, you might be missing out on a lot of blessings. Like following your own way, turning your own way. You need to turn back onto the Path of following his leading in your life. And it may be that God is specifically leading you right now to do a certain thing. Friend, follow his leading. He'll bless you. Let me say that's my prayer today. I want to turn to him and follow him. God bless you all. God bless you. Father, use these words. Speak the heart We pray especially for those who may not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior. Father, that you would just draw them unto yourself today in salvation. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.