All right. So good to see you here tonight for our service. And I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to the Old Testament book of Daniel. We've been talking about the issue of prayer, and we're going to talk about that tonight. And I want to uh title the sermon tonight, The Invisible War. This, uh, you know, when I was a younger believer, I was given a book by the late great minister, Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse. And the title of his book was called The Invisible War. And this book is an exploration of the conflict that goes on in the spiritual realm between good and evil. He actually uh goes back to the very beginning and traces this conflict from the beginning all the way to the final battle. And uh so I want to borrow the title of that book and use it for this sermon because really when we look in Daniel chapter 10 We see an invisible war. Did you know that there is a warfare that goes on that a lot of times we're not aware of? And so this chapter basically kind of rolls back to heavens. And we get a t to peek a glimp a glimpse of or a peek behind uh the curtain of into the heavenlies to see what goes on there. And what we discover is that we're soldiers in a fight. Our foe is an invisible foe, but thank God he's not invincible, because God can give us victory. And we're going to see some of the ways that we can do that here in this chapter. Now As we said before, there are three heavens. There's the heavens that we see with the naked eye, that's the the the clouds and the sky and the stars. Then there's the heavens that we see by telescope, that's the galaxies and the and uh space. But then there's a third heaven that we see by faith. It's that heavenly realm. And that is a very real heaven. And the battle, the warfare goes on there in that place, in the heavenlies. One of my favorite pictures is a picture of a father who is kneeling by the bed of his son. His son is safely tucked away in bed. He's got his little teddy bear there. And if you look out behind him there it Just out the window behind them, there are two angels that are engaged in spiritual warfare. And that's such a vivid portrait, such a vivid picture. And I when I read Daniel chapter ten, I think about that picture because really that's what this is about. Um we are in a fight with Satan. There's a spiritual war that goes goes on, warfare that goes on, and we as believers are a part of that warfare. We are engaged in an invisible war And part of that is when we get on our knees to pray. And so what I want you to see are four important factors in this invisible war that we are all a part of. You're taking notes, you can write down the first one. First of all, the start of this war How does this war start? Well let's look in Daniel chapter ten, look at verse number one, and notice what it says. In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a thing was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar And the thing was true, but the time appointed was long. And he understood the thing and had understanding of the vision. And so how does it start? How does this warfare start? Well, when we come to Daniel chapter 10, Daniel is now an older man. He was carried away captive in 606 B. C. by the forces of Nebuchadnezzar when God was using Babylon to judge Israel or Judah And so he's been in captivity for seventy-two years, and so he's perhaps around 90 years old at this time. And notice where it says in verse 1, a thing was revealed to Daniel. What does it mean by a thing? We could say that there was a word There was a revelation. There was a vision that was revealed to Daniel. God gave Daniel an answer to a prayer, a revelation, a word. But it says in verse number one, but the time appointed was long. The thing was true, but the time appointed was long. Now that's difficult Hebrew here, but we can say it like this. It involved great conflict, or it involved great warfare. So Daniel received an answer to a prayer, but between the asking and the answer, there was Great conflict. There was great warfare that took place. And this is really what what really began this spiritual war was Daniel uh asking God for an answer. You know what starts spiritual warfare sometimes as a Christian? It's just you pray. You know, sometimes when we pray, we stir things up and the And we could say in the kingdom of darkness. You know why? Because Satan hates it when a Christian prays. He hates for Christians to get on their knees and pray. It stirs up the kingdom of darkness. And so there's a sense that when we begin to pray as Christians, we kind of stir things up. When I was a kid, I used to love to take a rock and throw it into a beehive just to watch the bees get stirred up. You know, that's what prayer is like sometimes for a believer in the spiritual realm. It's like tossing a rock into the kingdom of darkness and we begin to stir things up. And so this is what starts the war for Daniel. Daniel is seeking God. Daniel wants to know an answer. He wants God to give him insight. He wants God to give him revelation. And so God did answer that prayer, but the time between Daniel asking for that answer and the answer coming, the Bible says it was long and it it caused conflict and there was warfare. You know, Daniel doesn't give up, but he continues to pray. Look at verse number two. In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three full weeks. I ate no prep pleasant bread. Neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all till three whole weeks were fulfilled. So for three weeks this was a time of intense praying for Daniel, says he didn't eat pleasant bread. What does that mean? He didn't eat, you know, pleasurable food. Some th think that he uh there's two ways to see it, he didn't eat any food at all, or perhaps that he ate just barely the necessities, the staples Um but th the the bottom line is he didn't do what he would normally do. Uh because he was so consumed in the prayer, he was intensely praying. He didn't anoint himself. That is, he didn't he didn't wash himself. He didn't back in this day where they would rub oil on their bodies to anoint themselves that would keep them cool during the heat. Uh it also would keep the skin from becoming dry. But Daniel didn't do any of those routine things because during that time he was seeking God in prayer and he wanted an answer from God So we see, first of all, the start of this war, but then write down number two, the soldiers of this war. Something unique happens to Daniel as he's seeking God. Look down to verse number four. And in the fourth and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river Hidekel, then I lifted up mine eyes and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz His body also is like the burrow, his face has the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in color to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude And I, Daniel alone, saw the vision, for the men that were with me saw not the vision, but a great quaking fell upon them, so that they f fled to hide themselves. So here's Daniel. He goes down by the river, which is really the Tigris River here, I think, and he's there and he sees this incredible vision while he's there. Where we could say a visitor comes to see Daniel. And notice how the Bible describes him. He is like the burrow or as the appearance of lightning, his eyes as lamps of fire. Obviously these aren't literal expressions. He's using uh metaphors alike and as or words of comparison. He's using analogies here to describe this beautiful appearance of this evidently person who is shining with a glory. Now the question comes, who is this person that comes to see Daniel while he's by the river? Well there are three interpretations that I stumbled upon. So you know some people say, well this was just a man A certain man it says. I read commentaries where it says, you know, it's just a man. Some say he's a soldier in all of his armor. He must have had really polished armor if that's the case. You know, he comes to see Daniel and has a message. I think this explanation is unlikely because we read here in verse number seven that the men that were with Daniel quaked in great fear. They didn't actually see this person. They evidently saw perhaps some kind of a Shekinah glory, but they didn't actually see the individual, but they were filled with fear. Daniel says, I alone saw the vision. And so how do you explain that if it's just a man? I don't think this is just an ordinary person. Then there's a second interpretation that says this was a Theophany or a Christophany. And you know those words simply mean an appearance of God or Christ. Some people say this is a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ. This is Jesus Christ appearing in the Old Testament. And certainly there are times in the Old Testament when the Lord Jesus Christ does appear and in certain passages of Scripture. But the question is, is this Jesus here? Again, some commentators they say, undoubtedly, this is Christ. They look at the vision in Revelation, and they look at the vision in Daniel, and they see comparisons, they see parallels, and they say this has to be. the Lord Jesus Christ. But let me just say I don't think this is Jesus and I'll tell you why. Because of what the angel says in verse 13. Look at verse 13. He says, But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me One in twenty days, but lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, and I remained there with the kings of Persia. So evidently here, this angel is describing this spiritual warfare. When Daniel asked for an answer, God dispatched this angel with an answer, but on the way being of giving the answer, um this prince of Persia, which I think describes a demonic spirit that is over this kingdom of Persia, and he withstands this messenger 21 days. Now that's why I think it wasn't Jesus, because no demon could hold Jesus for twenty-one seconds, let alone twenty-one days. All right. So we look in the New Testament and what we see are in the Gospels is that demons tremble in the presence of Christ. Right? And so as far as so as far as far as I'm concerned, for that reason, this is not the Lord Jesus. So this leads the third interpretation that is, this is a low-ranking angel. I think this is simply an angel. This angel is dispatched from God to give Daniel an answer to his prayers. Again, we see in verse 13 he refers to Michael as the chief prince. Or we could say uh the the one above me, he's a chief prince. He's got a higher rank, a higher authority than I do. And so this kind of matches what the Bible says. We know that the Bible says that we wrestle not against what? Flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. and spiritual wickedness in high places. And so I I interpret this as the Prince of Persia being a demonic spirit that was placed in this region by Satan in the kingdom of darkness over this certain area of Persia. And when God dispatches this angel To give Daniel an answer, there is a spiritual conflict, a warfare that takes place there in the heavenlies. And this low-ranking angel is withstood for twenty-one days by the prince of Persia. Now this gives us a glimpse into how Satan works, doesn't it? You know, the Bible calls him the prince of the power of the air. His strategic Uh designation for demons are in certain locations, I believe, in different realms. You know, we have, thank God we have good Christians in government positions, but I also believe that Satan has some of his people there too I think that he's behind some of the things that go on in government positions. And so we see there's a real spiritual warfare that does take place in the heavenly. So we see the start of this war We see the soldiers in this war, but then we see the strategy of this war. You say, What's Satan's strategy? It's very simple. Look at verse number twelve. Then he said unto me, Fear not, Daniel, for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand And to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words. Now again, this angel tells Daniel, God heard your prayer. And that's why God sent me. He wanted to give you the answer that you were seeking from him. But as I came, I was withstood one and twenty days by Michael, or excuse me, by the Prince of Persia. And uh little Michael came to help me. And so what we see here is very simple, and that is that Satan is simply opposed to whatever God is trying to do. He is trying to prevent the will of God from happening. That's why Satan hates prayer so much, because God, in his sovereignty uses prayer to accomplish his will. And this is one of the privileges of prayer. God has chosen to allow us to be used. He condescends to use our prayers to accomplish his will. And Satan hates prayer because God uses the prayers of God's people to do his will. That's why Jesus taught us to pray: Thy kingdom come what? Thy will be done. Lord, we want your will to be done. Remember what we said that when we pray like this, we're praying against the fallenness of this world. We're praying against the depravity of this world. We're praying that uh it's an act of rebellion against the way things are, that God's will of desire is not always being accomplished in this world. We know God's Will of decree is always done, and what God directs in Scripture, He commands in Scripture, that's not always done. And God's will of desire is not always done. And so God uses the prayers of His people to accomplish His will. It's God overruling what man desires and God doing what he wants to do. So Satan is opposed to that. He doesn't want that to happen, so he's resisting the plan of God. He's working against the plan of God. And what we see here also or what Satan targets. He that's why he works against the angels. He's battling against this angel here. Why? Because the angels are committed to doing the will of God. Remember what Jesus said? Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. The angels are committed to doing God's will in heaven. And so Satan wars against them. We get another glimpse of this in Jude. Verse number nine, where there's a dispute between Michael the Archangel and Lucifer when they're disputing over the body of Moses. And you remember that passage where Michael just simply says, The Lord rebuke thee Now also he Israel is in this fight, because look at verse 14. Notice what he says. Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days. Who are thy people? Well Daniel's people, that's Israel. All the events in God's redemptive plan center around Israel. The angel says, I've come to give you the revelation to let you know what will befall your people, what's going to happen with Israel. Israel. And so God and so Satan attacks Israel. We see here Satan attacking Daniel in the sense that he uh he doesn't want Daniel to receive this answer. In fact we could say that You know, Satan all throughout the book of Daniel attacks him. At one time Daniel was thrown into a lion's den, but God preserved him. And so Satan attacks the children of God. Let me tell you something. If you're a child of God and you want to live a godly life, you can just mark it down. Satan will target you. He will come after you. He's not going to let you go. And so he attacks believers. And then of course we also know that Christ is the object of Satan's attacks. And by the way, we see these same targets in the book of Revelation um, you know, as well. Christ is God's son. He attacks the angels because they're God's servants. He attacks Israel because they're God's special people. He attacks believers because they are the saints of God. So we see the start of this war We see the soldiers of this war. We see the strategy of this war. But let me give you the last thing here. I want to talk about the success in this war. How do we get success in spiritual warfare? These wars are won and lost by Christians in prayer. The battle is fought on our knees. I've said before, the church is the only army that advances on its knees. The Church of Jesus Christ has to seek God in prayer. This is what God uses. That's where the victory comes. Now when I I think about this passage here in Daniel ten, I also think about Ephesians 6. Remember what it says, what Paul said when you're standing against your adversary, Satan? What does he say to do? Put on the whole armor of God that you can stand in the evil day. Uh are you wearing your spiritual armor? What are what is it? Breastplate of righteousness, shield of faith, helmet of salvation, loins gird about with truth, feet shot with the preparation of the gospel. Now when Paul describes all that armor, what does he say right after that And then he says this, praying always. That's where the battle is. Okay, well I got my armor on. I'm ready for war. Where's the battlefield? It's prayer. It's seeking God, praying always, he says, Ephesians 6. 18, with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit Watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. That's the advancement here We see the adversary, we see the armor, and now we see the advancement. This is how we advance. Prayer is the weapon that wins the battle in this invisible war But we have to pray through. We can't give up. So with that in mind, what I want you on to do on this last point, I know some of you are thinking, oh, this is going to be a short sermon. Actually I got subpoints under this point. So just four lessons here about prayer, okay? First of all, number one, prayer produces burdens. It produces burdens. You say you mean prayer releases burdens, right? No. I mean prayer produces burdens. It's going to bring burdens for you. Again, we look in verse 1 of Daniel where it says, the time appointed was long. It involved great conflict. And the reason Daniel had this conflict, the reason he had this burden, is because he set himself to seek the Lord. He had this burden in prayer. And I want to tell you that if you're going to be a prayer warrior, you better get used to the fact that prayer will actually bring a burden in your life. You have this prayer burden. You have this sting on your heart. In fact, a lot of times we don't really get serious in prayer until God gives us a burden And prayer will do that. But what we see here is that Daniel, he's wrestling, he's praying, he wants an answer from God. And you know what? When the answer doesn't come, Daniel doesn't give up. You see, Daniel prayed consistently. As we read the book of Daniel, what we find is that uh Daniel uh normally got quick answers to his prayer. I think this is the first time where we see Daniel praying in the book of Daniel where the heavens were kind of brass, and it didn't happen very quickly for him. But what does Daniel do? He just continues to pray. And then Daniel prays persistently. He didn't stop for 21 days. It was an intense time of really seeking the face of God. Now, this reminds me of the New Testament parable of the persistent widow. Remember, Jesus said in Luke 18, 1, he spake a parable unto this end that men ought always to pray and not to what? To faint or to lose heart. Let me ask you a question. How many of you lose heart when you pray and you don't get an answer quickly? Or maybe you've been praying for something for a while and still the answer hasn't come. Well, you shouldn't lose heart, and Jesus gave a parable to encourage you not to lose heart. And you remember that parable, this is a poor widow Living in this chauvinistic society there in Palestine. She doesn't have a lawyer. She wants justice. You know, some of the most oppressed people in that day were widows. She didn't have a husband. She obviously doesn't have any family to turn to or sons. And she needs justice from an unjust judge. And she keeps coming to the judge day after day. And the Bible, when it says she came, it means she kept coming back again and again and again. And what was her request? Avenge me of my adversaries. Give me justice. And remember this unjust judge, you know, he doesn't really have any sympathy for her. But the problem the but the problem with the judge was is that this woman kept coming And she wouldn't stop. And so finally he says, you know, this woman, he said, though I fear not God, nor regard men. I mean, he knew what a wretch he was. I don't fear God or regard man, but I've got to give this woman what she wants. Because if I don't, she's going to keep coming and she's going to weary me. It's going to be endless. And then Jesus turns to the disciples and says, Do you hear what the unjust judge says? There's a purposeful contrast there. When we go to God in prayer, God is not unjust, God is just And he's loving and he's holy. And you know what? Um God cares about us. This judge didn't care about this woman, but God cares about us. And so if this woman can get what she wanted from an unjust judge, judge, by continually, persistently coming, don't you think you as a child of God can get Your prayer answered by coming to a just God, a loving God, coming persistently. Sometimes God will delay in answering a prayer, sometimes because we're not ready. for the answer. And we have to God has to work on us. And sometimes God just has a a a a time, uh a sovereign time when he wants to answer. He has a time for everything, a perfect time And sometimes God just wants to strengthen us. Prayer makes us stronger. So Daniel prayed consistently. He prayed persistently, but also he prayed intensely. Notice where it says that, you know, he didn't eat pleasant bread. Um he didn't anoint himself. And so Daniel here is doing kind of a form of fasting. And let me just say, beloved, there are times when the burden that you might feel in prayer is so great that fasting is necessary, that you do without food perhaps a day or longer, because you are seeking the face of God and you want an answer from the Lord. Someone said that fasting is is a lost art, so little practiced and so little taught. Just write down these verses. Isaiah fifty-eight, verse six. Is not this the fast that I have chosen to loosen the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke. And then it says in Daniel, excuse me, Isaiah 58, 9, then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer, and thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here am I. So fasting sometimes needs to accompany our prayers. Prayer produces burdens, but here's the second lesson. Prayer provokes battles. Now again, we see this in the story of Daniel. Let me ask you a question. How many of you have ever started to pray for something and the situation did not get better, but it got worse? That's happened to me before. I start praying about something and it's it gets worse. And I'm like, Lord, hold on, we're going in the wrong direction here. This is not what I'm asking for. This is the opposite of what I'm asking for. I mean, I start praying, it doesn't happen. You know what? Remember what I said? Remember what I said that when you start to pray, you kind of stir things up in the kingdom of darkness. You kind of get things stirred up. You provoke a spiritual battle. And you know what God wants you to do? He wants you to pray it through. Just pray it through. You can't, in prayer, you can't hit and run. You've got to pray and you've got to seek God and you've got to continue. I remember when I was just a kid growing up in South Baltimore, we had this bully in the neighborhood. I was just this l little red-headed guy, looked like Howdy Dootie, and uh this bully was uh was really being cruel to me and and I kept complaining to my father about it and my dad got tired so he said, come on. We went out to the backyard, looked in the alley, and he said, Where is he? I said, he's right over there. I thought finally my dad's gonna do something And he said, I want you to go over there, I want you to tap him on the shoulder, I want you to hit him in the face as hard as you can. That was my fatherly advice. So I did it. I tapped the guy on the shoulder, hit him. This is pre-salvation, okay folks? Before my dad got saved, you know. Tapped him on the shoulder, I hit him, knocked the guy down. I was victorious. Raised my hands, turned to my father, I did it. The guy got off the ground and beat the fire out of me. I went back to my father, I said, Dad I don't understand. I do it just he said, Son, look, when you start a fight, you gotta finish it. He said, Look, one one one hit is not gonna do it. You gotta keep in the fight. And I think a lot of times that lesson is also true in prayer. One prayer is not going to do it. When you start a fight, a spiritual fight, you've got to finish that fight. You've got to continue in prayer. Because prayer provokes a battle. And here we have Daniel, and he's praying, and he stirs up things in the heavenly realm. But you know what we admire about Daniel? That he just continues to pray. Until God gives him that answer. He does not stop. He does not get weary. He continues and wins the battle ultimately. So prayer produces burdens. Prayer provokes battles, but here's a third lesson. Prayer precedes blessings. We see here in this story that Daniel did get blessed. It came after some time, but God did bless them. I like what Matthew Henry said. He said, when God intends to bless his people, the first thing he does is to set them to praying. And I think that's true. What are the blessings that Daniel received? Well, look in verse number 18. And there came again, and he touched me one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me. Verse 19, and he said, O men, greatly beloved, fear not. Peace be unto thee. Be strong, yea, be strong. And when he had spoken unto me, I was strengthened. And said, let my Lord speak, for thou hast strengthened me. You know what prayer did for Daniel? It gave him strength. It strengthened him. That's what prayer does for us. It gives us strength to meet the challenges that we have to face. It gives us courage. It strengthens our heart. What does the Bible say? They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their what? Their strength. They shall mount out with wings like eagles. Also, Isaiah 41:10 Fear thou not, for I am with thee, be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea, I will help thee. 1 Chronicles 16, 11, seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face continually. When you're seeking the face of God, one of the blessings we get in return is God gives us strength. In Ephesians 6. 10, Paul said, Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. But there's another blessing that he got, and that's insight. Look at verse number 21. And he says this, but I will show thee that which is noted in the scripture of truth, and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, but Michael your prince. And so, in other words, Daniel, I'm going to give you insight. I'm going to show you what this means, and then you're going to know. I think that prayer unlocks God's secrets to us. I think that there's truth that we'll never understand until we ask God to show it to us. That's why the psalmist prayed, Open thou mine eyes, that I might behold wonderful things out of thy word. That's why Paul prayed in Ephesians 1 17 that the God of our Lord Jesus the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him, that the eyes of your understanding, being enlightened, that you might know what is the hope of His calling, and the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the Saints. And so prayer will unlock the secrets of God where God, through his Holy Spirit, will reveal truth to our heart. Someone says a crayer, uh someone says a Christian sees more on his knees than a philosopher does on his tiptoes. And I think that's so very true. Prayer produces burdens, provokes battles, precedes blessings. But let me give you the last thing here. Prayer penetrates barriers. What were the barriers that were penetrated? Well look at verse number twenty. It's again very interesting. Then he said he, Knowest thou wherefore I am come to thee, and now will I return to fight with the Prince of Persia. And when I'm gone forth, lo, the prince of Greece shall come. Now, this verse is very interesting because what we're seeing here is insight in what will happen in the heavenlies. Here is this angel. Telling Daniel, here's what's going to happen. I'm going to go back, and the prince of Persia will be defeated. That's going to leave a void, and the prince of Greece will come. And so he's really telling Daniel God's plan and all of this warfare. And uh And so it's it's incredible because you know what we see here is a revelation of what will take place in the heavenlies. But according to history, let me ask you a question. What happened historically on earth? When the kingdom of Persia was defeated, who defeated it? Alexander the Great. He was the the what? The king of Greece, right? Greece on the earth defeats Persia Right? Someone asked, where did Greece come from? Another guy said it oozed out of Turkey. Just kidding. Anyway. Yeah. Thank you for the courtesy laugh there. But anyway, um So here is the kingdom of Greece overtaking Persia, and it's exactly what happens in the spiritual realm. The Prince of Persia is defeated. The Prince of Greece moves in. And by the way, that was all part of God's sovereign plan because what happened when um Alexander the Great took over the then known world was he was actually in God's plan preparing the world for the spreading of the gospel. Because the world was Hellenized. There was one International common language. Our New Testament is written in Greek. Greek culture spread all over the world. It made possible the quick spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ. God the Father was simply preparing the world for his Messiah that was to come. And imagine that in a in a small way, Daniel had a part in all this, and just seeking God in prayer And so there's a sense in which Daniel's prayer penetrated some barriers, and that's the mystery and the beauty of prayer. God has chosen to use the prayers of his people to accomplish his purposes. I believe that's the power of prayer, and I believe it's a great privilege that we have. I believe that God still uses our prayers to penetrate barriers. to penetrate barriers in the lives of our family, to penetrate barriers in our church life, to penetrate barriers in our personal life. I believe God is able to overcome some of the challenges that we face, some of the things that we're praying for. And so now let me just uh Make a qualification here. I know there's a lot out there on spiritual warfare. And I think sometimes the church has a tendency to be uh overblown on and seeing a demon behind every little thing. You know, for example, I I know people that every time there's something in their life, they blame it on a spirit. You know, it's this it's not it's not me for each or I I the reason I can't can't quit smoking it's the spirit of nicotine And you've got to cast the spirit out of me before I can have victory over this. Or it's the spirit of laziness, or the spirit of lust. Now, let me just be quick to say, there are demonic spirits, beloved. I know that. But I think that if we're not careful, we can blame every sin on a spirit and not take responsibility ourselves And a lot of times it's not the devil, it's just our own depraved nature. And we need to mortify our own sin with the power of the Holy Spirit that God has given us. He's given us the ability, through the power of the Holy Spirit, to say no. He's given you that power. The Bible says you are a slave to whatever or to whomever you yield yourself to. And now that you're one with Christ, you have the ability to say no to sin and be a slave to Jesus Christ alone. But having said all that, there is real spiritual warfare that takes place. But I don't see Daniel here binding the enemy spirits I don't see him praying over territorial spirits. I don't see him doing any of that. What I see Daniel doing is simply seeking God in prayer. And God uses the prayers of Daniel to accomplish his purposes and his will. That's the point. And so we enter into spiritual warfare simply by seeking the face of God. And what I want you to know from this is that your prayer matters. Your prayer changes things. Your prayer moves the hand of God. And again, it's a wonderful mystery here, and also a beauty and a blessing that in prayer God will allow his children to be a part in accomplishing his will. What a wonderful blessing that is. So mom, dad, your prayers matter. Don't stop praying for your children. Don't stop praying for your grandchildren. Don't stop praying for things that you want to see God do in your life because God honors the prayers of his people. You know, I I thank God that my mother's grandmother was a godly woman. And uh when she passed away, her pastor and her family went through her things and found her Bible and found the prayer list and her Bible. And uh how that she prayed every day for salvation of her children, grandchildren, and she prayed for God to raise up ministers and so on out of her family. And I think that I'm a recipient of a lot of her prayers And I think others in my family are a recipient, and others in that family are recipient of this woman who prayed. And I think that her prayers made a difference. And I want you to know that your prayers make a difference. That's what we see here from this story of Daniel. So I encourage you to look at Daniel 10 and see how prayer changes things. And I pray that it will encourage you to be a prayer warrior, to enter into spiritual warfare, and to see God do great things. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, I thank you for this narrative. What an incredible narrative it is. That we have the privilege, Lord, to look into the heavenlies, to see the invisible world, this invisible war. And know that there's that kind of warfare that goes on between the kingdom of God and the kingdom of darkness. And we know, Lord, that the kingdom of God will not be defeated. We know that the kingdom of God will continue and spread and expand. And that, Lord, that one day the whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord from sea to sea. And we thank you for that. And I pray, Lord, that that will encourage us, that'll set us on our knees. That Lord, it's your desire to save souls. It's your desire, Lord, to break down barriers. It's your desire, Lord, to do great things in the lives of your people. Lord, help this to encourage us to seek your face and to trust you. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.