I want to invite you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Luke, chapter 2. If you've been with us on Sunday night, you know we've been doing a little series called The First Songs of Christmas. And as you know, if you've been with us, that the Gospel of Luke begins with pointing out some of the first songs of Christmas, all arranged around the birth of the Messiah. And we have looked at the Song of Elizabeth in chapter one, and we've looked at the song of Mary, that wonderful song called Mary's Magnificent. And then we've looked at the song of Zacharias. Now tonight I want us to look at the song of the angels. And if you look down in chapter 2 of Luke, I want you to look at a few verses here. Look at verse number 13 of Luke chapter 2. And suddenly there was with the angels a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill towards men. Now here is the theme of this song here, the song of the angels, and it's a very simple theme, and it is glory to God in the highest. Or we could say it like this, we give glory to God to the fullest extent. With all that we have, we give glory to God. That is the song, and that's what it's all about. It's all about the glory of God. Now, did you know that the whole Christmas story really does that? It glorifies God on the highest level, to the highest extent. It gives glory to God. Now, this is such an important concept. And I want us to think about this concept tonight as we look at this song of the angels. Now I want you to think with me, what does it mean to glorify God? What does that mean? We've perhaps heard that, you've heard it in church, you've probably heard it many times to give God glory, but what does that really mean? mean? Well, to put it in the simplest terms that I could think of, to glorify God simply means to make God look good to the world. To make God look good to the world. Or we could say it like this to show God's goodness to the world. Okay? to show his greatness to the world, to put on display the greatness and the goodness of God. And so we are here as Christians to show the goodness of God, to show the glory of God. Any goodness you see in me is not me, it's the Lord Jesus in me. And we are to reflect that goodness of God to the world. Now let me just illustrate this. You ever hear a parent say to a son or daughter, or perhaps you've heard your parents say this to you, when you leave the house, a parent will say, remember who you are And remember whose you are. A parent ever say that to you? Remember who you are and remember whose you are. Why does a parent say that? They're reminding that child that every time that child goes out And what they do and how and what they say and how they live is a reflection on what? It's a reflection on that parent. It's a reflection on that mom and dad. What a child does greatly reflects the parents. That's why it says in the book of Proverbs, this verse, you perhaps heard it, a wise son maketh what? A gladfather. But a foolish son is a heaviness to his mother. So when a child acts wise and good, it reflects good upon that parent. When a child acts bad, it's a bad reflection on those parents. I once read of a son of a minister who was a prodigal and he was arrested and he was to appear before the judge and the boy was arrogant he was unapologetic he was unrepentant And when it was time for his sentencing, the judge said, Stand up. And so he stood up very defiantly until he heard a shuffling in the back of the courtroom. And he glanced back and he saw that his godly, good father had stood up with him. to to be associated with him. And when he saw, looked back and saw his father, suddenly it dawned on that arrogant boy that everything he had done was a bad reflection on his father. And that thought right there broke his heart And it brought repentance to his heart. Even so, we as children of God, everything we say and everything we do is a reflection on God, whether good or bad. Now listen, God has called us into this world to give glory to God, to make God look good to a lost and a dying world. That is the great calling that we have Now, I want you to know this that all of the events in the scripture that had to do with redemptive history, all of those things served to glorify God. And that is especially true of the Christmas story. Everything that happens surrounding the Christmas story, it points to the goodness and greatness of God. It gives glory to God on the highest level, on the most supreme level, the birth of Christ. Pointed to the greatness and the grace and the goodness of God in such a tremendous and awesome way. That's why we sing the hymn, Angels we have heard on high. sweetly singing o'er the plain, and the mountains in reply, echo back their glorious strains. And how does the chorus go? Yeah, yeah, you don't have to sing it here. You don't want me to do it. Glor, you know, it just holds that note all the way out, and you hold that out until finally you can't hardly breathe, right? And then you say the next part of that song, which is the next words, Inexcelsius Deo. Now when I was a child, I used to wonder, what in the world does that mean, in Excelsius Deo? And that's simply Latin. Deo means God in Excelsius means in the highest. And so we glorify glory to God in the highest. And the reason that song was written with that arrangement is because you're drawing out that Gloria, and the implication there is with all of your breath All of your might! You want to do what? You want to give glory to God, to the highest. So again, this is what the Christmas story does It glorifies God. Now let me just give you a few ways in which this story glorifies God and why this is such an appropriate theme. for uh the the song of the angels. Here's the first thing. Number one, we give glory to God when we recognize God's sovereign hand over all these events in the Christmas story. We give glory to God when we recognize God's sovereign hand over everything that happened. Look at verse number four. of chapter two. Back up just a few verses. And Joseph also went up from Galilee out of the city of Nazareth into Judea unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. because he was of the house and lineage of David. Do you ever think about this? This would be a difficult journey for Joseph and Mary to take. In the dead of winter Right? When she was uh nine months pregnant, she's about to have a child. A long journey, this would be about 90 miles This would be upward because uh uh uh uh Bethlehem would be located on a higher plane, an elevation of 2,800 feet, traveling up for all those miles Such a difficult journey. Why would Joseph do such a thing to leave Nazareth with his wife? All that way. Did you know that it was prophesied in the Old Testament about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ? If you're taking notes right down, Micah 5. 2, this is a prophecy about where the Messiah would be born But thou Bethlehem Ephrata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be the ruler of Here is the Old Testament prophecy that says that the Messiah that is to come would be born in Bethlehem And I want you to notice about that verse, it doesn't just say Bethlehem, it says Bethlehem Ephrita. You say, why is that important? Because did you know that there was not one Bethlehem back in that day. There were two Bethlehems There was a Bethlehem located in the north country. There was a Bethlehem located in the South territory. And from Nazareth, where Joseph and Mary live. To go to Bethlehem in the north, which was sometimes called Bethlehem of Zebulun, that would have been about a five mile journey, very close. But the Bethlehem located in the south region was about a ninety mile journey. And so the prophecy doesn't just say he's going to be born in Bethlehem, but it makes it very specific. Bethlehem Ephritah, which is very specific to say this is the Bethlehem and the South And Judea, right by Jerusalem. It's a very specific prophecy there. Otherwise, people would think that the Bethlehem that the prophet is talking about would be the Bethlehem that's closer to to Nazareth. And by the way, everyone knew this that were Jews in that day. They knew that the Messiah would be born there in Bethlehem. That was the prophecy. Now, did you know that one of the greatest evidences that the Bible is the Word of God? Let me tell you something here at Grace. We believe that this book is the Word of God. Every fiber of my being believes that this book is the inspired Word of God. And do you know one of the great evidences of Bible prophecy, of the inspiration of Scripture, I should say, is Bible prophecy? The fact that God has fulfilled the prophecies that are in the scripture. Justin Martyr, a man who lived in 100 A. D. , was a skeptic. of Christianity. He didn't believe anything about it. And so he began to read the prophecies of the Bible. And then he began to see how God was fulfilling his word. And he became a Christian And he became so devoted to Christ that he became a martyr, and therefore we call him Justin the Martyr. And this is what Justin the Martyr said. He said, The declare a thing shall come to pass long before it comes into being, and then bring it to pass. This or nothing is the work of God. And that's so very true. This or nothing is the work of God. You say, well, the fact that Jesus was born in Bethlehem, that's a coincidence. I mean the prophecy probably said that, sure, but it's a coincidence. Really? You think it's a coincidence? Are you aware of a principle called the principle of probability? This was developed by a man by the name of Peter Stoner. He is a professor at Westmont College. And Stoner, along with his students at Westmont College, which was about 600 students from 12 classes, he had as an assignment for all his students to look at the prophecy of Micah 5, 2 that the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem of Ephraim. And they use some mathematical equations And Stoner and his students determined that the a uh that the average population of Bethlehem from the time of Micah to the present day, they determined what that would be, and then they divided it by the average population of the earth during the same period And they determined, based on these mathematical probabilities, that the chances of this prophecy happening, as it is predicted in the scripture that the Messiah would be born in that specific Bethlehem, the chances of that happening, are you ready for this? or one in three hundred thousand. How'd you like to take those odds? One in three hundred thousand That's not a coincidence. But they didn't stop there. They added seven more specific prophecies about Jesus And they added all that together and they came up with a mathematical equation and they said the chances of all eight of these prophecies happening exactly As the Bible said, would be 1 in 10 with 17 zeros. Now I can't count that high. So I'm not sure what the numerical term would be. Well, let's just say 1 in 10 zillion, okay? And yet, all of these things happened exactly the way the Bible says. You think that's a coincidence? Not at all. But that's not all. Did you know that there are 456 prophecies about Jesus? From the Old Testament. And I want to tell you, beloved, he fulfilled everyone. Don't believe me. Do the investigation. Do the research for yourself. Look at it for yourself. To declare a thing shall come to pass long before it comes to being, and then to bring it to pass, this or nothing is the work of God. They say, why was this important? Well, did you know that in this day, really even after Jesus was born, there were people saying he can't be the Messiah? He can't be the Messiah? Because isn't he from Nazareth? Didn't he come from Nazareth? How can the Messiah come from Galilee? Didn't the Bible say he's come from Bethlehem? In fact, Listen to John 7, 41 and 42, because John is rehearsing what people are saying in that time. Others said, This is the Christ But some said, is the Christ to come from Galilee? Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and comes from Bethlehem, the village where David was And then another phrase in John, can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Messiah from Nazareth? That can't be Those who knew the scriptures, they knew that the Messiah was to be born in Bethlehem. So how can Jesus be the Messiah if he was From Nazareth. And he grew up in Nazareth. Now you have to remember back in these days, a woman didn't live in one town and go 90 miles away to have birth Okay? They normally had their child where they lived in the town that they lived in. And everyone knew that Jesus was from Nazareth. So there were people saying he can't be the Messiah. That's why Luke And by the way, Matthew as well is very careful to point out that Jesus did go to Matthew. Bethlehem. Again, I ask you, what would make a man take his wife in the middle of winter, a wife that's nine months pregnant, to take a long journey, probably riding on a donkey 90 miles. And by the way, when my wife was pregnant, it just felt every time we rode in a car to go somewhere, she felt every bump. And she would score me, she would say, Can you please watch out for those bumps? And I say, Honey, I didn't cr I didn't make the road. I'm just trying to drive on this thing, you know It was uncomfortable even for a woman. So many women can bear witness to that. But here, what would make a man take his wife, nine months pregnant, put her on a donkey, go ninety miles On a long journey going upward in the dead of winter with her in that condition. Why would a man do that to his wife? Well, Luke tells us. Go back to Luke. Look in chapter 2, look in verse number 1. And it came to pass that in those days there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed, everyone into his own city. And verse 4. And Joseph also went up from Galilee. out of the city of Nazareth into Judea unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem. There's the reason right there Isn't it amazing how God just orchestrates things and he fulfills his word. Now think about this. Here was Caesar Augustus, who was called Augustus, by the way, because that means the the honored one, the great one. He was considered great. He was the great nephew of Julius Caesar, who after he was murdered, he became the emperor And he did a lot to build up the kingdom. He built the Roman roads. He issued in the Paksramana, the Roman peace. And He decided that he was going to issue forth a decree that said everyone had to be taxed, or other words, this is really a census here. He's going to take a census on all over his empire And he just decided to do that, but you know what? He didn't know it wasn't him, it was really God orchestrating things. And when he made this decision to have this census Think about the timing of it. He had to make it at the right time because if Joseph and Mary, if he had made it earlier, then Joseph and Mary probably would have stayed in Nazareth. Or they could have he could have went to Bethlehem and then came back to Nazareth. Or he made it later. Mary could have had the baby in Nazareth and then they later come to Bethlehem. The timing had to be exactly right Exactly right. And yet it wasn't Caesar Augustus that was pulling the strengths, was it? It was it was God Almighty And at the very right time. And by the way, this meant that Jews had to return to their ancestral home, which for Joseph and Mary was Bethlehem. And they had to do it by a certain time. There was a deadline To get this done, this this taxing, this census. And by the way, we all know about deadlines for taxes, right? What is it? April 15. You guys, you're already you're you're right there, you know There was a deadline, and so he had to be there at this certain time. This was not an accident. This was God controlling all these things. Fulfilling prophecy, you know why? Because God's hand is sovereign over the events of men. And He, every single detail was in the hand of Almighty God. And you know what I say? I say, glory to God in the highest. Glory to God in the highest. Let me tell you another thing about this story that gives God glory. We give God glory when we understand that God's grace reaches down to common people. To common people. Look at verse 8. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. Here's the next thing. Notice that the angels from heaven that come to announce the birth of Jesus, they appear first to who? To shepherds. Have you ever considered why the story doesn't say now there were in the same region scribes and Pharisees keeping watch over their scrolls? And their religious rituals. Or there were kings and princes keeping watches over their treasures in the palace. No, none of those things are pointed out God chose to reveal the truth of the birth of his son to simple shepherds, to common men who were just going about their duty. Why shepherds? Did you know that in this day shepherds were considered the lowest on the rung of the social ladder? They were not looked upon highly. According to the Mishnah, they were under the ban, they were regarded as uh thieves in some people's estimation. And they were despised by the Orthodox. And yet God chose shepherds. Why did God do that? To show that the good news is not just for the elite It's for the common man. And we've said this before. And by the way, remember we looked at Mary's song, and Mary in her song, she said that when the Christ comes, when the Messiah comes, what's he going to do? He's going to exalt the lowly. Look in chapter 1, verse 52. And look at what she says in her song. He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of what? Of low degree? And already the Messiah is doing that. He's bringing up those of that are humble, those that are lowly. He's exalting him. And already he does this from the fact that God chooses to reveal the birth of the Messiah. He chooses to announce it to shepherds. Because God has not chosen the wise or the mighty or the noble. God has chosen the foolish things of this world to confound the wise. If the gospel were complicated If it were some great philosophy that required years of graduate study and a high IQ to grasp, then those who were able to attain it, they could boast about their intellect. Or if the gospel required some money, some large money in order to really attain it, then a person could brag about their riches and the poor would have no hope. But the good news of Jesus Christ is so simple that even a child can understand it. That a person in a jungle somewhere from a tribe Who doesn't speak language very well could understand very simply that they are a sinner and that they need a savior. It's so very simple But I think also he he revealed himself to shepherds because it involved a lamb, the sacrifice of the lamb, and it's very likely that these shepherds that were watching over their sheep, these sheep will be the ones that will be used in the Passover Jerusalem was just five miles away. They had to constantly have fresh lambs for the sacrifice. It was very likely that these shepherds were watching over the very sheep that were going to be used in the sacrifice. How fitting it is then that these shepherds would go to watch the the real Lamb, the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so when I see God revealing his word to the common man, to the lowly, I say, glory to God. in the highest. Let me give you a third thing. We glorify God when we recognize His sovereign hand. When we Understand the gospel reaches down to the common man. But here's number three. We glorify God when we accept the purpose of the incarnation. The purpose. Look in verse 11. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior Which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And the emphasis here in these verses is on the word Savior. God the Father sent to the world a Savior. Now that's the greatest news for humanity. In fact, what we just read here is the greatest news ever. Understand that? This is the greatest news that humanity. Has ever had that God has sent to the world a Savior. You know why? Because it tells us what the greatest need of humanity is. Humanity needs a savior. If our greatest need had been information, God would have sent us an educator. If our greatest need had been technology, God would have sent us a scientist. If our greatest need had been money, he would have sent us an economist. If our greatest need had been pleasure, he would have sent us an entertainer. But none of those things are our greatest need. Our greatest need is a savior. We need to be saved from our sins. And so God sent a savior. This means that the birth of Christ is the greatest news that this world has ever had. But I think that this is lost in all the festivities of Christmas. I think this fact is lost. And you know why? Because there are some people out there that they don't want to admit that they're a sinner. They don't want to confess that. And so they lose really on what the greatest news ever has been. Because they don't think they need a Savior. And also we live in this pluralistic culture where people don't accept the fact that Jesus is the only way of salvation. We have all these ideas coming in like there are other ways, there are other means. But friend, let me tell you something. The birth of Jesus Christ in Bethlehem 2,000 years ago was God's statement that said there is no other way. Because if there were another way, I would not have sent my son. Let me give you an illustration. Let's just say that a group of men come to me one day and they say, uh Dr. Harmon, we have a problem, we need your help. And I say, sure, what can I do? They said there's a terrible disease that broke out in this world on humanity, and people are dying in droves. I'm sorry to hear that. What can I do? Well, we found out, let's just say your firstborn son, Jeremiah, we found out that in his blood, there's some healing, chemicals, some properties there that can help cure this disease. But here's the bad news. What this is going to require is that your son give all of his blood. We're going to have to drain all of his blood, every drop of blood, and he'll have to die. And not only will he die, he'll die a painful death. It's going to be a terrible death, terrible, humiliating, painful, horrible way to die. But in his blood, there's healing. But would you be willing to give us your son to save all these people from this terrible disease that is out there? And my son Jeremiah says, Dad, if this this is the only way I'm willing, I'm willing, I'm I'm ready to do this And I say, well, son, I hate for you to do this, but if you're willing. And then suddenly I get an idea and I say, well, now hold on here. Now let me ask you, gentlemen, a question. Is there any other way? For there to be salvation from this dreaded disease. And I said, well, yeah, sure. We've got some other things here we can do. In fact, other ways that which people can be saved, sure. But we would like your son too. You know what I would say to those men? I would say, get out of here and don't ever come back. My son means way too much to me. If you have other ways of salvation, you leave him alone. You leave me alone. And you know why I love my son too much? I'm not about to give him if there are other ways. But friend, I want to tell you something. Do you think God's a a better father than me? God loves his son more than I could ever love my son. You think God would send his son to this world to die? in humiliation, to die in horrible agony on a cross, for his blood, to to pay the price for man's sin. And if there is another way, in fact I think the most monumental, monstrous Sin that is offense to God, it's for people to say there's another way. I think it's a horrible sin in the sight of Almighty God That's a monstrous thing to say. If there was another way, God would have never sent his son to this world. But he sent his son. And by the way, Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane You remember what he prayed, Father, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. And the silence of heaven said, There is no other way. He's the only way. And so this is the greatest news this world has ever heard. That God sent into this world a Savior. And friend, I say, glory to God in the highest. Glory to God in the highest. That he would send his son to suffer and die for us. Let me give you another way. We glorify God when we worship and praise him for the good news. Look in verse Look down in verse 14. Verse 13 and 14. Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts saying, Glory to God. Uh praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace and goodwill towards men. And so we see here the praise and the worship that took place around the Lord Jesus Christ when he came into this world. Did you know it was customary that when a boy was born, local musicians would congregate around that house and they would celebrate with music? But Jesus was born in a in in a stable In Bethlehem, and there were no local musicians to come, but God didn't let that stop him. He sent his musicians. He sent the angels of heaven And notice where it says a multitude. This is plathos. This is not talking about a handful. This is not 50 or 150 or 1500. It's referring to a number beyond count. I believe every angel of heaven was there. You say, how do you know that? Hebrews 1. 6. And when he bringeth forth his first begotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him. All the angels were there worshiping the Lord Jesus. They were there at the beginning and they saw God create in the very beginning. And the Bible says the morning stars sang for joy. And now they are there at the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ, and all the morning stars, all the angels of heaven are singing again for joy, and they are worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ. And friend, that's what it's all about And they sing, Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace and goodwill towards men. Now some people misunderstand that phrase, peace and goodwill towards men. Some people say, well, Christ coming in the world means peace and goodwill. How come we're still at war? Well actually let me just read to you the literally the way this reads. In the Greek it says, peace on earth and and uh peace to those to whom God has goodwill or to whom God has favor. Or could we say it like this, peace to those to whom God has given his grace. You see, you're not ever going to have peace until you have the grace of God in your life And how do you get the grace of God? You get the grace of God by turning from your sin, admitting you're a sinner, admitting Jesus is the Savior who came to die for your sin. And when you repent of your sin and turn to Jesus Christ, guess what? Peace. You get peace. You get his favor. You get his grace. That's when the peace comes, you see. Then let me give you another thing. We glorify God when we believe his word. Look what these shepherds did. Look at verse 15. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into the heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even into Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord has made known unto us. And found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in the manger. You know what? These shepherds, they believed. They believed what the angels said. You say, how do you know that? Because they trapped what they were doing and they went. The Bible says with haste To Bethlehem. You don't do that unless you really believe. They didn't send a delegation of scribes to check it out. They said, no, we're going to go. We're going to see this. In fact, we better hurry up and get there, or we might miss this. So the Bible says they went with haste, and they saw exactly what the angel said, Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus. And what does this reveal? It reveals faith. And I think God is glorified when we believe His Word. When God tells us something in the scripture and we say, Lord, I believe. I don't see it all. I may not understand it all, but if you said it, I believe it. I trust you in it. Some people say, Well, faith is you show me all this and then I'll believe. No. Faith believes and then you see Then you see, when you believe the word of God and you accept God at His Word, you know what God does? He opens up your eyes and you see. You begin to see. And that's exactly what happened with these shepherds here. Let me show you the another thing. We glorify God when we share Christ with others. Look what they did in verse 17. It says And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at all those things which were told them by the shepherds. You know what? They were the first evangelists. They went out and they started telling everybody. Guess what we saw? And they were amazed. You see, when the Lord opens up your eyes and you see Jesus, you can't help but tell other people. You just can't help it. And that's exactly what happened with these guys. They were so amazed. They began to tell others, and it glorifies God when we share this story with others. But let me give you the last thing and we're done. We glorify God when we stay focused on Christ. When we keep our mind and our heart, excuse me, on the Lord Jesus Christ. Because look in verse number 19. But Mary kept all these things. Ponder them in her heart. Verse 20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen as it was told unto them. They were never the same. They kept thinking about what they had seen. And I want to tell you something, friend. When you come to know Jesus Christ, you can't just forget about that. Christ will stay with you. And and these guys they stayed focused. Mary, she pondered all this in her heart. And these shepherds, they they they kept their mind on what they had seen And they went back, notice they went back where? They went right back to their sheepfold. It doesn't say that they appeared on TV and began a ministry called Shepherd's Vision and started traveling around and became famous. No, they just went right back to the same old thing that they did. They went to tend their sheep. Some people think, what a letdown. They didn't set up tours to visit Bethlehem. They didn't do any of that. The reason I say that is because we American Christians often buy into a version of Christianity that's not much like the simple Christianity that we find in the Bible. We seem to have this need for the spectacular or for the big. People flock to all these things But what we need to see that in the scripture, many of these devoted Christians were simply people that went right about doing what they were normally doing. They went back to their routine, but there was something different. Now they had Christ in their life And they were faithful to do whatever the Lord put in their life to do with their mind and their heart focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to get back to simplicity. To steadfast Christian living centered on simplicity and purity of devotion to Jesus Christ And that's what we see from these guys here. They were just now devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I say, glory to God. in the highest for all these things that the Lord has done. I'll close with this. There were some kids putting on a Christmas play, and there was a part in a play where they're going to shut out all the lights and there was a light and the manger That the little boy working the lights was supposed to keep on to show the glory coming from the manger. And there was a problem, however. There was some confusion. All the lights went out and it was dark. No lights are on The little boy that was supposed to switch on the light, he never put it on. And finally, the darkness was, the silence was broken by one of the shepherds who shouted out, hey, you switched off Jesus Switch Jesus back on. You know what? A lot of times around Christmas time there are some people that switch off Jesus. You know what? Switch them back on. Focus on the glory of the Christmas story, and it's all centered in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we we just thank you for this simple story. We thank you for Luke and the way he recorded this, just straightforward. It tells us all these things that took place on that first Christmas. And Lord, help us to hear the song of the angels, glory to God in the highest. Lord, may that be our passion. May that be the thing that we live for each day to give you glory in our life. And I pray, Lord, that if there's any here tonight that have never received Christ as their Savior I pray, Lord, that you would speak to their heart. Let them see that this is what Christmas is all about. It's all about a Savior coming into the world to die for sins, their sins. That they might have eternal life, that all of us might have eternal life who repent of our sins and come to Jesus. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask this question here tonight. It may be that you're here. And the Lord has spoken to your heart. Because you've never prayed, you've never asked Jesus to come into your heart as your Savior. You've never nailed down your salvation. You've never asked God for forgiveness. Again, the greatest news this world has ever had is that God sent his son to be the savior. And that means he sent him to be your savior. And God wants to save you from your sins. That's the big issue. The issue is have you been cleansed? Have you been forgiven for your sin? Because I want to tell you we serve a holy God And all sins will be punished. They'll either be punished in hell by the sinner or they'll be punished on the cross by the Lord Jesus Christ. And friend, Jesus has paid your sin debt on the cross. Would you be willing to receive the gift of salvation? Would you be willing to confess Christ? If you are, would you be willing to pray this prayer? You don't have to pray it out loud. You can pray it right there where you are. Just say your heart. Reach out in faith and say, Lord Jesus, I know that you are the Savior of the world. I know that you are the only way of salvation. And today I turn to you with all my heart. I ask you to forgive me for my sins, cleanse me, and save me. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it in your heart God will save you today. He'll save you right where you are. And you know what? You'll have peace. Peace with God. And eternal life. And if you prayed that prayer, would you just let us know, maybe after the service, come up to Pastor Johnson or Pastor Earl or myself or one of the staff men And let us help you in this new step of faith that you've taken to encourage you in the things of the Lord. Father, bless hearts and bless your word, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen.