Take your Bibles this morning. Go to 2 Corinthians, please, chapter number 7. 2 Corinthians chapter 7. As you know, the last time we left off talking about this idea, this word of repentance. and how important it is to understand this word. I called it the missing word. Actually it's not me that called it the missing word. H. A. Ironside first quoted this This idea that it's kind of a missing word in the church. And I think he's absolutely true. There's not a lot of preaching on it. uh today as there were in times past. And a lot of times when guys preach the gospel, I've even heard people say, well you you know you just need to have faith You know, repentance is something you do later on, or they don't want to mix mix in repentance with the message of salvation. Um when's the last time you heard a whole sermon on this topic? You said, Well last week, Pastor, you did it. But before that, before that, when did you hear something on repentance? So it's been a missing word in our vocabulary. And again, H. J. Arnside is the one who first said this. He said the doctrine of repentance is Is a is the missing note in many otherwise orthodox and fundamentally sound circles today. And he wrote that in a uh a now famous uh book, Accept Gee repent. I think I told you last week there's even a large seminary here in the U. S. that basically says that repentance has no part in the gospel. And it undermines the doctrine of the justification by faith. And that's very ironic to me because when John the Baptist came preaching, he came preaching repentance. That was the whole message that John the Baptist had. And you think also about Jesus. He began his earthly ministry by preaching repentance. In fact, I showed you last week that the very first word and the first sermon Arguably the first sermon that Jesus preached is the word repent. And then also he sent out his disciples and he told them, look, go out and preach repentance. Now, was Jesus telling them to preach something other than the gospel when he told them to do that? Of course not. He was telling them to preach the gospel, but he summarized the gospel message and the word repentance. It is summarized in that one word. Justification is equal to repentance in Scripture. A lot of times in Scripture, when it talks about someone getting saved, it'll just say they repented. And that was it. That summarizes the whole work the whole idea of salvation. The Bible says there's joy in the presence of the angels in heaven over one sinner that what? Repent. That's when a person gets saved. And so repentance is equal to this idea of justification. Now what it's not, we said that it's not just uh getting caught, you know, it's repentance isn't just, you know Oh I got caught now, I've got to say I'm sorry. It's not just uh changing to please others just to get them off your back. Oh I've got to do this, I've got to stop doing this, just because other people are on my case and I don't want want them on my case anymore. It's it's it's not flirting on the edge of sin, you know, kind of sinning and then say, oh I'm sorry, and then you stop a while and then you go back to it. You're kind of flirting on the edge of sin. It's not making cosmetic surface changes. We talked about that. Remember we quoted Spurgeon who said Repentance is a discovery of the evil of sin, a mourning that we might that we have committed it, a resolution to forsake it. It is in fact a change of mind over the very deep and practical character Which makes the man love what he once hated and hate what he once loved. And I think that is uh so very true and good. Now I'm going to uh also go forward and say, remember we said that repentance has the idea, it's an intellectual element to it. The actual Greek word means to uh which is a combination of two words, uh meta after and noya, which is to think, um, and so well literally or to understand. And so really it's a combination of those words. So we could say uh it's a change of mind. A change of mind. Now it doesn't end just with the mind, because we also said there is an emotional element to true repentance It also works out in the heart. Not only is it a change of mind, but there follows with it also a sorrow of the heart towards sin. And it affects the emotions. And then we also said there's a volitional uh part of repentance where repentance involves the will forsaking sin and turning to Christ. It is a redirection of the will. And so we could just say that really it's a complete turning of your whole being into the opposite direction. It's making a U-turn, literally. You're literally turning. Okay? I think one of the greatest definitions in the Bible is in 1 Thessalonians, where Paul said to those believers there, you have turned to God from idols. to serve the living and the true God. They turned away from sin and idols. They turned to God. It is making that you turn. Now, again, in review of what we said last week, I referred to a book written by the Puritan Thomas Watson who basically in this book uh defined for us this in uh uh uh in just uh uh with six terms. Let me just kind of fast forward. I don't want to go through all of this again. But basically he said that it was um he described six marks on true repentance and uh one is the sight of sin. It simply put, you have to see what you've done as sin is what Watson must say. You have to kind of recognize it, recognize what sin is. And then he said it is also a sorrow for sin. You see it. It should bring sorrow, not merely just for the consequences of our sin. but for um the fact that we sinned against the free grace of God. So he says there should be a sorrow for sin. And then again I'm kind of fast forwarding here on some of these slides because I want to move on today. And then also he said it is a confession of sin. Confession. Watson believe that true repentance must come with confession, not just any confession. Confession that is voluntary, that is specific, that is uh sincere. So it would include confession of sin and then also um He also said it would be number four, a shame for sin. A shame. He says this is probably the most controversial of all the components. Because shame has such a negative connotation in our modern world. If that was true in his day, how much more so is it true today? In Watson's words, blushing is the color of virtue. So we feel the shame of the sin. And then he said also there will be a hatred of the sin. According to Watson, this is the fifth ingredient. It's a hatred for sin. There's a loathing of it. You begin to just hate that sin. And then again, let me fast-forward here. I don't want to go through all these slides. Finally, the sixth element is your as a turning from it. You'll all you'll want to turn from that sin. So to summarize, Watson said this, uh or he asked this question Would you know when you have been humbled enough to for your sin? How would you know when you have been humbled enough over your sin? And how do you know when that repentance is real? He would say, when you actually turn to or turn from that sin, turn to God from the sin. Now, along with that, we this is where we left off last week. We're talking about the ingredients of repentance in Scripture. Look in 2 Corinthians again, look in chapter 7, and look down at verse number 9, where the Apostle Paul is writing to the believers at the church at Corinth. And he's commending them because they sorrowed over sin, but that sorrow led to a true repentance And in this passage here, I think it's one of the classic passages in the New Testament dealing with this issue, he spells out some of the uh elements of repentance here. And one of the things that we'll just look at verse number nine. Now I rejoice not that ye were made sorry, but that ye sorrowed to repentance. For ye were made sorry after a godly manner, that ye might receive damage by us in nothing. Verse 10, for godly sorrow works repentance. to salvation not to be repented of. But the sorrow of the world works death. Now Paul is telling us, he's kind of comparing real repentance versus the false there. in that last verse, verse number 10. Real repentance produces a real change. But the uh a kind of a a sorrow of the world, a repentance isn't that isn't real, only will lead to uh worse judgment, or we could say worse punishment. And so this repentance here, number one, remember we said it produces a repentance without regret. And this is what he's talking about here. in verse number 10, for godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. Remember what I told you that means? That means you turn in in salvation, when a person gets truly saved, when they truly repent, they turn from the world, they turn to Christ in salvation, and they don't regret that decision. How many of you got saved and then you regretted it? Don't raise your hand. You got saved and then you said, Oh, you know, I'm not sorry I made this decision. So you y a person, you know what they do when that happens? They turn back to the world They repent of their repentance. And I showed you a verse in 2 Peter about the proverb that Peter quoted about the dog returning to Azama and the pig. back to the wallowing in the mire. You know, once you clean up a pig and you know you can you can give a pig a bath and you know put a little bow on them, perfume them, and when you let him out the door, you know what he's gonna do? He's gonna go right back to the mud Because the nature of that animal has not changed. But salvation changes your nature. You no longer want to wallow in the mire. And if a person initially looks like they've repented of sin and they're walking to Christ, but they repent of that repentance, they go back into the world. And a continual life of disobedience against God, that wasn't true repentance because it was a repentance that they repented of. And Paul says real repentance doesn't look like that. It's not enough just to be upset and heartbroken and have sorrow. Probably all of us have seen people that have come to the altar with tears and make a decision and we rejoice and say, wonderful, God saved that person, only to find later that they turned back into the world. And sometimes we wonder and say, now wait a minute That had to be a real conversion. I mean, I saw sorrow. I saw tears. Well, it's got to go beyond just tears. It's got to go beyond just sorrow. Paul said the sorrow of the world worketh death. But godly sorrow brings real repentance. So it's a repentance without regret A repentance that you don't repent of. And then here's the other thing, it produces earnestness in righteousness. Earnestness. Look again in chapter 7. Look down in verse number 11. For behold, what this selfsame thing that ye sorrowed after a godly sword. What carefulness it wrought in you. Look at that word carefulness. You might want to just circle that word in your Bible there. It's the Greek word spude. We could say earnestness. If there's an earnestness in wanting to accomplish something, when a person truly repents, they're earnest about it. I like the way the ESV translates this. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, and earnestness to clear yourselves. And so It produces this zeal. You say, what kind of zeal? It produces a zeal to do what is right. When a person truly repents, there will be an earnestness and a zeal now to do what is right before God. There will be this earnestness about them, a zeal for good, uh an eagerness to right all the wrongs that perhaps you have committed. And then here's the third element of it. It produces a desire to show your repentance is real, to clear yourselves. Look again in verse number 11 where it says, what carefulness It wrought in you, yea, what clearing of yourselves. Look at that expression, clearing of yourselves. Now this is the Greek word We know this word because if you're with me when we study this topic of apologetics, I refer to this word often. It's the apologia, and that's the exact word that he's using here. It's where uh it is a defense. It's simply a desire to clear your name. A desire to clear yourself by um By people see uh seeing that your repentance is real. You want to clear anything that is against you. And so you want to kind of have that defense. And so it's a strong desire to see the stigma of sin removed. to prove yourself worthy of trust again. If uh if you've if you've kind of uh sinned uh against certain people This repentance will produce a strong desire to show, you know what, you can trust me again. This is legitimate in me. I want to clear my name. I want You didn't see that this repentance is real, that you can trust me again. One time a man who had sinned grievously went to the great preacher, Charles Ferdinand Spurgeon and said, Can God ever use me again? And and Spurgeon responded by saying, When your repentance is as notorious as your sin, then God will use you again. And that's the idea there, that when you when your repentance is so real that people see you and you're clearing your name, that's when you're You'll be able to be used again and people will be able to trust you. But that repentance will produce that desire to clear yourself. But then also notice the next thing it it produces an anger over sin. An anger over sin. Look again in verse number 11 where it says, Yea, what clearing of yourselves, yea, what indignation. Look at the word indignation there. That is Uh word that just means to get angry. Um when the repentance is real, not only will you not regret it, and not only will there be a zeal to do what's right and a desire to clear your name But there's going to be an anger. You say, well, who are they angry at? It's an anger over the sin that you committed. It's an anger over that transgression. Um it's angry um you're angry about this the shame that it produces. And so it produces a righteous indignation. We could say this really just you ever hear the expression a holy hatred for sin? That's what true repentance does. It gives you that holy hatred for sin. But then here's another thing. It produces a reverence for God. Oh reverence for God. Look again in verse 11. Y'all with me? All right. What indignation, yea, what fear, he says. And so that's referring to, this is the Greek word phobos. It's where we get the word phobia, and it speaks about a reverential fear or awe of God. There'll be a fear of the Lord. The Corinthians' bold sinning turned into a concern that they sinned against God. And so suddenly you'll have this fear. of God because you understand that this sin that you sinned was against this holy God and it will produce a true fear. of the Lord in you. But also here's another thing, number six, it produces a desire to have the relationship restored. Look again in verse 11. What fear. Notice the next phrase. What vehement desire? And notice that it says here, this desire, that is a longing to see the relationship restored. Now, remember what Paul's referring to here. Paul had written a severe letter to the Corinthians because of what they were doing against him. Their sin had caused him pain. And uh they were accusing Paul of all kind of crazy things. And Paul had to confront them. He had to write this severe letter. Remember, there's actually the Bible tells us that there were four letters that Paul wrote to the Corinthians. We have first and second Corinthians. There's two other letters. We don't know where they are. One of those letters is called a severe letter, where Paul uh uh writes about what they have done, and they had criticized him, and they had questioned his uh authority as an apostle. They questioned whether he was even really a legitimate apostle. And all that has caused a separate in their a separation in their relationship. It caused a breach in their fellowship. Well, when the Corinthians repented of what they had done, their repentance was made manifest by this desire to have that relationship now restored. That relationship that had suffered as a result. And again, that's going to be part of true repentance. There's going to be a real desire. to have that relationship restored the way it once was. It'll cause you to go to people you've never dreamed of going to. and restoring that broken relationship and going and apologizing, doing whatever you have to do, making restitution whatever you have to do to make it right. And then again, look in verse 11. Notice the next expression. What vehement desire, yea, what zeal. What zeal? And so it produces a zeal for holiness. The Corinthians now wanted to live a holy life They wanted to do what was right before a holy God. And then here's the next element. It produces a desire for restitution. It produces a desire for restitution. Look again in verse number eleven. In all things ye have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter. Or actually maybe back up here where it It says, yea, what revenge. Look at the word revenge. In other words, a better way to say this would be what avenging of wrong. And again, this is a desire for restitution. They want to avenge whatever wrongs they have committed. Truly repentant people have a strong desire to see justice done. A desire to make right what they made wrong. Remember the story of Zacchaeus when Jesus came preaching? What did he say He said, Zacchaeus stood and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I will restore it to him fourfold. Now this is a this is real repentance here. Zacchaeus hears the Lord Jesus and he hears the message of salvation and he decides to commit to Christ and he's willing as a tax collector to restore whatever he's taken from others. And sometimes tax collectors in that day that worked for the Roman government would take more from people than the Roman government charged and they would keep it for themselves. They would rip people off And so here is an IRS agent repenting. Boy, you know that's real salvation there, right? A guy that worked for the Israeli Revenue Service. And he wanted to get right. And he said, Lord, I'll restore fourfold. And what did Jesus say to him? In response to that, Jesus said, This day is salvation come to this house. You are truly repenting, Zacchaeus. Salvation today comes to this house. So repentance then is this complete redirection of the will. It involves the whole being. This is very um thorough, is it not? I mean, that's why I say this passage in 2 Corinthians is such a classic passage on repentance because Paul is so thorough in revealing the characteristics of what real repentance looks like. Again, in summary, it includes the whole person. It involves the mind. It involves the heart. It involves the will. Richard Trent wrote, that mighty change in mind, heart, and life wrought by the Spirit of God. It's done by the Spirit of God. Wayne Gruderman is systematic theology offers this definition. He said, repentance is a heartfelt sorrow for sin, a renouncing of it, a sincere commitment to forsake it and walk in obedience to Christ. Anything short of this is not true repentance. And so this helps us to really get a grasp of what it is in the scripture. Now, let me move on. We've talked about all of this has been on under the definition of repentance, understanding clearly. What repentance is, what the Bible says about this. Now I want to talk to you secondly about the development of repentance. How does one get it? How do you become repentant? What does the scripture say about this? How do we get this kind of repentance that we just read about here by the Apostle Paul. So we want to talk about how it is developed in us. Alright? Because how many of you want to repent? I want to be repenting continually in my life. Remember, we said that it's not just a one-time thing, it's a continual way of life. And I know of other people that I pray for that I want them to repent as well. So let's talk about the development of it. Alright? And first of all, we have to realize this: it is a gift from God. Repentance is something that God does in us. It is something that He must give us. You know, it's just like faith. Faith, exercising faith in Christ is a gift from God. Remember Ephesians 2, for by grace are you saved through faith. And what's the next phrase? And that is not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Okay? Let me show you another passage of scripture. Go to Philippians real quick, chapter number one. You turn there. Look at Philippians chapter one. And look at verse number twenty-nine. Show you this verse here. Talk about it. Something that things that God gives us as a gift. Look at verse 29. I just preached on this the other night. Verse 29 of chapter 1. For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ. So the word given here is where we get the word charismatic. It is uh charismi is the Greek word, and it is something that God graciously gives. God graciously gives. And here Paul is saying to these Philippians, That there are two things that God graciously gives to you. Notice what it is, verse 29. Not only to believe on him. That's one right there. What does God graciously give us? He gives us the ability to believe on him. And then the second gift is also to suffer for his sake. I would rather have the first gift, not the second one. Right? You guys are looking at me like you're so holy. You're thinking the same thing. I would rather have the first gift. I don't want the second one, but thank you anyway, God. But but he says, look, there are two things that God graciously gives us. Number one, the the ability to believe and then the ability to suffer for Christ. But think about the first one, because again, we're talking about things that God gives us. He gives us this ability to believe. Without God, I wouldn't have the ability to believe on him. You see. Now the same thing is true of repentance. Without the working of God in my heart, I'm not even going to have the ability to repent correctly. Write down Acts 5. 31. Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be prince and a savior. Listen to this, for to give repentance to Israel. And forgiveness of sin. Here God is saying he is the one who gives repentance to Israel Okay? So just as faith is a gift, even so repentance is a gift. And again, Acts 11, 18, when they heard these things. They fell silent and they glorified God, saying, Then to the Gentiles also, God, listen to this, God has granted repentance that leads to When they were hearing about Gentiles being saved, the response of the early church was they rejoiced that God was granting them Repentance. That God gave them this ability to repent that leads to life. And um and so scripture is clear: God is the one who gives it to us. So one of the things we have to do is say, Lord, give me real repentance. Give me the truly repentant heart over my sins. Okay? Um Let me back up here. It's a gift from God, but I want you to see I somehow I skipped a point here on I must have done this late at night. But here's the second thing I want you to see. I don't know PowerPoint, but if you're taking notes, write it down. It is also a duty of man. It is a gift of God, but B, it is a duty of man. In other words, it is something that God commands us to do. You say, wait a minute, you said it's a gift of God. Yes, it is. And then you're saying it's a duty of man, that's right. God commands you to repent. For example, it's the duty of all men to repent. God commands it. And if you don't do it, you're being disobedient. Look in Acts chapter 3, verse 19. If you want to look at that verse, Acts chapter 3, verse 19. And again, this is very clear. Acts 3. 19, Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord. Acts 3. 19. You see the word repent there in that verse? That is in the Greek a imperative mood. Now what is imperative in the Greek? What is it? My Greek student is here. Command. It's the mood of command. It's not indicative. It's not a fact. It's not subjunctive. It's not a wish. It is a command. So God is commanding men to repent. And again, in Acts 20, verse 21, I've declared both the Jews and Greeks that they must turn to God in repentance and have faith. So again, there it's commanded there. Okay? And the Bible also says in Acts 26, 17, when Paul was before King Agrippa, he said this, that That they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds in their keeping with their repentance. And then in Acts 17, verse 30. And at the times of this ignorance, God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to what? Repent. God is commanding all men everywhere. To repent. He's commanding it. Take your Bibles. Go to the book of James real quick. Look in James here this morning. This is a Sunday school class, so you gotta you gotta you gotta use your Bible, right? You gotta turn the places. So look in look in James chapter number four and uh Look down at verse number 8. This is a great verse. It says this draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Notice, look at these lists of imperatives here. Draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep, and let your laughter be turned to mourning. and your joy to heaviness and humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord. And he shall what? Lift you up. Now what does that all sound like? That sounds like repentance, right? That's all the things that we just studied about. And here James is kind of summarizing it all in this expression here. You know what he's calling for? He's calling for people to turn to the Lord. He's commanding them to do these things because all of this is incorporated into this idea of repenting. Repenting, you see. So it's a command. Now remember the point. This is something that God requires of you. And remember you heard me say this before on Sunday morning. The invitation to the uh the the the gospel invitation that we so-call uh an invitation is not so much an invitation as much as it is a command from God. You say, well, God's inviting people to come. He is inviting them, but he's doing more than that. He's commanding them to come. He's inviting people to repent, but he's doing more than that. He's commanding people to repent. You repent. And by the way, if you don't do what God says, what is that? That's disobedience. And the Bible says that in the judgment, people will be judged for their disobedience in answering the call of the gospel. So it is a command. So number one. Repentance is a gift of God, but number two, it's also a duty of man. Now this is kind of a contradiction in our mind. Is it not? Someone might argue, well, if repentance is a gift, then why does God command me to repent? If it's a gift, why does he command me? If God gives it to us, why does he command me to repent? But now this is just yet another illustration in the scripture. And you've heard me talk about this before, of how that both things are equally true, and admittedly there's a mystery in there that we can't quite comprehend. But yet both things are equally true. Okay? And the term that I use when I talk about these this this dynamic that we see in other places in Scripture It's called concurrence. Both things are equally true at the same time. In our minds, we can't see how those two things work together, but it's not a problem in the mind of God. Okay? God commands us to repent, but also remember this: repentance is something that God gives us. Both are true, both things are happening at the same time. Okay. Now again, I've mentioned this where we see this dynamic in other places in Scripture. Okay? We see it with the inspiration of Scripture, who wrote the Bible, God or Man. If you say God you're right. If you say man, you're right. Okay. God inspired man to write it. Man wrote what he Man chose the words from his own free choice, but the words that he chose were the words that God had already chosen in eternity past. So you have both the sovereignty of God and the free will of man working there together And again, there's a mystery there that we can't quite comprehend or explain, right? Was Jesus a man? Was he God? So he was a God, he was the God, and he was man. He was truly God and truly man. Both things are happening at the same time. Right? And there's a mystery there that we can't quite comprehend. Paul said, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. The Bible says that Jesus grew in wisdom. Now, was Jesus God? Yes. Doesn't that mean he knows everything as God? Yes. Yes, but yet he grew in wisdom. How do you grow in wisdom if you already know everything? Okay? Again, there's a little bit of a mystery there. Full humanity in his true humanity, he grew in wisdom, yet in his true deity he already knew all things, and you can't get any wiser than God. Okay? There's a mystery there about how those things work together. Yet they're both concurrently true at the same time, right? And it's the same in our sanctification. Who is responsible for your sanctification? You or God? If you say you, you're right. If you say God, you're right. Both things are happening. Look at Philippians real quick, chapter 2. Look at Philippians chapter 2. We're talking about this concept of concurrence. Look in verse number 12 of Philippians chapter 2. Wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your sal excuse me, work out your salvation. With fear and trembling. God is saying you work out your salvation. It's up to you. It's your responsibility And by the way, this is a command here, work. Energyo, where we get the word energy. Be diligent and work out your salvation. That's your call. This is sanctification here. You see, here's the point. God gave you salvation. Now you work it out. Work it out. See, I'm struggling with this. Yeah, I know. Just work it out. That's all part of your sanctification. I'm struggling over sin, I know, but you have the grace to overcome it. Just work it out. Work it out. Work out of you what God put in you. I remember my kids were learning to play the piano. Some reason my wife puts a piano by our bedroom door. I don't ever understand that. And they would get a new piece of music, and they'd start, I'd walk in one day and bing, bang, bong, bing, bong. You know, they're trying to work out that new piece of music. You know, I remember Jeremiah sit down there and he'll bing, bang, bong, bing, bong. Go take a nap, bing, bang, bong. And one day I walked in the house and I heard this beautiful music and I thought someone has the CD player playing And I walked in, it wasn't the CD player, it was Jeremiah. He was work he worked it out. Same song. He just worked it all out. It's the same with salvation. When God saves you, He downloads you with grace and salvation. Now you've got to work it out. Okay, that's up to you. You've got to work it out. Now, we say, was that my responsibility? Yes, because this is a command. But notice the very next verse in verse 13. For it is God Which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Say, who does it, you or God? Well, you and God too. You see, you have to work it out, but God's working in you. Isn't that good to know? Sometimes people in sanctification, they think, well, it's all on me It's all my it's all on me. I have to have all these do's and don'ts and this ri rigid, you know, spiritual disciplines in my life. It's all on me and if we're not careful we can become so pi so pious we think it's all on us and we can become proud of all the things that we're doing. And sanctification is defeated because when you get pride, you're not walking in the spirit. So some people are overbalanced on, oh it's all me. And other people say, well, it's all God. I'm just going to let go and let God. You ever hear that expression? Let go and let God. It's all on God. Here I am, God, make me holy. Well, that's an overbalance on quietism. It's on me, but it's also on God. It's my responsibility, but it's my response to his ability. It's both of those things working together at the same time. And Paul understood that, and they're both concurrently true. I have to do my part. I do have to practice spiritual disciplines, but I also know that it's God working in me. Therefore, I'm not going to get proud of it. Because it's all by the grace of God. So I'm what I'm trying to explain to you is that this dynamic of two things, both things happening at the same time where God's sovereignty is at work and man's responsibility is also at work at the same time. I see that all over in Scripture. It's all over It's in the inspiration of Scripture, it's in the deity of Christ, it's in my sanctification, it's in fulfilled prophecy. But it's also here in this thing of repentance. Because I told you that repentance is a gift from God. Yet at the same time, he commands you to repent. Both are true. Both things are happening there. Okay? And here's the thing that we have to understand is that it is brought about through the use of means. God uses means. to bring about this repentance in us? What does God use to bring about repentance in us? Well, he uses the preaching of the word, does he not? When God's word is preached, the very gospel which calls for repentance produces it When the gospel is preached. The very word of God that commands repentance produces repentance. It's not the skill of the messenger or the giftedness of the messenger, it is the power of the word of God. That's why I believe in trying to give the clarity of Scripture, just give you the word, because it is the word of God that will produce repentance in a person's heart You see, um remember when Peter got up and preached on the day of Pentecost? Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of the Pentecost of the Lord Jesus Christ. But now listen to this. Back up to verse 37 of Acts chapter 2. Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart. The preaching actually brought that Repentance, and then Peter says, Now go and repent. And it's also we see it in the ministry of Jonah. Remember Jonah the reluctant prophet? God said, Go and preach at Nineveh. And Jonah didn't want to go. And Jonah took a boat to Tarshis and God put him on a submarine back to Nineveh. And he got there and he uh began to preach. God gave him a second chance. And Jonah went in and he began to preach. And their repentance was real, much to Jonah's displeasure, because he didn't want to see them get saved. It says in Jonah 3:10, when God saw their deeds, that they turned from their wicked way. Then God relented concerning the calamity which he had declared he would bring upon them, and he didn't do it. What was the evidence of their genuine faith and repentance? They turned away from their wicked way. They repented. What brought about that repentance? It was the preaching of the word of God. The preaching of the Word of God. Now I referred to a passage, but I want you to see it. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Would you turn there real quick? Look at this. Again, we're talking about the Word of God that brings it. That brings us true repentance. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1 and look down at verse number 5. And notice what it says there. Not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. Look at verse six, for ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction and with joy, the Holy Ghost, verse 7, that you were examples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achaia. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place, your faith to Godward is spread abroad, so that we need not to speak anything For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how that ye turn to God from idols to serve the living and the true God. What was this in response to? The preaching that Paul gave them. When Paul preached, they turned to God from idols. By the way, that area of Thessalonica was infested with idolatry. It was not far from a place called Mount Olympus, which was the supposed residence of the Greek god Zeus. And there he was the leader of a pantheon of gods. So it was infested with all this idolatry. And when they heard Paul preach the word of God, they turned from all of that. And they turn to God. It is the preaching of the word that produces Repentance. That's one of the means. That's why, again, I'm a big believer in giving the Word of God. Make it clear there's power in the Word of God. And then here's another thing that brings it, the goodness and patience of God. The goodness and patience of God Just write down Romans two, verses three and four. And thinkest thou this old man that judges them would do such things that doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God, or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long suffering Knowing that the goodness of God, listen to this, the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. Repentance. You know, sometimes people, when they do something against God and they don't get punished for it, they think in their mind they got away with it. But that longsuffering on God's part should not be an encouragement to continue in sin. It's an encouragement to repent. The fact that God is long-suffering. That should lead us to repentance. 2 Peter 3:9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness. But is long suffering the usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance You see, why hasn't God fulfilled some of his promises? Why hasn't God done some of these things? Because God is patient. He's waiting for people to come to repentance. And this forbearance and long-suffering on the part of God. Should be an encouragement for people to repent. In Revelation 2. 21, I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. Repented not. So it's the long-suffering of God, the goodness and patience of God. But here's another thing that brings repentance, the chastisements of God. God will chastise in order to bring repentance. In Revelation 3:19, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, be there, be zealous therefore, and repent. God does this to call people to himself. God's punishments are designed to bring true repentance. And here's another one. How about the loving servants of God? The loving servants of God. Look in 2 Timothy. I want you to see this one verse. This might be the one we have to quit on. But look at 2 Timothy chapter 2, and you look down to verse number 24, and here Paul's talking again, Paul's giving Timothy his young son in the faith in Timothy 2. 24. And here Paul's giving Timothy, his young son in the faith, instruction. And notice what he says in verse 24. And the servant of the Lord must not strive. But be gentle unto all men. Apt to teach, patient. Watch this, in meek in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. If God per adventure will give them what? Repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Now notice what he says here. As servants of the Lord, Timothy, we we can't strive. Well the word strive here is an interesting Greek word. It's the Greek word macho my. Anybody ever hear of the term macho man? Okay, that's where this comes from. Comes from this Greek word here, macho my. Here's the Harmon translation. Serve the Lord can't be a macho man. Can't be a macho man. What's a macho man? You know, it's that idea, you know, I don't take any beef from anyone. I, you know, I dare you to knock this off my shoulder. I dare you, you know. It's this, you know, you're I'm going to strike back. I'm not going to take any anything from anyone. And so, you know, but that's what the word strive here means. Someone who fights, someone who's quarrels, someone who is combative. And Paul says, Timothy, the servant of the Lord must not be that way. You can't be quarrelsome. You can't get in Twitter wars on social media or Facebook. You can't strive. Now there's a difference between just arguing gently a point and quarreling and fighting But now watch this. You're not to be argumentative and combative and quarrelsome, but look at the next phrase. But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach. Notice that expression, apt to teach, the docticos in the Greek. Skilled in teaching. Skilled in teaching. And then patient Patient when wrong. Timothy, simply gently teach the word. Do it skillfully. Don't be quarrelsome. And you know what? You know what will happen as a result? Maybe, just maybe. Look in verse the rest of it. Again, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, what does that mean? A person who doesn't really have the truth or arguing a lie, they're only opposing themselves. But you just patiently teach with skill and gentleness, if God per adventure will give them repentance. To the acknowledging of the truth. We simply gently teach the Word of God and we let God do the rest. God is the one that will grant them that repentance. So that's why when sometimes people will come and they'll question me, and I do not get into argument. I graciously will show them them here's the truth here's what the Bible says but for me to try to argue them into a corner is not going to cause repentance for them It's gently, graciously, lovingly sharing the truth and praying that God will grant them repentance according to the acknowledging of the truth, that they will see the error of their way and they'll turn to the Lord And uh and that's what we're to do. You know, the Bible says the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. You can't you can't angrily argue someone into the kingdom. That's not how it works. You just give the truth, give it graciously, give it gently, give it firmly. Give it skillfully with all the ability that God gives you. And this is what Paul's saying to Timothy. Timothy, just give the truth and let God grant them repentance. Let the Lord do it. You see, I can um I can give the proof, but only God gives the persuasion, right? Only God can change their heart. And so these are the means that God uses to bring about true repentance in the hearts of people. And so um so just think about these. Now we we're out of time here. Next week we'll talk about some descriptions in the Bible of what repentance looks like, some descriptions. And so we're understanding here the theology of repentance in the Bible. And so hopefully this will be an encouragement to all of us. in this area of our life. Let's let's all stand together, we'll have a word of prayer, and then we'll have our next service here. So Father, thank you again for your word and the clarity of it. Help us to indeed understand these things and Lord to uh to seek to live a life of continual repentance where we are drawing nigh to you, as James says, draw nigh to God And Father, in response, you'll draw nigh to us. May that be our continual path in this life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.