Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open uh to the Old Testament passage of Joshua chapter 24, verse 15. This is a very familiar passage of scripture and we'll be here a bit but we'll kind of go to some other passages and there's really one expression in there that we know so very well where Joshua declared as for me and my house we will serve the Lord Now as you know on Sunday night we have been doing a series uh from I called Echoes from Puritan Pulpus, just things that we can learn here uh in our day from uh a a a group of godly preachers and ministers that God raised up for a time in church history that had such an impact and we we still feel the impact of that today. And to tonight I want to talk about the Puritans on family worship. The Puritans on Family Worship. This is probably a topic you haven't heard preached on a lot or ever. You may have never heard this topic being dealt with, but I think it is an important thing for us. to consider in our own Christian families. You know, as a pastor I have a great concern and a burden that the next generation follow Christ. I know that's your burden as well. I want my children to know Jesus. I want my grandchildren to follow Jesus. I want them to love Christ. I want to be in heaven with all my family, right? All of you? I mean the prayer that I pray every day is, Lord, get all of my family on board the ark. I want them all on board the ark, safe from the judgment that this world is going to face. But sadly, we're seeing churches losing the next generation. We're kind of seeing the decline of uh the church in the Western world. And some may think, well, you know, perhaps we just need better youth programs in the church. We need to do things that are appealing to for our youth. We need uh We need youth camps and retreats and music and fun activities and and all that sort of thing. I remember uh years ago I was speaking to a person that basically all of their adult life they were a member of one of the largest churches in America, one of the churches that you hear about a lot as far as uh being one of the best Baptist churches in America. They had the best programs, they had the best activities that you could name for youth. They spared no expense the most beautiful buildings, uh the greatest activities, the greatest Sunday school programs. And they said basically that they brought their children up through that church and their children were there in all the programs and the Sunday school and All the youth activities and then and then even in high school all the activities they they went through all of that and they say now as adults their children will not darken the door of a church. And the person said to me they wanted an answer, as if I could give an answer to that. They said, how can that be? How can we come to a church With a that's a great church with all the programs and all the Sunday school, and our children go through all of that, and now they won't darken the door of a church. You know, why? Unless you think that's a an exception. According to some statistics that I read, 88% of church youth leave their church after they finish high school Uh Barna, his statistics uh are slightly better, but not much. He wrote this, when church-going teens were asked to estimate the likelihood that they will continue to participate in church life, once they're living on their own, levels dipped. To only about one out of every three teams say they are expect to stay in church. And that's alarming. It's alarming to me. So what's the problem? Why is it that our children seem to after they get on their own to turn and go their own way? They leave and they don't come back. I mean do you honestly think the answer is in better programs? I I I don't think that that's the answer. Better activities? I mean if programs and activities got the job done, we'd be in the millennium right now sitting down at the table, I think We've got the best programs. We've got everything you can know or do. We've got all the bells and whistles. We have cutting-age equipment. We have Now churches have sound effects. They have that rival Hollywood that are very appealing to the next generation. I mean, don't you feel sorry for the early church if they didn't have some of these things? I mean how did they make it? How did they do it with not having all of these things that we have? And I think part of the reason for the statistics that I read is because I think that Christian parents have pinned their hopes on these things. They place their hope on these things. I I I saw the same attitude honestly when I was uh when we had a school here and I was the administrator of the school and uh you know the the basic attitude was uh the parents send their kids to a Christian school and they expect they're paying the tuition and they expect to get back a good product. In other words, they send me Dennis the Menace and I have to send them back D. L. Moody. That's pretty much the what they expected. You give me Madonna, I'll give you Corey Tin Boom. And if we didn't produce it, if we didn't meet up with the standards, then the what was my problem? What was the problem here at the school? After all, I'm paying my tuition. I'm uh I'm doing my part. Uh you know, I think I've told you the story before in a s down south when I was administrator in a school years ago. That's back when they still did spankings And this school was spanked. And a teacher brought a little kindergarten guy to me that was just out of hand. And uh she was in tears. I can't handle him. I called this his name was Josh I called Josh's mom and said, ma'am, your son is unruly, you're gonna have to come get him. She goes, I'm at work, I can't, I'll I'll lose my job. I said, Well well he's not listening and uh he needs to be disciplined. She said, Well, can you do it? I said, Well, ma'am, you have to understand that he's not going to submit to anything that I ask him to do So um the only way he's going to submit is if I wrestle him down. And she said, well can you do it? And I'm like, well yeah I can do it just as long as you understand what this is going to involve and and uh and and uh she said well I trust you. I trust you. I said all right. Hung up the phone I turned to little Josh. He had a really mean look on his face, just a hefty little guy there, a little kindergartner, and I said, now Josh, you've been bad. And I I I love you and I I want you to know you have to be good and I and you've been and uh what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna we can do this two ways. We can I can talk to you and pray with you and give you a SWAT on the bottom and you promise not to do it anymore and and and then it'll all be over with. Or or we can wrestle. And he looked at me and he said, Let's wrestle. That was his response. And uh we did wrestle and I won But I I just remember thinking, uh you know, I I can't do that. I can't discipline other people's children. That's really not what I'm supposed to do. You know, I think that parents today in America have outsourced all the duties that come with raising children. They basically outsource all of that. We pay professionals to do everything for us. We have professional babysitters and professional nannies to watch our children. We have professional tutors to help them with their homework. We have professional coaches to help them learn how to play ball. We have professional psychiatrists to help them when they can't cope. with the the the hardships in life. They have not learned self-control and how to bring it in. So we we send them to the psychiatrist to do that. We have professional doctors to give them medication so they will behave if they're not behaving. We have professional lawyers to take their case when they get into trouble. And it it it just makes sense then to a lot of people that we have professional Christians And that we just outsource all of the spiritual raising and nurturing of our children and grandchildren to the professionals. Just let them do that. We treat church that way. And meanwhile, parents have paid everyone to take their responsibilities for them. And parents never really get to know their own children. We're they're too busy working to pay all the professionals. Everybody has to work all the time. And uh I love I would I love this proverb and sometimes I would have enough boldness to quote it to a parent that came to me and asked me why I was not you know, producing a good product with their child. When they sent their child to me, why there? Their child was still a problem. And there's a proverb that says this in Proverbs chapter 17, verse number six Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it? I mean you you can you can send your child to a Christian school. The tuition is in his hand. He's got the price in his hand. You could send him out the door with a tuition. And there's the petition from the home. Give him wisdom. Here he is, little junior. He's not really wise. He's a little fool, but I want you to make him wise. Make them wise. That's their petition. But the problem is the condition of his heart. He has no desire for it. He has no heart for it. Parents have spent zero time cultivating the heart of that child with regard to spiritual things. Zero time. Trying to cultivate issues in their heart. No prayer except for maybe grace around the table every now and then. No reading of scripture together. That's something that families don't do, no time to memorize scripture or teach the Bible, no study of the Ten Commandments, which basically breaks up the fallow ground of a child's heart. Places them before a holy God so they can see that God demands a perfect standard that they'll never be able to meet up with So therefore they are not able to see themselves as sinners, so that they can run to Christ, so that the the hardness of the heart will be broken up through the law of God, and that heart will be ready to receive the mercy that comes in the gospel. That's something that children don't see. They don't talk about the holiness of God because it's not really taught in our home. There's no cultivation of the fear of God, that you should fear God. Which is the beginning of all wisdom. And if parents and grandparents are too busy to do those things, then you're too busy. You're busier than God intended. Because this is one of the responsibilities that we all have as parents and grandparents. But in the average Christian home today, the father is passive. or maybe apathetic spiritually. The mother's working full time out of necessity out of the home. Uh T V seems to be raising our children. Parents come to church on Sunday morning only and even then they they don't seem to make it to Sunday school where the kids can get some spiritual training. They're just dragging in for the second service and and then that's it One hour or maybe two a week of spiritual instruction and training. And I got news for you folks that cannot compete with what they're being bombarded with in the world. It just can't compete They're they're being hammered from all sides in the world. So even when uh Even when they do come, sometimes they're just not paying attention to what's going on, to what's being taught. And we wonder why as soon as our children, as soon as they get on their own, they leave church and they turn their back on spiritual things. and there's no real concern for the things of God. It's because we vaccinate our children with a mild form of Christianity so they don't catch the real thing. Every once in a while, God in His wonderful grace will do a wonderful work of salvation in the heart of some child, some teenager. Say that maybe they're from a nominally Christian home and God does a work in their heart and they get saved. Or maybe they're not from a Christian home at all. Maybe it's from one of these children that come in from someone inviting them or bringing them to church and they come and they hear the gospel and they get saved and God does a wonderful work in their heart. But the problem is now they have to deal with a lukewarm family Or maybe a a a group of teenagers that are that are carnal and they have to compete with all that. Sometimes even in the church, they have to contend with all those things. So that person is left with very little encouragement The bottom line is this, as families, as Christian families, we cannot outsource the spiritual training of our children. Now, the church is here. We're here to teach the Word of God. We're here to cultivate hearts, and that's part of the calling. But the family and the home has to do their part. They have to do their part as Christian families. The Bible says in Ephesians 6 4, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord And all through the Old Testament and New Testament, God has laid the responsibility of spiritual training at the feet of the Father. God has organized the human race through families. He's dealt with them through the headship of the Father. Douglas Kelly wrote this, family religion, which depends not a little on the household head, daily leaning the family before God and worship, is one of the most powerful structures in the covenant-keeping God has given us for the expansion of redemption through the generations, so that countless multitudes may be brought into communion with and worship of the living God. So the bottom line is we just need to get back to what was practiced many years ago by the Puritans who pushed it. And that is family worship, where we read together the scripture, where we come together as a family, where we pray, where we teach our children and grandchildren the gospel ourselves. Where we we depend upon the gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit and our prayers, God answering those prayers, so that God does the work in their hearts. That's what we need to trust in Most, if not all, teens who never come back to church after high school, they don't have any memories of praying together in their home. No memories of the parents reading scripture and praying together with them. Spurgy said to this brethren, I wish it were more common, I wish it were more universal with all Christians that we have family prayer. We sometimes hear the children of a Christian parents who do not grow up in the fear of God And who are asked how it is that they turn out so badly. In many ways, in very many cases, I fear, there is such a neglect of family worship that it's not probable that the children are at all impressed by any piety supposed to be possessed by their parents. So even in our best churches, little to no family worship takes place. And that's why I think that this is so important. Years ago, I read a book by James Alexander, and it was called Thoughts on Family Worship And uh and I'm going to talk about some of the things that he talked about uh tonight in his book. I won't go through all of it. A lot of this is some things that I uh learn from him, but I've kind of put it in my own words. But I just want to plead with you to consider family worship. And what I mean by that, that as parents and as grandparents, that we take opportunities to read scripture and pray with our children. Just take some time to bring them before God and to pray. Let them hear you pray and you listen to them pray and share with them things that God is teaching you, things from the Word of God, the gospel. So let me talk about the theological foundation of family worship. And really the model for this, I think, is the Trinity. The theological foundations for family worship are rooted in the very being of God. And God Himself. There's a perfect love and fellowship in the Trinity. Perfect love and fellowship. The fullness of life and love is shared between the members of the Trinity. God didn't model himself or the Trinity after our families. Rather, our families are modeled after the Trinity. And so the whole idea is that there is love and fellowship between the members of the Trinity. That should also be the case with our family. Paul speaks of the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the family in heaven and earth is named We're created to fellowship with God to enjoy Him, to be a part of that Trinitarian fellowship shared between Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that, again, is a family principle. But also we see this with Adam and Eve. Man was created to fellowship with God and to enjoy God. We see this. We know this in Scripture There are only two uh people in the family who worship God and walked with him in the garden. That was Adam and Eve. You might be here tonight say, Well, we're married, we don't have any children. You don't have to wait till you have children to have family worship Adam and Eve were doing that in the garden by themselves with God. And of course there came the problem. Sin entered in. Satan tempted them. Satan didn't want them enjoying God. He didn't want them worshiping God And of course we know the story, they turned from the joy of worship with God by disobeying the Lord, listening to the temptation of Satan. And and we know what took place after that. Then of course you can go t uh to Noah. Listen to what the Bible says of Noah, Noah 6, Genesis 6, verse 9. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation, and Noah walked with God. And then when the Bible says the Bible says Noah went into the ark, Genesis 7-7, and his sons and his wife, and his sons' wives. with him into the ark because the waters of the flo because of the waters of the flood. And so here Noah was able to he didn't really win anybody else out there in that antideluvian generation, but he did win his family. He did bring his family on board the Ark. If I could just do that, I'll I'll I'll be content. I may not win the world to Christ, but if I can just bring my family on board, that'll be enough for me The Bible says about Abraham. God was pleased with Abraham, and God considered Abraham to be a friend. And why was that? Well The Bible says this in Genesis 18 verse 19, For I know him, God said, that he will command his children and his household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken of. In other words, God knew that Abraham would communicate with his family the things that he learned from God And that was something that was valuable to God. And then of course the passage we read here in Joshua chapter 24, verse 15, Joshua, he's speaking to all of the nation of Israel. He's speaking to the And he says, As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord He was using an example there because he knew that he would die soon, and he knew that after that they were going to have to cross over into Canaan, and there would be all the temptations there that that land would offer them And he knew that it was going to be a a challenge. And of course, generations after Joshua died, what does the Bible tell us? In j in Judges chapter two, verse twelve And all that that generation were gathered under their fathers, and there arose another generation after them which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel. The whole nation began to drift away As long as the families were worshiping together and worshiping God, they were strong. But when they began to drift away, they became weak. They lack family worship. Later on, Jeremiah prayed that God would judge families that had forgotten God. Jeremiah 10, verse 25. Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not, and upon the families that call not on thy name. Here Jeremiah is equating heathen families with those in Israel that did not pray together, that did not call upon the name of the Lord. And then by the time you get to the book of Judges, you see family worship Totally forgotten. And not only that, they've replaced the worship of the true God with idols. They brought idols in. Wholesale idolatry Shameful treatment of women, exploitation and abuse of women in the book of Judges, father who offers his own daughter in human sacrifice, the disintegration of the family We're studying judges on Wednesday night and you kind of see this this downward trend in the nation of Israel because they forgot God In Judges 18, 3, you have a Levite priest leading a family in worship, but it's with the worship of idols. What's a Levite priest leading Israel into false worship? Has it gotten that bad? And then the name of that Lev priest is withheld until you get to the end of the story. It was for shock value. The name of that Levite priest was Jonathan, the son of Gershem, the son of Moses, just one generation removed. This was Moses' grandson, leading Israel into idolatry. And so that's why Moses look look in Deuteronomy real quick. Go back to the Old Testament. Look in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 6 And uh this is a passage again, I'm sure you've read it before, where Moses is commanding Israel to keep God's commandments in verse 1 of chapter 6. Now these are the commandments and statutes and judgments which the Lord your God commanded to teach you that you might do them in the land, whether you go to possess it That thou mightest hear the Lord thy God to keep his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou and thy son and thy son's son, all the days of thy life, and that thy days may be prolonged And notice there's three generations mentioned there in verse number two, thys thou, thy son, and thy son's son. And here Moses commanded the head of the family, the fathers, To what? To diligently teach the Word of God in their home. We're to be so diligent in teaching the Word of God that our children should be able to teach their children. That's the whole point. You teach them diligently so they in turn can teach that next generation, to teach them diligently unto thy children, and then so on. And the instruction that he that he he he gives here is really two types of instruction. There's formal instruction. When thou sittest in thine house, the idea is sitting down together. That is coming together in your house. This is kind of a formal time of coming together, having instruction. Rabbis, when they read the scripture, stood up, but when it came time for instruction, they sat down That's when it says, When thou sittest down in thy house So when the rabbi began to teach he would sit down and then others would stand up. I I think we should do that again. I'm tired of standing up the whole service and you guys sitting down the whole service. It might help you to listen more if you stand up. Let me sit down. There's that formal instruction. Then there's also the informal instruction. And what is that? That's just out of the natural setting of the home. When thou walkest by the way, verse 7, when thou liest down, when thou risest up, this is just out of the natural flow of the house, over things that happen in the home while you're doing your daily chores. Make the Word of God the center of your conversation. For every question that a child asks, there is a biblical answer to that question. For every question. That a child asks, you can point them to the Word of God. You can point them to Christ. Some way you could find out. I mean, even if my child asks me about Batman. Oh, look at Batman here. Let me tell you about the real superhero. You know, the other day I was uh came in the house and my little three-year-old grandson Levi said, Hi Jerry. So you you call me Paul Paul, kid. You know, Dr. Paul Paul. No, I'm just kidding. But in the natural setting of the home, there's great opportunities. Just to teach our children. The whole idea is that you make God's word the center of your home. And that's, and again, we see that all throughout. Someone say, well, you know Uh my home's divided, it's broken. We have a lot of that today. Maybe I'm uh you're a single parent. Well let me just tell you to take courage. When you go to the New Testament, you read about the life of Timothy, he was basically taught by his mother and his grandmother, there's no mention of a father there, which implies to us he was either lost or maybe he wasn't even in the picture. Maybe she was a widow And Paul reminded Timothy, I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that dwelt first in your grandmother and in your mother Which I see in you also. They were able to communicate their faith to Timothy in a profound way that had an impact on his life. And we know that in Lystra where Timothy lived, there were no synagogues there. There wasn't enough uh male Jewish men to have a synagogue there in that area. And yet somehow she was able to get a copy of the Holy Scripture and use that to teach her grandson and uh uh son, Timothy, his mother teaches the son there some way. They were creative, but they taught him the word of God So that's the theological foundation. Let me talk to you about number two, the historical fathers of family worship. And what I mean by this is that if you go through church history, you're going to find that this has had a profound impact upon Christians. according to great men of God. Matthew Henry said the way of family worship is a good old way, it's no new thing, but it's the ancient use of the saints. Matthew Henry himself, uh of course you've heard of Matthew Henry's commentary, right? Matthew Henry was the son of a pastor, and he took notes even as a child in church, and a lot of what you read in the commentary that he wrote, part of that was by him just taking notes in church and learning things that was taught to him directly by his father. What an impact his father had on him. Martin Luther, the great reformer, he preached almost every day, pastored a church, wrote massive amounts of theology, but Luther also recognized, like any any other husband or father that he had a responsibility to lead his own family in worship, and he wrote this, Abraham, who had in his tent a house a house of God and a church Just as today, any godly and pious head of a got of a household instructs his children in godliness. And so he would instruct his children himself. And catechism, every Sunday afternoon, what is catechism? That's simply question and answer method of instructing the Word of God. He would do that. Baptists and Presbyterians. Did you know that Baptists and Presbyterians consider family worship so important? They included statements about it in their confessions of faith. For example, in the Westminster Confession, and in the Second London Confession, which is a Baptist confession, the following statement is made: quote, God is to be worshipped, and everywhere in spirit and in truth, as in private families daily. and in secret each one by himself. Did you know there was a time in church history when churches used a book that was called the Directory for Family Worship. It was a guide that contained about 14 divisions, including a section on the reasons for family worship, the proper use of scripture, the responsibility of the father to lead family worship, and directions on how to do it. And uh in the preamble of the book, church pastors and elders were required to keep the heads of households accountable. to this God given responsibility. They were required to do that. If they failed, they were admonished privately. In fact the directory gave these instructions. This is for any husband or father who neglected the spiritual responsibility in the family. This is what it said. He is to be gravely and sadly reproved by the session, that is the church, church leaders, pastors. After which reproof, if he still be found negligent, To n or to neglect family worship, let him be for his obstinacy and such an offense suspended and debarred from the Lord's Supper as being justly esteemed unworthy to communicate therein till he amended Pretty stiff, huh? Pretty strict. But that's how they did things. They thought they thought that this was so necessary for the spiritual health of the families and for their children. That to abandon this, you would receive a form of church discipline if you abandoned it. That's how important they felt it was. And then you go to the English Puritans. Horton Davies wrote in his classic work, The Worship of English Puritans, of the high esteem in which family worship was held. by the Puritans. They believed in this and they taught this and they ingrained this into families in their church. Richard Baxter, who wrote the Reformed Pastor, Reformed in the sense of being revived or spiritual. He placed a really big emphasis on family worship. And uh in Baxter's house, family devotions took place after dinner, which included family prayer and Praises. And he went out and taught his church members to do the same thing. To do the same thing. And in time there was a revival in that church because of that. And again, I already mentioned Matthew Henry. But his biographer wrote of him, Matthew was in constant worship of God in his family, morning and evening. And Matthew Henry wrote himself, quote, If therefore our house be houses of the Lord, we shall for that reason love home, reckoning our daily devotion the sweetest of daily delights, and our family worship the most valuable of our family comforts. Jonathan Edwards, his biographer, said that he began the day with private prayers followed by family prayers out of concern for his children's souls. That was a preeminent concern. And during the morning family worship that he had with them, he was constantly quizzing them about the Word of God, quizzing them about what they heard in church. Every meal was accompanied by household devotions, and then on we could go. There's so much more, and I'm running out of time. already. But even uh Alexander, the book that I mentioned, Thoughts on Family Worship, he said, laying aside all flattering words, I may say plainly that I regard the neglect of family worship as the springing from lukewarmness and worldliness in religion. And so it was such an important thing. And you have to decide for yourself how important this is. for you and for your family. But these moments that we have, they're passing. Um these these times that we have, these are providences of God. And you know what? Once it's gone, we can't get it back. These moments that we're able to spend alone with our children and our grandchildren, we need to make sure we make them count. Make them count so that they learn the scripture, so that they learn the word of God. Jonathan Edwards wrote that every family ought to be, as it were, a little church. And then there's a spiritual fruit. Let me just show you this real quick. Look in Psalm 78. Psalm 78. This is a great psalm, verses 1 to 11. The first part of this whole psalm is about the importance of teaching and instructing your children in the Word of God. Look in verse number 3. Which we have heard and known, our fathers have told us, verse four, we will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he has done. We do serious damage to the next generation, to our children, when we do not clearly teach them the greatness of God. That's what this is all talking about. The majesty of God. The wonder of God. Tell them what God has done. Tell them what God has done in your heart. What's God doing with you? Let them hear that. Don't pass those things up. I talk about the conversion of my father a lot. Um, but I I don't want my family to forget that. I don't want them to forget that that was a turning point in our whole life. That the grace of God came by our home. And I saw how the grace of God changed him And then what it did to me. These are precious gifts from God. And we need to communicate that. We need to tell our children and our grandchildren what the Lord has done. Tell them, don't be silent about it. John Phillips tells of how he was born in South Wales, and at the turn of the century, spiritual revival swept through the mining villages Whole communities were turned to God at that time. The face of society was changed. He wrote to tavern keepers went bankrupt. Prisons were virtually empty. Life in the mines, harsh and tough though it was, was made a a more pleasant By the new spirit of the kindness and godliness that was there among the miners. And he says that there were, however, there was no father-to-son chain reaction In other words, they didn't share this with their children. And as a result, when you travel up and down those same Welsh villages today, You see little evidence that at one time that was a place that was bathed in a work of revival by the Holy Spirit. There's no evidence of it there now. You'll see socialism, you'll see communism, you'll see Islam taking over. Churches that once were bustling with people now are mosques. One analyst said this. The young have gone left in Britain because Excuse me, let me requote that. The young have gone left in Britain because there is no longer anything to believe in, not Christianity. There's nothing left to believe in. And and can I tell you that the same thing is happening in the United States? Same kind of thing is happening. This is what happened when we failed to press to our children, the spiritual heritage, that precious spiritual heritage that God, the things that God has done in us and for us, when we fail to communicate that and tell them how valuable that is And what happens to a family? What happens to a nation when this is not communicated from one generation to the next? Well look in verse number nine and verse number ten in this psalm. The children of Ephraim being armed and carrying bows turned back in the day of battle. They kept not the covenant of God and refused to walk in his law. I don't want my children to turn back into battle. I want them to be faithful soldiers of the cross And in some places the gospel of Christ is in retreat because we have not taught our children to be warriors To be soldiers. The children of Ephraim forgot God. And this is what happens when we don't daily remind our children of the greatness of God and the powerful work of God found in his word. So what happens when we faithfully teach them? Well, our children will have a greater learning in God's Word. Look in verse number six. Notice what it says that the generation to come might know them. Know what? Know God's Word. I am convinced there may be greater teachers around you that can teach your children, but I don't think there's going to be any more influential teachers than you. You have a greater influence. In your child's heart. They're going to listen to you. The Bible says children's children are the crown of old men, and the glory of children is their fathers. God has put within the heart of children a kind of a natural admiration for their fathers. And so you're going to have an influence there. The Bible says in Proverbs, hear ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to good understanding. God designed it that way. But also the other thing it will prepare our children to teach their children again. Look at verse number six, again, which says, even the children of them which should be born, who should arise and declare them to their children. So you can have an impact not only on your own children, but you want to have an impact also upon your children's children as well. And that here's the big thing. Our children will place their hope in God. Look at verse 7. Here's what we all want, right? That they might set their hope in God. And not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. If this is not salvation, I don't know what it is. Setting your hope in God. That's what I want. I want them to put all of their hope in God. Their full hope in God. Our children are going to learn to place their hope somewhere. Either in the things of this world, or in the wisdom of man, or in God And we want our children to place their hope and their trust in God. We want them to be obedient to God's word, verse 7, where it says, but keep his commandments. We want them to keep his commandments. So just in closing here, let me just give you a few practical things on what you can do on family worship. And Alexander kind of outlines a basic structure And and and it's really, you know, it's it's very simple. Reading scripture, pray prayer, singing is optional, but encouraged. You can sing a song together. But he stressed just simplicity, sincerity over formality. And the advice that he gives is look keep it brief. Just choose appropriate passages. Don't read long or overly complex. passages or pray those long prayers. Make it warm, make it reverent, make it sincere, make it loving and gentle. When you have a time together for family worship. You know, when when we were doing this with our children, I chose right before bed. to come together, read scripture, pray, do catechism. And the reason I did that is because children would rather do anything than go to bed. They would rather do anything. And uh, you know, when it was time for bed, they were trying to figure out reasons to stay up. And uh so I they even reminded me, I say it's time for bed, they're like, Dad, we gotta have devotions, what's wrong with you? You're right. You're right. We gotta we gotta read some scripture here and pray. Um and I would just say if you have small children, get beautiful Bible story books with beautiful pictures. and describe what's going on there. Talk about that story. Help them memorize the Ten Commandments. Just go through them one at a time. Keep it very, very simple. There's a lot of great devotional books out there that are written that are very solid. But the most important thing is read the Bible together. Maybe decide to read a book of the Bible, just a few verses at a time. Go through the whole year, maybe in one book, reading a few verses at a time and just talking a little bit about it. Maybe talk about what the preacher says. Quiz them About what they heard. Catechism again is just question and answer. There's some great doctrinal catechism books that are designed for that, where you just ask a simple question and an answer is given, and it's a great way to instill. the gospel, the theology of the Bible into children, but pray together. Pray. Take prayer requests. Pray for one another. Let them hear you pray for their soul. And how you want them to turn to Jesus. Allow each child to pray. Help them along in prayer and how to pray. And if you are musical, go ahead and sing together. If you're not musical, well let somebody else sing with them. But meditate together on the Word of God And then sometimes even read other books. You know, Pilgrim's Progress is such a great book to read to your children. Go through it a little bit at a time. And there have these abridged versions where even adults can understand that. But don't let it become tedious. Be interesting. Be brief. Be consistent. Be flexible. But come together, find out the best times and do it. It doesn't take that long, just a few minutes. And you know what? They will never forget that. They will never forget that. I promise you later on in life, when maybe there's a temptation that comes their way, the Holy Spirit has something that He can use to bring back into their mind. To help them make the right decision. Even when they go astray. All we can do is teach our children, there's no guarantee that they're all going to do exactly what we want. But even when they go astray, God can still use what you taught that That that young man, that guy can still take that prodigal and remind them of things that they learned and they know to be true. You never know how the Holy Spirit is going to use them. You say I don't all my kids are grown up and gone. Well do it with your grandchildren Focus on them. Instill yourself in them because again, what do we want? We want our children to come to know the Lord When the family worship disappears, spiritual decline follows. It follows. So let's bow for prayer together. Let's pray that our homes become a sanctuary where God is daily honored Where he's daily honored. Father, thank you again for the instruction of your word and godly men who have gone before us. have used this word to to teach us, to instruct us. Help us, Lord, to not forget those things. To practice this. This is something we need to practice. And so Lord help us to be diligent, like Moses commanded Israel, to diligently teach your commandments to the next generation. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Name Amen