All right, praise the Lord. Beautiful. That sums it up, doesn't it? Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter number four. Hebrews chapter four. And tonight I want to um speak about again, as you know on Sunday evenings we are doing a very unique series where I'm kind of just taking Puritan books and works and sermons that I have learned from and gleaned from and I'm sharing with you the truth of those that hopefully it is feeding your soul and it's encouraging your soul because there's a depth about these Puritan writers that we don't really see in our world today. And tonight in Hebrews chapter 4, verse number 15 is where we uh we want to uh start. And uh I'm gonna basically give you a a uh a summary of a book by the title of The Heart of Christ in Heaven Toward Sinners on Earth. And this is a book that was written by uh Thomas Goodwin. You probably have never heard that name unless you are reading Puritan works, but let me tell you a little bit about Thomas Goodwin. He was uh He was a theologian and pastor in the 17th century. He was educated at Cambridge and he was one of the Westminster uh uh divines, we could say part of the Westminster Assembly. And so he was very respected among the Puritans. He was admired by them and he was called a position of the soul. Because it seems like Tom Thomas Goodwin had the ability to take really deep theological truths and to present them in a very simple way, even to the weakest believer. And so he had that rare combination of having uh the ability to be a scholar and yet also a a pastor that was easy to follow and that could really, really relate to especially sinners that were down and out So he wrote this book, The Heart of Christ in Heaven Towards Sinners on Earth. And in the book that what he's basically doing is he's he's dealing with a question. that uh many believers he felt were hiding in their heart. They had this question in their heart. And uh it was based on fear. And the question is something like this. I I know Christ died for me, but what does he feel towards me now? Now that he's in heaven. I know that in his earthly ministry he showed love and compassion towards sinners, but what about now that he's a he's exalted in heaven? Does Christ still feel towards me the way he did in the Gospels? That's the idea there. Or we could even make it more specific. You know, when we sin, there's a part of us that wants to not go to Christ because we're ashamed And and and secretly we wonder in our heart, would he receive me? Is he his disposition towards me is uh is anger, or maybe he's he's losing patience with me because I seem to be falling again and again and committing the same sins over again. So does Christ feel love towards me in those moments when I have And the answer that Thomas Goodwin gives is uh very emphatic. He says he is as gracious in his heart now in heaven. as he was on earth. In other words, the Christ that you see in the Gospels that had such compassion towards sinners, that is the same heart of Christ right now that he is exalted in heaven. And he goes on to say His heart is enlarged, not straightened, by being in heaven. In other words, if anything, his affection towards you now is even more because he's in heaven than than when when uh his heart was with during his ministry on earth. And so the entire book is basically Going at that one idea from several several different angles. And uh it's all based on this passage here in Hebrews chapter 4, verse number 15. Look at it. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are, yet without sin. And so the same Christ, he says, who welcomes sinners on earth, now sits in heaven with a heart that is not less compassionate, but more compassionate towards sinners. Many believers, especially those who have a tender conscience when they when they fall into a uh sin or they they they feel like they failed the Lord. They they think like this uh or or they they follow this kind of pattern. They sin Or they fail and their conscience begins to condemn them. Have you ever been there? You fail, and boy, your conscience is really working you over. And then they begin to withdraw from Christ. They think in their heart, you know, Christ doesn't really want my fellowship They imagine Christ in heaven to be disappointed. They imagine him to be different distant. Or they imagine him to be less than willing to receive them or to receive their confession. And Goodwin, Thomas Goodwin saw this, and he saw this as not a small issue, but as a serious spiritual error. And so what he does is he writes this whole book to correct that kind of thinking. He wants to correct that erroneous thinking. And again he says Christ's heart towards his people in heaven is the same heart he showed on earth, only it is fuller, he says, or freer or more constant. And so he wants to remove the believer's fear about coming to Christ in your weakness. or in your infirmity, or after you have failed the Lord Jesus. And so he writes to remove the believers here. He writes to correct these false thoughts about Christ's disposition, and he writes to draw struggling Christians back to bold fellowship with him. And this is what Goodwin says. He says this. He said, the greatest barrier between believers and Christ is not their sin. The greatest barrier is their misunderstanding of his heart. That's the barrier. And so you have to really understand the heart of Jesus. Now, so what I want to do is just give you the thoughts that Thomas Goodwin gives in this book. Again, none of this is original with me. I might add in a few of my thoughts here and there, but what you're hearing tonight is Thomas Goodwin filtered through Jerry Harmon, giving it to you. Hopefully you can soak in some of these truths and hope it'll hopefully it'll be a blessing to you as it is was and is to me. This is a this is a book. It's not really a long book But it's a book that's so very important. I won't be too long on one. All right. And by the way, it's his book is really nine sections. So really what I'm doing is I'm summarizing his thoughts and these points here. But all of it is focused on Christ. And all of it is really just Going at this same idea from a different angle. The first thought that he gives is Christ is a merciful high priest. And again, we see this in Hebrews chapter 4, verse number 15. The writer does not say we have a high priest who understands our infirmities. That would be true. He definitely understands our infirmities. But Christ is touched. He's touched. with the feelings of our infirmities. And Thomas Goodwin challenges us to think about that word touch there. It carries the idea of sympathy. Christ is not just aware of his people's weaknesses. He's affected by it. It touches the heart of Christ It moves his heart. He doesn't look upon struggling saints with kind of this detached omniscience. Yeah, I know he's struggling, but that's his problem. That's not the heart of Christ. He looks upon a struggling saint with great compassion. With priestly compassion, Goodwin says. And his argument is that Christ's priesthood is not cold, it's not mechanical, it flows from his heart, his heart of love towards a believer. He's not merely a high priest who appears before God for us. He's a high priest, he says, whose affections are engaged towards us. And so this matters, he says, because many believers separate Christ's work from Christ's heart. They believe that he died for them, but they're unsure whether he delights to receive them. They believe he intercedes, but they imagine time this is Goodwin here again. They imagine he does so reluctantly. And Goodwin insists that Christ's intercession arises out of compassion. So don't think about Jesus in heaven that he's kind of going through this prayerless kind of cold, you know, praying over you because he has to. No, no Christ is deeply moved by your plight. And his intercession for you in heaven to the Father is because of he's touched And these these verses here, verses uh 15 down to verse 16, give us some great things that uh Goodwin points out. Christ is exalted. We see that first. Look in verse number 14, where it says, We have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens. He's not merely a priest on earth, he's a great high priest in heaven. But he's also sympathetic. That's the second thing that we learn. He's touched with the feelings of our infirmities. His exaltation has not erased his tenderness Just because he's exalted now at the right hand of the Father doesn't mean that he has forgotten you. You know, sometimes a little boy will come up to me and he'll tell me, I'm going to play in the NBA one day. He'll say something like that and I'll say you remember me when you were great one day in the NBA, you know. Don't forget me, you know. And sometimes we had the tendency to think that when Christ ascended into heaven in all of his glory, and he's at the right hand of the Father now. And now he's in exaltation, whereas before he was uh had a ministry of humiliation, but now that he's exalted in heaven That he's forgotten us. No, he hasn't forgotten us. Christ thinks about us even more. This is Goodwin's whole point. He doesn't think about you less now. He's freer to think about you more. So he has not forgotten you. And that's the other idea. He's accessible. Look at verse number 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. And so this whole idea of the sympathy of Christ is meant to produce in us this confident prayer. The fact that we know that he's sympathetic towards us should not cause us to run away from him, but to run to him, knowing this sympathy that he has. Because Christ is touched. we can come boldly to the throne of grace. Right down Hebrews chapter 2, verse 17, we see this also here. Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren For in that he himself has suffered being tempted, he's able to succor or run to the aid of them that are tempted. Christ, the Bible says in Isaiah 53, 3 is a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And so don't come to Christ as though you're approaching a reluctant Savior. No, he he uh he's very sympathetic. Uh he uh he's been through uh as a man on earth, the temptations and the weaknesses of human flesh, and so therefore he understands what you're going through, and he's not a reluctant Savior, he is a compassionate high priest who loves you genuinely. Thomas Goodwin says, Many Christians pray like they're beggars outside the palace gate, unsure whether the king will hear them. But Hebrews tells us that the throne of God is a throne of what? It's a throne of grace. It's a throne of grace. The throne is not less holy because it is gracious, and it is not less gracious because it is holy. He says, so come boldly. Come boldly to Christ. But here's a second thought that he gives. What Christ experienced on earth still lives in him. In other words, the experiences that Christ had on earth as a man, he didn't forget those experiences now that he went to heaven. No, he still carries them with him. His temptations, his sorrows, his weariness, his rejection, his grief. suffering, the remainder part of his true human experience. Christ didn't cease to be a man when he ascended into heaven. He is the God man in heaven. He is glorified humanity. He carried his glorified humanity into heaven with him. And that's so this means that Christ's compassion is not imaginary He sympathizes with his people because again he went through and experienced all of those things in his own humanity. He knows what it is to be hungry, he knows what it is to be tired, he knows what it is to be misunderstood and to be betrayed, to be tempted, to suffer. And Goodwin's reasoning is very deeply Christological. If Christ remains truly human in heaven, then he retains true human affections. Even though those affections now are purified, glorified, and perfected, his heart is not less human in heaven. It is perfectly human, he says. Christ was tempted in all points. Like as we are, yet without sin. Now, he brings out this one point here. This one idea, yet without sin, is very vital. And he says Christ's sinlessness does not make him less sympathetic. It makes him more able to sympathize. You say, now wait a minute. Christ was tempted in all points, yet he never sinned. That's right. So how does that make him more sympathetic? Well, here's the idea, because Jesus bore the full weight of every temptation. He understands the pressure, the full pressure of temptation. Because he bore the full weight of every temptation. Let me just give you an illustration of it. Let's just say that um we had uh two hundred pounds up here on a on a weight Okay, with a bar. And um I challenged one of you to come up here uh to to pick it up. Rick's got his hand up. Let's just say Rick came up here and tried to pick it up, clean and jerk it, and Rick got it all the way up here to his chest and he tried to get it all the way up. And he couldn't get it up, it it dropped. But then I now it's my turn. And so I take the weights and I lifted all the way up by clean and jerk no problem I lifted all the way above my head. Now we understand this is a fiction, right? This is a story. All the way above my head I feel the full weight of that. Why? Because I didn't fail. Because I was able to clean and jerk it Rick felt some of the weight, but since he failed, he only felt a part of the weight. So think about that with the idea of temptation in Christ. Jesus felt the full weight of every temptation because he never failed in any of his temptations. So he felt the full weight of all the temptations of the world and sin upon him. And he never sinned. And so when we go through a time of temptation, Jesus fully understands that. The fact that he was without sin, again, doesn't make him less sympathetic to us. It actually makes him more sympathetic because Jesus more than you and I understand the full weight of sin. Jesus felt the weakness of human flesh. We see this in the Gospels very clearly. And so Christ does not counsel his people who is one who's been disremoved or removed from suffering. He has gone through all of that and we need to understand that. And that's what he brings out. So Christ's experience on earth still lives in him. And that's why he can sympathize with us when we come to him, Goodwin writes. But here's the third thought I want to give you. Christ's heart has not changed in heaven. It hasn't changed. And again, this is the main idea that Goodwin seems to really want to emphasize. There's this misunderstanding of Christ. Again, many Christians imagine that Christ was tender on earth, but now that he's exalted in heaven, he's more distant. And he's more severe. And Goodman said, this is a terrible, terrible misunderstanding about Christ. Christ's place has changed, but his heart has not changed. Christ is now exalted in heaven. His glory has increased, but his mercy has not diminished. It has not diminished. Christ uh goodwin argues that Christ's resurrection and ascension did not make him less approachable. Rather, his exaltation gives him greater capacity to help. And he says it like this on earth Christ's ministry was limited in that it was geographical. He was limited in a body and and a geographical location. But now in heaven, he says his ministry is universal. He's no longer limited. On earth he could be touched by one. In heaven, he's touched with the infirmities of all of his people. All of his people. And Christ has not changed. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. This means this doesn't mean that he hasn't changed states because we know he was humbled and now he's exalted. But what doesn't change is his person, his love to his people, his faithfulness, and his compassion. None of that changes. He says none of that changes. And Christ is invested with all authority at the right hand of God. And again, Gugwin emphasizes this does not cool Christ's affections. And he uses a great illustration when he tries to really hammer home this point. He uses the illustration of Joseph and Egypt, Joseph's brothers. You remember the story how that Joseph was mistreated by his brothers and then later exalted in a powerful position in Egypt as Prime Minister of Egypt? And uh Joseph's brothers had every reason to fear Joseph now now that he was in control and he was over them They weren't dealing with the same vulnerable young brother that they had betrayed. Now he's exalted. Now he's second to Pharaoh. He had power, he had authority, he had the perfect opp opportunity for justice. And then Goodwin says, but what do we see? What do we see? We don't see coldness from Joseph. We don't see revenge. Not even restrained civility. He says, what we see is we see tears. Joseph weeps over them. He provides for them. He speaks kindly to them. In other words, Joseph's elevation did not erase his affection for his brothers. And then Thomas Gooden points to Christ And he shows that really the compassion of Christ, the mercy of Christ is greater than that of Joseph. If Joseph had compassion and affection towards his brothers that treated him so Christ has an even greater comp uh compassion. But Christ Goodwin says goes further He receives his people without rehearsing their fairies. In other words, Joseph would rehearse their failures in a gentle way. He would say, you know, what you did, you meant it is evil against me. But God meant it for good. But Goodwin says Christ doesn't even say that about us. He in no way, when we come to him, rehearses our failures before us. Though the voice is far more often our own conscience. Our own, we have the accuser in ourselves, our own conscience, but it doesn't come from Christ. When we come to him, he doesn't accuse us He doesn't remind us of how unworthy we are. And so this is where the application that he gives really is forceful. After sin, again, many believers instinctively withdraw. Not always outwardly. Maybe, you know, you fail the Lord and you're still in church and outwardly you're kind of still going through the motions in your Christian life, but inwardly You have withdrawn. You're not walking in fellowship with Christ. Prayer is hesitant. You're hesitant to go to the throne of grace. Worship becomes strained. And there's this quiet assumption that Christ must be disappointed in me now. And I've done this before. And again, Goodwin is cutting through all of that. All of that false imagination. And he basically says this, look, Christ is not reacting to new information. Think about this. When he saved you, he didn't save you based on partial knowledge. He didn't say, well, you know, Jerry, I saved you, but I didn't know you were going to be such a wretch after you, I saved you. No. He knew everything about me He knew all of my failures in advance. He knew all of my weaknesses. He knows the full extent of who you are, all of your weaknesses. He knows every pattern, every relapse, every failure you ever would commit. Every sin that you would struggle with, Christ doesn't react to new information about you as though he did not know that about you before. So you need to get that out of your mind. And then he says his heart towards you is not fragile. It's not easily exhausted. It's not subject to revision. And so, you know, sometimes again we have this idea that we're exhausting the patience of Christ and we're really hurting him. And Gugger responds, no, you're not, you can't exhaust the love and patience of Christ. towards you. If anything, your ongoing need becomes the very arena where his mercy is continued to be displayed And so some believers fear Christ more than they after they sin because they imagine him saying, you know, how could you do this again? And again, goodness wants you to see that Christ's heart uh uh it towards you is n is not in any way in an angry disposition. He knew your weakness, he knew your whole story, and he set his love upon you, knowing all of that, and that love has not changed. at all. And we need to remember that. But here's number four. Christ has compassion towards infirmities. towards our infirmities. Again, look at verse number 15. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. And Gubin spends careful attention on this one word here, and he argues that Hebrews four fifteen includes all that that uh might discourage the believer from coming to Christ. In other words All of the infirmities. We could say all that may in any way discourage us, he calls that an infirmity. Anything that would discourage us from coming to Christ, that's an infirmity. That's a weakness And that includes both sins and what he says is miseries. Misery might be a trial that you're going through, a difficulty, a hard providence. All of those things, all of those infirmities, sins and miseries, all of those things, Christ understands. And he's touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Of course the infirmities include our own sin. Christ doesn't uh Goodwin says he du uh does not treat believers as though they only need sympathy and suffering, but not in sin. He knows that sin creates shame and fear and distance in us. And so Christ has compassion. His heart is Compassionate towards that one who feels that shame. And you know, don't run away from him, but run to Christ at that time. Time. Run to him. And this doesn't mean that Christ excuses sin. He's not soft on holiness, but he wants believers to understand that there shouldn't that Goodwin wants believers to understand that their sins should drive them to Christ, not away. And when you don't feel worthy to come. But also our infirmities is our weaknesses, the difficulties that we may go through. You know that those are things that Christ has genuine compassion on, whatever your your burden is right now. Whatever the difficulty, whatever the suffering, Christ has compassion on that. He knows that infirmity. But here's number five Christ's affections are moved by his people. In other words, Christ is moved. And Governor argues that Christ is not merely dispositionally compassionate, he's actually moved by the condition of his people. His sympathy is active. Again, he's not an unmoved observer in heaven. He's touched. And the troubles of his people matter to him. And this does not mean he says that Christ suffers in heaven in the same way he suffered on earth. He's glorified in heaven. But it does mean that his love is real. And his compassion is real. And his concern is real there in heaven. And so let me let me move on to number six. Christ's love is greater now in heaven. And we already kind of mentioned this before. But he's Goodwin spends a whole section talking about this, that Christ's love now is more fuller, it's more glorious because he's exalted. He says his heart is not enlarged because his divine love was once imperfect. No, his love is always perfect, but rather his mediatorial administration of love is now exercised from the throne He now loves his people as the crucified, risen, victorious, and throne enthroned Redeemer. On earth he loved in humiliation, and heaven he loves in exaltation. On earth he loved in his suffering, while suffering in his weaknesses, his human frailty, in heaven he loved with all authority on heaven and on earth. Romans 5. 10, if when we were sinners we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, how much more shall we be saved by his life? And Goodwin says, look, if Christ loved us when we were enemies, how much more does he love us now that we are reconciled to him? He loves so much more in in that way. But then here is uh here's number uh eight, I believe. Are we on are we on eight, seven? I'm losing count here. Guys, keep me straight here. Um, Christ's intercession flows from his heart. It flows from his heart. Again, Christ does not intercede merely because it's his designed office. He intercedes because that is his heart That is love and action. The fact that Christ is praying for you. Again, some imagine Christ standing before the Father, trying to persuade a reluctant God to love them. And Thomas Grubbin says that's not biblical. The Father loves his people. And Christ's intercession is not against the Father's heart, but according to the Father's will. It's according to his will. And so we see this in Romans 8. 34, who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea, rather is risen again, who also maketh intercession for us. And Paul there piles up Christ's work. He died for us. He rose. He reigns. He intercedes. The believer's security rests not in what Christ did in the past, but what Christ is doing for us right now. You realize the reason you can't lose your salvation is because Christ is praying for you right now. And He's praying that you will be with Him there in heaven one day. And his prayers are always honored. And so it's his intercessory work that keeps us in God's love and care and family. So let me give you number eight here. Christ removes all discouragements to coming. And here Goodwin is very pastoral. He knows sinners manufacture a lot of reasons not to come to Christ. But he says Christ removes all of those. All of those discouragements. I've sinned too much. He doesn't want to hear from me. Or we think I failed too often, I'm too cold, I'm too weak. I should know better by now. I mean, how long have I been saved and I'm still struggling in this area? I have nothing worthy to bring. And Goodwin's answer is simple. Those are not reasons to stay away from Christ. Those are reasons to run to Christ. Those are reasons to run to Him. And again, this whole book that he wrote is designed to remove any discouragement. of a believer coming to Christ in their moment of weakness or shame. So Look at verse 16. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help. in a time of need. Again, because Christ is touched with our infirmities, we are commanded to come and to come boldly. Come boldly. The Bible says, Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. And so let me give you the last point. You didn't think I was going to get through all nine quickly, did you? Christ's heart should draw us boldly to him, and this is kind of an overlap here. Again, Goodwin's doctrine is not meant to remain on the shelf. It's meant to bring sinners and saints to Christ. Uh when we see the heart of Christ, uh it should produce in us a boldness in prayer. Confidence in our weakness. Repentance after our sin. It's the sympathy and love of Christ that should actually cause us to want to repent. After our sin. It should bring us comfort in suffering. It should help us to persevere in times when we're discouraged. And obedience, long-term obedience. And Goodwin even applies this as to the motive of holiness. Goodwin says this, that if Christ retains the same heart of mercy towards us, then we should endeavor to have the same heart towards him on earth, which you hope to have in heaven. In other words, Christ's tenderness is not an excuse for careless living. It's a motivation for grateful obedience. Grateful obedience. So That's really the book. You have to read it yourself to really get a lot more out of it. But the question that we have to ask is, again, do you believe Christ's heart is towards you now? Do you believe it's towards you now? And again, Thomas Goodwin answers with a resounding yes, yes, absolutely, his heart, his disposition towards you has not changed. And if you believe that, then what you need to do is you need to come boldly to Christ. Come boldly to the throne of grace. Christ is not less compassionate. Than he was on earth. He's not less willing. He's not less tender. He's not less approachable. He's the same Christ, crucified, risen, ascended, and throne, interceding, and full of mercy. Goodwin emphasizes. So when you sin, come to Christ. Run to Him. When you're weak, come, when you're ashamed. Go to the throne of grace. When you are weary and you're afraid or you're you're you're you're broken, that's the greatest time to run to. Christ, run to his throne, because we do not have a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. Therefore we need to come boldly to the throne of grace. Let's bow for prayer tonight. With heads bowed and eyes closed, just think about Hebrews four fifteen and sixteen. Maybe tonight you're one of those believers that you've wrestled because you've failed in so many ways. It seems like you're wrestling with the same issues, and you may feel like you've exhausted the patience of Christ or that his disposition is against you. And friend, nothing could be further from the truth. We have a high priest that's touched with our infirmities. He understands us. Others may not understand, but he understands. He knows exactly how you feel. And so therefore, come boldly to the throne of grace. Christ's heart towards you has not changed. It has not changed. Take a moment there and just talk to the Lord and tell him whatever whatever burden you have, whatever weakness or infirmity that you want to tell him about, tell them about it right now. Father again, thank you for your word. Thank you for the great men of the past who were able And gifted to just mind deep truths of the scripture and present them in such a such a simple way so that we could apply these to our own life. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that your love has not changed. And when we fail, and when we're going through suffering, that's not the time to stay away. That's the time to run to you. So Lord help us to do that. Help us to see you as you are and to dismiss from our mind these false ideas. Anything that would discourage us from coming to you, and we pray in Jesus' name, amen