Would you take God's Word today and open to the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, chapter thirteen? And uh we're going to read a few verses in chapter thirteen, beginning with verse one. Can we all stand for the reading of God's Word today? Luke chapter 13, verse 1. And there were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all Galileans, because they suffered such things? I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. This is the word of God. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, I pray that you'll help me, your servants, and make your word clear today. And may there be some here today that truly come to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord if they haven't already. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I know that you like me have had your heart broken this last week to hear the news of what took place down in Texas. This is just a terrible, terrible tragedy. We have been flying our flags at half mass out here on our property just to mourn with the families that are victims of this senseless slaughter. When something like this happens, we naturally begin to ask questions. We question the goodness and fairness of God. Sometimes there are some people that even question the existence of God. This is a classic philosophical problem of evil where questions come, you know, why does God allow evil? Why these things? You know, how are we to respond to this tragedy? Perhaps that's the best question that we should ask ourselves. How do we respond when a tragedy like this happens? What does Jesus tell us? I'm the servant of the Lord. I have no interest in trying to get philosophical with you. My only desire is to tell you what the Scripture says, is to tell you what Jesus tells us. And the Lord Jesus gives us some answers to these difficult questions in the text that we just read. In order to understand that, we have to understand the context of this. And so let me give you that context. Jesus has just been rebuking the multitudes. This is previous to chapter 13. If you look up a few verses in chapter 12. And verse number fifty-four he said unto also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower, and so it is. And when ye see the south wind blow, and ye say, There will be heat. And it cometh to pass. Then Jesus said, You hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, of the earth, but how is it that you do not discern this time? Jesus was rebuking them because they were able to discern the weather. They had gotten skilled at that. But they were oblivious to the signs of the times, namely that the Messiah, Jesus, was in their very midst. And he uses an illustration in the next few verses in chapter twelve about a man who's going to be dragged into court. uh and who with a losing lawsuit against him. If he's smart, what he'll do is he'll settle the this dispute quickly with his oppon uh his opponent before it's too late. Look down at verse number 57. He and why even of ye yourselves judge ye not what is right? When thou goest, verse 58, with thine adversary to the magistrate. As thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to the judge, and the judge delivered thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison. What's the point that Jesus making is making here? He's saying this, that if we're aware of our situation, we would be quick to get it right. Now here, the point is we all have a debt of sin towards God. We have a losing case when it comes to our standing with God, every one of us. So if we're quick, we'll settle this situation before the time of judgment comes. I don't want to stand I don't want to settle my accounts when it t when judgment comes when I'm standing before God. I want to settle that out of court, so to speak. We just sang the soul, or the excuse me, the song, Be Swift my soul, to answer him, be jubilant, my feet. That song is all about standing before God in judgment. And so if we are aware of our situation, we have to be aware that all of us have a sin debt, and we better therefore get that settled before the time of judgment. Then, right after that, Luke reports, at that season, look in chapter 13, look at verse 1, we're still in the same context here, there were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. Luke reports that there were some present that reported to Jesus about a massacre that had happened. Uh they were Galileans, where it says whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. This is a mass murder. We don't know anything really more about that event than what what's reported here. There's really no record of this in the writings of other Jewish historians, but we do know from historical accounts that Pilate, who was the Roman governor uh of that of Judea there in that area, he could be very cruel to the people. In fact, because of his cruelty and his abuses of his office, he was dismissed. And so apparently on one day, Pilate sent some uh some troops in to break up a gathering of people who had gathered together that he deemed was dangerous. This was a public gathering of innocent people, men and women, boys and girls. They were all gathering together innocently to their to uh to go over and learn the word of God and to offer sacrifices and the soldiers in their zeal And their cruelty, the Bible says, mingle their blood with the blood of sacrifice. Let's talk about police brutality and the abuse of power. And so Jesus is going to use this one current event, the current event of a mass slaughter, an unjust slaughter, an evil thing that happened. He's going to use this to make a spiritual point. And he asked a question. Look down in verse number two. And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all Galileans because they suffered such things? Jesus asked a question that he wants you to ponder. Do you think that these Galileans who were slaughtered were worse sinners than other Galileans? Do you think that they were worse sinners than you? And that that's the reason this happened to them? Because they were worse than you Many in the ancient world and even today think that people's suffering is directly proportional to their sin. Well, Jesus answers his own question. Look at verse number three. I tell you what, nay, no, that's not the case. But except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. And so Jesus debunks that type of thinking, this erroneous theology. To think that the reason some people suffer these things is because they're worse than us. We're better people, therefore we don't suffer those things. That's not true. We're all sinners before God. We're all in the same situation. And then he speaks about another event, another tragedy that happened. Look at verse 4. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? He speaks of another event that happened, a tragedy, where there was a tower and people were round it, and the tower fell, and eighteen people were killed And Jesus refers to that, and he said, You think that those people that died in that tragedy, that they were worse than you? No. Again, he answers this question. Look in verse number five. I tell you, nay, but except you repent. You shall all likewise perish. Jesus was speaking to a crowd who really didn't apply spiritual truth to themselves. They were smugly thinking that Those people that suffered those tragedies were deserving somehow of God's judgment. And the fact that they had been spared meant that somehow, some way, they were pleasing to God. They had the same theology that Job's comforters had, you know, Job was suffering because Job sinned, you know, so on. And Jesus corrects this mistake in thinking goes, oh no. Oh no. And then he tells them two times, you need to repent. We saw that in verse three, except you repent, you'll perish. We saw it in verse five, except you repent, you'll perish. And then on the heels of that, Jesus underscores this this point by giving a parable. And Jesus is teaching us an important lesson here. That When tragedy strikes, we normally ask the question why with regard to suffering. But the question that we should ask should be what Not why, but what. What does this tragedy teach me? Tragedies teach us, or should teach us, that since death and judgment are imminent, we need to get thoroughly ready for that. And we need to make sure that our we have repented of our sin. Since we don't know when something like this could ever happen, you better make sure that you've repented of your sin, that you're ready for death. Because we never know when these things could happen. We just don't know. Now before we examine these verses a little closer, And look at this parable. Let me just say in passing, a passing comment on the Lord's Method here. You know, Jesus could have used this occasion in this tragedy to launch a critique against Pilate. and his cruel ways. He could have gone on a rampage against the Roman government. He didn't do that. He could have questioned Pilate's political agenda and go on a campaign to have him removed from office. He didn't do that. He could have lobbied for sword control. He didn't do that. If he did all that, he would have missed a valuable spiritual opportunity. Jesus could have plunged down into deep philosophical discussion about the problem of evil. If anyone could talk about that, it would be Jesus. But he didn't do that. If he did that, his hearers would walk away unchanged. He didn't do any of that. When tragedy struck, Jesus did not get political He did not get philosophical. Jesus got personal. And he asked them, have you repented of your sins? He emphasized to them the personal need for repentance. He basically said this, look, you better repent or you're going to be next. You could be next. This thing could happen to you. You too will perish if you don't Repent since you don't know when death is going to come, since you don't know when tragedy is going to strike, you better examine yourself before a holy God, because these things happen all the time. And what we see here are two means of of suffering. It's this tragedy brought on by evil people when these men slaughtered these innocent people. That was evil people doing something to someone else. And another way tragedy strikes is just accidents, natural disaster. But let me tell you the worst tragedy. The worst tragedy is not The tragedy that man can bring upon you, the worst tragedy will be the final judgment when you stand before God, and if you're not ready, you can die and go to hell, and that's the worst tragedy. That's worse than any other tragedy. If we learn rightly from earthly tragedies, we will avoid the ultimate and final tragedy, which is dying and going to hell. So notice just three lessons that we learn from this tragedy. Here's number one. Tragedy comes from the curse of sin. It comes just because of sin. You say, why? Well, i we live in a sinful world, beloved. We live in a world with evil people. Jesus here affirms what Genesis teaches about man being a sinner. All men are sinners. All are deserving of God's judgment. As the book of Job shows shows us, even the most righteous man on earth has no case against God. None of us can stand before the Lord. We talk about good people and innocent people. We understand that in relative terms. We get that. I mean the children that died in that horrible tragedy, they were innocent. We understand that. But we also have to understand that all of us, all of the children of Adam, all the sons of Adam, all of us are sinners in our heart before Almighty God, born with a sin nature. Even the most righteous man on earth is a sinner and deserve deserving of God's righteous judgment. And so the Bible teaches that man's sin was the cause of God bringing a curse upon creation. Beloved, we live in a cursed earth and bad things happen. And Disasters take place, natural disasters. We have floods and earthquakes and hurricanes and droughts and pandemics and all these things. Bear witness to the fact that we live in a cursed earth where man sinned and God put a curse on it. All tragedy is either a direct or indirect result of man's sin. But here's number two. The second lesson we learn is that tragedies show us that life is fragile. And we have to be ready for death. This life is very fragile. You know, normally when tragedy strikes Or something that's done by evil people, we we talk about it, we're glued to our TV, hearing all the reports about it, we look at all the details, but when it's over, you know what happens? People just go right back to doing what they do Go right back into the old life. No thought of how we should apply this. No thought of what does this teach us. And Jesus here shows us that we should immediately take it to heart by asking ourselves the question, what if that had been me? What if that had been me? Would I be ready to stand before God? Have I truly repented? of my sin? Is my life ready for that? Because the fact of the matter is sooner or later we're all going to die. Something could happen to any one of us. We don't know what the future holds. None of those Galileans that went to the temple that day innocently to worship God understood that that would be the last thing they would ever do. And we've heard in the news of people coming to church services and a madman coming in with a gun. And I'm not trying to scare you. I'm just trying to say we don't know what life's going to bring us. If a madman came into this church with a gun and started killing people, would you be ready to stand before God? Have you repented of your sins? Now let me just tell you, we we do all we can to be secure here. We have like sixty cameras all over the place. We have people monitoring those cameras whenever we have services. We have Men who are trained to be defensive when things happen, but no security system is foolproof. Our only security is God. And I tell you, sometimes God will allow these things to happen. And again the question is, what would it it be if what would it are you ready? What would it be like if it happened to you? Would happen if that happened to us? Are we ready? Because again, we don't know what the future holds And so Jesus is telling us life is fragile. And so he says, you better repent. Look in verse number four, when he talks about or those eighteen upon whom the tower slow and fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men? The word for sinners here is different from the word sinners in verse two. It's the idea of debtors And the idea that we have a debt against God, this goes back to what Jesus said in chapter twelve, of settling your account out of court You have a a sin debt. Either we pay our sin bet uh our sin debt by eternal separation from God in hell, or we trust Jesus Our Savior, we put all of our hope in what He did for us on the cross and come to Him for salvation. Jesus who bore our wrath. On the cross. And so again, the big question is, am I truly repentant? Now the third lesson I want to give you here is Tragedies then should drive us to repentance, which will spare us from perishing. And this leads to the parable that Jesus gave. Down in verse number six. But again, I remind you two times in verse three and verse five, he said you need to repent. And by the way, what is repentance? Repentance is turning from your sin and turning to Christ, turning with all your heart. It's not just being sorry, but it is turning from your sin, turning to Jesus, making a commitment to him as your Savior and as your Lord Putting all of your faith in Christ. And if that's what true repentance and true faith, it's going to bear fruit because after that, you know what will happen? That'll be revealed in your life. We'll see it You don't just repent one time and go back to living your old life. Repentance is a continual attitude towards God where we show the fruits of true repentance in our life That's what he's saying here. And so this goes then to the parable that Jesus gives here. Look in verse number six. And he spake also this parable just to really drive home this point. Jesus gives a parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and he sought fruit thereon and found none. And so this This is uh the fig tree. Notice that this is uh a man who plants a fig tree in a vineyard. Now remember when Jesus gave this parable, Israel was a very agricultural society. And a lot of times Jesus would use those um those kind of stories to illustrate spiritual truth, stories of farmers and planting vineyards and trees. And a very common thing in that day was for a man who had a vineyard A vineyard normally was very kept kept very well. It was protected. It was preserved. They would put a wall around it. They would water it. Um and since it was the best uh plot of land that a man had, it was a great place to also plant a fig tree, since it was a a plot of land that was watered and nourished and protected. It was not uncommon to put a fig tree there. Fig trees grew about twenty five twenty-five to twenty six feet high. Um they were very wide. They provided shade. They bore fruit, kind of a little plum-like fruit. And so every man would try to have a fig tree close by. And so here's a man who has a vineyard. He plants a fig tree, we see in verse number six, in his vineyard. And notice in verse 6 where it says, and he came and he sought fruit thereon, and he found none. So this man, he plants the tree. Because he wants fruit. He's not planting this tree for it to be an ornamental tree, or he's not planting this tree to get wood for fire. He wants fruit from this tree. And so notice what I call then the frustrated owner in verse number six, where he comes and he looks for fruit and he finds none. Look in verse seven. Then he said unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold These three years I come seeking fruit on this tree and find none. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? So he comes looking for fruit. He finds nothing. So he says to his vine dresser, the one who takes care of the vineyard and all the plants, he says, Look, I've been checking on this tree for three years. And it still has no fruit. We see the word behold there in verse 7. Behold, these three years. That's kind of a word of surprise. I'm surprised. Year after year, for three years I've been coming looking for fruit, and there's no fruit on this tree? So why do we let this tree continue to take up space? Why do that? I mean the owner of this vineyard planted it within the confines of the walls of the vineyard. It enjoyed protection. It enjoyed his nurture, his care, it drank up the water from his supply. But it was useless. It wasn't fulfilling the purpose for which it was planted. It didn't produce any fruit. So he says, cut it down. Get rid of it. Again, look at verse 7. Cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? I mean, this thing is just taking up space. Why allow it to continue to take up just space on the ground? So we see the fig tree and the frustrated owner, but I want you to see the next thing, the final chance. Look in verse number eight. And he answered, and he said unto him, Lord. Let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it. And if it bear fruit, well, and if not, Then after that thou shalt cut it down. So the keeper of the vineyard comes in owner and says, look, you know what? Let's just give it one more year. I know it's been three years. Let's just give it one more year. I mean the decree has already gone out. Cut it down. But the keeper says, one more year. I'll dig about it. That is, I'll loosen the soil around it. Maybe that's what it needs. I'll put some fertilizer on it, you know, maybe that'll help it to grow. And in verse 9, and if it bear fruit, well You know, that's wonderful. If not, then cut it down. Now what's interesting to me is in verse 9, that's where the sermon ends. Jesus ends the sermon right there. Because the people, the listeners at that time were supposed to understand this. They were supposed to make the application, to make the mental leap in their own mind of who this is talking about. So let's let's put all this together. Who's the owner of the vineyard? Well, that's God, right? God's the owner of the vineyard. He's planted the vineyard. He's planted the fig tree in In the vineyard, who's the key for the vineyard? That's Jesus. He's the one laboring in his father's vineyard, taking care of it. The great Puritan John Bunyan, when he preached this parable, he said this. Baron fig tree, see how the Lord Jesus by these very words suggesteth the cause of thy fruitless soul. The things of this world lie too close to thy heart. The earth with all its things bound up thy roots. So the The vine dresser is Jesus. The fig tree, who does the fig tree represent? I'll tell you it's twofold. It represents Israel, the people there in Israel. Jesus had been Speaking to Israel, his public ministry was for three years. Jesus was preaching for three years to the people of Israel, and you know what? They rejected him. He got no fruit. His public ministry lasted that long, but it was coming to an end. And the owner, God the Father, says, you know what, let's just cut this fig tree down. Let's just get rid of it. Let's, in other words, let's just judge it. You know, Jesus was very close at this time in the Gospel of Luke of going to the cross. But here Jesus says, look, just give it a little more time. I mean Jesus was going to the cross, he was on his way to Jerusalem, there was a little time left for people to repent Remember what John the Baptist said in Luke 3. 9, you better bring forth fruits fit for repentance because the axe head is already laid at the root of the tree. Judgment is imminent. You better repent. You better do it right now. And then uh by the way in verse number nine we see the word if. This is uh the if here is kind of um in the Greek it's if, but it's probably not gonna happen. Is the first class condition. I don't want to give you a Greek lesson, but it's it's probably not going to happen. But let's just wait. Let's just see if it will. But I want to see uh there's a second application. The fig tree not only represents Israel, but also it represents you and me Just like the owner planted the fig tree in his vineyard, even so God the Father planted you and me in this world. Every person who has ever lived on this planet was created by a good and merciful God. And you know what the purpose was? You know why God put us in this world? We were created to enjoy Him, to bring Him glory. That's why we're here. Every person breathes God's air. Every person drinks God's water, eats God's food, partakes of all the good things of life that God grants. We enjoy all the beautiful creation of Almighty God. Yet, how many people live only for themselves, only for their own pleasure, with no thought for God or for his glory? And so we are kind of like that fig tree. We're living in this world and we're living on borrowed time. And so what Jesus is teaching here is the urgency of repentance. You need to repent right now. Because the decree has already gone out. Cut it down. Judgment has already been declared. And if you have not repented of your sin, judgment has already been declared against you. It's already here. Listen to John 3. 18. He that believeth not on him is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. But God is patient and He's waiting for people to repent. You ever hear the expression you're living on borrowed time? Everyone in this world is living on borrowed time. And you better make sure that you've repented. That's true judgment. God's already declared it. He's already said it. But then the other thing is the not only the urgency of repentance, but the authenticity. Make sure that your repentance is real. In other words, the repentance here, the fruit here is the idea of repentance. You'll produce the fruit of real repentance. Jesus was speaking to people who are very religious The Pharisees, they had on the surface all their religious works all done, and when you looked at a Pharisee, you thought, wow, this is a very religious person, but Jesus looked down deeper than that and he saw their heart and he saw that their heart was not right with God They weren't bringing forth fruits of true repentance. They had zero fruit of true repentance. What are the fruits of true repentance? And this is where I say to people here, listen, you better make sure that you're saved, and you better examine your life to make sure that you're saved. And if you are really saved and you're truly of God, there's going to be fruit in your life that will bear witness to that, that shows that your repentance is real. If there's no fruit, there's no salvation. So you better be clear about that. You say, what's the fruit? It's just obedience to Jesus, becoming more like Christ, Christ-like character, a desire to please the Lord. A desire to live a life that is practically righteous in God's sight. And we don't do works in order to get saved. We we do works because we already are saved. It's a faith that produces good works. That's the fruit of genuine repentance. And so life is fragile. You had better make Sure. Tragedies come because of the curse of sin. Tragedies show us that life is fragile. We better get ready for death. Tragedies should drive us to repentance, which will keep us from perishing. And God is waiting. God is waiting. I believe there's a sense in which our country is already under the judgment of God. Because we are a nation that has turned its back on God, that has forgotten God, that has thrown away his word And therefore, we're this nation is going down with its morals into evil, and we have tragedies like this that happened. Beloved, we better make sure. That we've repented and that we show the fruits of genuine repentance. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just before I pray we close our service. Just want to ask you, are you sure of your own soul? Have you genuinely repented of your sins and put your full faith in Christ? If a tragedy were to happen to you or your family, would you be ready? Can you say like the psalmist, I shall not be moved. Because my heart is fixed. Trusting in the Lord. I've repented of my sin. If I were to die today, I know I would be ready to face God because I've trusted Christ. And friend, if you can't say that with absolute certainty, I would just with all my heart encourage you to please don't put that off Please, right now, you know, right where you are, you know, sometimes churches give invitations. We do that from time to time. But you know what? You don't have to come forward to an altar to get saved. You can get saved right where you are. It's faith. It's putting your faith in Christ. Right where you are, would you just reach out in prayer and say, God, please cleanse me from my sin. I turn in true repentance to you. Cleanse me and save me. And friend, if you pray that the Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. Friend, you come to Jesus for the true repentance, he's not going to cast you out. He'll receive you unto himself. He'll cleanse you from your sin. He'll make you a new person. He'll give you eternal life. So that when death comes, we don't have to be afraid of it. And if you're hearing God's dealing in your heart after our service, we're gonna have men up here in the front. We want to talk to you. We want to pray with you about your soul. Father, bless these words to hear your hearts today. Use this for your honor and for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.