Well this morning uh I would ask you, I advise you to take your Bibles and turn to Matthew 12 and stand. I want to read scripture today. Read the passage together. If you'll stand in honor of the Word of God and turn to Matthew 12, we're going to look at verses 22 down to verse 32. And if you just follow along while I read this passage together. with you following along verse 22. Then was brought unto him one possessed with the devil. Verse 22 of Matthew 12. blind and dumb, and he healed him. Insomuch that the blind and the dumb both spake in Saul. And all the people were amazed and said, Is not this the son of David? And when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of devils. And Jesus knew their thoughts, and he said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought into desolation. And every city or house divided against itself shall not stand. And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself. How shall then his kingdom stand And if I by the elves above cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strongman, and then he will spoil his house. He that is not with me is against me And he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. And wherefore I say unto you, all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto Man, and whosoever speaketh the word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him. But whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come. This is God's inspired word and may we submit to it. Let's bow for prayer. Father, help me now to preach and make your word clear to these your servants. Give me your strength and help. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. As you know, in the last few weeks, actually months, I'm not even sure how many months we've been on this, we I've been talking about the parables of Jesus. And I've been going through the Gospels one by one and hopefully helping you to understand these parables. I think some of the most profound truth ever is in the parables that our Lord Jesus gave. And I know some of you are thinking, when are you going to move on? I'm going to do one more here, and then next week we'll have a special speaker and I'll move on to something different. I do reserve the right to change my mind, however This will be the last one. Because there's a lot of confusion out there in Christianity today with reference to this one thing about binding the strong man What does it mean to bind a strong man? Is a Christian able to do it? Has God called us to bind the strong man? And I want us to look at this. This is a brief parable that we read in this narrative that Jesus gave And I want us to see it in his context. This passage records a verbal exchange from Jesus and the Pharisees. And basically, this parable is in response to an accusation against him. He was responding to the criticism leveled against him. Now, in the Gospel of Matthew, in the first ten chapters, what we really see is the revelation of the king. One thing after another is revealing that Jesus is the Son of David, He is the Messiah. And chapters 8 and 9, it's nothing recorded there but the miracles, and that's just a real small sample of miracles that Jesus did And those miracles were sufficient enough to prove that he is the Messiah. But then as you go on in Matthew and you get into chapter eleven and twelve and thirteen, you have what is called the rejection of the king When the people should have said, this indeed is the Messiah, what we find is a series of negative responses to the ministry of Jesus. They doubted him They criticized him. There was indifference towards him. You can feel the hostility building against Christ. There was rejection. And then by the time you get to chapter 12, there's just out and out blasphemy against Christ This is really a tragic moment in the history of the nation of Israel. For two millennia, they have been waiting for their Messiah Every woman wanted to be the w the mother of the Messiah. She was the desire of all women according to the Old Testament prophecy. That just simply meant that every Jewish girl would dream about being the mother of the Messiah. Every prophet and teacher in Israel wanted to live to see the Messiah. He was the hope of all the nation. And yet when he comes And he begins to demonstrate his power and to prove that he's the son of David. The people many reject. In fact, most reject him. What does the Bible say? He came unto his own, and his own received him not. And so what we see then is Matthew recording some of the hostility that comes against Christ. And that's the context of this. And I want you to see three events that help us understand the parable that we're going to talk about. First of all, if you're taking a write down a miraculous act. Here's the first part of the story in verse 22. And there was brought unto him one possessed with the devil, blind and dumb. And he healed him, insomuch that the blind and the dumb both spake in Saul, and all the people were amazed And said, is not this the son of David? So notice, first of all, here's a demon-possessed person. Demon possession is very real. People today can still be possessed, demonized. This was happening back in this day. And when Jesus had this man brought to him, the Bible says he healed him instantaneously. And this is nothing new Jesus was healing people everywhere he went. He wiped out sickness in Palestine. Again, Matthew 89 records some of those miracles, but that's just the tip of the iceberg. He did thousands of miracles. Thousands of miracles. And yet people still didn't believe. This was clear evidence that he was the Messiah That he was doing this. And notice the people's reaction. They were amazed in verse 23. And all the people were amazed, a word that means to be totally astounded. One writer suggested it means to be out of your mind with amazement They just see this, they just couldn't believe this. And they asked the question: Is not this the son of David? Now, as you read this on the surface, this might suggest that the people were beginning to believe But really the construction here in the Greek with the May negative, it was very skeptical. We could say it like this, this can't be the Son of David, can it? More of a negative tone to it. Could this possibly be The son of David? They still don't believe and they begin to wonder. Now one of the reasons they didn't believe is because in their mind the Messiah was someone who was going to be strong, he was going to be a military leader, he was going to be self-assertive domineering, he would be uh he would be a kind of a self promoter in his personality. Instead, what was Jesus? Jesus was humble, he was gentle, he refused self promotion, he was meek, he refused a revolt. He wasn't bringing in a political kingdom. He was bringing in a spiritual kingdom. Later on, the physical kingdom would come. But right now he was looking for repentant hearts. He was looking for people that would receive him. There was no fanfare, there was no parade, there were no trumpeters, there were no clash of swords, no armies. He wasn't raising a revolt in that way. He is the meek and mild, humble, compassionate carpenter who goes around loving people and healing people and helping people. That's the way he came. They couldn't fathom a Messiah like that. But another reason why they didn't believe, and here's the second point, a malicious accusation. Look at verse 24. But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, this fellow does not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of devils. That's a really hard accusation against Jesus. They got concerned about Jesus, these Pharisees. And they use what I call the big lie. You know what that is? If you tell a lie often enough, people are going to believe it. This is what they do against Jesus. And what's the lie? That Jesus, yeah, he has supernatural power But that power isn't from God. If you have supernatural power, it can only come from one of two sources, either God or Satan. And we don't think he's coming from God. You see, the Pharisees, they had a vested interest in this because Jesus basically, when he came, he destroyed their whole religious system. He showed that their outward righteousness was really hypocritical. It didn't go to the heart. And basically, he exposed their hypocrisy and their deceit, their false righteousness, so they would not accept Jesus. They could not. They went out to discredit him. And so they said, yeah, he does miracles, all right, but he does it in the power of Beelzebub. Who is Beelzebub? Satan. He does have in the power of Satan. And this was the lie. And this was orchestrated. This came all the way down from Jerusalem. The Bible says in Mark 3. 22. And the scribes which came from Jerusalem said He hath Beelzebub, the prince of devils. This was something that was orchestrated all the way from the leaders in Jerusalem. They said, We've got to stop this guy. He's destroying our religious system. What can we do? Well, let's just say that he does what he does in the power of Satan. And that was a lie that was spread. And it began to catch on. And people would say to him, Thou hast a devil, John 7. 20. You have a devil. We see that several times in the Gospels. This lie discredited Jesus. Now why did they say Baelzebub? Because in the Old Testament, there was the God Baal or Beelzebul. which was the God of the Canaanites, the Philistines, and Ekron. But what the Jews in the Old Testament did was they replaced the L with the B and called it Beelzebub. Beelzebub means Lord of the high places. Beelzebub means Lord of the manure power. That was kind of a derisive way to make fun of their Canaanite God. You worship Beelzebub, Lord of the manure power, or Lord of the flies. Because whatever there's manure, there's flies, right? This was a sarcastic, demeaning way to refer. By the way, this term Beelzebub became a term that was applied to the devil. A demeaning way to refer to the devil. Today we call him old Smutty Face. Back then they called him Beelzabub, Lord of the Manure Pile. And they took this title. This expression, and they applied it to Jesus, to the most holy, most pure, most undefiled person to ever walk the earth They said he's doing it by Beelzebub. That's how he does his miracles. This was a blasphemous thing to say. About Jesus. Incredible. Incredible rejection. So we see the third part, and that is the meticulous answer. So Jesus answers them And look at verse 25. And Jesus knew their thoughts, and he said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand. So he knew their thoughts. No one came to Jesus and said, you're doing this by Beelzebub, but he knew the talk. He knew what was going on. And so basically, what Jesus is going to do is he's going to give six arguments to show how ridiculous That accusation is, how serious that accusation is. And we'll go through these very quickly, but we're going to kind of focus somewhat on the parable. But here's the first argument. This accusation is illogical. In verse 25, he said, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. You know, he kind of presents a premise, a proposition. You know, any kingdom where it's divided is not going to stand. And I can just imagine the Pharisees saying, oh yeah, that's right. He said it's brought to desolation. That is, you know, it's it's going to waste, it's going to self-destruct And of course they agree with that, but then in verse 26 he says, and if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself. How shall then his kingdom stand? He kind of lowers the boom there. He kind of sets them up. He presents a premise, a proposition, and when they agree, he says, well then, if Satan is casting out Satan, how will his kingdom stand? That kind of leaves them standing there in their own stupidity. Why would Satan cast out Satan? That whole argument That accusation is illogical. But here's the second argument. This accusation is dishonest. Look at verse 27. And if by Beelzebub, and if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. In other words, among the Jews there were some who practiced exorcism. Some of the Jews would do this. They had their own little procedures for doing it Josephus, the historian, talks about some of the things they would do to cast out devils. One rabbi, a contemporary of Josephus, prescribed the following technique to expel demons Take roots of herbs, burn them under him, that is the possessive person, surround him with water, whereupon the spirit will flee. I guess that's one way. And they had all different kinds of ways of doing exorcism. And by the way, sometimes they worked, most of the time they didn't. In Acts chapter 19, there was a story of some Jewish exorcists, and they saw Paul casting out demons, and they decided to use Paul's method. And what did the demons say? Jesus I know and Paul I know, but who are you? They failed totally. That was typical of how it happened back in Jesus' day. Every once in a while they would be successful at it Most of the times they weren't. But here comes Jesus. And what happens? Demons tremble at his presence. It takes just one word and they're gone. They've never seen any power like this. Just one word. And you know what? He was uh successful one hundred percent of the time. Not just sometimes, all the time. And Jesus basically says to them, look, if I do this by Satan, if your sons are doing this by God's power, And they're only successful part of the time. And I'm doing this by Satan's power, and I'm successful 100% of the time. Doesn't that mean that Satan's power is greater than God's power? Is that really what you want to say? You see how he kind of leaves them standing there in their own stupidity. He says, Therefore shall they be your judges. That is, your own children will one day rise up in judgment against you and point to you and tell you how wrong you are. This argument or this accusation was illogical. The accusation was dishonest. The accusation was rebellious. Look at verse 28. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, Then the kingdom of God has come to you. Literally, Luke's account says the finger of God. If I do this by the finger of God, the finger of God represented the ease by which you do something. You know, if you do something with your fingers, it can't be that hard. And God is so powerful. When Jesus came by the finger of God, he would cast them out, be gone. And they were gone. And Jesus saying, Look, if I do this by the Spirit of God, don't you understand that the kingdom of God has come to you? And if the kingdom of God is here, what does that mean? That means the king is here. And he was standing before them. The kingdom of God has come, and the king has come. And if you want to attribute this to Satan, then what you're doing is basically just being rebellious. You don't want to receive the kingdom. And you don't want to receive the king. Then the fourth argument he gives is the parable. Very brief, but notice what he says in verse 29. Or else, how can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods, except he first bind a strongman, and then will spoil his house? And so the idea here, just as an ancient warrior would sack a city and take the spoils, this is what Jesus did. In other words, Jesus saying, you want to know my relationship to Satan? Let me tell you what it is. He's the strong man. He's armed. He has his house. And when he and the word house here actually has the idea of a castle. Here's a strong man, he's in his castle, he's well armed, he's defensed, he's ready for any attack. And what happens? A stronger man comes. And what does he do? He attacks the castle. He overtakes the strong man. You say, who's the strong man? It's Satan. Who's the stronger man? Jesus. And during the earthly ministry of Jesus, when Jesus came He came with the power of God, and he basically bound the strong man Satan and he overthrew him, and then he took the spoils. All the miracles that Jesus did prove that he was indeed the Messiah, the stronger man who bound Satan And who rescued people from Satan's grasp, Satan was being overpowered and defeated right before their very eyes. Jesus found the strong man. He took the spoils. Who were the spoils? Souls that were captive to Satan. That was you, that was me, before Jesus came and he delivered us. From Satan, from the bondage of sin. And Satan, we are the spoils, all of us who have been saved. Remember that verse in Ephesians, he led captivity captive? He took us out of that captivity and he gave us gifts and he put us into the kingdom. That's Finding the strong man. The Bible says you're complete in him. The Bible says in Colossians 2:15, having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them, openly triumphing over them. That's the image of a Roman triumph, where a defeated general is chained to the victorious general's chariot, and that defeated general is stripped, he's subdued, he's shamed The victorious general is Jesus, the defeated general is Satan. Chained to Jesus' victorious chariot. Totally defeated, totally stripped, totally spoiled, totally subdued. And Satan would just assume that you not know that. But he's defeated. That's what the parable means. Jesus is the strong man who spoiled Satan and his kingdom. But notice the next argument Jesus gives. Therefore, there's no neutrality. Look in verse number. 30. He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me scatters abroad. And so here Jesus uses his relationship to man. My relationship to Satan is I've I've spoiled his kingdom. I've bound him. And I'm taking the spoils from him. I'm delivering people from his clutches. And my relationship to man is this: if you're not with me, you're against me. You know that means there's no neutrality with Jesus. You're either for him or you're against him. You say, well, I haven't made a decision. Yes, you have. No decision is the decision, no. If you're not for them, Jesus said, you're against me. You're either gathering with me or you're scattering abroad, verse 30. He that gatherers with meat scattereth abroad or not gathereth with me, scatters abroad. That's the idea of a fisherman gathering the fish Jesus was gathering people for the kingdom. And Jesus said, if you're not in this with me, if you're not for me, then you are against me. And he was speaking directly to the Pharisees, who thought they were part of the kingdom, that they were the religious elite, and Jesus was saying, No, you're not on my side. You're you're not gathering, you're scattering. You're scattering abroad. If you're not with me, you're against me. And then the sixth argument Jesus uses is this: blasphemy against the Holy Spirit is unforgivable. Look in verse 31. Wherefore I say un you all manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men, but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. And whosoever speaketh the word against the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him. But whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither the world to come. And the point of this is that look, God is merciful. He's forgiving. Thank God he is. But there comes a point in time where God says, okay, I don't forgive. And when is that? Jesus said, look, all manner of sin and blasphemy can be forgiven. Again, that's something incredible about God. We sang this morning how amazing his grace is. It really is. How amazing that he can forgive us. No matter how many times you sin. No matter how many sins, there's no limit to the number of sins a person can commit where that he can't get forgiven. He can get forgiven no matter how many sins. It doesn't matter the number, it doesn't matter the degree. Think of the most heinous, dark sin that you can think of, and the grace of God can forgive that. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound, the Bible says. But there is a sin that can't be forgiven. And what is it? It's blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. That's what Jesus said. This is a far more serious sin. Jesus said, look, you can even blaspheme me. There's such a thing as people not seeing who Jesus was. They see the humanity of Christ, but they haven't yet really been in touch with that He's God in the flesh And mistakenly blaspheme him. Paul did that. Remember, Paul said, I'm amazed at God's grace because I was a blasphemer. And God forgave me. And he put me into his service. There's a sense in which you can do that, but there comes a point in time where God has given you so much truth and so much light, and your eyes have been opened by the power of the Holy Spirit to see. the work and power of Jesus that he is, who we claim to be. And if at that point, and if at the peak of God's revelation about who Jesus is, and at that point You reject him and you attribute his power to something else like the devil, that is a sin that can't be forgiven. That's the whole point here. That's what he's talking to the Pharisees about. And some people ask, well, can this can this sin be committed today? Yes, it can Let me show you something. Hold your place here, Matthew. Go to Hebrews 6 real quick and we're going to close here in just a minute. But look in Hebrews chapter 6. I want you to see a passage of scripture here. I think it's a parallel. Now, who's the audience in Hebrews? These are Jews that were considering the claims of Christ. They were thinking about whether they should walk away from Judaism and receive Jesus. This passage may apply to anyone who's considering the gospel message, people who come to church regularly but haven't really made any decision about Jesus. Look what he says in verse 1. Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, the word leaving here, what does that mean? Does it mean forsake the teachings of Christ? No, he's saying let's move past the ABCs about Christ. Not abandon the teaching, but let's move beyond it. And what are the ABCs? These are the Old Testament messages, the shadows, the prophecies, the sacrifices, all of these pictures in the Old Testament that point to Jesus, that's kind of the ABCs. And the writer is saying, okay, you've got that now. Let's move past the ABCs about Christ and move on to what? Perfection. Let us go on unto perfection. What's perfection here? It's salvation. It can't mean anything other than salvation. Okay, you've seen the shadows, the types, the prophecies about the Messiah. Now let's move on to salvation. Look at verse 2. Of the doctrine of baptism and laying on of hands and the resurrection of the dead. Again, these are referring to the Old Testament. Old covenant things, doctrine of baptism, that's the that is basically the washings, the ceremonial washings, laying on of hands, whenever a Jew brought a sacrifice, they would lay hands on that sacrifice. What did that sacrifice point to? The Lord Jesus in the future. So let's get to the point where no longer worry about laying on the hands of dead animals and let's lay hold of Christ, the reality. And he's warning them. Why? Well, because of the warning in verse number four. Look at verse four. For it's impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted of the heavenly gift. And were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and have tasted of the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, if they fall away to renew them again unto repentance, seeing they crucified to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put them to an open chain. Notice the word impossible. In other words, if you fall away now, you won't be renewed again. This isn't talking about salvation. This is talking about pre-salvation work. That the Holy Spirit does. When he's, and this is the greatest passage in the New Testament of how the Holy Spirit does a pre-salvation work. So that a person would commit to Christ. He says they're once enlightened. That has to do with your mind. You can be enlightened to see who Jesus is. And notice where it says, and have tasted of the heavenly gift. There's a sense in which you can get a foretaste of heaven. And partakers of the Holy Spirit. You can experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit, His conviction, His work of helping you to understand, and you can have all these things and still not be saved. This is the pre-salvation work that He does. And you can be a partaker, which is the word here means association. You can be associated with Christianity, you can be associated with the church, you can get a foretaste of the blessings that comes With salvation. You can experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Someone can come in our service, sing the songs, hear the word, sense the conviction, and still not make a commitment to Christ. You can have your eyes opened and still not make a commitment to Christ. You can taste the powers of the world to come. Again, this is all pre-salvation work done by who? Done by the Holy Spirit. And He does that. Why? To invite you to make a commitment to come in, make a full commitment. He's giving you little samples. You know you ever go to Sam's on Saturday? Y'all know where I'm going, right? They got all these samples. You go to this place they give you a sample. You can make a whole meal on a Saturday just going around doing the samples. Someone gives you a sample and you go back and I have another one please. I'm not yet decided on this. Go back, you take another one, you come back a third time, I'm still not decided. I You know what's going to happen after a while, they're going to say, No more. You've had enough samples. It's time for you to make a decision. There's a sense, and that's exactly what the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, you've gotten enough samples of what it's like to be in the kingdom. It's time for you now to make a decision. And if you've been enlightened and you've seen everything that Christ has done, and by the way, no generation was privileged to see the power of Christ like that generation. Where Jesus was right among them. And rather than making a decision to be part of the kingdom, what did they do? They committed the ultimate blasphemy by saying he does it in the power of the Elzebove. What incredible rejection. That's the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. That's the sin for which you cannot be forgiven. Someone says, can a Christian do this? Not if you're a Christian. If you're a Christian, you've already made a decision. You're already in the kingdom. Christian can't do this, but a person who's associated with Christianity can. And who's been around the work of God without making a full commitment to Christ, they can certainly do that. The truth of the matter is that you still are bound by the strong man. And you need to be delivered. That's the whole point of Jesus' parable. He came to bind a strong man in your life. to set you free, to give you total, complete deliverance by his power and by his grace. So the question is, are you still bound by the strong man? You know what makes the strong man tremble when he sees a weak person on their knees praying to the stronger man. That's what causes him to tremble. And I want to tell you, dear friend, when you come to Jesus, he will heal you, he will free you, he will deliver you from the strong man if you'll come and ask If you'll believe on him, he'll do it for you. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, I pray that this morning your word would find lodging in the hearts of these, your people. And if there's someone here that has never come to Christ in salvation, maybe they've sampled Christianity. They've tasted of the heavenly gift and the good word of God and the powers of the world to come, and yet they still haven't made a decision Lord, may we be reminded that you're either for Christ or you're against them. And so Lord, may the Spirit of God press upon their heart, the need this very hour. To come to Christ, to be delivered from the strong man. Because we know that you have bound him for us, that we may be free. And may these who are here today find true freedom in Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, is that have you found that freedom in Christ? Have you come to Him? And said, Lord, I believe you are the Savior, the Messiah, the Son of God. And I come to you in repentance and I call upon you to save me because I believe in who you are. And I ask you to bind a strong men in my life today and set me free from my sin, from my captivity. Lord, set me free. Can I, is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? How many say that's my prayer? Lord, that you would set me free from the strong man in my life. That's binding me. Give me true freedom. And maybe there are Christians here and you need to pray for someone else to be set free. Someone around you, someone who's so bound up and Satan's chains in sin. They need freedom. Only Christ can do that. Maybe they just need you to pray for them. That they would come to Him. Father, bless these hands. Bless those that have desired to come to you on behalf of others. Lord, truly make us free in Christ. And Lord, may we take heed to this warning that's given to us here in this parable. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.