Would you take God's Word tonight? I want you to open, of course, to the last book of the Bible, the book of Revelation, as we begin a series through uh this timeless book that points to the future and the consummation of The ages, uh, depending on how you interpret the book of Revelation, and we'll talk about that tonight. But look in chapter one, look down in verse one. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. And he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John, who bare record of the Word of God and of the testimony of Jesus Christ of all things that he saw. Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein, for the time is at hand. Now I read one time where several years ago in the city of Chicago they were able to uh to get an original sculpture by Picasso and they wanted it to adorn the plaza that was just outside the new city hall. And as they brought the statue in, it was uh covered with a canvas so people couldn't really see what it was. And finally on the day when they were going to unveil it, the the mayor was there And the people were there and it was ready and he pulled the the drawstring and and of course the veil fell away and there was that statue revealed in all of its glory. Now, what uh the mayor of Chicago did when he revealed that statue is basically what the book of Revelation does for us as believers, because the whole book of Revelation is written to reveal to us All about the glory of Jesus Christ. You know why I'm going to enjoy studying this book with you because it's all about Jesus. It's all about his glory And so that's what we we uh will see as we go through this book. Now, I want you to notice with me in the beginning just six characteristics about the book of Revelation. I want you to take notes on this, write down number one, the special aim of the book. Just write down the special aim of the book. We already saw it in verse 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ. Again, Jesus is the central theme. It's all about Him. It centers on Christ. It reveals Christ. The word revelation is the Greek word apocalypsis, which means unveiling or uncovering. It will reveal to us our Lord Jesus. Now there's a phrase that's used often in the New Testament that speaks to this very issue. It's the Greek phrase Apocalypsis Jesu Christu. Whenever we see that it's always referring to this unveiling. In First Corinthians one seven says this we're wa uh wait waiting eagerly The Apocalypsis Jesu Christus. That is the unveiling of Jesus Christ. We're all waiting for this event to come when Jesus will be revealed in all of his glory. Second Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 7. Again it says, the Lord Jesus shall be Same word there. Apocalypsis Jesus Christu. Jesus will be revealed. We see this in 1 Peter. We see it in other books. And so, again, revelation is all about revealing the glory of Christ. Now, some people might say, now wait a minute, didn't Jesus reveal his glory while he was here on earth? And as I've told you before, and you might remember this when we're going through the Gospel of Mark, especially when Jesus got to the Mount of Transfiguration, where there his glory was manifest and he became white and uh brighter than the noonday sun. Uh his clothing I should say got white. And Mark, you remember reading that where Mark said that um his his clothing was so white no longer on earth could get uh a piece of garment that white. A funny way of putting it. People back in that day w with glory in bright clothing. But here Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration was glowing with a a brightness and a radiance that had never been seen on earth before. And this was Jesus in his glory. Now, that was one exception to the rule. And you know what the rule was? During the earthly ministry of Jesus, his glory was available It was veiled in humanity. And people didn't really know who he was or understand who he was because his glory was veiled. The first time Jesus came, Jesus came in uh humility, the next time Jesus comes at his second coming, Jesus will come in glory. And this is what he's talking about here. Jesus came the first time as Savior. The next time he comes, it'll be judge. The first time Jesus came, he came to endure shame. When he comes again, it will be to enjoy glory. The first time Jesus came, he came to redeem us. The second time Jesus comes, He'll come to reign over all the earth. The first time Jesus came, he came as the meek servant, as the Savior. The next time Jesus comes, he will come as the mighty sovereign. the one who is King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And so throughout the book of Revelation, what we see are different ways in which Jesus is presented, but always is with the idea of this glory, the glory of Christ. In chapter 1, verse 10, he's called the glorified Son of God who ministers among his churches. And in verse 5, he's the firstborn from the dead. the ruler over all the kings of the earth. In verse eight, he's the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the w one who was, who who is, who was, and who is to come, the Almighty. In verse eleven, he is the First and the last, in verse 13, he's the Son of Man. And beloved on, we could go all the way through the book of Revelation. It just presents Jesus as a one who is in glory. That's the special aim of the book. But here's number two. This goes along with it. The supernatural author of the book. Look again in verse one. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him. Now the question is who is the hymn that it's referring to there in verse 1? Well, the antecedent to that is none other than Christ. This points back to Christ. We would say that this is the revelation that God the Father gave to him. Gave to who? Gave to Jesus. Now we would ask the question: why would God the Father need to give anything to the Son? And one argument that's been put forth about this is that this is the answer to the uh the enigma in Mark 13, 32. You remember when Jesus said, referring to his second coming, but of that day and of that hour knoweth no man, not know not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father only. And at that moment in Jesus' life, he revealed to his disciples, look, I don't know the exact precise moment of the second coming. The only one who knows that is the Father. And when Jesus said that, for theologians and New Testament scholars, that presents a bit of an enigma. What did Jesus mean when he says he didn't know the exact moment? And there's been all kinds of interpretations about that. Some say that, you know, Jesus really knew. He just told them that he didn't know. Well, that's called a lie, and Jesus doesn't lie. I've been amazed to read some of the different commentaries and some of the views on that And I talked to you about this before, that Jesus was one person, but there were two natures, and while we make a distinction in the two natures of Christ, There's no separation. Both of those natures dwelt concurrently in one person, and there were times where Jesus and his humanity did not have omniscience or he did not have access in his omni to that omniscient, or he chose not to have access to that omniscient mind. We know he was God. He's God he knew everything. But as a man, Jesus learned You say, well, that's a bit of a mystery. Well, welcome to theology, because all theology is not a problem-solving venture. It's a mystery-discerning venture. And Jesus, when he said he didn't know, he actually meant it that he didn't know the time. Only the Father in heaven knew that. And then there are some people that come along and say, well, this is the answer to that. Because when the Father gives to Jesus this revelation, this book of Revelation, he's giving to Jesus the answer to that, to when the second coming is going to take place. Well, that doesn't make sense to me because when you study the book of Revelation, you know what? The book of Revelation doesn't tell us the exact moment either. It doesn't give us the exact time or hour. So that doesn't really uh make any logical sense. Well then in in what sense is the book of Revelation a gift to the Son? Well, I think that this book is a special gift from the Father to the Son as a reward for the faithful, humble service of our Lord Jesus. And in answer to a desire that Jesus had while he was here on earth. Let me show you. Hold your place in Revelation 1. Go to John chapter 17 verse 24. I've showed you this verse before, but look at it again. John 17 verse 24. This is Jesus praying in the his intercessory prayer. to the Father on behalf of all of his disciples and us. He was praying for us there at that time too. But notice what his prayer request was in verse 24. Father, I will that they also whom thou hast given me Be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me, for thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. What is the request that Jesus has for the Father at that moment. Jesus is praying that the Father will reveal to all of us the glory of Christ. Now again, remember during his earthly ministry that glory was veiled And he came in humiliation. And here the prayer of the Son to the Father is, Father, show them the glory that I had with you before the world was. Show them my glory. And let me tell you something, when Jesus prays the Father, you can rest for sure we'll answer that prayer. Jesus' prayers are answered. And so I think that the book of Revelation is the gift of God the Father to the Son. Answering this one desire of Jesus, that all will see his glory. You know what we see when we go into the book of Revelation? We see the glory of Christ. This is kind of the the beginning of it. We see it in the pages of the book of Revelation, but you know what? You know the good news? We're going to be there. To see these things that we read about described here, we're going to be there face to face and see all these things fulfilled. That's exciting to know And so this is the beginning of the fulfillment of that desire of Jesus that we his people see his glory. And indeed, when you go to Revelation, you're not reading it very long until you begin to see that unfolding of the glory of Christ. Even in chapter 1, Jesus is Walking in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks, there he is, appearing in glory. And we're going to see that those candlesticks represents the church, and it's a picture of Jesus sovereign over his church. So you begin to see the glory of Christ already in chapter 1, and then you get to chapter 2 and 3, and where he scrutinizes the church, and we see his wisdom on display there. And then you go from chapter 4 to verse 2 all the way to chapter 22. And again, all of it is unveiling little by little, piece by piece, this incredible glory of Christ. So we see then the special aim of the book. We see the supernatural author of the book. But let me show you number three, what I call the specific audience. Look in verse one again, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. Now notice who it's directed to. Who is it directed to? His servants. Sometimes I hear people say, well, I just don't understand the book of Revelation. Well be careful when you say that. Because you might be identifying yourself. Are you a servant of Christ? Do you know him? Now the word servant here Is uh that Greek word doulos that we see used so often in the New Testament. And really it's the word, uh a lot of time it's translated bond slave in the King James, but really every time this word is used In Greek, back in that day, it always referred to a slave. And so it's saying, you know, this is revealed to the slaves of Jesus. And by the way, if you're a slave, that means you have a master. You know who your master is? Your master is Jesus. He is your Lord. He's your master. We are his slaves. And so really what it's saying is He will reveal the truth of this book to those who are fully devoted to Christ, those who belong to Christ. Now, let me tell you a little bit about the word dulas. It's a special kind of servant because in the Old Testament, and this was recorded in Exodus 21, the Jews had a custom That uh you know, every so often they would release all of their slaves. They would be free. And at that point a slave had a decision to make. and have their freedom and start a life of their own. Or they can say, you know what, I serve such a good master. I can't imagine a life any better than serving this master who is so good to me And so therefore they they make a decision. They say, you know what, I am going to make a decision to be a slave to you forever because you've been so good to me. I can't imagine a life Any better than this. And now they serve not out of duty, not out of obligation, now they serve their master out of love. out of just love. It's a totally different motivation. And you know what happens? According to the custom of that day, they would the the servant would Stand against a wooden doorpost, they would take like a a little awl and a hammer, and they would pierce his ear, and that little mark there, Paul calls it in the New Testament Testament a stigmata, that mark Would show to everyone that this person has, for all their days, uh basically given their life to serve their master And so that's what this word is talking about. This is a servant who says, I'm going to serve my master all of my days because of his Because he's such a wonderful master and they're doing it out of love. And by the way, that's the right response to us as believers, is it not? We have such a wonderful master He gave his life for us. The only reasonable thing we can do is turn around and say, you know what, Lord Jesus, my whole life belongs to you. And I'm going to serve you not out of obligation, not out of duty, but out of love. out of appreciation for all that you've done for me. And we become the doulash of Jesus. Now that's the word that Paul loved to use about himself. I love the fact that Paul never called himself Dr. Paul He had the equivalence of two PhDs, but he never called himself by those kind of academic titles. Whenever you see Paul introduce himself in the New Testament, it's always as the Dulas, the servant of Jesus Christ. And so here the writer is saying that God is going to reveal this book to those who are his doulas, to those who are his servants. That know him. You know, it's funny, you know, to the unbeliever, when they put up the when they pick up the book of Revelation, it is an enigma. They have no idea what's going on there I mean, you know, you you ever go to the library and just take a book off the shelf that uh where someone is writing about revelation that don't know the Lord, actually don't do that because it's a waste of your time. But if you just read through it just a little bit, you'll see that these people are just completely lost. They have no idea what's going on there in the book. And so they come up with all these bizarre things. You know why? Because the Bible says the natural man receiveth not the things of God. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, uh you this you're gonna it's it's like reading somebody else's mail. You're just not gonna get it. You're not gonna understand it. And so here This book is written to the servants of Jesus Christ, to those who are his servants. He wants to show. He wants to un He wants to enlighten those who are truly his, those who are his servants. Now let me give you the fourth thing. We talked about the special aim of the book. And we talked about the supernatural author and the specific audience. But write down number four. I call this the scholarly approaches to the book. Look again at verse one. The revelation of Jesus Christ which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass. Now look at that phrase. Things which must shortly come to pass. Now here's where the debate is about the book of Revelation. The debate is over this statement. What does it mean when it says that these things must shortly come to pass? And by the way, this is why this book is considered one of the most challenging books And all of the New Testament to interpret. There's different interpretations to this. There's different approaches to this. And so let me just give you four basic approaches to the book of Revelation. I think it's important that you understand this because a lot of times, you know, if you pick up a commentary and you start reading it, You may be a little lost because if you don't understand that author's approach to the book of Revelation, you might not get what he's saying. And as you pick up commentaries all over, you're going to find out that these commentators will hold one of these four approaches to the book of Revelation. Here's the first approach, the preterist approach. The preterist approach. Now what does this say? This approach views Revelation not as future prophecy, but as a historical record of things that already happened. In other words, when John said these things would shortly come to pass, a predator will say, Well, that's exactly what he meant. He meant that it would happen very soon. And those things did come to pass. And a predator will say, when John wrote this, it was prophecy. However, it has already been fulfilled. Everything in the book of Revelation has already been fulfilled. And actually we can divide a preterist up into two categories. There's what we can call a full preterist who believes that everything in Revelation has already been fulfilled It's history now from our perspective. We can look back and see that when John wrote this, it wasn't yet fulfilled, but now it's all done. And so that's full preterism. A partial preterist will say some of these things have happened, but not all of them. Okay, does that make sense So predators will say some of this has already happened, or full predators will say all of it's already happened, and um they will basically Take the words shortly come to pass and say, uh that's where their argument will hinge on. Yeah, John said shortly, so he meant it. And he also said, For the time is near. He said this in verse ten, in chapter twenty-two, he says it right here again in verse three, for the time is at hand. Now, the th the thing that you have to understand about this, and I think a weakness to this approach, is this this depends upon The dating of the book of Revelation, that is to say, when was the book written? And by the way, this is why in New Testament scholarship, this is the big debate. The debate is when was the Book of Revelation written? Because the preters will say it was written in the 60s AD, somewhere in that time. Somewhere under the reign of Nero is when it was written, because if it was written at that time, then in 70 A. D. Roughly a few years later, all these things were fulfilled. Protests will say that when at the destruction of Jerusalem, all of the book of Revelation was already fulfilled. And so that's what John meant when he said, Shortly come to pass. And so you can see that their whole view is dependent upon the date in which the book of Revelation was written. It had to be written at the early date, somewhere under the reign of Nero, somewhere in the s in the 60s A. D. Now the problem with that is this. Early Christian tradition supports a date of the writing of the Book of Revelation in the time of the Roman Emperor Domitian. And that was in the uh 90s A. D. rather than the 60s. And most scholars prefer this as the right date of the writing of the book of Revelation. So here's where the debate is. Those who hold to the early date of the writing, they're going to be preterists. They say it's already been fulfilled. You don't have to have that position if you hold to an early date, but a lot of them do And then those who are of hold to the late date of the writing, look at the book of Revelation as if it's all prophecy Okay, so that's where it hinges. And again, some of the preterists will say it was written during the time of Nero. In fact, they'll look read Revelation and they'll say, we even see echoes of Nero in the book They'll say, did you know what the Romans called Nero? They called him the beast. We see echoes of him in this book. And so that's what they believe. Now, there's a lot of uh proponents of this view. There's a whole list of names that you wouldn't recognize, so I'm not going to read them all to you. But just know it's it's kind of a view that's out there. It's kind of gaining momentum with some. I remember I was at a conference and I was just minding my own business and some guy came up and said, Hey, I want to give you a free book. Well, I'll take a free book. It was a commentary on Revelation. And you know what it was? It was basically a Preterist approach to the whole book. Because preterism, they wanted that whole idea there to spread. Now there's a second view. There's the historicist view And a historicist approach will look at the book of Revelation and they'll say, well, this is really a record of church history from the apostolic times until the present. And so what they'll do in this approach is they'll they'll they'll look at Revelation and they'll see the events there and they'll look at they'll they'll look at church history, they'll hold the book of Revelation on one side. And a book about the church history on the other side, and they'll find a correlation between what happened in the book of Revelation and what happened in church history. And so they look at it as being from the early apostolic times even until today. Now the problem with that view is it's very subjective in its approach. This makes uh the book of Revelation kind of subject to kind of an arbitrary whimsical interpretation. You know, I can be reading something there and say, oh, you know what? That sounds just like this that happened in church history. And so there's a sense in which I'm very subjective in the way that I interpret that. For example, let me give you some uh some interpretations that are given by the historicists. They'll look at Revelation 6 and 7. You remember when Jesus is breaking the seals, he's given the book and he begins to loosen the seals at Revelation 6 and 7 And a historicist will say, as each seal is broken and unwound, then things on earth had taken place in church history. For example, they'll say That the loosening of the seals, well, that represents the sacking of the Roman Empire by the invading barbarians. They'll look at the fifth seal as it was open and they'll say, Well, this is the rise of Islam. uh in the uh in the world. The sixth seal is the invasion of Rome by the Turks. You see that's how they they roll. They'll just go on. And of course the most significant interpretation was Revelation 13, where in Revelation 13 we see the beast, and this has been declared by historicists to be The Roman papacy and the Antichrist then was the Pope. And they take that view And by the way, this was the view of many reformers in the church. They took this historicist approach. And I can just give you names Many of these names are men that I admire, my heroes, John Wycliffe and John Knox, and William Tyndale, and Martin Luther and John Huss and John Wesley and Jonath Edwards and even Charles Spurgeon. I'm going to have to talk to him when I get to heaven But but that was the view that he that they took there, the historicist approach. Now again, what's the problem with this? I think the big weakness is that Um when you approach the book of Revelation this way, you are really uh being very subjective In the way that you're interpreting this. And a lot of these historicists will use kind of an allegorical or a spiritual way of interpreting the book. Let me give you the third approach. The third approach. This is the idealist approach to revelation. And this sees revelation as a timeless struggle between good and evil, and it's played out in every age. So it's not necessarily referring to historical events or historical record. For the idealists, it's not necessarily history and it's not predictive prophecy. What it is, is It's basically a a spiritual warfare that's being depicted that takes place in every age of the church. In every age of the church. You'll see this struggle between good and evil. And so really this approach ignores Revelation's claim to be a prophecy. And uh so what they'll do is they'll begin to look for spiritual lessons and all the prophecies or the or whatever they see, whatever they're studying They'll look at it. They might see a fulfillment of that prophecy, but what they will apply are spiritual lessons and principles that are reoccurring in church history. So let me give you an example. The beast rising out of the sea, they'll interpret that. They'll say, well, that basically is satanically inspired political opposition to the church, and this can happen at any time in church history. When the beast rises out of the sea. The beast from the land, this shows opposition of pagan or corrupt religion to true Christianity. Again, this is a battle that we face all throughout the church age. The harlot is represented of all apostasy that takes place in heretical Christianity. So that's the idealist approach to Revelation. Now let me give you the fourth one. And by the way, let me back up for a minute. What is the weakness of this? Again, I would just say that it's spiritualizing or allegorizing. You're not interpreting the Bible. with uh literally the way we interpret all the rest of scripture. Uh you're you're you're really being given to uh spiritualizing certain passages and using allegory and being very subjective in the way that you interpret that. And also it ignores the fact that Revelation speaks about things that will literally happen. This is going to come to pass, John said. These things will take place. Let me give you the fourth view. Which is the fourth view, this is the futurist approach. And this sees chapter four. to chapter 22 as prophecy, as predictions of events that will yet happen in the future. And and beloved, I have to tell you this is the way I approach Revelation. I believe it is prophecy. I believe it is things that will take place I don't deny that when Jesus gave his Mount Olivet discourse and he talked about some of the things that would happen, that those things did in part happen at the fall of Jerusalem. But if you look at a lot of things of what Jesus described, there's no way that you can say those things happened yet. And those things are yet to come. And so I think that revelation is prophecy. Um it's it's looking at what God is going to do, what he yet he will do in history and in the church. Now a lot of people that That criticize this approach of looking at Revelation as future, of the futurist approach, they'll say, well, you know, you're robbing Revelation of any meaning to the people to whom it was written Since it interprets much of the book as describing events that are in the distant future. And my response to that would be very simple. Listen, most of the Bible is prophecy. The Old Testament is filled with prophecy written to people back in that day of an event that was going to happen a long time from that point when it was written. And what was it prophesying? The first coming of Jesus. And so that doesn't mean that it just because it's future prophecy, that it takes away in any way a meaning and application and help for the believer today. So I I take the future approach and now by the way as we're studying the book of Revelation, as we're going through it, what I may do is stop and I'll say, well Uh this is what the predators will say about this verse, and this is what uh the idealists will say about this verse, and this will be what the historicists will say, and this is what uh Dr. Harmon says the right thing about this. I'm just teasing. This will be the futurist approach. And um and of course we go into this humbly. I'm I'm joking. I hope you realize that when I say that. We go into this asking the Lord to help us understand and see, just like it says here in verse 1, that he'll show unto his servants things which must come to pass. Now let me give you number five, another characteristic, the spiritual attributes of the book. Look again in verse 1. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him to show unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass, and he sent and signified it by his angel. unto his servant John. Now, notice where it says he sent and signified it by his angel. Now, notice first of all, this book is supernaturally delivered. And what is it saying here? Did you know something? This is the only book in the whole New Testament that was delivered and transmitted by angels. Isn't that a wonderful thing to know? Go to chapter twenty-two, look at verse sixteen. Just look at that real quick. Chapter twenty-two, verse sixteen. I, Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. So there you have in how Revelation closes out. This book is sent by angels. The word sent apostolos, which means where we get the word apostle. has the idea of a commissioned representative on an authoritative mission here as an angel commissioned in this ministry to to give this book This is the only time we see this in the New Testament. Now we do see it in a body of Revelation in the Old Testament. My question to you tonight would be this. What What body of truth in the Old Testament was given by angels? A little bit of Jeopardy music here tonight. You know what it was? It was the giving of the law. Just write down Acts seven, verse fifty-three, you have received the law as ordained by angels. So in that body of revelation, the law was given by angels here in the New Testament. It is the book of Revelation. And by the way, what we'll see as we study this book is the ministry of angels. It's all over in this book. You'll see it in chapter 4, chapter 5. You see angels. In fact, from chapter 4 to chapter 20, the only chapter that doesn't mention angels is chapter 13. But in all the other chapters, they're all over. So you're going to get closely acquainted with angels and the ministry of angels as you study this. But here's the next thing. It's symbolically declared. Notice where it says it's signified. It was sent and signified. The word signified here means to show by a sign. In Revelation, the noun form of this Greek word is translated sign as the word miracle or the word wonder. And so the same word is used in the Gospel of John for the miracles of Christ. And what we see as we study the book of Revelation is that we're going to see it's filled with signs and symbols that communicate truth. That's why the book of Revelation is so fascinating to a lot of people. Because it's filled with these symbols. And the key to understanding the symbol is to realize that each symbol that we're going to see in the Book of Revelation conveys a literal truth. It has a literal meaning. It's understanding the symbol. When John wanted to talk about demons, he talked about locusts. When John wanted to talk about the devil, he called the devil the great red dragon. When John wanted to talk about the church, he used the symbol of a bride When John wanted to talk about Babylon, he used the symbol of a harlot. When he wanted to talk about Christ, he would use the symbol of the lamb or the lion of the tribe of Judah. You see. Now, a question a lot of times people ask is why use symbolism? And the answer to that is several several answers to that. First of all It is characteristic of apocalyptic literature in John's day to use a lot of symbolism. And since this is a a book that is apocalyptic in its literary genre, Symbols are a part of that. And also remember this, that the symbols that you see in the book of Revelation are drawn primarily out of the Old Testament. In fact, there are 300 allusions in the book of Revelation that come directly out of the Old Testament. Now, there's no place in Revelation that directly quotes from the Old Testament, but it alludes to these symbols 300 times in the Old Testament. And so another thing about symbols is it kind of it kind of draws out your emotions, you know. I love when John talks about the Lamb, because what does that do? It conveys an idea about Jesus. He was the blameless, worthy one that was slain for our sin. And all that is conveyed in this one word that is a symbol that's there. And so symbols have a way of really just uh exciting our emotions about things that are going to happen. And then here's the next thing. It's systematically disclosed. Look again in verse number one where it says things which must shortly come to pass, and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John. Look at verse 2, who bear record of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ of all the things that he saw Now, here's the other thing to understand about Revelation. It's really a series of visions that John saw. It's just, in fact, we could just divide it up into five visions that John had. So really the whole book of Revelation is that it's five visions that John had. And by the way, in these visions, what you'll notice if you read it, it starts out very narrow. If it's a camera, you're focused in on this one thing. And then the next vision will kind of spread it out a little bit more. And then the next vision it'll kind of spread out a little more and a little more and a little more. And so finally you get this whole panoramic sweep of what's happening in heaven and in New Jerusalem all around uh They're in heaven. It starts out with the throne of God, and then the angels around the throne and the lamb. And then, you know, uh the j the seals as they're opened up and the things that are going on in heaven, and then it goes all the way out wide until we see a new heaven and a new earth. And so it's really five visions. The first vision is the glorified Christ walking among the candlesticks. And then in chapters 4 to 11, there's the throne room of heaven. John is called up to the throne room of heaven. And then the third vision are these great signs in heaven. There's the cosmic war, the beasts in the sea. And the seven plagues, and the seven bulls of wrath, and the battle of Armageddon, that's the third vision. Then there's the fourth vision. Which is Babylon, the great horror, how it is fallen and heaven is once again opened. And the thousand years, and then a new heaven and a new earth. And then the final vision is the new Jerusalem there in heaven, coming down from God out of heaven. And so it's these five visions. This is the way it's really systematically put together around these five visions that John has. Let me give you the last thing. All right. We talked about the special aim, the supernatural author, specific audience, scholarly approaches, spiritual attributes, but then the significant application. Because look at verse 3 Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein. For the time is at hand. So there's a special blessing that comes with the book of Revelation, and you don't want to miss it. The Bible says, blessed is he that readeth. This blessing doesn't come automatically. By the way, there are seven blessings pronounced throughout the book. But the first one is for those who read it. So, are you reading the Bible, especially Revelation? God promises a blessing. You'll see the glory of Christ. You'll see the sovereignty of God. You'll see the second coming of Christ in power and majesty. And then hear it. Look again, blessed is he that readeth and they that hear. That's why you you have to be listening. Are you listening to me? You're gonna miss a blessing if you don't listen to me You have to hear it. Don't let your mind drift. Now I admit some of it might get a little bit difficult or tedious at times, but listen, come ready to hear. Blessed is he that reads it and hears it. And then notice the net the last thing, and keep it. Look at verse 3. Blessed is he that readeth, they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein. For the time is at hand. In other words, apply these truths to our life. I believe when people really believe that Jesus Christ is coming, it's going to change how they live. It's going to change their life. If you really believe that Jesus is coming, then it's going to impact the way the decisions you make. And you'll believe when John says the time is at hand. It could be any day. He could come before we finish this series. He can come before we finish this Sunday. He can come before I finish this sermon. He can come before I finish this sentence. Jesus can come at any moment. And when you believe that and know that, it will change the way you live. Let's let's pray together. Lord, we uh we enter this study with great excitement in our heart to learn what you're going to do. And I pray, Lord, that as we study this together, that Lord, indeed you will show unto your servants things which must shortly come to pass. We're living in a world today where it just seems when we look around We see what's going on. We hear the reports. We read the newspapers. It just seems that we're living in these last days and we're drawing so much closer and it's as if the the stage is being set. So Lord, help us as your people to be prepared, to know that, Lord, you are sovereign, that when others think that things are out of hand and out of control, Lord, you are in control. And you're putting in your plan for the consummation of the age. And Father, help us to keep our eyes on Jesus and the glory of Christ as we study these things. And we'll be able to give answers to those that are around us. And this will not only uh excite us about the sovereignty and majesty of our Savior, but also it will give us a passion and a burden to share the gospel. With those around us who people all around us who desperately need Jesus Christ. Lord, may it give us that passion in our heart. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.