All right, well it's good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word please and open to the book of Psalm 119 as we continue in this uh series through Psalm 119. And tonight we're going to look at verse 17 on down to verse number 24. And I've titled the sermon tonight, The Believers Survival Guide. Psalm 119 and verse number 17. Deal bountifully with thy servant that I may live and keep thy word. Soldiers at Fort Dix, Tennessee were fighting a forest fire and flames were all around them. A plane flew over unexpectedly, and the the plane flew low enough and it dropped notes with weights on them, and the notes uh that they found they picked up and told them that they were surrounded. And the notes also told them that there's one narrow corridor left where they can escape. And it gave directions on how to find that corridor And so they acted and they were saved. So basically the words above had brought salvation to this group of fi firefighters there in that forest fire because they obeyed what they said. What a picture of our society today and the believer in our society. We're in a firestorm of iniquity and idolatry. We're surrounded by uh a sinful society. Our only salvation is to find that narrow way that leads to life. And the directions have been given to us from above. God gave us his word so that we can survive. As you read this psalm here, the opening verse, you kind of get the impression that the psalmist is in survival mode. He wants to live, and he wants to live a life of obedience and uh in a hostile world. He wants to seek the Lord. So the question is, how are we to survive this journey through this world? God is our resource. If you're ever tempted to think that you can make it through this world without the word of God, well this stanza of Psalm 119 is for you. We need God's word as we take this earthly pilgrimage. And I think the key verse is in verse number 20. Look at verse 20. My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times. Look at that word break it there. Just it's a figure of speech which means consumed, to be crushed. This word only appears one other place in the Old Testament, but it has the idea of straining with a painful desire The word soul means heart. So we could probably translate it like this, my soul is crushed with longing. Or we could say, my heart is crushed with longing. Longing for what? Longing for God's word. That's the idea here. How much do you long for God's word in your life? In the book The Wonder of the Word by Robert Sumner, the author tells a story of a Kansas City man who was severely injured in an explosion And the victim's face was badly disfigured, and he lost his eyesight as well as both of his hands just in his terrible accident And he was a new Christian and he was so disappointed because he wasn't going to be able to read the Bible anymore. And that really caused great discouragement. But he heard about a lady in England that learned to read the Bible in Braille. She was blind, but and uh but she learned to read the Bible in Braille with her lips. And so that gave him some hope. And so he ordered a Bible in Braille. And when he put the Bible up to his lips, he found out that the nerve endings in his lips were so damaged by the explosion that he couldn't feel the braille with his lips. And again he was discouraged. But one day he brought the Bible, the braille pages to his lips and accidentally his tongue touched the page. And he could feel the braille endings with his tongue. And it dawned on him that he could use his tongue to read through the Bible. And at the time of the author writing that book, he that man had read through the Bible four times using his tongue That's a longing for God's Word. That's the kind of longing that the Psalmist had for the Word of God. What kind of longing do you have for Scripture, for God's word. You see, backsliding begins when we lose our excitement of the word of God. We should long for God's word. How much? Well look at verse number twenty again. He says, My soul break it for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times. at all times. He wanted God's word all the time. And that's the way it should be for us because this is our survival. manual. Now let me give you from this stanza here four reasons I see that we should long for God's word as Christians. Here's the first one. Number one, because we are servants of the Lord. Back up to verse number seventeen. Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live and keep thy word. We need God's word because we are servants. And by the way, it's a privilege to serve the Lord, isn't it? It's our privilege to be able to serve God. And servants are loyal, first of all, loyal to their master. I noted in verse 17 where he says, I am thy servant. God, I'm your servant. And this word servant can sometimes be translated to mean slave. Jesus said, no man can serve two masters. You have to choose who you're going to serve. And we have to choose in our own life uh who is going to be our master, who are we going to serve? Because you can't serve two. You can only have one. One time Mark Twain was lecturing in Utah and a more Mormon argued with him on the subject of polygamy, and after a long and rather heated debate, the Mormon finally said, Can you find me a single passage of Scripture which forbids polygamy? And Mark Twain said, certainly, he said, No man can serve two masters. That's kind of funny, but of course Jesus wasn't talking about polygamy, was he? But rather he was referring to loyalty. And a servant can only have one master. You can only be loyal to one. And so you have to choose. Now the psalmist made that choice because he calls himself thy servant. God, I am your servant. Now we talked about the authorship of Psalm 119. I think that the writer of the Psalm was a young man being carried away into captivity after the invasion of Nebuchadnezzar. And uh when Nebuchadnezzar took Jerusalem, uh he carried away many thousands of the best and brightest young men into captivity, and the exiles were placed in chains And had to make that long 500 mile journey to Babylon through harsh terrain. They were now slaves of King Nebuchadnezzar. They were to do what he chose. But here the psalmist says, you know what? I'm not a slave to anyone but you, God. I am your servant. I'm not a slave to an earthly king. I am a slave to the Lord. Thirteen times in Psalm 119, he calls himself God's servant. We see it in verse 17, drop down to verse 23. Princess also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant Did meditate in thy statutes. We see it in verse 38, verse 49, verse 65, and on all the way to verse 176. Thirteen times throughout this psalm, he calls himself thy servant. God, I'm your servant. Servants are loyal to their master, but also servants live for their master. Look again in verse 17 where he says, Deal bountifully with thy servant that I may live and keep thy word. This is a prayer for God's help and strength. Heal bountifully is one word in the Hebrew. It means reward me or be good to me. He's asking for God's divine favor and blessing. Why? So that I can live and Lord, I can keep your word. I want to serve you. His whole life was focused on doing the will of God, serving his master. Some people ask God for his blessing on their life, but they want God's favor and blessing so they they can do what they want to do. So that they can fulfill their own agenda. But this psalmist here is saying, Lord, be kind to me, not so I can do my own thing, Lord, so that I can fulfill your will. You see, a servant loves to do his master's will above his own will. And all of us have to ask ourselves that question What kind of servant am I? Am I that kind of servant? Do I want do I put God's will ahead of my own agenda, ahead of my own will? We must examine our heart and ask that probing Question. In the Gospel of Mark, Jesus is called the servant. He's the model servant. If you want to know how to serve, just look at the life of Jesus And what did Jesus say? I have come to do my Father's will. His whole life was directed to that one thing. He said, I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but to do the will of him that sent me. And so we need to follow the example of our Savior. By the way, that's why we need God's word, because God's word reveals to us what the will of our master is. So we should long for God's Word because we are servants of the Lord. But here's the second thing. We should long for God's Word because we're students of the Word. Look at verse 18. Open thou mine eyes that I might behold wonderful things, wondrous things. out of thy law. Now here's one of the great prayers in the Bible, in my opinion. And this is a prayer that all of us should adopt. We should all be praying this prayer just about every day. As we read Scripture, Lord, open my eyes that I can behold wonderful things out of your word. And this prayer teaches us two important lessons. First of all, you must open the Bible before God. This prayer implies that we must set our hearts to read and to study God's Word. That's something that we should be doing. That's a discipline in our life. It's sad, but yet it's true that most people don't read their Bible. According to a USA Today poll, it shows that only 11% of Americans read the Bible every day. More than half read it less than once a month, or never at all. You say, well, that's Americans. That's not professing Christians. Well, there was another survey taken by Barna Research. That said those claiming to be born again Christians, only eighteen percent, that's less than two out of every ten, read the Bible every day Worst of all, 23%, almost one in four, professing Christians say they never read the Word of God at all. Yet the Bible calls upon us to be students of God's Word. Word. We're supposed to diligently study. Did you know that? If you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, you know what the word disciple is? In the Greek, it's the word mathetes, which basically is where we get the word mathematics. It doesn't mean you have to study math, thank God for that. But it does have the idea of being a learner, and you know, we are to be students of God's word. So have you prepared your heart to learn and be a student of the Word of God? Colossians 3:16, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. That's a command. Let God's word dwell in you richly. Jesus said this in John 5. 39. Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And these are they which testify of me. Search the scriptures, Jesus said. That is a command. Jesus commands all of us to search the scriptures. If you're not searching the scriptures, you're disobeying God. And the problem is many Christians are lazy when it comes to opening up God's Word. Charles Spurgeon said, there is so much dust on the cover of some Bibles that you can write the word damnation. So don't disregard God's word. Study to show thyself to be approved. So we have to open the Bible before God. Then secondly, God must open the Bible before you. That's what we see in verse 18. Open thou mine eyes. We can study, we can investigate, we can search, we can dig. But unless God reveals the truth to us, guess what? We're not going to get it. It has to be God who does it. We need to pray for illumination from God. You heard about the young preacher who was nervous when he prayed on Sunday morning. He prayed, Lord, eliminate our minds today. He meant to say, of course, illuminate our minds. Now when it comes to studying scripture, we can't eliminate our minds. God wants us to use our mind. He gave it to us But if all we do is use our mind to do the research and the investigation and we don't have the help of the Holy Spirit, you're not going to get the truth. We need our minds to think, we need our minds to reason. We need to investigate, we need to research, all that is good. But if you have just that and you don't have the Holy Spirit, if if God doesn't open the Word of God before you, you're not going to get God's word. Remember, that's what Paul told the Corinthians. Of course, you know we were over in Greece and we we went to some of these places. We went to the city of Corinth, the ancient city of Corinth. in and saw some of the ruins of the uh the temple of Apollo there. And um we also went to uh Athens and we saw Mars Hill. That's where all the ancient Greek philosophers would go to exchange ideas. They were all meeting there to find some new truth. Something they could uh be excited about, some some new idea. And you remember that when Paul went to Athens and he was waiting for Timothy and Silas to catch up with them because he had been driven out of Thessalonica When Paul saw the idolatry of all the people of Athens, the Bible says his heart was stirred. And he went to Mars Hill to do what? To just preach the gospel. But it was Paul that said to the Corinthians, and to all really the Greco-Roman world for that matter, who loved man's philosophy, who loved reasoning, who loved man's wisdom, that you can't know God through wisdom. If all man had was his own intellect, his own reasoning, his own philosophies, he'll never find God. Never find God. The Bible says the world by wisdom knew not God. Man's investigation, man's empirical learning, man's observation and reasoning, through because of his depraved nature, will only drive him away from God. He'll use all of that to try to argue God away You see, in order for a man to know truth, God has to open his eyes. That's why Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 2. 9, but as it is written, I has not seen. neither ear heard, neither is entered to the heart of man, the things which God has prepared for them that love him. And Paul's quoting here from Isaiah 64, 4. And this verse is a lot of times applied to heaven, and okay, that's that's fine, but in the context, what Paul's referring to here is the ability to comprehend God's wisdom or God's truth. And what he's saying is that if you use all your own empirical ways of learning and that's all you have, you're never going to really comprehend. The word of God. You're not going to comprehend spiritual truth. The depths of God's word cannot be discovered through the typical pr learning process, which is seeing and hearing and the five senses and uh observation and investigation and all those things. You need all those things, but again, if that's all you have, you're never going to come to the knowledge of the truth. Why? Well, because again, because a man's depraved nature, he'll use all those things to argue God away. And so you have to be taught by God. You have to be taught by the Holy Spirit. That's why Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians 2. 10, but God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. That's why one of the reasons you have the Holy Spirit is so that you can learn the truth of God. Because unless He shows it to you, guess what? You're not going to get it. not going to get it. Thank God for the gift of the Holy Spirit that teaches us the truth of God. And so we need the illumination of The Holy Spirit. That's why all the way back in the Old Testament, the psalmist is praying, Lord, open my eyes that I can behold wonderful things out of your word. You ever just read along in the Bible and all of a sudden it's just like the truth of it jumps off the page and into your heart? It's if like God just ripped the veil away from your eyes and and it becomes so very real to you. It becomes a part of who you are. That's the work of the Holy Spirit, illuminating truth to your heart so that you can apply it to your own life. So we long for God's word because we are students of the Word. Word. But here's number three. We're servants of the Lord, we're students of the Word, but number three, we are strangers in this world. Look at verse 19. I'm a stranger in the earth And the word stranger here is used to speak of a foreigner or an alien. It has the idea of a pilgrim traveler, like the patriarchs of old. We're strangers in this world. And this is one of the metaphors that's used in the Bible of the believer. We're pilgrims. We're pilgrims because we're headed to our home. This world isn't it. We're headed to that celestial city. And we're just passing through here. Peter used this expression when he wrote in 1 Peter 2. 11, Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against us. So you are strangers and pilgrims in this world. So avoid all these worldly lusts that are around you. We just finished studying Hebrews eleven and all of the saints that are mentioned there, and the writer calls them strangers and Pilgrims. Now, if you're a pilgrim or a traveler in this world, what do you need? You need a guide. You need a map. God's word is our guide. And that's really what the psalmist is saying here. I'm a stranger in the earth, Lord. Hide not your commandments from me. That's what God's word is to us. It is our guide. We can't make it through the wilderness of the this world without a guide or without a map. And God's Word is that map for us. Elizabeth Elliot, before she was married to Jim Elliott, she was a missionary in Ecuador, and she talks about in a book that she wrote one time when two North Americans showed up at her door and they wanted her to teach them some Indian phrases so that they can use them. They were going to enter the jungles of Ecuador and they wanted a few words to speak to help them on their journey. And she writes in the book and she says they had everything they needed. They had cameras, they had snake boots, they had all the equipment and the like. But the one indispensable thing that they needed to survive in those Amazon jungles they did not have. And what was it? A guide. If you don't have a guide, you're not going to make it. And then she wrote this. We are dependent upon God to guide us in this And that guide is the word of God. One writer paraphrases verse 19 like this: I am but a pilgrim here on this earth. Oh how I need a map, and your commandments are my chart and my guide. That's kind of the essence of this verse. Now, in his commentary on Psalm 119, Gene Cunningham proposed the this idea. I thought it was kind of an interesting idea. He said that the psalmist is making an allusion to the Hebrew letter gimel That you see right above verse number 17. Remember we know that every section, every stanza of this chapter is uh alliterated according to that Hebrew letter. But also each of those letters represent a picture or a symbol And gimel represents, it pictures a camel. And so he's saying that the psalmist is making an allusion to the letter Gimel by the this motif of a traveler. Because one thing you needed in the ancient world in that day if you traveled is you needed a camel. And he write he writes this in his commentary. No other pack animal can survive the rigors of the desert like the camel. Because in ancient times the caravan was the only way to get supplies across the desert. So the gimmel represents divine supply. And he goes on to say the Word of God is the source of the divine source of all supply for the believer. My God will supply all your needs according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. But that was a unique thought and an approach to This. What a camel is to a traveler, God's word is to the believer as we travel through this world. But also God's word is our guide, but also God's word must not be hidden. In verse 19, he says, Hide not thy commandments from me. He's saying, Lord, please don't hide your word from me. He didn't pray for safety in his pilgrimage. He didn't pray for success. He didn't pray for a speedy arrival. He just prays for, Lord, don't hide your word from me. Help me to be able to understand this map, my instruction, my guide. And so really this is another prayer for illumination If we don't understand the map, we're not going to be able to make it. So, Lord, don't hide it from me. The Psalm must recognize that his finite heart and mind needed understanding of God's word, and the same is true of us. Oh, how we need understanding for the Word of God. You say, now, would God hide God's word from us? No, but you know what does hide the Word of God from us? It is our own sin. It's our own sin. God wants us to know his word, but sometimes the reason we don't understand scripture is because of sin that is in our life. For example, write down in your margin, James 1. 21, wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. The word laying apart here in Greek has the idea of putting off, stripping off clothing. We saw this imagery used in in Ephesians, have you been with us on earth Study on Sunday morning of Ephesians, Paul talks about putting off and putting on the same idea here that James is talking about. You need to lay apart all the filthiness, that is, your old dirty garments Put that off uh and uh you know lay it aside all filthiness, all superfluity of naughtiness Put all that aside. And then when you do, what's the next step? You receive with meekness and humility the Word of God. And so we see this receive to welcome. So how do you learn spiritual truth? You don't pull it out of the Bible. You just lay aside your sin. You come with to God's word with a clean heart, and you know what? God's word will come to you. God's word will come into your heart. It'll it'll it'll basically uh It'll it'll become alive as you read it. God will implant it into our heart Peter has the same idea, 1 Peter 2, 1 and 2. Wherefore, listen to this, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisy and envy and evil speaking As newborn babes desire, he's not stating a fact, he's giving a command. No, you desire God's word. And it happens when you lay aside these other things, then you will desire, like a newborn babe desires milk. You will desire the word of God. Why isn't it that some Christians don't desire God's word? Because they've got sin in their life. And that's keeping them from desiring it. Sin hides the Word of God from us. Sin dampens our appetite and our desire for Scripture. What John Bunyan said so long ago is so very true. This book will keep you from sin, or sin will keep you from this book. So we may open the Bible, but God won't open it up to us unless we lay aside any sin. And then we should say we should long for God's word because we're servants of the Lord, because we're students of the word, because we're strangers in this world and we need our guide, we need our map. But here's the last thing, because we are scorned by the ungodly. We're scorned by the ungodly. Look at verse 21. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments. Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. Thy testimonies also are my testimon Delight and my counselors. Again, the psalmist is trying to survive in a hostile environment. And if you're like me, you take the view that the author was a young man carried off into captivity by the Babylonians. If you believe that, then you can understand why he was in such a hostile environment. When the captives were forced to make the long five hundred mile journey to Babylon, they were chained at the neck. Before they began the march across the desert, the Babylonians shaved off their hair, or they would pull their hair out. They also were starved, they were beaten, they were the women were raped, they were tortured along the way. In the evenings they were forced to smile and to entertain their tormentors with songs. of of their homeland. This is captured in Psalm 137. Verse 1. It says, By the rivers of Babylon there we sat down, yea, we wept when we remembered Zion. We hanged our harps upon the willows of the mist thereof. For they they that carried us away captive required of us a song, and they that wasted us required of us mercy, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion. How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land? And so these captives were going through a lot of difficulty, a lot of hostility. And I think all of that made it even what made it even more bitter was they were warned that this would happen if they didn't obey God's word. Jeremiah warned them constantly, and yet here they were being carried away. And here's this young man now, and he's trying to survive in this hostile environment. Maybe you can relate to that. Maybe you're in some kind of an environment where things are less than ideal for you and you're going through a lot of difficulty. It shouldn't surprise us if the world persecutes us. Because Jesus warned us that this would happen. He said, if the world hate you, just know that it hated me before it hated you. And if they're persecuting you, it's really they're still persecuting Jesus because the world still hates Jesus. And so the psalmist, however, during this, he finds refuge. In God's word. That's what he constantly runs to. And that's our example. We find our comfort, our refuge in God's word, just like the psalmist. So, how should we respond when we're in an adversity in a hostile world? Well, there's several things that I see here in these last few verses that the psalmist mentions and we can learn from. First of all, remember the destiny of the disobedient. Look at verse 21. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments. The proud are those who disregard God's word. They have no desire to obey God's commandments. And the psalmist was seeing before his eyes the consequences for those who disobey God's word, the curse that comes down upon them. He was experiencing some of that as an exile himself. But also he remembers that the enemies of God, those who disregard the word of God and cast it aside, have a serious consequence to pay one day. As believers, we may be tempted to think that the ungodly are getting away with their sin, but let me assure you that they are not. The Bible says that they're curse. Cursed. Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed. No one's going to get by with anything. It may look like here on this side that they're having their heyday, they're having their fun, that the world is getting by with their sin. But judgment hasn't come yet. Reminds me of the atheistic farmer who wrote a newspaper article uh to the uh publisher bragging about how that while other farmers went to church on Sunday, he stayed home and he worked in his field. And when October came he got more bushels per acre than any of those Christian farmers Who had gone to church and honored God. He was bragging about it. And the editor published the letter, but he wrote in the bottom, God doesn't only settle his accounts in October. And that's true. But rest assured, God will eventually settle all accounts. And the psalmist reminds himself of a severe judgment that awaits the ungodly But also, here's another thought. Entrust your soul to God for his protection. Look at verse twenty-two. Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept thy testimonies. The psalmist prays for divine vindication from his enemies. They had put reproach and contempt on him like a garment. And he asked God, God, you take that off. You take away my reproach. You take away my contempt. When you are targeted and you're experiencing unjust persecution and reproach, take a lesson from the psalmist and entrust your soul to God. God. Just commit yourself to God. You know what? God is able to turn the tables. He's able to turn things around. The gallows that were built by Haman to hang a servant of God were used to hang Haman. Because he God turned the tables in one night. And Jesus is the greatest illustration of learning to entrust your soul to God when Jesus went through all the unjust persecution. All of the unjust suffering, um, Peter says that we're we're we're called to follow in his steps In 1 Peter chapter 2, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him who judges righteously. When Jesus was enduring all of that hostile, ungodly treatment, he committed his soul to the Father. And that's what the psalmist is doing here. By the way, one day every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. God the Father has determined that. But then here's another thought. Focus on God's word instead of man's word. Look at verse twenty-three. Princes also did sit and speak against me, but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. What a great response to slander and God. gossip. What do you do when people speak against you? Our first reaction is to be defensive or to fight fire with fire. To go on our own campaign. We want to defend ourselves. We want to defend our name. And let me just clarify, sometimes we out of necessity have to defend our name. For example, the Apostle Paul, when he was being criticized by many of the Corinthians had to defend himself. He called it foolishness. He hated to do it. But he wasn't doing it for himself. It wasn't an ego thing with Paul. He knew that he had to defend his name because of the gospel he was preaching. Because if people didn't find him trustworthy, they wouldn't listen to his gospel message. So he was defending himself not for his own sake, but for the gospel's sake. And sometimes we may have to do that But there are other occasions when we're the only ones being hurt by slander and lies. And on those occasions, the best response is to stay focused in God. Word. Meditate in God's word. Don't worry about the words of men. Focus on the Word of God. Like Daniel in Babylon, when people were trying to find something against them. And you can imagine the the the the gossip campaign that went against him. And what did Daniel do? He stayed focused on God. And even when they came up with a law, Daniel still went right back to on his knees and he focused on the Lord That's a great response. But then here's the last thing: get your contentment and counsel from God's Word. Look at verse 24. Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. The word counsel here is interesting in Hebrew. Literally, men of my counsel. God, your testimonies are my delight and the men of my counsel. Every king had a group of men he used for counsel. We know even today the first thing a president does when he's elected is set up a cabinet, a group of counselors. They are experts in their own fields that he will use for counsel. You know what? Every believer should have a council, a cabinet. And you know what it should be? It's God's word. That's what the psalmist says. Your word are my men of counsel. The greatest counsel you'll ever get comes from God's Word. When you go to see a counselor, make sure they're giving you godly counsel from God. Sometimes people will ask me, can you recommend a counselor to me? And to be honest with you, no. I don't know a lot of people out there that I can trust that doesn't give you worldly counsel. A lot of times it's cloaked in Christianity. Christian counsel, but all it is is it's it's it's uh Freud Freudian psychology or some kind of man-made psychology with a Christian clothing on it. And it doesn't lead you to the Word of God, it leads you away from God's Word. I think I may have mentioned before Uh a little while back, uh husband and wife wanted to get counsel. The husband wanted to get counsel, the wife didn't want to come to me for counsel because she said I want to I want a professional. And I tried not to take that personal But what she meant was all he does is give the Bible. We need someone who's going to give us professional counseling. Well you're exactly right. All I'm going to give you is the Bible. But let me tell you the best counselor is the Bible. God's word is the best counsel you ever get. Are you trying to tell me that man's wisdom is superior to the wisdom of God? No, absolutely not. I believe in the sufficiency of Scripture, which means that God has given us in His Word all things for life and godliness if we just obey it. Guess what? No counselor is going to give you some new idea out there that's all going to all of a sudden going to presto change you and make everything all right for you. A lot of it is you just need to apply the truth of God's word To your life. So get your contentment and your counsel from the word of God. That's what the psalmist did. And you know what? He was able to survive. So we should long for God's word because we're servants of the Lord, we're students of the word, we're strangers in this world, we're scorned by the ungodly. That's why we should long for the Word of God. It is our survival guide through this World. In 1914, Ernest Shackleton and a team of explorers set out from England to do something that no one had ever accomplished, to cross the Antarctica from one side to the other at the South Pole. Disaster struck, however, when the team's ship called the Endurance became trapped in ice. It was crushed, the hull was crushed. They ended up being marooned on an island called Elephant Island. And there in those harsh conditions there was little hope for survival. So in a desperate uh in a desperate effort to get help, Shackleton and five others set out on a 20-foot lifeboat Across a sea, dangerous sea, a storm-filled sea, and it was an 800-mile journey to another island called South Georgia Island There at that island they could find help. So for fifteen days, these men in this boat set out over this treacherous island. sea. Massive storms hit them, waves came across the bow of that little boat, and using only a compass and a little navigational device called a sextant. They were able to navigate and reach South Georgia Island and eventually get help and send help back to the men and rescue those men, and because of that Shackleton became a national hero in England. England. He had only a compass and a guide, and that's what helped him to survive. All of us are making our way through this stormy world And what we need to survive is a compass and a guide. And friend, God's word is that for us. That's what God's word is for us. It is our survival guide. We simply have to trust it. We have to trust it more than our feelings. We have to trust it over our own wisdom. We have to trust it over the advice of others. Because the Bible is the inspired word of God. It's without error. And therefore we can trust it. Friend, you can trust God's word to guide you. This world. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this wonderful gift you've given us in your word. We live in such difficult, dangerous days. The world is so insidious, so alluring to believers. Lord, it can draw us away And along this pilgrim journey, Lord, we can get distracted. Lord, we need your word to guide us. Lord, we want to be good servants. We need your word to help us do that. Lord, we're students. We want to learn your word. Lord, open our eyes. Lord, we're strangers in this world. Lord, please help us in this journey. And Lord, we're scorned by the ungodly. All around us, Lord, we face the hostility of a world that's against you. And Lord, may we find refuge in your word. Your word is our Help us, Lord, to live according to your word and to survive this world. And Lord, not really just to survive, because your word gives us more than that. Lord, we're able to thrive. And we're able, Lord, to be victorious in this hostile world for your glory. Lord, may it be so in all of our lives, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.