Uh we take God's word tonight. It's our joy to study Scripture. If we'll go to 1 Timothy chapter 3 as we continue studying through this pastoral letter. First Timothy chapter three is what we're going to be looking at tonight, the first seven verses of chapter three. Let me read a few verses with you, verse one. This is a true saying, if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, and apt So I want to talk tonight about the qualities of a God-called man and this area of church leadership is where Paul is writing to Timothy. about a very important thing for us to understand as God's people. Once Raphael the great painter and artist was painting a picture of the Apostle Paul. And two ministers happened to be walking by and looking at the picture and they were giving their criticisms of the picture and they said, you know, the face of the Apostle Paul was too red. And Raphael responded by saying he blushes to see into whose hands the church has fallen. Supposed to be a joke, but maybe you'll get it later. I believe that if Paul were here today, he would blush when he sees the uh the poor shape that the church has fallen in some areas of our country. The church today is definitely facing a crisis in many areas, and uh I think that the church is facing a leadership crisis. Some said that you know leaders will go down in history and some will go down farther than that You know, the problem in churches today is not talent. We have all types of men who are gifted and skilled and talented in uh positions of church leadership. They're great communicators. The problem is not ideas. I mean we're literally exploding with ideas. There's all kind of innovations and things that are going on in churches today to try to help reach the contemporary world. The problem is not resources. We have we are equipped. I mean we we have all kinds of resources today. We have TV, we have internet, we have, you know, podcasts and streaming and and all all these things that you can name. It seems like uh we're getting less done than the early church use animal skins and walk from city to city, however. The problem, I think, is godliness and holy living. We don't have enough men of God who are living holy lives with the power of the Holy Spirit upon them. And what we see here in 1 Timothy 3 is the standards that the Apostle Paul gives for church leadership. And we'll notice that these are high standards, and these are things that are to be evident in the lives of those who are called to lead the church. There's nothing more damaging or more hurtful to the cause of Christ than leaders in the church that don't meet up to God's standards of leadership. When we fail to meet those standards, we weaken the church greatly. I was witnessing to one man and he was talking about why he doesn't go back to church and He was just given a litany of how that in the church he was a part of there was one pastor that came through after another that was involved in one scandal after another and an affair after another until finally that it just about crushed and killed that whole church and it about died. There's no way to overemphasize the importance of godly leadership in the church. And that's why this section is so important that we look at and that we understand. Now there are two things regarding biblical leadership that I see in the New Testament that I would kind of say to you in a preliminary way. First of all, the churches had more than one pastor. We see this throughout the New Testament. In Acts chapter 14, verse 23, it says, And when they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord on whom they believed. Elders is plural there. We know that Paul also established elders at the church at Ephesus because it tells us this in Acts 20, verse 17, where we read from Miletus, he sent to Ephesus and called to him the elders of the church. So at the church of Ephesus there was elders plural that were leading in that church. And then also Paul wrote to Titus and said, This is why I left you at Crete. that you might amend what is defective and appoint elders in every town as I directed you. And of course we saw already here in First Timothy how Paul reminded Timothy how uh the hands of elders were laid upon him ordaining him for ministry. And on we could go. Now in the early church, as well as I can see in the New Testament, there were elders that were some that were just there for organizational purposes, governing purposes, others that were skilled in teaching and engaged in teaching the Word of God. Another thing I see in the New Testament regarding church leadership is that although churches had a plurality of pastors and elders, there seemed to be one person who was in charge. the lead person, we could call him the lead elder, the senior pastor. You might call him a leader among equals that was there in the church. And I say that because there's a disagreement today in the doctrine of eschatology over church government. There are some that say that the biblical pattern of church leadership is a pastor with a board of elders, or excuse me, a board of deacons uh which the word boarded we don't see that in the Bible. Um the word board I think is a secular term that we kind of put on uh you know in church government. Um we could say a body of elders or but I keep saying elders a body of deacons So there's one view that says that the the biblical form of church government is a single pastor with a body of deacons. There are others who say The New Testament pattern is a plurality of pastors, not just one, but several. And of course, there were also deacons that were ordained in church leadership as well. And so there's a big debate uh in church circles about that type of government and church. We're not going to get into that debate tonight. I would just say this, and I said this in seminary classes and teaching in pastors, it doesn't matter which form of church government you use, if you don't have godly men in place, you're in trouble. The most important thing is to have godly people there that are submitted to the will of God and want to see good happen, that are committed to the glory of God, no matter which form of government that you might use. Now, it could be that the church at Ephesus was suffering because there were men who desired to occupy the office of pastor to lead the church, but we're not truly called by God, and therefore we're not qualified in that office. And so Paul gives Timothy a list of qualifications that every man who claims to be called must fulfill. And if you look at this list, and we will here in just a minute, you'll see that it's very thorough. God has high standards of leadership in the local church. And there's a principle, I think, in Scripture, and that is that Where the leadership is in the local church, that's where the church will will be. Whatever the leadership is, the church will become Hosea four nine says, like people, like priests. And Jesus taught in Luke 6 40 that everyone has been fully trained when they will become like their teacher. will seldom rise higher than the level of spiritual leadership in the church, which is why God demands high standards of leadership. Now you say, well, this is a sermon really d directed to leaders or pastors. I mean these lists of qualifications here, that's for someone else. That's not for me. Oh no it is. It's for you. Because the reason God wants pastors to live this way is because he wants pastors to exemplify a godly life, because he wants the church to exemplify these things as well. It's not just for pastors and leaders. He wants all of his people to be like this. He wants all of his people to live out these things And so as we look at these things, we need to examine our our own heart. So I was want you to see, first of all, number one, what I want to call the position of a God-called man. Look in verse one. This is a true saying. If a man desire the office of a bishop, He desires a good work. Where it says this is a true saying, or this is a saying that everyone should believe. This is kind of emphatic. You need to believe this, is what Paul's saying. Five times we see this phrase in the pastoral epistles. This is a true saying. If a man desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work. The office here is a God-given or God-ordained position. Now, there are three words used in the New Testament to speak about the same office. We see one of them here in verse 1, where it says, if a man desire the office of a what? A bishop. The Greek word for bishop is episcopas, and it's where we get the word episcopalian, and it actually has the idea of an overseer. And this speaks of the role of a pastor as someone who oversees the overall ministry of the church. An overseer. And I think this emphasizes the administrative aspect of this. uh position of leadership. But then there's another New Testament word that's used for the same office, and that's the word elder. Elder is the Greek word, presbyteros, and it's where we get the word, you can hear the word in it, Presbyterian. Uh and Presbyterian literally means old man. Yeah, that's not very complimentary, is it? The term goes all the way back to Jewish times when leaders or elders helped Moses care for the Jews that were in the wilderness. And so the emphasis is on older age, old men. The parliament in Rome was called the Senate because the Latin senex actually means old man. Also in England, men who were looked after the affairs of communities that were divided in a city, they were called aldermen We still use that term in some cities today. Some are elected to the office of aldermen, which literally means older man. And so all of this is speaking about the maturity that is required in this office. It really emphasizes experience. It emphasizes wisdom in decision making. Remember, wisdom is not necessarily having a uh you know a a lot of knowledge. Wisdom is being able to make right decisions. It's more practical. And so it focuses on the wisdom that is necessary to hold this position. Now I'm not saying that a young man can't pastor, because keep in mind that Paul's writing to Timothy, who was a relatively young man. But what it requires is a wisdom that is beyond perhaps a person's years. And how can a person be wise beyond their years? Well, by the word of God. God's Word makes us wise. Psalm 119 speaks about this. Oh, how I love thy law. Psalm 119, verse 97. It is my meditation all through the day. Through thy commandments thou hast made me wiser than my enemies. For they're ever with me. I have more understanding than my teachers. For thy testimonies are my meditation. I had students in my class like that. I know more than you. I have more understanding than my teachers. And then um he goes on to say in verse 100, I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. That's the word ancient here is probably one of those KJV words that we don't like because it's talking about older people And it calls you ancient. All right. Don't go up to someone and say, hey, you're one of the ancients here at at Grace. You know, that wouldn't go over very well. But it's talking about someone who was older. someone who was a senior citizen in the kingdom of God. And what he's saying is that God's word is able to give a wisdom that will help surpass the wisdom of one's enemies, one's educators. and even one's elders. And so it's possible for a younger man to have this position if he knows God's word. And then there's a third word that's used to speak about the same office, and that is the word pastor And the word pastor is is used least of all these words that we see in the New Testament for the same office. The word elder is used the most, bishop second most, but pastor is used a handful of times in the New Testament. And this simply means shepherd, one who leads and cares for the flock. And this emphasizes the responsibility of feeding the sheep, the Word of God, of protecting the sheep from the wolves. and leading God's sheep in the paths of righteousness. And so all of these words speak about the same office. And we see this in God's word. Sometimes we see them used together in one passage. For example, in Acts chapter 20, verse 17, says this from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church Paul called for the elders to come together, and then he said this to them in verse 28 of Acts 20 Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost has made you overseers. Overseers is the word Episcopas. To feed the church of God, and again the idea here to feed comes from the word pastor or to shepherd the flock of God. And so we see all three words used here in the same narrative, all speaking about the same office. So A pastor is a bishop who oversees the church in an administrative fashion. He is an elder that has wisdom and maturity uh to lead the church. She also is a pastor that feeds the flock, protects them from the wolves, and leads them in the way that God would have them go. And what else does the New Testament say about this office? What is the responsibility to rule? One of the major roles of elders in the church is to rule the church. And 1 Timothy 5. 17, you might want to look at that. 1 Timothy 5. 17, where it says this, let the elders that do what? Rule well. Be counted worthy of double honor, especially they that labor in the Word and Doctrine. One of their responsibilities was to rule or govern or you know lead the church in that way, to rule over the church. The Bible says in Hebrews 13, 17, Obey your leaders, submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls as men who will have to give account. All those that are in leadership position have to give account to God one day and the way that they rule over the church and To watch over God's people. But another responsibility is teaching. In Ephesians 4. 11, elders are referred to as pastorslash teachers. Same idea there, same thing. Pastor-teacher. In 1 Timothy 3 2, we're going to look at this, but an elder has to be apt to teach the Greek word Didoskakos, skilled in teaching Again, we see in 517, the second part of verse 17, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. Some elders labored in the preaching and teaching of God's Word. And so those were the duties of the pastor, elder, slash bishop. That was the role that God has called them to. That's the position of a God-called man. But I want you to see number two, what I want to call the passion. And we see this again in verse number one of chapter three. the office of a bishop. He desires a good work. Two times we see this word. And the Greek word here is strong word. It's only used three times in the New Testament, and it has the idea of stretching yourself out of going after something, reaching out for something out of a desire. It's only used in uh two other places in 1 Timothy 6. 10 about coveting money. Desiring money, and it's used in Hebrews 11, 16 to talk about saints who desire heaven. So you kind of get the idea there. Jay Oswald Sanders says it is not the office, but the work that is the object of the desire. This is not someone who just desires to have a position, to be recognized. To be in front of people. It's not a desire just for the office, but for the work that is involved in that. It must be a desire for service, not for position or fame or fortune. One man wrote that this tells us that there will be a continual desire for spiritual leadership. The Greek word You suggest an intense desire reaching out after a goal. It isn't a momentary fancy, but rather something that stays with you. When God calls you to leadership, there is no lightning bolt in the sky or bells ringing. God plants a continual desire in your heart. No one needs to keep motivating you to leadership. You begin to experience self-motivation. Experience shows us that those who do not have a continual desire For leadership will usually fail in a crisis or give up when things get tough. And so this is this is where it begins for someone that God calls into ministry. It begins with this passion That God plants in a person's heart that just that that motivates them. It's an inward desire that compels them to do this work. It means that if he can do nothing else, you know, if if they try to do something else, they're like a fish out of water or a bird that doesn't fly. It's this overwhelming desire to where you really can't see yourself doing anything else. God plants that desire in your heart. Now I you know when I was first called here at Grace as a teenager, I had to go back and re examine that call over and over again to make sure that it was of the Lord, that it wasn't of my doing. You know, but it it all started out with a desire that God put in my heart for the Word of God to be heard, to be taught. That's where it all started. I had this deep conviction given to me by God. Two things that God really planted deep in my heart. First of all, that the Bible is the very Word of God. God slanted that very deep in my heart. And the second thing was that people needed to hear it. And people needed to understand it uh and they needed to live by it. And that was the compelling thing in my heart that just kept me going into ministry. And I had to go back and re-examine that desire to make sure it's the right desire that is of the Lord. But I think that this same desire, this continual desire, will also bring about in that person a quality of life in harmony with the list of qualifications that Paul gives here. I think that same desire will will propel them to a sanctified life. And I think that if a person has a desire But if their life doesn't meet these qualifications, it might be basically a selfish desire or a desire that's based on wrong motives And so this desire to be used of God will motivate you to live a sanctified life, a godly life, one that will be used for his glory. And so this sense of compulsion should prompt us to consider whether God may be calling us for ministry. It might be that there might be some young men in here, and this is something that you've been thinking about. that maybe God is calling me, if God has put that desire in your heart, that's the beginning of that call. Has God given you that desire? Has He equipped you with the gifts that are necessary for the call that he has put in your heart. Do you love God's word and do you feel the need to make it known and to teach it? It's that inward compulsion. I talked about it this morning when Paul said this. For if I preach the gospel I have nothing to glory of, for woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. Paul said, if I'm not preaching the gospel, woe is me I can't imagine my life if I'm not preaching the gospel. It was that kind of inner compulsion and desire that Moved Paul on. And it caused him to withstand all kind of persecution and suffering and difficulty that he faced. None of that in any way deterred him from doing the thing that God called him to do. And that's why when I read about people that are men that quit the ministry, I I constantly get articles and people telling me how many are quitting the ministry, and it makes me wonder, was that desire from God to begin with? If you look in the New Testament, you'll find that no one went through more difficulty than the Apostle Paul. And that difficulty in no way deterred him from the calling that God gave him. If anything, it made him more determined to do the work of God. Charles Spurgeon, in his book Lectures to My Students, gives five signs that he thinks are present in the life and circumstance of one who is generally called to ministry. And the first one on the list that he gives is this number one, an intense, all absorbing desire for the work. Starts there, he says We've all heard if you can do anything else then do it. Spurgeon argued that if you could be content doing any other work, he said, then you should certainly do it. He said this a man so filled with God would utterly weary Would weary of any pursuit but that for which his innermost soul pants. And then he clarified that this desire has to be one that is God-honoring not one that is self-promoting. He goes on to say, if a man can detect, after the most earnest self-examination, any other motive than the glory of God and the good of souls In his seeking the bishopric, he had better turn aside from it at once, for the Lord will abhor the bringing of buyers and sellers into his temple, end quote. Spurgeon warned those who sought his counsel not to preach if they could help it. But, he said, if he cannot help it He must preach or die, then that is the man. And so it's this inner sense of desire, this inner compulsion that God puts in the heart of those that he has called. I got a lot more than this, but I got to move on. Number three, we see the position of a God-called man. Number two, the passion of a God-called man. And then number three, what I want to call the prescription for a God-called man. And then this is where Paul then from verses 2 down to verse 7 gives these qualifications of those that are called to be leaders in the church. Now some say, well, God doesn't really expect us to meet up with these standards. Really? Look at verse 2. A bishop then must be. He didn't say, well, you know, just try, guys, to be like this. A bishop then what? Must be. You have to have these qualifications. And also look down at verse number 10. He also lists qualifications for deacons, but I think all this goes together in verse ten, when he says, and let these also first be what Be proved, be tested, then let them use the office of a deacon being found what? uh a a bishop or elder or pastor is pretty much the same. There's not a lot of difference there. And so he says these have to first be proved here. It doesn't mean that a pastor won't make a mistake or that a pastor won't sin. He's not asking for perfection here because we all fall short in ways, and we may even fall short on some of these things. But the on average, the overall general direction of our life is where we uphold these things. These things are characteristic of us in general. Well at times there may be some failures at times. Um we're talking we're not talking about failures that would disqualify a person because there are those. There are failures that would disqualify a person from being a pastor anymore, but we're not talking about those, but there are other times when we may not be perfect in this, but the general tenor of our life, the general character of our life is where we meet up with these things. Now, so we're going to go through go through this list. And uh you know we there's a lot here, so we're not gonna dwell too much on any of them. I'm gonna kind of summarize some of these and maybe go in depth on a few of them. But I I I got them divided into three categories: personal, parental, and then pastoral. First of all, personal, number one, blameless. A bishop then must be blameless. Literally nothing to take hold of There's nothing in his life that Satan or the unsaved can take hold of to criticize or attack him or the church. He has to be blameless in his marital life, moral life, and ministerial life. And so it refers to a life that that it has a reputation for being blameless. There's nothing in your life where someone can take hold of and use against you or use it to attack the church. Spiritual leaders have to be blameless because, again, they're setting the example for the congregation. The Bible really calls all of God's people to live a blameless life. And Hebrews chapter thirteen, verse seven and seventeen, God requires that of you as well. And so the pastor certainly has to model that. The difference is that certain sins can disqualify church leaders for life, whereas that's not necessarily true for those that have the less prominent roles in the church. Nevertheless, God requires blamelessness from all of his people. So how about you? Is your life a worthy example to other believers? Is the pursuit of blamelessness a priority for you? And then number two would be the husband of one wife, it says in verse number two. I think the Greek construction here places the emphasis on the word one and it's communicating the idea of a one-woman man. The absence of a definite article stresses character, not necessarily a person's marital circumstance. I don't think Paul's taking aim at divorce here. I think what he's doing is he's saying that the man who is qualified for this has to be a man who has that single-hearted devotion to the wife that God has given him. A one-woman man. I know men that were married to one woman, but they're not a one-woman man in their heart. And they certainly don't treat their wife as if they are completely devoted to uh to her. And that is some something that is a character issue. That would disqualify a person from that office. The husband of one wife, devoted to your wife. But also it says in verse number uh two, uh vigilant, or we could say temperate And this just simply means self-control. And then along with that, sober in verse 2, sober-minded, that is self-disciplined. This is someone who's not given to excess, someone who has self-control. Again, those two words kind of work together. And then it says in verse 2, of good behavior. And this is from the Greek word cosmion, where we get the word cosmos, and it's really talking about someone who's well organized. has the idea of an organized life. The person that's able to fulfill many duties and responsibilities because he's organized and they have good administrative ability. It's the opposite of chaos. If you find someone's life and their life is literally out of control and in chaos, if they can't keep their own life in control, it's doubtful whether they can keep the church in control. If their life is not in control, that's because their work involves administration, oversight, scheduling, establishing priorities. The ministry is no place for a man whose life is a continual confusion of unaccomplished plans and unorganized activities. You have to have a measure of of control over your life, a systematic setting of goals and accomplishing things and having your own life in well order. But also in verse number Two, it says, uh given to hospitality. That comes from two words in the Greek, phileo, love, xenos, stranger, the love of strangers. That is showing kindness to strangers. And in the New Testament, this was a big priority for anyone that was in the church because back then traveling missionaries and preachers were dependent upon the hospitality of people in the church, of of Christians and homes that would be opening their homes to uh missionaries and teachers And so they were people that loved the stranger, that opened their their doors and were hospitable to others that are without. And then another thing that it says here in verse 2 is apt to teach again Didaskan, literally skilled in teaching. It's used only two times in the New Testament, it's used here And it's used in 2 Timothy 2. 24, the serve of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle and uh the docticus skilled in teaching. It's used here and there. This is the only qualification listed here that relates to the function of an elder that sets the pastor elder apart from the deacon. And so this is a priority. In fact, again, we saw 1 Timothy 5. 17, where the elder that labors in the word should be counted worthy of double honor. And so you should have this ability to teach skillfully, the Bible says. If this is part of your gift set, then then that is uh might be where the Lord is calling you. Now, it just because you have the gift of teaching doesn't necessarily mean that God's called you to be a pastor. But if your God's called you to be a pastor, then He'll also give you those gifts and abilities to fulfill that calling. And so there's skilled in teaching. And then there's also And verse number three, not given to wine. What does that mean? It means he's not a drinker, not given to wine The issue here is a man's reputation. Is he known as a drinker? Given to wine literally one who drinks. And so this uh This is referring to someone who is given to wine. Now, let me just say here that there's a big debate as to whether wine in the New Testament means grape juice or is it wine? I don't think it's saying here you can't drink a lot of grape juice. Alright, I think it's obviously referring here to wine the intoxicating beverage. Now let me just clarify here a little bit and just say, before I get into any of this, let me just say I am not a drinker, all right? I don't drink wine. Uh I don't drink beer. I don't drink any alcoholic beverages. All right? I just want to make that clear, and that's by conviction for me. I don't think that as a pastor I should do that. Um and that's the way I've always lived my whole life. Uh I did drink wine one time and I'll tell you when I was over in England and after a Sunday night service the pastor of the church invited me over for refreshments And he uh set out before me some refreshments and what I thought was some juice. I took one drink and woo ho. Never tasted that before. Um and so I said, Excuse me sir, I'm you know and then he looked, Oh, that's right, you're an American. You're a teetotaler, I'm sorry. Yeah, do you have some orange juice here, you know, and and uh uh and there's one other time and that's when I was at over in in England and I was part of the Lord's Supper service. And I took the the commun I took the bread and then I drank the the uh the communion cup and uh I all of a sudden felt a warm sensation inside of me. And I knew then that the grape juice wasn't, you know, wasn't just grape juice. All right. And uh but anyway, those are the only two times Alright? Other than that, I haven't drank any. And next and now for now when I go over to England before I participate in the Lord's Supper, I'm going to say, is this Welsh's grape juice that you guys are giving out here? You know, what is this? But anyway And I think that in the early church they did participate in drinking wine But we'd have to say it's not like today. You know, back in that day you would have to remember they really had three choices of things they could drink. They could drink water, they could drink milk, or they could drink wine. And a lot of times the water in certain regions wasn't healthy to drink. And they would mix the wine with water. And the mixing of it together actually would kill some of the bacteria in the water. It made it actually safer to drink. And the wine that they drank back then was much more diluted than anything that you would buy today in a liquor store. I mean, it's really not a fair comparison when you compare the wine back then and the wine that people drink today. And I'll say, other than that also, we have all kinds of different selections of things to drink today. We got a variet a variety of things that we can drink and hydrate us and that are good for us. Uh back then they didn't have a lot of those options. And so someone that got drunk back then was someone that drank a whole lot of wine. And if you didn't have the control over you where that you were able to control yourself on how much wine you drank, then Paul says you're not going to be able to be a part of leadership in the church. Because anyone who's a leader has to have a clear head. It can't be a lifestyle, someone who is a drinker, someone who is known as a as a drunkard or a drinker. In fact, look in verse 8. Likewise the deacons must be grave, double-tongued, not given to much wine. Someone says, Well, preacher, you can't have any wine. We just can't have a lot. Not much, you know. That's not true. Same principle. But in Proverbs 31, 4 it says this, it's not for kings to drink wine nor prints a strong drink. In other words, there's a principle of being laid down there. If you're going to be a leader, you don't need to drink wine or strong drink. Strong drink there qualifies it. We're talking about really strong, you know, fermented drink. If you're going to be a leader, don't do that. Because it clouds your judgment. Those in leadership must stay away from anything that distorts or distracts their judgment or their testimony for God. And so this is a qualification that Paul said, you know, they have to be in control in this area, not given to wine. But then also no striker, and that is a person that is uh obviously is talking about someone who's violent, you're not violent, given the blows. A pastor cannot be quick-tempered. He doesn't resort to physical violence. As an elder, you can't settle disputes with your fists as much as you might want to. Buy a punching bag. You know, like I have. Just kidding, I You know, I I have um honestly I I say this and I really mean it. I'm really blessed here at Grace for the good people that we have here. I've been in other churches where I've used a punching bag a lot But never here, honestly, never here. Um But you can't be violent, Paul says here, not a striker. Not greedy a filthy lucre. You're not in it for the money to pad your pocket. We talked a lot about that this morning, Paul being an example of that. But patient. That is, this has the idea of easily pardons human failure, to be forbearing, to be gracious, you know, with You don't take things personal and you don't hold a grudge. If you hold a grudge, you have the tendency to do that. This is not a position for you because in the pastorate it's dealing with people that have all kind of issues and problems and you need to love them and be patient and be forbearing. And not take things personal in your own life. Paul said to Timothy, you need to preach the word with all long-suffering and doctrine. Just be patient, be long-suffering, and keep preaching the word of God. Also, it says not a brawler here, and the Greek word here is uh it's it's from where we get the word macho. And it has the alpha negative in front of it in Greek, which which makes it the opposite. Not a macho. Ah macho. You're not a macho man I guess we could say it like that. You know, that attitude that basically is daring people, you know, to wrong me in any way, you know, the John Wayne attitude, you know. Um Where you you know you don't hear don't cross this line. If you cross this line, then you know it's on that sort of thing. You're not a macho man. The Bible says we're to be gentle, not covetous, it says here in verse three. That is again, it's from the Greek word phileo aguros, the love of silver. It's not someone who loves money. If you love money, it can corrupt your ministry. It can tempt you to view people as a way to get more money. We're to have food and raiment and be content just with that. And how do we keep from the love of money? Well a simple principle that I've used is this. Don't put a price on your ministry. Don't put a price on it. Just lead where God goes and accept whatever you're given. Don't put a price on it. You know, when people ask me, you know, what do you charge for counseling? I don't charge anything for counseling What do you charge for a funeral? I don't have any charge for a funeral. What do you charge for a marriage? I don't charge for marriages. Please don't ask me to do your wedding though. But I don't charge for those things. Um if people give me something, that's fine. Normally I give it back or I give it to somebody else. And I'll tell you something else, you know, when I try to have a speaker in here, if they tell me up front, well I need this much money in order to come, I just cross them off the list. I've never in any place I've ever gone said, if you want to have me, you have to give me this much money in order for make it worth it for me to come. Really? What if I what if I can just come in at my own expense and be a blessing to one person? I'm okay with that. You think God will take care of me in that? Let me tell you something, He always has. You shouldn't put a price on your ministry. And and and there's a a lot of guys out there I'd like to say this to face to face. A lot of guys I've asked to come, well, I need this much money. Well why do you need that much? Why don't you just let the church be generous to you? And if the church can't do it here, they'll make it up later. God will make it up. So don't put a price on your ministry. Accept whatever He supplies. And trust the Lord to take care of you because if you're God's servant, He will definitely do that. Don't be a lover of money. Now these are personal. Then we can move on to parental. Where it says here in verse four, one that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity. That is, you literally have to have your children In submission with all respect, children that respect you, children that love you, and you have your your your your family in an order Your whole family life is well organized and you're leading them and discipling them in the ways of God. Children reflect spirituality that is there in the home. And so that's important. And then let me move on quickly here. Pastorio verse 6. Not a novice less being lifted up with pride. He fall into the condemnation of the devil. You can't be a recent convert. That's literally what it says there. Because a rapid advancement to leadership might fill a person with pride and conceit. And that's where Satan can get in and he can use that. Friend, if you have a lot of pride, you're not going to be very helpful to the ministry. It requires humility. A person with pride will be someone that Satan will use to create problems. And so You can't be a novice lifted up with pride lest you fall into the condemnation of the devil. And then finally, a good testimony outside the church Look at verse number seven. Moreover, he must have a good report of them which are without, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of The devil. A leader in the church must have an unimpeachable reputation in the unbelieving community, even though they might disagree with his moral or theological stance, they still see someone that is worthy of respect. And someone that whose life is unimpeachable, that whose life uh reflects what they believe. How can you really make a spiritual impact on anyone if they don't respect you? They have to respect you before you can have any kind of an impact on anyone. And so these are the standards. There's the position of a God called man, the passion, and the prescription. And again, these qualities at a glance are the kind of maturity that God wants to produce in all of his people, in our personal walk with God. In our family life, in our relationships, God wants us to develop these things. But pastors and leaders in the church have to lead in this area And so we need to look for men who are approximate these qualities in their own life. And by the way, that process, it takes years. It takes years to develop this kind of maturity and spiritual life, you know, uh this quality of life. No one will ever match every quality perfectly, but it's the direction that we need to be growing in in our own spiritual life. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, as we come before you, having studied this passage, it humbles us, Lord. And it again reminds us that we are nothing but sinners saved by your grace. And that, Lord, if we're ever to grow in the spiritual maturity the way you design, it has to be a work that you do in us. And yet, Lord, we have to cooperate with that work. You do your part, Lord, but we have to do ours. We have to discipline ourselves in the Word of God. enact spiritual disciplines in our own life that we might be more like Christ and that we might have this godly lifestyle that is attractive to others, attractive even to the world, that they might see that the gospel that we preach is real. It's not uh it's not a superficial message, but the message of the gospel changes us. It changes who we are. It sanctifies us and makes us more like Christ our Savior. Father, thank you for this church. Thank you for the godly people that are a part of this ministry. That, Lord, that you brought here to grace. We're privileged to be a part of this. And I pray, Lord, that you'll continue to do that. Continue to send us people whose hearts are hungry for truth. And may they grow spiritually. May this place here be a colony of your people. Godly people that reflect your glory in a lost world. May it ever be, Lord, for your for your your name's sake. And it starts with those that would lead in this congregation. Lord, raise up leaders. Raise up men of God that will help us, especially in these days in which we live. Men of conviction. And we pray all these things in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.