All right. Thank you so much, Praise Team. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Old Testament book of numbers. The Old Testament book of numbers. I know we've been uh preaching out of 1 John, but I thought we would uh preach something. Uh this is the first Sunday before Christmas, and I thought we would preach something more on the theme of Christmas. So I want to preach this morning from Numbers chapter 24. In verse 17, I want to talk about the prophecy of the Christmas star. The prophecy of the Christmas star. Verse 17 says this, I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. There shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. Now when we uh think about the great prophecies about Christmas, we normally think about Isaiah and his uh prophecy about the virgin birth of Jesus Christ and Uh also talking about a child is given to us, wonderful counselor, and so on. Or we might think about the prophecy of Micah that prophesied that Jesus would be born in Bethlehem. We would be surprised to think that one of the most clear and exalted prophecies coming from the Old Testament comes from an unlikely source, a man by the name of Balaam. The prophet Balaam. Now Balaam was not an Israelite prophet. He was a Gentile prophet for hire. He was hired by the king of Moab to curse the children of Israel. So because the children of Israel were coming across uh the uh through the the Jordan River, they were coming through the uh promised land, they were there in the plains of Moab You could see these two and a half million Jewish people, Hebrews, and King Balak was afraid of them. He hires Balaam to curse the people of God. Now Balaam is an enigma to many Old Testament scholars. Because there's a debate as to whether he was a true prophet of God or was he a false prophet. There are several views on this. One view says that he was a true prophet who went corrupt because he loved money. And there's another view that says that he was actually a false prophet that was overridden by divine sovereignty. God was able to put his words into the mouth of even a false prophet. And then there's a view that says he was kind of a mic, a mixed, ambiguous figure. He was given true revelation. He didn't have true conversion, but God gave him true revelation, that seems to be the most widely held view that Balaam had revelation without regeneration. But regardless of how you view Balaam The question that comes to mind is why would God use a man like that to give one of the greatest prophecies of Christmas in all of the Old Testament? And I can only answer that by saying God uses the foolish things to confound the wise. And why is that? So that no flesh could get glory in his presence. This prophecy that came from Balaam's lips had to be of God because it's too profound to come from a foolish man like him. We know that it is from God. But I want us to look at the story behind the star prophecy. How did it come that Balaam was the one to give this prophecy? Well look in Numbers chapter twenty-two, actually back up to chapter 22. I want you to see the whole story behind this prophecy and it picks up here in chapter 22, verses 1 to 3. Israel was camped on the plains of Moab, as I said, they had just across Jordan from the Promised Land. Balak the king of Moab believed Israel's strength was supernatural, and so he wants a prophet to come and curse them. Look at verse 1. And the children of Israel set forward and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho. And Balak the son of the poor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites, and and Moab was sore afraid of the people because they were many. And Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel. Again Uh Balak, the king of Moab, thought that their strength was supernatural, so he doesn't turn the soldiers, he doesn't try to build his military. He wants to bring a spiritual curse down upon the Israelites. And so he sends for a prophet by the name of Balaam. Um and he also sends his messengers out to to get him and to bring him back. He offers them wealth. He was going to pay him well. Look in verse number six of chapter twenty-two. And so the elders of Moab come and says, Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people, for they are too mighty for me Per adventure I shall prevail that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of the land, for I woke that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed Balaam seemed to have that reputation that whoever he could bring a blessing upon was blessed, and whoever he cursed seemed to be cursed. So he says, look, come and and and and bring a curse down. His idea was if we could just curse these people spiritually, we can overcome them militarily. That was the thinking of King Balak. And so in verse 7, the elders bring their rewards to him, and they ask him to do this. And Balaam does something that is kind of foolish. He says, Well, I'll tell you what, stay here and let me just pray and see what the Lord will tell me. Look at verse eight. He said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again as the Lord shall speak unto me. You know, some prayers that we pray are insults to God. Some things we should not pray about or bring to the Lord, and this is definitely one of them. Here's uh Balaam saying, I'm gonna pray about whether or not I should curse whom God has determined to bless. Well, God gives the answer in verse twelve. Notice what God says to him. Um and God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them, thou shalt not curse the people for they are Blessed. And so Balaam turns to the men and says, Look, I can't do this because God told me it cannot happen. Can't go with you in verse 13. So you need to go. God will not give me leave to go with you But Balak doesn't give up. King Balak says, You know what, let's send some more princes more honorable. Look at verse fifteen. And Balak sent yet again princes more and more honorable than they, and they came to Balaam and said to him, Thus saith Balak the son of Zippur Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming to me. So he kind of you know sends more, gives more reward, offers more reward. Hey, look, don't let anything keep you from doing this. Please come and do this. And Balaam, when he uh gives an answer, sounds very pious. And verse number 18. Look what he says. And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God to do more or do less or more. Well that's a good answer. If you give me mountains of gold I still can't do this. He was doing good, but he says, but I tell you what guys just wait here and let me pray about it again. So look at verse 19. Now therefore I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I may know what the Lord will say unto me. Well, that again is a foolish thing for him to do. God had already made it clear to Balaam that it was not his will to curse his people. But here is Balaam stubbornly pushing on, planning to do what he wanted to do. And so God says, okay, if you want to go, then go. But you're not going to curse my people. And verse 20, and God came to Balaam at night and said unto him, If the men come and call to me Rise up and go with them, but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that thou shalt do. You can go ahead and go forward if you want to, Balaam, but just know this you're not going to be able to curse them. You're going to speak the words that I give you to speak. Now you say, well, this is God giving divine permission. No, it's not really God giving permission. Sometimes the worst punishment you can get is for God to turn you over to your own plans and desires. For God to give you what you want. And this is what God is doing with Balaam here. You can go with these men. If you want to push forward and stubbornly do what you want to do, go ahead, but you're still going to do what I want It's a bad thing to try to push through closed doors. When God shuts a door, you better not try to push through it. You better not try to do your own thing. But he does And uh he foolishly sets off for Moab the next day, and God is angry. So in verse number 22, God's anger is kindled and he sends an angel of the Lord with a sword drawn And this is the story you probably heard of before where Balaam's donkey sees this the angel with a sword drawn and he actually saves his life because in this episode between verses twenty-two down to verse twenty-seven The donkey once he walks off the road into the field, and then once he turns into a wall and he crushes kind of Balaam's foot there, and once he just plops down on the ground, and each time Balaam beats this donkey He beats this donkey. And then finally God opens the mouth of the donkey and begins to talk. And the donkey begins to talk. Look at verse number 28. And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass and said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee that thou hast smitten me these three times? Can you imagine a don't be talking? Why why are you beating me, dude? What's your deal? Three times you have you know, beaten me. Well you know, look, haven't I been a faithful mule for you or donkey for you all these years? Do you have any reason to question me? What's what's what cracks me up in this text is that Balaam just talks back, it doesn't really strike him as something Right back. Well because you did this and three times you you know and I'll beat you. Say, wow what a story here. Now some Old Testament scholars will say, well this is not really the donkey talking. Donkeys can't talk. This is really a vision that he had, you know, it can't be real. Well, the Bible clearly says the Lord opened the mouth of the donkeys. And the New Testament confirms this in 2 Peter 2 verse 16, it says that Balaam was rebuked for his own transgression. A speechless donkey spoke with a human voice and restrained the prophet's madness. Now why did God put words into the mouth of this animal? Well, several reasons to humble this stubborn prophet. God reduced Balaam to being rebuked by his own animal. When your pet rebukes you, you're in bad shape. All right. Balaam is supposed to be the prophet. He's supposed to be the seer. But here this donkey has better insight and wisdom than he does. He could see what Balaam could not see But also, God was trying to get Balaam's attention. This is another lesson we learned from this. When God's will is being resisted, God will use whatever means necessary to warn us. That we're on the wrong path to get our attention. The talking donkey here is not a distraction in the narrative, it's a warning that God will speak however he must, through whomever he must, to get your attention. When you're resisting God's will in your life and you're blindly on a dangerous path, God might warn you through the mouths of those around you. He might use a another person, he might use a lost person, an unbeliever. He may use a child. He'll use whatever means necessary to rebuke you. But another reason for this, I think, is that this narrative here prepares us for the star prophecy. It prepares the reader for the prophecy that's going to come from the lips of a foolish man. If God can put words into a donkey's mouth, He can put a messianic prophecy in the mouth of a fool like Balaam. Despite his greed and his blindness, God can still speak a word through him. And so what follows this are three attempts by Balaam to curse the people of God, even though he knows it's not God's will He's going to still try to attempt to curse the people of God. And so Balak the king takes someone to a high mountain. Look in chapter 22. Look down at verse number 41. The story picks up here. And it came to pass on the morrow that Balach took Balaam and brought him up into the high place of Baal. that thence he might see the uttermost part of the people. This is called Bamath Baal or the high places of Baal, a certain mountain there where he could look out onto the plain and he could see it was a beautiful view where he could look down and see not all of the camp of Israel but part of the camp he could look down and see them And then what does the Bible say? In verses, chapter 23, verses 1 to 6, he builds seven altars. Seven sacrifices were offered upon these altars that he he builds there. And so you say, well, why why did he do that? Was he following Mosaic law here on giving a sacrifice to God? This was an attempt to manipulate God. This is not, he didn't build these altars and do these sacrifices according to Mosaic law or Israel worship if you're reading the law of Moses. Um there is only one altar you need to build and the and the God chooses a place where you will sacrifice unto him. Worship is regulated by God and his word. This was something, this was more the form of a pagan ritual. This wasn't devotion on his part. This was divination. He's trying to persuade God. He's trying to get God to bend his will, to allow him to curse the people of God. Sometimes our prayers are more designed to try to bend God's will to fend our will than to submit to God's will. That's what he's doing here. What he's basically saying is, God, please let me curse these people and get this reward. And by the way, here are seven altars and two animals on each altar, fourteen sacrifices for you. That should impress you, God. Please do what I want. But no amount of religious effort can reverse God's blessing. And now it's time for Balaam to try to utter his curse. So notice in chapter twenty-three, look at verse six. And he returned unto him, and lo, he stood by his burnt sacrifice, and he and all the princes of Moab in verse seven, and he took up this parable and said Balak, the king of Moab, hath brought me from Aram out of the mountains, out of the east, saying, Come, curse me, Jacob, and come defy Israel. Look at verse 8. How shall I curse whom God has not cursed? How shall I defy whom the Lord has not cursed? defied. And then after that he he can't speak a curse, he can only speak blessing. And he goes on to bless them. saying, I can see a people, uh Jacob whose descendants are like the dust, you can't count 'em and King Balak Who brought him there to curse him? He's furious. He's furious. Look at verse 11. And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and behold, thou hast blessed them all together. Well maybe the problem is uh this is the wrong mountain, maybe you didn't get a good enough use, so let's change mountains. That's basically what he's going to tell them Look at verse thirteen. And Bala said to them, Come, I pray thee with me unto another place, and from whence thou mayest see them, and thou shalt see but the uttermost part of them, and shalt not see them all, and curse me them from thence Oh maybe it's the view. Maybe it's this mountain. Let's go to another mountain. Let's try it again. They go to another mountain. It's another view. He doesn't still see all of them But he sees a a bigger majority of the camp, remember this is two and a half million Hebrews camped on the plain. I mean that's like a l a city. Right? Imagine all the tents there camped around the tabernacle there. So he takes them to Mount Piscah and he says, Maybe from there you can curse them. Let's see if that happens there. Look at verse 14. And he brought him into the land of Zophim to the top of Piskah and built seven altars. And offered a bullock and a ram on every altar. So they go through the same ritual again, seven altars, two animals on each altar, fourteen animals. And this time Balaam is ready to utter the curse. Look at verse number 19. Still he can't do it. Actually, verse 18. And he took up this parable and said unto and said Rise up, Balak, and hear, hearken unto me, thou son of Zephyr. God is not a man that he should lie, neither is a son of man that he should repent. And he has said, And shall not he do it? Or hath he spoken, shall it not make good And so basically he's saying, you know, God doesn't change his mind. God has decided to bless Israel God will not change his mind, change his will. And then he goes on to utter another blessing a few verses later. No misfortune is in sight for Jacob. God brought them out of Egypt. No curse can touch them. The people rise up like a lioness, and now Balak the king is really exasperated. Two mountains, two rituals, two attempts, and two blessings, not two curses So what does he do? Well, let's try another mountain. Maybe this one doesn't work, so let's try another one. Look at verse 27 of chapter 23. And Balaak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto another place. Per adventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me then from thence. And Balaf brought Balaam unto the top of Peor that looketh toward Geshemon. And uh Balaam said unto Balaak, build me here seven altars and prepare me seven blocks and seven rams. Same thing. New mountain. Mount Peor, seven altars, fourteen sacrifices. They go throughout that whole ritual again. And so uh y you say, you know, why why does the writer keep emphasizing these seven altars and these rituals where each repetition shows the desperation of Balak. It shows Balaam's growing anxiety. Maybe it'll work here. Let's try it here. It also emphasizes this powerless ritual against God's will. Seven altars on three different mountains. Two sacrifices are made on each altar. That's 42 sacrifices on 21 altars. None of that could undo what God sovereignly determined. You can't manipulate God. And also it makes the prophecy more glorious. This is the black velvet setting against which the diamond of God's prophetic word will shine. Here in this story. Again, Balaam, he tries to utter a curse. He's unable to utter the curse. Look in chapter 24. Look down in verse number Five, because when he opens his mouth he says, How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel. Still, he can't He can't curse the people of God. Drop down to verse 9 of chapter 24. He crouched and he lay down as a lion, as a great lion, who shall stir him up. Blessed is he that blesses thee, and cursed is he that curses thee. So again for the third time he can't utter the curse. He can only utter the blessing. And verse ten, and Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together, and Balak's Said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and behold, thou hast altogether blessed them these three times. Now therefore therefore now flee thou to thy place. I thought to promote thee unto great honor, but lo, the Lord has kept thee back from honor. So here's Balaam again uttering a blessing, and Balach in the background will be, hey, stop that! I hired you to give a curse. And three times you're giving a blessing, you're fired. You're fired. Go back to where you came from. You're not going to get this reward. This is over. This is futile. But God wasn't done with Balaam. God's not finished. Notice what happens. And by the way, the key to this here is that I think Balam finally gets to the point where he realizes that none of the divination is working. That all the all the attempts to manipulate God is not working. And the the critical shift is in look in verse one of chapter twenty-four. When Balaam saw that it It pleased the Lord to bless Israel. He went not as at other times to seek for enchantments. This time he's not depending upon enchantments anymore. Because he sees all that as futile. And again, I think here in the passage what we see is a purposeful contrast between a human attempt and divine response, between many altars and one sovereign God. Between repeated sacrifice and one unchanging purpose, between a pagan ritual and covenant blessing, between a desire to curse and a declaration of the coming Christ. who is the source of all blessing, not curses. So here's Ba Balaam. God's not done with him yet. He's still there on Peor. He's looking down now into the plains of Moab. And from this vantage point, he can see the whole camp. He can see all the The people of Israel, all their tents. And he sees right in the middle of that camp the tabernacle. And perhaps he then, I'm imagining this, but I don't think I'm out of line by saying this. He sees The glory cloud right above the tabernacle because the Bible says that's where it was. When the people were encamped, the glory cloud was right above the tabernacle. He looks down, he sees all of this. And in this context, Balaam delivered his greatest prophecy. This is a prophecy that reaches far beyond Moab And far beyond Israel's immediate future, far beyond Balaam's lifetime, this is a prophecy given by through by God. On this foolish prophet, look at verse number 16 of chapter 24. He has said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the Most High, which saw the vision of the Almighty falling into a trance, but having his eyes opened. Now hear this blind prophet finally He has spiritual vision because God puts it on him. And look at here's the great prophecy. Look at verse 17. I see him. I see him. Here's Balaam, and he's looking through the quarters of time. God's given him this sight. And he says, I see him. But not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. There shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. What an incredible prophecy this is. Here from the mouth of this pagan prophet, God declares a future deliverer, a divine star. A royal king, this victorious ruler. Balak wanted a curse on Israel. God gave a prophecy of Christ. Christ. Again, he sees beyond David, beyond Bethlehem, beyond his own lifetime. And what does he see? And there are three things here that I want to point out in this that he sees. First of all, a distant Savior. Notice he says, I shall see him. Not now I shall behold him, but not nigh. As Balaam, by God's vision, looks through time, he sees a person. He sees a man that is yet to come. What an incredible privilege this foolish prophet is given. He sees Christmas. He sees the coming of the Messiah. This is a promise of a Savior. Early Jewish writers understood this as a reference to the Messiah. They understood also the star and the scepter we'll talk about in a minute. They understood that as referring to the Messiah. For example, did you know that during the Second Jewish Revolt that happened around one 32 to 135 A. D. , there arose a leader that the Jews thought was the Messiah. They had rejected the real Messiah, but they still thought a Messiah was coming. And this leader, they decided to call him Bar Kokba. Which Bar, son of Kokba is the Hebrew word here for star, son of the star. Because they believed this whole prophecy here was about the coming Messiah, and indeed it was a savior. would come. Imagine uh you know what Balaam was thinking when this word was put into his mouth. Here's this blind man. given this kind of spiritual insight to look forward ahead and see this coming deliverer, this coming savior. This was all according to God's plan. This prophecy was in line with other prophecies that were given in the Old Testament about this Messiah, this one who was to come. Remember the The prophecy in Genesis about the seed of the woman and then uh in Genesis twelve three about the Abraham's seed and then a scepter shall not depart from Judah. All this is in line with all those other biblical prophecies And Balaam joins this prophetic chorus and says, I see him. He's coming. He's not now, it's far in the future. And by the way, this prophecy would be fulfilled fourteen hundred years later. Balaam was looking 1400 years into the future to see this one who was to come, a savior, but then also a divine star. There shall come a star out of Jacob. And this is the heart of the prophecy. Did you notice in you know in the ancient Near East, stars were not just things that they used to navigate. Stars and ancient Near Eastern symbolism represented gods And to hear this prophecy, the people in that day would immediately know what he's being what is he saying, that this this one that is to come This star, he's divine. He's God. Because again, stars, and we see this all over in inscriptions and coins in that day, stars were symbols of deity. Symbols of God. And so this one that is to come, this star that will arise out of Jacob, he will be divine, he will be God. And this is what Balaam is saying to Balak and all that were here as he's looking down into that Moab plain and he sees those many, many tents, and he sees that tabernacle in the middle with the Shekinah glory above it, and he's basically saying, Look, the thing that you need to know About these people that you see right here is that out of the midst of them will come a star. He will be God I see it in the future. This deliverer that's to come. This star that will rise. He's God But also the other thing, not only a distance uh savior in a divine star, but a dominant scepter Look again at verse 17, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. The scepter is a symbol of kingship, of authority, of dominion. And so here Balaam unites two truths that the New Testament will later proclaim openly. Christ is both God and King. He's both God and King. The star speaks of his deity. The scepter speaks of his sovereignty. He has the authority of a And this prophecy connects directly to earlier prophecies, the one I mentioned in Genesis 49, verse 10, a scepter shall not depart from Judah. And it looks forward to the angel's announcement to Mary in Luke chapter 1: The Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David, and of his kingdom there shall be no end. Now, of course, at his first coming, Jesus didn't wield a visible scepter, but it was his first coming that was necessary to inaugurate what will take place. at his second coming when he will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Christmas inaugurates What will be one day universally acknowledged that Jesus Christ is the King of Kings. He must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet. For there could be the crown, there had to be the cradle. He had to come first. He had to take care of the sin problem, to be our Messiah, our Savior, to die for sin. That all those that would come to him and repent would be a part of his kingdom spiritually in their heart, but he is coming again to set up that literal kingdom. Now, let's talk a little bit about the fulfillment. Go to Matthew chapter 2. This is the fulfillment of this prophecy, Matthew chapter 2. There are several interesting things to notice here. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold There came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, verse 2, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star. in the East and are come to worship him. Notice it was his star, they said. The Bible calls it his star. How did the Magi know this particular star was his star? These men were from the East. I think, of course, that they no doubt knew the prophecies in the Old Testament about a coming Messiah. They knew about the prophecy in Numbers 24, 17, a star shall rise out of Jacob. They knew that They knew that this coming one would be king and God. That's why they say, we have come to, in verse 2, worship him. You worship a God. You worship God. You don't worship just ordinary men. They understood who this was. And it was a star that led them to come to seek Jesus, the King of the Jews. It appears that only the Magi saw this star. It says in verse 2, we have seen this star. It doesn't say anything about others seeing the star. But they they in fact Herod and everybody in Jerusalem, they're all surprised. And Herod is especially surprised. You know why? Did you know in Herod's day there were coins that were minted? A lot of times when they would mint coins in that day, you would put the image of a king on that coin. And Herod didn't want to put his own image on a coin because he didn't want to offend the Jewish people. So what he did was instead of putting his own image on the coin, he minted a coin that was of him, but it was a star. He put a star on that coin. You know why? Because he thought, I'm the star. I'm the fulfillment of the prophecy. I'm the star that will rise out of Jacob. And you can you imagine the surprise when these wise men come and say, hey, uh where's the one-born king of the Jews? We've seen a star. And Herod's like, what are you talking about? I I thought I was a star. Here's not the star, not it close. And all of a sudden he's filled with intimidation. Oh really? This uh this king of the Jews, really, tell me more about this. Suddenly he's uh he wants to know more about this prophecy in the star, and of course he calls in the uh the the scribes to tell them about this prophecy about Jesus being born in Bethlehem. But again, and now he wants to kill whoever this new king is, whoever this star is, this this one that is to come. And again, this star, it appears to the Magi, seems to disappear, and they're asking, where is the one-born king of the Jews? And then it seems to reappear to the Magi in verse number nine. That kind of suggests that in verse nine. When they had and when they had heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came, and it stood over where the young child was. And verse 10, and they were when they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. So it seems like the star kind of reappeared to them and it led them right to Jesus. The star went right before them, leading them to The place where Jesus was, the house where he was at this time, the Bible says, went right before him. This is unlike any star I've ever heard about. Kind of stars appears, reappears, can lead you to a specific spot right where Jesus was. In verse 9, notice where it says, till it came and stood over where the young child was. This star not only led them to him, but it led them to a particular house and to a particular person and hovered over that person. How does a star do that? It's not like any star. In fact, you heard me maybe speak about this before. I think this was the glory of God that was leading Just like in the Old Testament when the sh the glory led the children of Israel, it would appear and reappear, it would hover above a certain tabernacle. And and at nighttime looking at it, it would look like a star. It shone like a star. And I think this connects to what Balaam saw when he looked down into the plains of Moab. And he saw that huge encampment, and he saw the tabernacle there, and he saw that Shekinah glory right there above the tabernacle. I think that's when he said, You know what? A star is going to rise out of Jacob. One that's going to come. He will be God. He will reign as a king. This all points to Jesus. I believe all of this. This was uh This was a sign in the heavens. You know the Jews were always looking for a sign. Remember they said to Jesus, show us a sign, give us a sign. They were always asking for signs. And Matthew gives us this account as if to say, look, there's already been some signs given. One really big sign at his birth, the star, that was a sign in the heavens. But more importantly, this was the fulfillment of this star prophecy, and that's why Matthew includes it in because Jesus is that star. You ever notice how people today want to call themselves a star? Uh you know, something exalted, something beautiful, glorious. You know, if you're a good actor, you can have a star put on Hollywood Boulevard and You could be a sports star or a news star or whatever. You can do weird things and become a star. Let me tell you something, beloved. There's only one star. And his name is Jesus Christ. He is the only star. He's the one that we follow. He is our guide. He's the one that brought light. And Matthew points to this in Matthew chapter 4, verse 16, where he speaks about the people that sat in darkness saw a great light. He's quoting from the Old Testament out of Isaiah, and I think he may even be referring to this star of prophecy. But one more thing. Remember when Zacharias heard of the birth of Christ in Luke chapter one He said this, the day spring from on high has visited us. Day spring, what does that mean? Rising star Star has visited us. And this is the promise of Christmas. This is what it's all about. But the greatest qu question Is this, have you come to the Savior that that star points to? Do you know him? These wise men traveled a long distance at great cost to worship him. That was their one purpose, just to come and to worship this one. They did not come to admire him from afar. They came to bow before him and worship him. And today the Lord is calling you to do the same thing. You might be like Balaam. Close to the truth, able to talk about God, and yet you do you you're still far from God in your heart. You might have the right words, but you're in your heart you're far from God. That's what Balaam was like Balaam could say, I I see him. I can see him from a distance. I know he's coming. He had all that knowledge, but he didn't bow before him. In fact, if you read the story of Balaam in the Old Testament, later he's going to be judged. They'll fall under the fierce judgment of God. You can have all the right knowledge, all the right facts, and not bow and worship and make Jesus your Savior and your Lord. And many people at Christmas are like that. They see that Jesus is the Savior. They know all the facts about the Savior, but they have never, ever bowed to Him and made Him Savior and Lord. So I want to ask you plainly, have you received him as your Lord and as your Savior? Can we bow together as we finish today? Bow for prayer. And I want you as your heads bowed, your heads are bowed, your eyes are closed. In just a minute, we're going to pray. If you know that you're not saved, you can call on Christ right where you are. Right where you are. Quietly, sincerely from your heart. You can pray in your heart. It's not magic words that saved, it is Christ who saves. You putting your faith in him, putting your faith in Christ, you can pray something like this: Lord, I know that I'm a sinner. I cannot save myself. I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, that star, the one who died for my sins and rose again. And right now I turn to you, Lord, and I'm asking you to forgive me, save me. I receive you as my Lord and Savior. Lord help me to follow you. And friend, if you pray that, if you pray that from your heart, I want you to do one thing in a minute. We're going to have a time of invitation. If you've done that I want you to come and take a minister's hand and tell them so we can we can pray for you. Speak with one of them. We want to help you take the next step of obedience in your Christian life if that's what you've done. Let's all stand together this morning and sing, Lord, I believe. And if God has spoken to your heart, if you prayed to receive Christ, come and let us know so we can pray with Him.