It's good to be in God's house, isn't it? To to end our day in the Lord's house. And I invite you to take your Bibles now and open to the book of First Corinthians and we are studying through this letter and we're dealing with a very, very monumentally important chapter in the Bible. We're dealing with First Corinthians fifteen. There's not too many chapters chapters in the Bible that are s as weighty as this chapter b because of the the theological uh ramifications and significance for uh Christianity but also the personal uh application to our own life. And so the title of the sermon tonight is The Big What If. The Big What If. Several years ago there was a popular English novelist who wrote a book called When It Was Dark. And in this book he it really centers around the efforts of a wealthy unbeliever to discredit Christianity. Is to discredit the resurrection, to overthrow the idea that there was a resurrection. So in the novel, he hires a corrupt archaeologist To fake a discovery of the body of Jesus in the neighborhood of Jerusalem. And on the tomb was the inscription testifying that the owner of the sepulchre stole the body of Jesus and hid it there. And then the novel goes on to describe the effect that something like this would have upon people if something like this indeed were true. Uh in the novel he shows how the church basically begins to crump to crumble And they fall back into lust and cruelty and animalism uh in the world and the The flame of hope dies out in every heart if there were no resurrection. Now to me that's such a horrible thought to think that if you know, if there were No resurrection. But this is precisely the angle that the Apostle Paul will use as he argues the truthfulness of the resurrection. It's as if he's saying to the Corinthians Have you thought about the ramifications if there were no resurrection? Have you thought about the uh the impact that such a thought, such an idea would have on uh the Theology it would have on your own personal life. And so he presents this hypothetical situation to say if there were no resurrection, to highlight the importance of their Indeed being a resurrection. It's almost as if the Apostle Paul is saying like this have you, Corinthians, actually thought about uh what you're claiming to believe Uh every once in a while I'll hear uh Christians and sometimes educated uh scholars even make certain claims or say certain things and sometimes I wonder if they really have thought through the claim or the thing that they're actually saying. Every once in a while I'll be called upon to read a book uh for a theological society. They'll say, Would you please read this book and would you please write an article after you review the book and give a uh a uh a review of what you think is being taught in the book and recently I finished one of those and sent in an article about A book of this being brought uh coming out. And in that book, there were some claims that were made where I basically say the same thing. Has the author really thought about the ramification or some of the things that he's saying. He hasn't thought through what is being said here. Let me give you an example. Sometimes I'll hear someone say, well, you know, the Bible is And it's such a a reliable book With respect to theology and religious religious lessons, however, the history of the Bible is not that important. We really can't depend upon the historicity of the Bible But that's not really an important issue. The rest of it is really religious. And my response to some idea like that is: have you thought through that kind of a claim? Because ladies and gentlemen, and this is by the way one of the attacks against the Bible is that it's not historically reliable in certain places, and so but that's not really a big issue. Yes, it is a big issue. And let me tell you why. Because all of our salvation is based on historical events. The Bible is a history book. And this is why, you know So Old Testament scholars sometimes attack the Bible from this angle, and some people say, Well, it's not a big deal. But friend, if the Bible is not historically reliable, then how do we know that the Events that the Bible records in the history of the Gospels is reliable. And if we can't be sure about that, we can't be sure about our salvation because the whole message of the gospel is based on Real places, real people, real events. It's based on a real history. That is an attack against the Bible. And if the Bible was not historically reliable, there are Serious ramifications from that. Now, this is the argument that the Apostle Paul is using here in 1 Corinthians 15. It's almost as if he's saying to the Corinthians Who have said, well, a resurrection, we don't believe in a resurrection. And they were saying that because they had been influenced by Greek philosophy, this idea of Dualism where the the body and matter are really not good, it's it's really a weakness and then the body's like a prison and at death the soul is free from the body. And so this gre Greek philosophy taught that there would be no resurrection. And so it was in the minds of many people on that day that there would be no resurrection. And there were certain Christians in the church at Corinth that began to Embrace this idea and say there was no resurrection. There is no resurrection coming. And Paul is saying here in 1 Corinthians 15, have you really thought through The ramifications of that statement? Because don't you know that our future resurrection, and really that's the idea, they weren't necessarily denying the resurrection of Christ They were denying any future resurrection. That we one day will come out of that grave. Our body will come out of that grave. We'll get a brand new glorified body. And Paul is saying, listen Don't you know that if you deny a future resurrection, do you understand the ramifications? Do you understand what if there were no resurrection? All the impact that that would have upon our faith and upon you. And so what the Apostle Paul then does here in this part of First Corinthians fifteen is he shows us some of the consequ Consequences if there were no resurrection. And first of all, I want you to see the theological consequences if there were no resurrection. As some of the Corinthians were claiming Paul says, Let me tell you the ramifications Of that thinking. First of all, their theological consequences is this. If there is no resurrection, that means Christ would not be raised. Look in chapter 15, look in verse number 12. Now, if Christ be Preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? How can you say there's no resurrection? If there's no resurrection, that means that Christ would not be raised. You see, somehow the Corinthians were on one hand believing that Jesus rose, yet on the other hand, they were saying there's no future resurrection And Paul's saying you can't have it both ways. You can't say that there's no future resurrection for us. And on one hand say that Jesus rose from the dead. If there's no resurrection, that means You have to deny the resurrection of Jesus Christ as well. You can't have it both ways. You can't say that Jesus is Lord and there be no resurrection Don't you understand that the Lordship of Christ is based on his resurrection? Don't you understand that when Jesus came out of that grave, it was God the Father putting his stamp of How do we know that God the Father accepted the payment of the early thing? Of sin made by Christ on the cross, how do we know that God the Father was satisfied with the death of Christ on the cross because God the Father resurrected him from the dead Because Jesus Christ came out of that grave. And that's what the Apostle Paul teaches in Romans chapter 1. He's declared to be the Son of God in power by his re Resurrection from the dead. God's approval on everything that Jesus Christ did on the cross. And so if there's no resurrection, that means that Christ Christ did not come out of that grave. That's the implication of that. There's another theological implication. That is, look at verse 14. And if Christ be not raised, then is our preaching vein And your faith is also vain. And of course, the word vain there means empty. If Christ did not come out of the grave, that means every sermon that you heard was a waste of time Now, I'm sure that there are some of you here that think you've heard some sermons that were a waste of time. But here he's saying every sermon that you've ever heard. Is a waste of time if Christ did not come out of that grave. Now think about that. Try to calculate the number of sermons that you have heard since the day you were saved Some of you here have been saved for many, many years and you've been in church, you know, th uh three times a week, faithfully. I mean you do the math on that. Do the math on how many sermons that you heard. If you come to church three times a week, that's a hundred and fi over a hundred and fifty sermons a year. If you come to Sunday school and get a Sunday school lesson, you that rises to over two hundred And that doesn't include the preaching you hear on the radio or on your iPod or on your iPhone or wherever you hear the word of God preached. I was thinking not too long ago Since I've been here at Grace, I have preached approximately six hundred sermons. On our website, I I looked at just recently to find out how many sermons are on the uh sermon audio website. I have a thousand and seven sermons that are there on that website. And you have heard many of them, you poor people. You deserve some kind of a reward for that. If each sermon is thirty minutes and you listen to 150 a year, you spend 4,500 minutes a year. And some sermons are longer than 30 minutes minutes as you know. I heard some few say yeah amen to that. Some forty-five minutes. If they were forty five minutes long you spent six thousand seven hundred and fifty minutes minutes listening to sermons and that's just in church. And then you add to it all of the preaching that you heard, add to it all the and I think of it this way as a pastor and someone who studied. Think about all the study that we have done in in uh sermon preparation, but also in school and college, seminary uh doctoral studies and all of the hours put in to preparing and preaching and the apostle paul is saying that you might as well just write all of that off All of it is vain. All of the many thousands and thousands of sermons, think about just here from this pulpit, our founding pastor alone who preached here for Over forty-three years, and all the sermons, and all the time, and all the study, Paul says it's all vain. If if There is no resurrection. If there's no resurrection, what a waste that is. And then he goes on to say: here's another ramification: faith in Christ Would be worthless. Look in verse number 14 again. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain, just as no resurrection Resurrection would make preaching Christ meaningless. It would also make faith in him worthless. It would be vain. The word for vain here, kinos, empty, void, of no effect Because a dead Savior could not give life or hope to anyone. And we could say like the psalmist, surely in vain I have kept myself pure. And so we think about that. Every once in a while I'll hear on the news about uh a radical Islamist taking their life in jihad. jihad and their mind and you say well I would why would someone be willing to strap a bomb to them and to take their own life to take others with them in jihad because If you know that Muslims, the only way that a Muslim knows absolutely certain that they're going to go to their version of heaven is by dying in jihad. It is that one thing that would cause a person Now we know that what they teach is wrong, it's false, there's nothing true about it, and so what they do is vain. And when I hear a report like that, I really I sympathize I my heart wishes that we could reach more people with a gospel like that because they're being deceived about w what's happening there. But the truth of the matter is if Christ did not come out of that grave We are just as foolish in what we do as we would think what they did was foolish. And that's what Paul is saying. Our faith would be vain. Preachers would be liars. Look at verse 15. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God. Because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up If so be, that the dead rise not. Have you thought about this, Corinthians, Paul saying? Have you thought about the implications of what you're saying if there's no resurrection? If there's no resurrection That means Christ did not come out of the grave. And if Christ did not come out of the grave, then all the preaching that we've done is vain. Your faith is vain. And all preachers of the gospel would be liars. Anyone who claimed that Christ came out of that grave is a liar. Think about that. Who would that include? That would include James and Peter and Paul, the five hundred witnesses that the apostle Paul mentioned in the first part of this chapter, that would include, beloved, God the Father Himself. Because God the Father Claimed that he resurrected his son from the dead. And if God the Father's word is not reliable, then there's we have no hope of anything. Understand how important this is? The implications of what's being said here? Anyone who claims that Christ came out of that grave would be a liar Now these are monstrous implications. But Paul's not done. There's theological consequences to no resurrection, but then there are personal consequences. Consequences. Look in verse number sixteen. He says, For if the dead rise not, then is Christ not raised, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain, and ye are Are yet in your sins. How does this affect us personally? We would all be still in our sins. Our sins would not be forgiven We are s in the same boat as anyone else who doesn't know the Lord. We're lost. Our sins are counted against us. You say, well, now wait a minute, didn't Jesus on the cross say it is finished And the price of sin was paid for? Absolutely, he said that. Well then why are we yet still in our sins? Because if Jesus stayed in the grave, sin would ultimately be declared the winner And it would mean that God the Father didn't accept his sacrifice. As I said before, the fact that God the Father resurrected his Son is a demonstration to all the world that God God accepted his payment for sin for mankind. But if Christ stayed in that grave, then the price for sin was not accepted. God the Father didn't accept his sacrifice and we are all still in our sins. And then here's another part where he says, All Christians who died would perish eternally. Look down in verse number eighteen. Then they also This is a most heartbreaking and heart-wrenching scenario that Paul gives here And I love the expression falling asleep in Christ. That's a beautiful word picture of death for a Christian. Because when a Christian dies, they fall asleep in Jesus. Because just like sleep has is waking death Will have its resurrection. You see, death is painful, but sleep is peaceful. That's why I love that expression. Death is foreboding, but sleep is inviting Some of you look like you're ready to go to sleep right now. Your bed is calling you right after the service. Sleep is inviting. Death is something that we fear, but we don't fear Sleep. You see, death is terrifying. Sleep is so very tranquil. And so that's why I love this expression there. Falling asleep in Jesus, what a beautiful Term that that is. But if there is no resurrection, that means that those who have fallen asleep have actually died with no hope of any Any future or any resurrection. You know, this Christian life has many blessings, but I think one of the greatest blessings of the Christian life is the knowledge To know that one day all of us will be together again in heaven. That's one of the greatest blessings of the Christian life. To know that there's going to be a union one day. That death is not the end. Again, one of my favorite stories I'm sure I've told you before, but please bear with me. R. G. Lee When he tells a story of his mother's most happy occasion, her happiest day ever. And R. G. Lee one time he asked his mother, Mom, what's the happiest day of your life? And she said it's a hard question, but I think it's the day when I was just a little girl. That's when the Civil War was going on. off the war and later we got news that he had died and she said that uh you know my mother she didn't cry in front of me but I could hear her at night in her bedroom crying her eyes out. And the next morning she would wake up and she would just do her chores. And she said one day we were sitting on the porch and we were stringing beans. We were baking breaking off those green beans and stringing them and putting them in a pot. And my mother looked down over the the yard there and up the river road there came a soldier. And he was far enough away that we really it was hard to recognize who he was, but we could tell that he was missing an arm because one sleeve was dangling along as he walked. As he got Got closer, she said, I heard my mother say, Elizabeth, that sure does look like your father. And I said to my mother, now, mom, don't don't get yourself robbed Up here, dad's gone. And as that man got closer, she said, My mother threw that bowl of beans in the air. She ran down through the yard And she fell into the arm, not the arms, but the arm of my father, who had been reported to to have died but he didn't. And she said, I ran across that yard as fast as my And she said, The happiest day of my life is when my father came home from the war. There is that beautiful reunion that we had. And then Dr. R. G. Lee would say this he said, My mother's happiest day is nothing compared to the great day when all of us will We'll be together there in heaven on that resurrection day when we will meet together, and that's why the apostle Paul said, Wherefore comfort one another with these words, because there will be a great Reunion. And that's one of the most comforting, I think, truths in the Christian life. Yet the Apostle Paul is saying here: if there is no resurrection Then those who have fallen asleep in Jesus, they're gone. And again, that's just a horrible thought. Now it's almost as if Paul's had enough of this. He's had enough of thinking this way. So you know what What he does in verse number twenty and verse twenty-eight, he kind of breaks out in praise. It's almost now he's going to return to the what-if argument back in verse number twenty-nine, but it's almost like the apostles Apostle Paul says, I'm I'm I'm tired of thinking of this what if thing here. Let me tell you something. Look at verse 20. But now is Christ risen from the dead? He did come out of that grave And watch this, and become the first fruits of them that slept. And again, what is he saying here? He's saying that your future resurrection Resurrection is inseparably linked with the resurrection of Christ. Don't you understand that? He did come out of that grave, and he is the first fruits of them that slept. And then he says this This uh this is what I call parenthetical praise. Paul says, you know, if we don't believe in the resurrection, Christians would be pitiful people. But he gives this parenthetical praise here that leaps off the page. And then he says this that he he talks about the two Adams. Look in verse number twenty one for since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead, for as in Adam all die equal Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. And what Paul does here is he uses this to this two atom argument. We see the same argument in Romans chapter five. Through the first Adam, sin and death came into the world through the last Adam, Christ came life and salvation. That's the whole point there. That the second Adam or the last Adam brought us salvation and life from death. But also he speaks about the resurrection and he uses a uh a metaphor from the harvest, a Jewish harvest. Did you know that when the Jews would harvest their crops. It normally was in three stages. There was the first fruits. That's when, you know, the grain, there were certain grain that got ripe early. And so they would go out and they would pick that grain. And then there was the main harvest, right? Where they would go and harvest the fields. But then there were the greenies. These were the the harvest, you know, in which, you know, some And so Paul's comparing that whole idea with the future resurrection. Did you know that there was a first fruits of the resurrection? Paul says that was Jesus. Jesus is the first fruits. You see, what does the first fruit say to the farmer? There's more coming just like us There's going to be a main harvest. And so then the main harvest comes. And then the gleanings. But here's the point. You can't separate the first fruits from the main harvest. It's all Tied together. It's all part of that resurrection. And so Paul's saying the same thing here. Don't you know that Christ is the first fruits of the resurrection? And then after Ham will come the main harvest. Look at verse number twenty-three. But every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterwards they that are Christ at his coming. Main harvest coming when Jesus comes again. That's when there's going to be a massive resurrection. And every graveyard will look like a plowed field. And the wine And the sea will heave up the dead that is in it. And there will be this great resurrection day That's what the Apostle Paul says. And at that second coming, that's when Jesus will reign, and the last enemy, look at verse 26, the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. And Jesus will reign as King of Kings and Lord of Lords during that time. What a wonderful occasion that's going to be when our Lord Jesus Christ comes back. And so that's what will happen So Paul kind of parenthetically just kind of throws that in there. It says Christ did come out of that grave. And not only that, we're going to have a future resurrection. And won't that be Now later on, Paul's going to talk about that glorified body that all of us are going to get, and we're going to live with in eternity. But here he's talking about the personal consequences. Now let me give you You the last thing. We talked about the theological consequences of no resurrection and the personal consequences if there be no resurrection. But here's number three, there's the practical consequences if there be no resurrection. And so I think what happens in verse 29, on down to verse number 34, is that Paul's argument in this section is This that if you remove the doctrine of the resurrection, you remove one of the greatest incentives for godly living. Verses here from verse 29 on down to the verse 34. It's as if he's saying, Here's another implication of to you, Corinthians, if you say there's no no resurrection, what you've just done is you have removed a tremendous incentive for you to live a godly life. I mean if you actually believe this, then you lose motivation. To live for Christ. And that's his whole point. So I think, first of all, there's no incentive for salvation. Look at verse number 29. Else, what shall they Do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all, why are they then baptized for the dead? Now I want you to know that Of all the verses in the New Testament, this probably is one of the more difficult ones to come at a dogmatic conclusion for. So you're fortunate tonight that you're going to get one But I just want you to know that there I've read some uh scholars where they say that there's over 200 proposed interpretations to verse number twenty-nine And uh I'm gonna give you all two hundred. Number one no, I'm just kidding. Uh actually I think two hundred is probably exaggerating it. I think it's closer to forty. Forty Different interpretations, the verse number 29. And I spent a lot of hours this week reading just about 40 of them. Happy to know that I've boiled it down to three primary interpretations What does this mean when it says that you know baptize for the dead? Because this has brought a lot of confusion to some people, and some people stand on this uh in a in a I think there's one idea, and that is the plain meaning of the verse is that some people are being baptized on behalf of those believers who died before being baptized. And so here's how some people interpret this. They say that what Paul's talking about here is that there are some believers who got saved in the church of Corinth and they died before they had the opportunity To be baptized in water. And the believers that were left behind were concerned about them because they thought that perhaps there would be some eternal reward that they would lose Because they were not baptized. And so they got baptized in their behalf. And so there are some people that believe that interpretation. Now I don't believe that that's the correct interpretation Interpretation of this because I think again the primary argument that Paul's giving here is an incentive for godly living. And so I don't think that fits within the context of what Paul saying here. There's a second primary interpretation that some people give to this verse, and that is it Paul's referring to the pagan custom of substitute baptism that was practiced back in that day, uh or it's it's also called um vicarious baptism. And this was something that It was common among certain religions of Greece. It was common among certain pagan practices there in Greece. It's still practiced today by some cults And so the Apostle Paul, his point is is this, he's saying to some of the Corinthians, he's saying, Look, if you don't believe that there's any future resurrection, then why do some of you participate in these Greek ideas of being baptized vicariously on behalf of someone who has already died because that was going on In the Greek world, and there are some scholars that believe this was taking place in the church at Corinth as well. And by the way, there are people that use this verse to teach baptism for the dead. Did you know Mormons use this verse here? And did you know that because they believe this that people can be baptized on behalf of the dead? That Mormons, uh for example, had bap been have baptized vicariously people who are dedicated to do this millions of people who have already died. They have this they have people they've hired to do research They have one of the largest uh genealogical databases in the world. And they have people that are dedicated in temples to do nothing but be baptized in proxy Or vicariously for people who have already died. You know, some of your loved ones that have already died, there've probably been some Mormons that have been baptized on their their behalf because they believe that And there's and so there are some that believe that this is what Paul's talking about here. He's referring to in the church at Corinth that there were some people that were doing that, and Paul is saying, if you don't believe in a resurrection, why do you do that And I don't think that this is the interpretation, let me tell you why, because I think if that was actually going on in the church, I think the Apostle Paul would rebuke it. I don't think he would stand for that. I think that he would call it an error. I think he would say what it is. I don't think he would give any approval to that whatsoever. So I don't think that that's the interpretation of this. So here's the third one and here's the right one All right. I don't say this proudly. I stand on the shoulders of others who have gone before me. But I've read all of them and I think this is the right one because I think it fits the context. Referring to here is some is a believer in the church who was saved and baptized. And you have to remember that in the early church, today we say to a person, Are you saved? Because that to us means uh have you ex trusted Jesus as your Savior? Are you a Christian? Now back in the early church they wouldn't say, Have you been saved or are you saved? They would say Say, have you been baptized? Or are you baptized? Because in their minds, to be baptized was synonymous with being born again or being saved. Because when a person back then was saved, they always followed up immediately with baptism. And so to ask a person if you've been baptized means have you been saved. And so I think that when Paul says we refers to people The the preposition there for in the Greek hooper can be translated in a lot of ways, but I think it's in the context here because of They were baptized because of believers who had died, and they had watched these believers die. And when they watched them die, they Saw a triumphant death. They saw courage. They saw hope when these believers died. And because their testimony was so remarkable They were so influenced by this believer that died that they decided to get saved because of these believers who had already died, because their death was So triumphant. I think that's what's going on here in this passage, because the the hope that these believers had when they died. I heard about Solomon Shaw, he was a man who recorded deaths scenarios and he wrote a book called Dying Testimonies of Saved and Unsaved. This was originally published in 1898 and he gives just one account after another of people who died and what happened on their deathbed. And if you read the book, what you'll see is the tremendous difference between those who were Christians who were born again and those who were not. So much so that Shaw makes that remark in the book, and he quotes one physician who simply said, This Christians die well. They die well. Why? Because Christians have the hope of the Resurrection. And because of that, they die well. And I think what the apostle Paul is talking about here is that when the Corinthians would see some people die in the way that they die It gave them incentive for salvation because these people died with hope of a resurrection. That's the argument. That's my story. I'm standing by it. May uh disagree with that interpretation, but you have a right to be wrong. There's incentive for salvation. But here's the next thing is there's incentive for service Look at verse 30. And why stand we in jeopardy every hour? If there's no resurrection, why do we uh risk our life? Paul says, for the gospel If there's no resurrection again, remember the overall argument is an incentive for godliness, for salvation. And Paul says if there's no resurrection, why do I risk my life every day? Why am I in danger every day Every hour. Paul says in verse 31, I protest by your rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. I die daily. And what Paul meant was that he was facing death all the time He had to die daily to give his life for the gospel. He had to die to all the things that he wanted because he realized that at any moment he could lose his life for the gospel. Look at verse thirty two. And if after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantage is it me if the Dead rise not. Listen, Paul says, why do I face all of these dangers? Why did I just in Ephesus have to face wild beasts? And some people think that this is literal wild beast there. Some think Paul may be referring metaphorically to the riotous crowd that wanted to kill him while he was there in Ephesus. Either way, the point is the same. Paul was constantly facing danger But he would face it courageously. Why? Because he had in his heart the hope of a resurrection. That's why he could face it. But then he says there's something very important. It says at the end of verse Verse 32, let us eat, drink, and drink, for tomorrow we die. That is, if the dead rise not, if there's no resurrection, this is the last thing, there's no incentive for sanctification To live godly, there's no incentive for salvation. There's no incentive for service and sacrifice in our service. If there's no resurrection, there's no incentive for sanctification. Let's just eat and drink For tomorrow we die because everything is vain that we do. There's no resurrection. And let's just go out and have a good time. There's one Greek historian Herodotus, who had a custom that at his parties he would take he would have a coffin with a dead body in it and he would take it around and show it to everyone and he would say to them, This is gonna be you tomorrow So live it up. That's what he would say. And this is a sense what Paul is saying here. It's recorded that at Athens one time there was a deadly Resurrection and they didn't have to pay any price for any of the things that they did, and so they tried to live in as much sin and quote unquote pleasure as they could before death came And this is the point that Paul's making. If there's no resurrection, there's no incentive for godliness. Look at verse 33. Do not be deceived. Evil communications corrupt good manners. And we could just simply say it like this. Bad theology leads to bad behavior. If your theology is wrong, it's going to affect the way you live as a Christian And if you don't believe in a resurrection, it's going to affect your life. You will not live a godly life. There will be no incentive for you living for Jesus. And so it's like the Apostle Paul is Saying to the Corinthians, you need to wake up. Wake up. Think about what you're saying. If there is no resurrection, have you actually thought through The implications of what you're saying? Do you understand what that means if there is no resurrection? And then he goes through this litany of things. Look what he says in verse 34. Awake to righteousness. Wake up. There's a resurrection. Awake to righteousness. And sin not. For some Paul commands them to wake up from your drunken stupor, stop sinning. Heresy will corrupt your life. There were some in the church of Corinth that were beginning to act badly because they did not believe in the resurrection. And Paul said, it's time to wake up. Wake up! There's going to be a resurrection day I'll close with this. There were three buddies that were discussing death, and one asked the group, What do you want people to say about you when you're uh when they're at your funeral? And one of them said, I want people to say he was a great humanitarian. And then another person the other one said, Well I want people to say he was a great husband and a great father And then one of the guys said, I want people to say, look, he's moving. You know what? If you believe in a resurrection, you will move. You're not going to stay there because Christ is going to come back. Thank God that the resurrection is a reality. It's true. And our faith and our hope is built on that, this wonderful truth of the resurrection of Christ. Let's bow Offer prayer together. And so, Lord, we praise you for this wonderful hope that we have, this great assurance in our hearts To know beyond any shadow of a doubt that one day we will have a resurrection. Just as the first fruits, so is the harvest. And Lord, our hope is in this. We know that we as Christians, we have nothing to fear with respect to death. Lord, you've given us your promises. We know that to be absent from the Bible But we also know that the body sleeps and there will be a waking, a great resurrection, and we'll be reunited with all of our loved ones. ones and our Savior, what a wonderful hope that we have in Christ. And Father, we thank you for that hope. We rejoice in it. And Father, I pray if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ Christ. May they realize that this hope is really only for those who know the Lord Jesus. This is not just for everyone. This is for those who have placed their faith in the risen Christ. And Lord, if they're here tonight and they've never done that, that they would that make that eternal decision to place their faith in the risen Christ. And friend I I just wonder again with heads bowed and eyes closed, is it possible that the Lord has spoken to your heart tonight about this? Do you know with absolute assurance That you put your faith in what Christ has done for you on the cross. There are a lot of people out there, religious people, that are trying to earn their way into heaven and they're doing all these good works, and they don't realize that your righteousness is like filthy rags to God. That's not what's going to do it. On the cross Jesus took all of your sins. He paid your sin debt And when you put your faith in what Christ has done for you, God gives you his righteousness. You bear the righteousness of Christ. It's not your righteousness, it's the righteousness of Christ Of price that God adds to your account. That's the truth of salvation. Friend, if you put your faith in Christ, He forgives your sin, He justifies you, makes you righteous and you have this wonderful hope of eternal life and a resurrection. And friend, if you don't have that hope, I'm encouraging you tonight, right there where you are, would you pray? Would you trust Jesus Would you say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner? Please save me. Come into my heart. I repent. I turn from my sin. And I trust you, Lord Jesus. Pray that. We'll rejoice with you in your decision. And would you just talk to one of us after the service? Would you talk to one of our pastors here? Let them know that you've decided to trust Christ, so we can encourage you in your new life. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use this message to be an encouragement to all of us, we pray. In Jesus' precious name. Amen