Would you take your Bibles and open to Romans chapter 1? And I would ask you also to stand for the reading of Scripture as we read a few verses together. Romans chapter 1, verse, well read verse 18 down to verse 22. So we honor the scripture with a reading of it, Romans 1, verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. Because that which be which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal and power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, I thank you for your inspired and errant word. This is our authority. We know that this is your word. And so we come and we submit ourselves to it. Help me, Lord, your servant, to make your word clear today. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I think that uh I don't know if you had the opportunity to uh watch TV this week. I s I know many of you have commented to me that you saw the interview that I did. uh with my son Jeremiah this week on TV. And I think most of you here know the reason for that, Jeremiah is on American Idol. And because of his claim to be a a gay person, this is kind of made news because he's the son of a preacher. And so this is this is something that isn't going away. I wish it would. But it's not. So they asked to have an interview with me and my son together. And the only reason I agreed to do that was because I have a really big concern. And my concern is this, that the the world today wants to portray, society today wants to portray Christian parents in a very negative light. They want to put out this narrative that when our children go astray, that we throw them aside, we cast them aside, that we we don't love our prodigals. That we don't care, that we're we're bigoted, we're intolerant. And uh I'm concerned about that because of all things, what we must do in this world as Christians is we must glorify God. We're here to glorify God. And that simply means just to make God look good. What does it say to the world if the world believes this narrative that Christians throw away their erring children? That doesn't make God look good. And that's not who we are, by the way. We do not throw away our airing children. We love them unconditionally. But that's the narrative that's being put out there. That's the thing that people want to believe. The only reason I agreed to do this interview is because I wanted to try in my own way, graciously, to correct that. And I and so I agreed and I told the gentleman coming in, I forget the guy's name, the one with the orange tie, but um And I told him up front, I said, Look, I'm I'm doing this for one thing. I have I have a message that I want to get out there, and the message I want to get out is that we love our children unconditionally as parents. That doesn't mean we agree with everything they do. But even when they go astray, even when they break our hearts, we still love them. And we will not cast them aside. And we will support them as much as we possibly can. So that's the message that you want to portray. But on the other hand, what I don't want to do is to portray this message that we that we accept everything that they do. That's what they want to hear. They want to hear that That I accept everything about Jeremiah completely, totally accepted him. Because that's that's a warm story. But friend, and if I don't accept everything that he does, then I've rejected him. But disagreement is not rejection. You can disagree. Is there any parent here that agrees with your adult children on everything? No. We don't reject our children because we disagree with them. But again, that's what the world wants of trade. And then I I get all of this I get all of this mail. I got all these people that want to teach me theology lessons about God. Oh God, God is a God of love. God, He accepts us just the way we are. How dare you not accept your Son just the way He is! They want to tell me all about the love of God, the love of God, or God is love. Well, friend, I believe that God is love. I believe that. But that's half the truth. And so I want to if you don't mind, I just have a little bit to get off my chest this morning. Everyone wants to teach me the theology of the love of God. And and I know it, I got it, I get it. And I I've told you before, there is the love of God's common grace, and we see that all the time around this world. God is constantly showering us with love. The sun shines upon the good, the evil. God indiscriminately pours out his blessings all the time. The very fact that you're here breathing this morning is an expression of God's love. The very fact that people that obey or excuse me disobey his commandments all the time, never acknowledge them, never give them thanks, and still God showers blessings on you, that's an expression of his love. And friend friend, that's called common grace. And we see it all the time. And we don't deserve it. We don't deserve it. But God is so good. He's so gracious. He's so giving. But that's one level of love. There's another level. This is the love of his saving grace. And beloved, that's conditional. If you want that love, it's conditioned upon a person's repentance. And why does a person need to repent? If God accepts you just as you are, why would there even need to be that? Why would we even need the gospel? Well, that's because there's another attribute of God that we forget about. And it's called his wrath. God is a God of love, but he's also a God of wrath. And what is that wrath all about? It's because he is holy. And that is an expression, his wrath is an expression of who he is. His whole that he is a holy God. But this is not the attribute that we really like to talk about This is the one that the world seems to forget. It's all about, you know, we now, you know, what basically has happened in society in the world today is that they have created a God after their own image. They have made their own God. They're not looking at the Bible and allowing God to describe who He is. They're basically they're treating theology like a buffet. You know, you'll go to a buff buffet after church, right? And you'll go down there and you'll pick out the foods that you like. You'll skip by the salad and the vegetables. There are certain things that you want, other things you just not assume not have. You'll make your own plate the way you want it. That's the way people treat God. They look at the attributes of God and say, Oh, I like this one. I like this attribute of God. And you pile it on your plate. But you know what? You forget that there are other attributes of God that are just as important that define who he is. It's just as big a part of his nature as love. And so I want to talk about this just a little bit today because the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans, when he begins to talk about The gospel. This is really what the book of Romans is about. This is his great treatise of the gospel. This is the sum and substance of the gospel is right here in Romans And it's interesting to me that when Paul begins to present the gospel, he doesn't begin at the love of God. He begins at the wrath of God. In fact, you don't really hear anything about the love of God until you get really to the end of chapter 3 and then in chapter 4 and chapter 5. That's when he begins to develop that idea of God's love. But before that, where does he go? He talks about God's wrath. The world doesn't want to hear about wrath. That's the part of the buffet we skip over. We want to hear about love. We don't want to hear about wrath. We just sang a song. There was a line in the song about we tremble before God. The world doesn't know how to tremble before God anymore. People call me, they say you're you're homophobic. I'm not homophobic, I'm theophobic. I I fear God. In society today, we're concerned about offending everybody except God. We don't we we we are so politically correct We don't want to send any. We don't have a those those that same crowd doesn't have any problem using the Lord's name in vain and offending God and trampling over his commandments. So people don't want to hear about the wrath of God. But this is where Paul starts his gospel. This is where he begins. And I wonder why it does that, because the Holy Spirit knows the depraved heart of man. If all you talk about is God's love, men would take that for granted. They would they would and that's exactly what they do. They they treat it lightly, as if God owes it to us. As if As if God is some kind of heavenly Santa Claus. And don't bother me right now, God. I don't really need you. I'll call upon you when I need you. But until that time, go stand in that corner over there. That's the way people treat God. He's not to be treated that way. He's a holy God. So Paul starts with wrath, and I want you to see three things about this that Paul teaches us. First of all, number one, the revelation of God's wrath. Look in verse 18 of chapter 1: for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. Against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth in unrighteousness. This is Paul saying, this is God. He reveals his wrath. Now what is God's wrath? It's not an emotional, uncontrolled outburst. God never has a temper tantrum. That's not God. It's not the result of having his feelings hurt, like some theologians want to say. You know, the reason God's angry is because we hurt his feelings. You don't have the power to hurt God's feelings, okay? He doesn't have a bad day. He's not bipolar But this is what some theologians say. They say, oh, well, you know, God He makes Himself vulnerable, and then when we don't do the things that we want that He wants us to do, then He He gets hurt, and because He's hurt, that's when He pours out His wrath. Open theist like John Sanders says that. And God is constantly changing. He's constantly learning. That sort of thing. That's not God's wrath. That's a ridiculous view of God. You know what God's wrath is? It's an expression of his righteousness. It's an expression of his holiness. This is what the whole book of Romans is about. God revealing his righteousness. God revealing his holiness. Look in verse 17 of chapter 1. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed. This is part of what God's doing. He's revealing his righteous character to us. And part of that is his wrath. It is as much a divine perfection as any other one of his attributes, as his faithfulness, as his power, as his mercy. This expression of God's holiness is found in his wrath that he pours out. And notice what it says in verse 18: for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. This is this lack of reverence. This failure to understand God for who he is and bow to that and be reverent. This unrighteousness, this constant sinfulness of man, this is what God's wrath is directed to. But then notice it's demonstrated constantly. Again in verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed. Look at the word revealed there. Present tense verb, we could say it's constantly being revealed. Apocalypto. It's constantly being uncovered And we see this all through the scripture. We see it in the Old Testament when God destroyed the world with a flood because the Bible says the imagination of man's heart was only evil before him. And the Bible says God poured out his wrath there. God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah because of their sins. In Psalm 2, verse 1, it says, Why do the nations rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their quartz from us. In other words, let us do away with God. Do away with his rule. Do away with his authority in our life. You can't do that. The Bible says he that sits in the heaven will laugh. And then if you go, and I don't have time to do it, I wish I did, but you can go all through the Old Testament. There are expressions of his righteous indignation, his wrath, even in the New Testament. John the Baptist started preaching by saying, You need to flee from the wrath to come. You need to flee from the wrath to come We love to quote John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not. Oh, we forget that. We forget the perish part. We forget the fact that if you don't repent, you will perish. That's an expression of God's love. Or excuse me, God's wrath. And on we could we could go. And the other part in John, we like John 3:16. We don't read John 3:18. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. So you see that that love there is conditional, isn't it? If you don't believe on the name of the Son, you're already condemned. And you're already a victim of his holy wrath. And then we can look around in the world today, God's wrath, there's eternal wrath. It's a place called hell. And I know that that's not a popular doctrine, and I know that people don't want to hear it, but beloved, that's that that's too bad. It is a reality. It is true. It's what the Bible says. There's eschatological wrath in the final day when the Lord pours out his wrath. There's consequential wrath, which is the principle of sowing and reaping. And then there's cataclysmic wrath, things like floods and disasters and storms and all these other things. And sometimes people will ask about that, you know, was God in on that? Well, let the Bible answer that. Shall a trumpet be blown in the city and the Lord not be afra and the people not be afraid? Shall there be evil in the city and the Lord hath not done it? And the word evil there, Hebrew Ra, disaster cataclysm You think God was taking a nap when that happened? He's sovereign. He's over all of it. These natural disasters or these things that happen here are a foreshadowing of the greatest disaster, the greatest storm that will come, and what is that? When men stand before a holy God. On the day of judgment. It all points to that future day. You remember when there was a a tragedy that happened when a tower fell? And people came to Jesus to say, you know, why did that happen? And Jesus, he didn't give any words of comfort. He said, you know what? He said, do you think that they were worse sinners than you? I tell you no. And except ye repent, ye will all likewise what? Perish. You'll perish too if you don't repent. What was Jesus saying there? These cataclysms, these so-called accidents, these disasters all point to the ultimate Disaster. For a person to stand before a holy God unprepared, that's the worst disaster. That's the worst thing there. So Jesus said, you better repent. You better get yourself ready. The revelation of God's wrath. But I want you to see number two, I want you to see the reasons for God's wrath. Why does God reveal this wrath? Well look again in verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth and unrighteousness. And look at the word hold there. That's a word that actually means to hold back, we could say, to suppress, to push away the truth. To hold down constantly. It's like a beach ball in a in a pool. You push that thing under the water. You let your hands off, it just stays there, right? Nope, it pops right back up. If you want to keep that suppressed, you've got to keep the pressure on. You've got to keep pushing it away. And that's the idea behind the verb here You know why God's wrath is revealed? One reason for that is this willful ignorance. People don't want to know about God. They're constantly pushing away the truth. They're suppressing the truth, and it's a constant pressure. It's a continual aggressive striving against the truth And I think that here it's referring to a sinner who has successfully silenced his conscience because he keeps pushing the truth away. And I people come to me sometimes, they'll say, well, you know, people are just seeking They're just seeking. No, no, they're not. They're running. They're running. Listen, if you really want to know the truth about God, he will reveal it to you. He will reveal it. He's not going to hold himself or his evidence from someone who really wants to know about him. He's not going to do that. He's not going to play hide-and-go seek with a sincere seeker. But you know what? These people that say, Well, I'm looking for God, no, you're running from God. And when you and when the real truth of God confronts them, you know what they do? They run off to another place. Oh, I'm seeking God. They're not seeking God. There's a difference between an honest doubter and a dishonest doubter. An honest doubter is honestly looking for the truth. A dishonest outer is running. Because they don't want to be under the authority of God. Whenever the truth starts to exert itself and makes them feel uneasy in their mortal nature, they just have to start suppressing it again, pushing it away. Pushing it down. And they suppress the truth about God's revelation of Himself to man. Look at verse 19. Because that which may be known of God is manifest what? in them. God has planted in men the knowledge of himself. People are born with that inward knowledge that God exists. God placed that inner knowledge of his existence, that inner law, we could say, inside of man. You remember the story of Helen Keller? A disease left Helen Keller, this little girl without sight, hearing, or speech, and through one woman's efforts, Ann Sullivan's efforts. She finally learned to communicate with Helen. And she learned to communicate through touch and even talk. And when Ms. Sullivan tried to communicate to Helen about God, Helen Keller's response was, I already knew about him, I just didn't know his name. I already knew about him. Why? Because that evidence of who God is, that reality of God has been planted inside of every man. An atheist simply just pushes it away. They suppress it. They push it back. And then there's the outward evidence. Look at verse 20. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world. are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Not only is it that inward knowledge that God is real, that he does exist, there's also the outward evidence And what Paul's saying here is that you can look at the outward visible evidence and trace that evidence back to an invisible God. Now I know the philosopher Immanuel Kant would always argue and say, you can't prove the invisible by the visible. Really? I mean detectives do that all the time. I mean a crime at a crime scene the the criminal's not there saying, I'm over here. He's invisible, he's gone. In order to catch that guy, what do they got to do? They got to look at the visible evidence and trace it back to an invisible source. And Paul saying, this is what happens. You want to know there's a God, just stick your head out the window and look. Look around you. Look at all the visible evidence. And it and it reveals a lot. So much so that you're without excuse. Without excuse. If you never heard the special revelation of God in his word, you'd still be without excuse because there's enough evidence of God and enough evidence about some of his attributes just by looking at natural revelation, creation, that you can't stand before him one day and say, Oh God, I just didn't know you were there You can't do that. But that's suppressing truth. They suppress the inward knowledge that God's placed in them. They push away the outward evidence. Because they don't want to know God. Look in verse number 20. For the invisible things of Him from the creation of the Word are clearly seen. Clearly, Paul says. But notice this, not only that, but notice also warped imaginations. Warped imaginations. Look at verse 21. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imagination, and their foolish heart was darkened. This is man's rationalization We see man's refusal in verse 21. He is not thankful. God has revealed himself, even though that inwardly they know that that's God. They don't want to acknowledge him. They just refuse to acknowledge him. And then there's his rationalization in verse 21. Man became vain in their imaginations, their reasoning. Man became full of intellectual pride. He began an intellectual quest. To explain God away. Part of this suppression of truth was man's reasoned arguments about why God does not exist. All these brilliant thinkers rise up And they compose these very intricate, complex systems of philosophical thought that rise up in opposition against the very existence and character of God. But ultimately, to believe any of those things, you have to jump into the abyss of irrationality. But that's the warped thinking of man. And then there follows wicked idolatry. Look at verse 23. and changed the glory of the incorrent of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man, and to birds and to four-footed beasts and creeping things. You see Man doesn't really want to know the real God in his rebellion, but he is innately a worshiper, and if you're not going to worship the real God, you want to have to worship something. So you know what they do? They just make up their own God. No problem. And so they make God in their image. Someone said God made man in his image and man returned to favor. Now man who refuses to worship the real God will make God in his own image. Man fashions God first with his mind It's all these people saying, oh, this is God. God is this God. Listen, that's your God. That's not the God of the Bible. That's the God that you have fashioned in your own mind with your own idolatry. That started with your rebellion not really wanting to be under his authority anyway, so you just made a God that was user-friendly Wicked idolatry. So they start with man, they make a god like man, they worship God as the image of man, and then they go down to make them like an image of birds. You know, many ancient cultures worship birds as their God. And then they go further down, they worship four-footed animals, and they call those animals god. And then calling things if that's not enough. The Egyptians worship beetles for crying out loud. But that's the idolatry that's in the heart of man. The heart of a man who has rejected God, who won't worship the true God, is a idolatry factory. It's constantly cracking out their own idols. Let me give you the third thing, and I'll be done. I'll stop ranting up here Number one, the revelation of God's wrath. Number two, the reasons for God's wrath. Here's number three, the results of God's wrath. And so basically, what does man do? Man says, we don't want you. We are pushing you out. And we'll worship, we'll make our own God, we'll fashion our own God with our mind and with our hands. We don't want you. And so you know what God says? God says, okay. Alright. So look at verse number twenty-four. Wherefore God gave them up? Just gave them up. Alright. Look at verse twenty-six. For this cause God gave them up Look at verse 28. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind. You see that word God gave them up? God gave them up. God gave them over. Parididomai, this is a judicial word. God just simply turned them over. He turned them over to a prison, we could say. He turned them over to judgment Man is handed over to a judgment. He's handed over to a prison. Question, who is the judge in this judgment? Where's the prison? It tells us very clearly right here. Look back up to verse number 24. Wherefore God gave them up to Uncleanness through the lust of their own bodies. Look down at verse 26 again. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. What did God deliver them over to? Their own lusts their own sinfulness, their own depravity. You realize that the real the reason man has not fully lived out The depravity that is in him is because God in his common grace has held that back. He's even held back the wickedness of man. He's held it back. And he's given us tools in society to hold it back. He's given us the conscience. He's given us family. He's given us government. He's given us the ch Church and the gospel. And even his own common grace, he holds it back But when a society gets to the point where they say, we don't want you, God, God says, okay, this is the wrath of abandonment. I'm going to leave you alone then. And I'm going to turn you over to yourself. I'm going to turn you over to your own vile affections. I'll turn you over to your own lusts. That is part of the wrath of God. And friend, we're seeing it all around us. We're seeing it all around us. God has a you know what we've kicked God out of the schools, trying to kick him out of the government. And you know what? God's leading, and you know what, he's turning us over to ourselves. Turning us over to ourselves. This is the worst judgment for God to turn over man, to turn man over to his own heart's lust. Because you know what happens after that? There's this downward spiral. Things just go down and down and down. The Bible says in Psalm 81, 11, but my people would not hearken to my voice. They would none of me, so I gave them up. I gave them up to their own heart's lusts to walk after their own counsels. That is a fearful judgment. In Hosea 4. 17, Ephraim is joined to idols. Just leave him alone. Just leave them alone. The worst thing that could happen in our country is for God to say, just leave it alone. But I think that we're seeing that. I think that we're seeing that because we're seeing the signs of it all around us. What is the downward spiral? Moral perversion. Look in verse 24. Wherefore God gave them up to their uncleanness through the lust of their own hearts. to dishonor their own bodies between themselves. This is sexual immorality. The first indication of a society in the wrath of abandonment abandonment is this this incredible immorality When a society becomes pornographic, when the general character is immorality, That is in effect God turning them over to their own lusts. Look at our society today. Just look at it. Sex runs rampant. And then verse 26, vile affections. This leads to a worse sort of baseness and perversion, vile affections or degrading passions. And here Paul talks about homosexuality. Look at verse 26. For this cause God gave them up undeval affections, for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature. And likewise, verse twenty seven, also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another, men with men, working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompense of their error which was meet. So there is this this movement of homosexuality Degrading passions. And it's interesting to me that in verse 26, God mentions women first. That's really To me, the the last there women in a society are normally the last to go as far as morals. Why? Because they have that motherly instinct. But here he he mentions that even even women turning the natural use and men with men And this is the sign of a society that God has turned over to themselves. This is not just personal. This is not just individual. This is societal. And now we live in a society today where we are forced to accept this as normal. And if we don't, we are bigots. And if we don't, we hate. We don't hate anybody, friend. We're trying to love you under Christ. All of us are nothing but sinners. Every one of us we're nothing before God. We have nothing to boast in but the cross of Christ. Nothing. All of us are sinners in need of the grace of God. We're not putting ourselves up above anyone else. We're trying to point you to the only real way of salvation, friend. And then there's mental perversion. Look in verse 28. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. God gave them over to a reprobate mind. What's a reprobate mind? Ah documon. Rejected after testing. Useless. Disqualified for its intended purpose, a non-functioning mind. This is where reasoning is corrupted. This is where the intellectual faculty is just totally crippled And a conscience really cannot function. And so therefore we pass laws to make evil legal. And the things that are against God's word and against his authority, we have made it legal. We are killing babies by the millions. This is the result of a reprobate mind. And this is a society that's under the the wrath of God. His abandonment. And friend, this is why we need the gospel. See what's the answer? The only answer is the gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And friend, again, I just want to emphasize, I'm trying to walk this fine balance. I'm trying to show the the love of God. I'm trying to show the unconditional love that we have. Even towards our airing children. But friend, don't ever get the idea that I ever approve anything that's against the Word of God. I will not do that. I will not do that. I will not compromise the holiness of God and the righteousness of God. And so we just need to wake up. We need to pray for God to bring revival. And we need to hold fast to the truth, to stand firm on the Word of God without apology. And keep pointing people to the cross. Keep loving. Look, I'm not mad at anybody but the devil. That's right. Thank you, Miss Martha. Let me pray with you. Let's pray together. And so, Father, I pray that you'll give us in these days strength to stand firm in your word To stand firm on the truth, to show indeed the love of Christ, and yet realize, Lord, that sometimes the most loving thing you can do is disagree With someone who's on an errant road, on an errant path, the most loving thing we can do is pull a person out of the fire. May we fulfill what you'd said. May we have compassion and love, making a difference, and yet at the same time, Lord, we will not compromise truth. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, it may be, friend, that you're here today. You've been listening to what I say. I just want to take a moment and just, I truly want to point you to Christ, friend, because that's the only way of salvation The wrath of God is true, but that's what makes the love of God so very special. Because although he is a holy God and he must judge sin, he's also a God of love, and he doesn't want to judge you. He wants to save you. He wants to deliver you. That's why he sent Jesus, his only son, to give you salvation through his death on the cross. And friend, I point You to Christ today, I'm asking you to turn to him with all your heart. Reach out to him and faith, he'll save you. He'll make his child. And you'll have eternal life in heaven. You'll be forgiven for all your sins. Your conscience will be cleansed. There'll be a peace that you've never known before. Because that relationship that you have with God is reconciled. It'll be right. And friend, if you haven't done that, I'm pleading with you today, put your faith in Christ. Just pray this prayer and mean it. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. For Christ's sake, save me, Lord Jesus. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.