Take God's word tonight, please. Open to the book of Revelation, chapter 19. We are continuing our study in Revelation. And go to chapter 19, and we're going to look at verse 11 down to verse 21. Revelation 19, verse 11. And I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. And his eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God. And so I want to talk tonight about the second coming of the King. I heard about a father who was working around the house and he began to sing the song Soon and Very Soon We're Going to See the King. And after a while he heard a voice of his little seven-year-old son in the other room singing the same song with a few different words, soon and very soon we're going to Burger King. Well I want us to know that we're going to see the king, but I want you to don't I don't want you to be confused about what king we're going to go see. Revelation 19, verses 11 to 21 is a passage that speaks about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is one of the fundamental doctrines in Scripture. This is the hope of the believer. And Christians in the early church would speak often to one another about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. It was a great Scottish expositor, Alexander McLaren, that used to uh say that famous quote that we like to quote often, they were not looking for a cleft in the ground called a grave. They were looking for a cleft in the sky called glory. They were not looking for the undertaker. They were looking for the upper taker And I look at this world and its wickedness, and I see the decline of morals, and I see the decay of society, and I say with John the beloved, the writer of Revelation, even so, come, Lord Jesus. Now the Bible has a lot to say about the coming of Christ. Again, it's one of the themes that runs from the Bible, from Genesis all the way through to Revelation, and it's something that should concern us. I heard that there's an inscription in the dome of the Capitol building which few people know about, and it basically says this, one far-off divine event towards which the whole creation moves. And one guide of the Capitol building said that it refers to the second coming. And when the dome of the Capitol was being erected, some God-fearing official uh wanted that to be inscribed there in the dome, believing that it was the vital concern of the nation. Well it ought to be a vital concern of our nation. It ought to be a vital concern of every nation because this is the culmination of God's plan. And this is what God's people are waiting for for throughout redemptive history. And this is what is being anticipated all the way from the very beginning, from the time in Genesis three fifteen, when the promise was that the Satan uh uh the serpent's head would be bruised. This will be the final bruising of the serpent's head. We'll see this here in the latter part of the book of Revelation. This is a time when the scepter is given to the true king. That takes us back to Genesis 49. This is the time that was anticipated in the great prop prophecy that was given in 2 Samuel chapter 7, when David is told that there is coming a king, it will be one of his sons who would be a a greater king than any other king and that he would rule on a throne, the the the throne of David, a greater son of David, and his kingdom would be established, and of his kingdom there would be no end And so 2 Samuel then is the anticipating of the beer the event that is really described to you in Revelation chapter 19 This was the thing that was anticipated by Isaiah the prophet in Isaiah 11 and verse and chapter 42. This was anticipated by the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 38 and 39. It was anticipated by Zechariah in Zechariah chapter fourteen. It's certainly what Isaiah had in mind in Isaiah 9 6 when he said the government will be upon his shoulders, talking about the coming uh child The government will be upon his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor of the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father. And so the Old Testament prophets all look forward to this one event. And the New Testament writers as well. In the great Olivet Discourse, Jesus, where he preached that sermon about his own second coming, he mentioned some of the events that would take place when he would come back to the earth and judge the earth. And so all this is anticipated in the scripture, and we see this fulfilled here in Revelation 19. It is the chapter that we looked at last time. It kind of opens up in a wedding, but it closes, it ends in a war. And the one thing that you have to understand, or you'll be confused, is that there's a difference, I think, between the rapture when the Lord comes for his saints. And the revelation when the Lord Jesus comes with his faints now I know that there are some people in their eschatology that basically try to harmonize those two things and kind of try to make them the same event. I I see a distinction in the scripture on that. And one of the things that's a distinction is the judgment. There's not a hint of judgment in the rapture passages of the New Testament, but there's judgment in the second coming when Jesus comes to earth at what we call his revelation. At the rapture he comes for his saints. At the revelation he comes with his saints. The rapture is before the tribulation, before God pours out his wrath. The revelation is at the end of the tribulation. At the rapture, he comes in the clouds. At revelation, he comes to the earth. At Rapture He comes for his bride, and at the revelation, Jesus will come for a battle So as we said before, the rapture is really the culmination of a wedding. Uh the Lord will come for his bride. There's a wedding, and then at the revelation it will be uh the consummation of the war when all the nations of the world, the contingent of the armies of the nation of the world come and fight against the Lord's Christ, and it will be a time of judgment. Whereas the rapture will be a time of joy and celebration. The revelation will be a time of judgment. And so some again believe that these things happen all at once. Because all of it is here in Revelation 19. But remember, Jesus himself said you can't mix the joy of a wedding with the morning of a funeral. And Matthew chapter 9, verse 15. And so there's a distinction here. The first part of chapter 19 refers when Jesus comes for his bride. The second part is when he will come. and war to judge at his second coming to earth. So I want you to see just four things from the passage here tonight. The first thing I want you to see is the appearance of heaven's king. Look in verse 11. And I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. Heaven is open here in chapter 19, verse eleven. And this, again, is the glorious revelation of Jesus Christ. Revelation means unveiling. And here Jesus is unveiled in his second coming, so much different than in his first coming. Now he's coming as the judge, not the savior, but as the judge. Now he's coming as a warrior, not a redeemer. Now Some preterists see that this passage here they see in it again, they go back to R uh A A D seventy And they say that this is when the Lord came at uh the 70 AD and he brought judgment on Jerusalem. But I don't see anything in 70 AD about the Lord Jesus returning on a white horse Or him making a literal appearance. A lot of times when people want to uh talk about 70 AD and Revelation fulfilling all of that, they turn to Josephus. And they talk about some of the events that Josephus writes about, the great historian, but there's nothing in his antiquities in his in his books that describe anything about the coming of Jesus Christ. And so I don't see any parallel whatsoever in the events of seventy AD with what we see here in Revelation nineteen. Now others say that this is all symbolic and And and this is really just a picture of the continuing victory of the gospel after the fall of Babylon. I think it was um A Jay Adams who takes that position. But again, I don't see any of that here. That's really, again, more of a symbolic reading of these verses. But it a straightforward literal reading of this is very simply the glorious return of the second coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And admittedly, some of this is symbolic, but it talks about the literal return of our Savior, Jesus Christ. And so we see then a uh a return of Christ. Heaven is open, and then we see a white horse, and the rider on the white horse in verse 11. Now in chapter Revelation 6. 2, there was a white horse, and we Saw that as the false Christ. But here the rider is the true Christ, and he's not coming in the air to take his people home. He's coming to the earth to conquer his enemies. A white horse sometimes was used in Roman times, ridden by the victorious general, as a illustration of victory. It was a triumphant procession that they would have through the streets of Rome whenever there was a great triumph. And I think that's part of the picture here. This is a picture of Jesus coming in victory. And notice that he's called faithful and true. Look again at verse eleven. And he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. There's no more appropriate name for our Lord Jesus Christ than that. Amen. In Revelation 1. 5, he's called the faithful witness. In Revelation 3. 14, again, he's called faithful and true witness. In 2 Thessalonians 3. 3, the Lord is faithful. who shall establish you and keep you from evil. And 1 Thessalonians 5. 24, faithful is he that called you, he also will do it. He's faithful, but he's also called true. That's because Jesus always speaks truth. Jesus is the personification of truth. And what he claims to uh is true. And so the very fact that he's coming in again is a demonstration of his faithfulness and of His truth. This is in contrast with the Antichrist who is unfaithful and always speaks lies Christ is faithful and true. And notice we see here also his holy warfare. Look again in verse 11. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. And this is the purpose for his coming. He comes back for holy war. His holy nature demands A holy and righteous reaction towards sin and towards those who refuse to repent, to those who reject his gospel. Again, he came the first time as the Savior. The second time he will come as the judge. He's not the suffering servant anymore. He is the warrior. king. And notice his fiery eyes. Look at verse number 12. And his eyes were as a flame of fire. And again, what does that speak of? That's symbolic obviously, but it speaks of his omniscience. Our Lord Jesus sees all and he knows all. Nothing escapes his penetrating vision. He can see in the deepest, darkest human heart, and he knows what is there. In Hebrews 4, verse 13, it says, Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight, but all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. In First Corinthians four or five, it says, Therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes, who will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. Then shall every man have praise of God. And so it's a it's a remarkable thing when you think about the omniscience of our Lord that He knows all. He knows everything about you and everything about me. But then we also see His sharp sword. Look at verse number 15, and out of His mouth Goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty. The sw the word for sword here is a word that refers to a long, heavy sword. The sword long enough to it's it's kind of like, you know, almost long enough to to throw like a javelin. It's a big sword. The Word of God is described as a sword in Hebrews 4. 12, but the word there refers to a smaller, two-edged sword. The sword here, again, is the word, but this time it's a word of judgment that will come out of his mouth to strike down the nations. This will be his spoken word of judgment against the nations. And notice also it says in verse 15, that he shall rule them with a rod of iron. We see that expression In other places, right? This is the fulfillment of Psalm 2. And we also see this back in in Revelation. Go back to Revelation 12. Look in verse number 5. We see that same expression there where it says, and she shall bring forth a man-child. The woman here represents Israel, the man-child Christ, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron. He will judge all sin and put down all rebellion. Back in Psalm 2 is the promise that the Messiah would come and he would break the nations with a rod of iron. And that we'll see this happen when the Lord Jesus comes. And what that means is instant, swift, righteous judgment That will be characteristic of his rule and of his reign as king. When he comes, judgment will be sure. And so The Bible also says that, you know, as as God's children, we in that time we're going to have a part in the judgment process. In Revelation 2. 26, to him that overcomes, I will give authority over the nations. and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. And so there's a sense in which we as God's people we get in on this. God will have places for us in heaven there. He does the execution and we will rule with him and under him And the Bible says that we will have thrones there, we'll have places of authority in that time. And so we see the appearance of heaven's king. But then I want you to write down number two the apparel of Heaven's King, because notice that John focuses on what he's wearing. Did you notice that there's a great emphasis on this here? His clothing has great meaning. And notice he has many crowns. Look in verse 12. His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. And the word crown here is diadem, the crown of a king. And this speaks of royal authority. And where did he get all those crowns? Well, I think he collects them from the kings of the earth. And this signifies that he alone rules, that he alone reigns. Again, here's the ultimate symbol of sovereignty. All the crowns now belong to Christ You'll remember back in Revelation 12, we were looking at the description of there of Satan. We could see that he was a ruling monarch. In Revelation 12, 3, the great red dragon had seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads were seven crowns. In Revelation 13, we saw the Antichrist, and on his horns were ten crowns. So Satan wore crowns, the Antichrist wore some crowns, but there's coming a day when all the crowns will belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. All the crowns of all the kings will belong to him. And he will have absolute authority. He will be King of Kings and Lord of Lords. But we also see his blood-stained vesture. Look at verse 13. And he was clothed with a vesture, dipped in blood. Now this blood here on his vesture, this is not representative of the blood that was shed on the cross. That's not the issue here. This is the blood That is symbolic of the slaughter of his enemies in that time. Remember, this is not a time of redemption. This is a time of judgment. And I think the imagery here that John gives is drawn clearly from Isaiah 63. Hold your place here in Revelation 19 and go back. to the Old Testament and look in Isaiah chapter 63, because I think this is helpful in this description we see in Revelation. Look in Isaiah 63 verse 1. Who is this that cometh from Edom with dyed garments from Basrah? This that is glorious in his apparel, traveling in greatness of his strength. I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save Wherefore out art thou red in thine apparel and thy garments like him that treadeth in the wine in the wine fat? I have trodden the wine press alone of the people There was none with me, for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury, and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment, for the day of vengeance is mine. heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. And I looked, and there was none to help, and I wondered that there was none to uphold. Therefore mine own arm brought salvation to me and my fury. It upheld me, and I will tread down the people in mine anger. And make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth. This is all prophetic about the day of vengeance when the Lord will return And so his garments are dipped in blood. Again, this speaks about his vengeance, about his wrath, about his judgment. And notice also his name. In Revelation 19, hit the name that is given him. In case you don't in case you doubt who this might be, look in verse actually verse thirteen. And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called what? The Word of God. John just jumps right in and says his name is the Word of God. This is the same John that wrote in John 1 1, In the beginning was the Word And the word was with God and the Word was God. And why does John choose to call him the Word of God? Because he is the expression of God. He is the revelation of God. He is the declaration of God. He is the living, incarnate word. And notice also his sovereign name written in verse 16. Drop down to verse 16. And he hath on his vesture And on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. I love that. It expresses his triumph over all of his foes. This means kings will bow down to his authority. He is absolute ruler. And also notice his secret name. Back up to verse number 12, where it says that he was wearing many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. He's also going to be wearing a name that no man knew. You say, what is that name? Well don't ask at it. Just say that no man knows it Why do you expect me to know it? You know the and and you know when you see a verse like this, always the scholars want to tell you what it is. They want to give some speculation. For example, there are some who come to this and they say, well, this is the name Curios Lord. Really? Well And they say it's based on Philippians 2 9 through 11 that he has a name above every name because of his submission and obedience that God has given him a name above every name. And what is that name? It is Lord. But again, it says no man knows his name, so I don't know why scholars say that. Another suggestion that's been given about this is this this may be, and I had a uh a Hebrew professor try to explain it like this He said, it may be that this is the divine name, the four-letter name that is called the tetragrammaton. It's just four Hebrew letters And those of you that study Hebrew know that there was no vows written in the original Hebrew. And so the name of God, that sacred name, was just four letters. And that perhaps that this is written in a kind of a pre-exilic Hebrew, maybe an early form of Hebrew letters that nobody knows. But it'll be the name of uh of of Yahweh that is on there without the vows. And my one Hebrew professor said that, you know Because there's no vows with that name, there's really 23 different ways that you could pronounce that name, according to him. And so maybe this is um an expression of that, that that this is the the the four-letter name, maybe in letters that no one really recognizes, but that this is j uh this Jesus is Yahweh. That's one theory about this. And then others say this. It may be that the name is one which can be revealed only at the final union of Christ in the church. And this is based on a passage out of an apocryphal book, The Ascension of Isaiah. There's a saying, Thou canst not bear his name until thou shalt have ascended out of the body. There was a Jewish belief that no man could know the name of God until he entered the life of heaven. Until you get into heaven. That's another theory about this. And then another idea about this is that it may be that this is a lingering relic of the old idea that to know a name of a divine being was to have power over him. In the Old Testament, we remember the story of the wrestling of Jacob with the appearance of the angelic messenger. Um and how that um you know we don't know the name of that that person there. The divine visitor refuses to tell his name. Um that that's another idea out there. But these are nothing really but theories. We don't know what the name is here. And it'll be revealed in that day what that name is. But I like what one person said about this. It helps us, it reminds us that there's more to learn about our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't know all there is to know about him. There'll be more that we learn about him there in eternity. But now let me give you the third thing. We see the appearance of Heaven's King, and we see the apparel of Heaven's King. But notice the armies of Heaven's King. Look at verse 15. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses. clothed in fine linen, white and clean. Now who are these armies and where did they come from? Well they're clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and they're following him on white horses. Who are these glorified troops? Well, I think we get a little hymn here if we go back to verse 7 and chapter 19 in verse 7 where it says that um Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready, and to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean in white. For the fine linen is the righteousness of the saints. And so perhaps this is a reference to the fact that the saints of God will be coming with the Lord during that time when the Lord comes back. The uh another passage of scripture along with this is Jude verse 14, where it says, Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these things, saying, Behold, The Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints. And we also see the passage in Matthew where Jesus said that when he comes, angels will come with him at his return. And so this crowd could be the angels and the saints that'll be with the Lord together when the Lord returns at this coming. For this battle that's going to take place, which leads to the fourth point. We see the appearance of Heaven's King and the apparel of Heaven's King and the armies of Heaven's King. But let me give you the final point here, and that is the avenging of heaven's king. And this is from verses 17 on down to verse number 21. And all these verses here paint a grim picture for the enemies of Christ. In verses 17 and 18, John sees an angel standing in the sun. Notice what it says. And I saw an angel standing in the sun, and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls, that fly in the midst of heaven, come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God, that ye may eat the flesh of kings. And the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great. And so he, this angel stands in a prominent place to be heard by all and makes this grim announcement to the birds that are there. He calls them for a meal. He kind of rings the dinner bell for all these scavenger birds. He tells them to get ready, because there's going to be a bloody battle. There's going to be uh carcasses for them to feed upon. And I think again this goes back, if you'll go back to Revelation chapter 16, look at verse number 12, and notice what it says there Um verses twelve to sixteen. This is speaking about when I believe the Satan will gather together under the Antichrist and the Beast and the False Prophet on the armies of the world There at Arm at that place called Armageddon. Look down in verse number 15 where it says, and he gathered verse 16 rather, and he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon. And so these demonic spirits will be working behind the scene to bring together these armies. And they all come together for one reason, and that is to war against Christ. But God's not concerned about that because Psalm two says, He that sits in the heaven will laugh. But they all come to that place there called uh Armageddon, the Valley of Megiddo, and um and we saw in Revelation 14, verse 20, where blood came out of the wine press to the horse's bridle. That is to say that this is going to be a bloody Massacre. It's not really going to be a war. It's going to be a massacre. And the one who will do the fighting will be the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't know what he's going to say there. The Bible says he will fight against them with the sword of his mouth. In fact, go back to chapter 19 and look in verse number 21. And the remnant were slain. with the sword of him that sat on the hoon the horse, which sword proceedeth out of his mouth, and all the fowls were filled with their flesh. It'll be the word of the Lord that takes care of this. And is again it's not going to be much of a battle But it'll be the word of God that will kill all of these enemies. And I'm not sure what he's going to say. It might be something like, drop dead. And that's it. The world will be over. And all the enemies that have come against the Lord will be defeated there in this short battle that will take place there at Armageddon. And back up to verse number 19. And I saw the beasts and the kings of the earth and the armies gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse. and against his army, and the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, and with which he deceived them, that had received the mark of the beast And them that worshipped his image, these both were cast alive into the lake of fire, burning with brimstone This will be the time when the beast, the Antichrist, the false prophet will be seized, and the Bible says they will be cast into the lake of fire. And the head of the serpent here is finally ultimately crushed at this time. And we'll look next week at Revelation chapter 20, another interesting chapter. We'll talk a little bit more about what will take place there with Satan, but in this battle when the Lord comes back, it'll be over in in an instant. The Lord will defeat his enemies at his second coming. Let me just quote to you the uh words of John Phelps, who writes about this. Then suddenly it'll all be over. In fact, there will be no war at all in the sense that we think of war. There will be just a word spoken from him who sits astride the great white horse. And once he spoke a word to a fig tree and it withered away. Once he spoke a word to the howling winds and the heaving waves and the storm cloud vanished. And the ways fell still. Once he spoke to a legion of demons, bursting at the seams of a poor man's soul, and instantly they fled. And now he speaks a word, and the war is over. The blasphemous, loudmouthed beast is stricken where he stands. The false prophet, the miracle-working windbag, with the pi with with from the pit is punctured and still. The pair of them are bundled up and hurled headlong into everlasting flames. Another word, and the panic-stricken armies reel and stagger and fall down dead. Field marshals and generals, admirals and air commanders, soldiers and sailors, rank and file, one and they all fall, and the vultures descend and cover the scene. And it's over. The Lord defeats all of his enemies. And he will set up his kingdom there on earth. And we will worship the Lord there. as he sets up his kingdom and his throne there on the throne of David. This is the one far-off divine event toward which all Creation moves. And even now, all of creation groans for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. For him to come back and to put down evil and to judge sin. You know, I I read this, uh, I'm not sure how true it is, but it's it's interesting. Since Israel became an independent nation in 1948, it has become one of the bird capitals of the world. Did you know that? One half billion birds migrate twice annually over Israel, including twenty-five species of birds of prey, one of which feasts on the bodies of large mammals. A favorite stop for the birds is Herod's Spring, which is right there at um Megiddo. You say why are they there? Well, maybe they want to be first in line for the early bird special, I'm not sure. But all of creation is groaning and moving towards this event. Which is coming. The question is, are you ready? And am I ready for the coming of our King? Let's bow together in prayer tonight. As we uh our heads are bowed, again this is a sobering thought Because when I think about the Lord coming in judgment, and I think about those who know not the Lord, my heart is just burdened. I know people that don't know Christ, people that I love And I want them to come to a saving knowledge of Christ. And I think that if any if if the study of Revelation does nothing else for us, we we should see the glory of Christ in this. We're talking about the glory of Christ this morning. When we study Revelation, certainly we see the glory of Christ. But it should also motivate us to share Christ with people around us. Because beloved, this this world's headed for judgment. It truly is. And I look around, I see things right for judgment. I see a world that's that's imploding. I see evil abounding. But don't get the idea that that's that the that that sin will win, or faith in any way will fail Because when the Lord comes, He's going to set all that right. And judgment will come. And I pray for those who don't know Christ. And I pray that this will give you a burden. The Bible says, knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. This should motivate us to persuade others to come to Christ. We're not supposed to just come to church here and be fed and just forget about others. We're we we gather to learn the Word of God and worship. We scatter to be witnesses of Christ and to warn people to flee from the wrath to come. The wrath to come. May God do that in our hearts. Father, take these words, seal them in our hearts. Lord, let them not just be empty and vain words, but Lord, use your word to stir our hearts to To fulfill what you have called us to do as your church. Lord, may it knock us out of our apathy and lack of concern over those who don't know Christ. Give us a burden and a passion. To see not only the glory of Christ fulfilled, but to see others come to know Him. And we pray all of this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.