All right. Thank you, Dr. Gorham. Beautiful song. Would you take God's word and open this morning to 2 Corinthians chapter 1? 2 Corinthians chapter 1. And uh I want us to begin a series through 2 Corinthians, and this will be the first in that series. 2 Corinthians chapter 1. You can remain seated this morning. Let me read a few verses. with you in verse one, Second Corinthians one, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints which are in Alakai Grace be to you in peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. who comforts us all in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. Now you never know when you're going to need comfort from the Lord. One day in nineteen thirty-two, a great pianist, singer, songwriter, a Christian man named Thomas Dorsey was discovered his need uh for God's comfort. He left his pregnant wife at home in Chicago. He drove to uh St. Louis to be a part of a revival there and use his gifts to be a blessing and and indeed he was Uh the crowd was so blessed by his singing and his playing. But at the end of that revival, he received a telegram that his wife uh went into labor, she died, and also the little boy that she delivered died later. Well he was filled with grief, he was crushed obviously. and spent many days just uh trying to reckon with what had happened, questioning himself, should I have left or questioning God, did God do something that was unjust? And after a time of really seeking the Lord He wrote these words, Precious Lord, take my hand. Lead me on, let me stand. I am tired, I am weak, I am worn. Out of that experience that he had came a song that has been blessed and has blessed many people as a result. But in that song he says this expression, take my hand, precious Lord. Now that in a nutshell is what the Apostle Paul is encouraging us to do, is to take God's hand here in 2 Corinthians chapter 1. It may be that you're here today and you need comfort from God. Maybe you're bearing a burden that is too heavy for you, that is too great, and you need God's comfort. I want to encourage you today to take the hand of God. Put your hand in God's hand and let Him strengthen you. Trouble is an inescapable inescapable reality in this fallen and evil world in which we live. I mean, look around, there's people broken all over. Job said this in Job 5 verse 7, the book of Job, man is born for trouble as the sparks fly upward. He also said that man who is born of woman is short-lived and full of turmoil. Jeremiah the weeping prophet at one point said this. Why did I ever come forth from the womb to look on trouble and sorrow, so that my days have been spent in Shame. These were men in Scripture that were going through such pain and suffering and affliction that they were questioning their even their life. The testimony of Scripture tells us that life is filled with disappointments, it's filled with disillusionment, it's filled with despair. And and and besides that, there are times when we go through suffering that we may feel as if we've been abandoned. Maybe you feel that way today. You're going through a difficult time and you're asking the question, where is God? At one point Job cried out Why do you hide your face from me? In fact, in Psalm 44, verse 24, the psalmist said, Why do you hide your face and forget our affliction? It may be that there are times when you feel that way. You feel as if God is hiding his face from you. Well, let me assure you that that is not the case. Let me assure you that in times of sorrow, God will lift you up. God will strengthen you. God is the one that will bring you through. In fact In verse number three, notice what Paul calls God. He calls God the Father of mercies and the God of all comfort. He's the God of all comfort. The word comfort there, Heraclesis, is the idea of God Himself coming along to strengthen, to help you. This is God personally giving you strength. In fact, the word comfort comes from two Latin terms, which actually means with strength. Comfort is God reaching down and giving you strength and picking you up. And this word is used Uh ten times in these eleven verses that we see here, sometimes if you have the King James, sometimes it's the word comfort, sometimes it's the word consolation, but it's the same Greek word And Paul is starting off in this letter telling us, reminding us all, that God is the source of comfort. Where do you turn to when you're Going through affliction. The psalmist said it like this, I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help comes from the Lord. Now some people read that and say, well, the Psalmist was looking to the hills for his help. He wasn't looking to the hills. He was looking to the Lord. The hills were not a source of comfort. The hills were a source of fear. Traveling back in that day was not a very easy thing. In those hills were robbers. In those hills were idolaters. In those hills were ravenous animals ready to take your life. For any traveler back then, it was a very dangerous proposition to travel through the hills. And the idea is the the tr the the the pilgrim traveler is looking at those hills and saying, Where am I going to get my help from as I travel? I go down this difficult path And then he reminds himself, my help comes from the Lord. Maybe you have some hills you're looking at that are causing you fear. You need to be reminded that your source of help is God. Where do you go to when the crisis comes? Where do you go to when the danger comes? When the suffering comes? Some people turn to uh the bottle. They they try to forget their sorrows, but they try to drown it in liquor. But friend, that does you no good because when you're when you're sober again, those troubles are still there. And some people try to go to man's philosophy for answers, but Paul made it very clear in 1 Corinthians 1 that vain is the help of man, and man's philosophy has no power to do anything for you. And then some people turn to material things. In a time of sorrow, they they they try to maybe buy their way out of the sorrow. But I want to tell you something, when your heart is crushed and broken, a new house and a new car and luxuries, they don't mean anything. None of that can help you. Your only source of comfort is God. He is the source of all comfort. And this is what Paul is reminding us here of in chapter 1. He comforts us. The word for comfort is present tense. The idea that moment by moment, continually, day by day, hour by hour, God is the one who gives us the comfort that we need when we go through difficulty. So what I want you to see here in this passage today with me are three reasons why Paul Calls God the God of all comfort. Three reasons. Here's the first one. Number one, God is the God of all comfort. Number one, because of what he gives to us. Look at verse 3. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Here's the first thing God gives us. He gives us his Son. He gives us Jesus Friend, Jesus is the greatest helper when you're going through difficulty. He is your source of comfort. Sometimes when people go through sorrow, I hear other people say, Well, I know how you feel. I never say that. You know why? Because the truth of the matter is I really don't know how they feel. And really the Bible says that in Proverbs 14, 10. It says the heart knows his own bitter bitterness. And a stranger does not intermittent with his joy. That is, the principle is the only person who really knows how you feel is you. People grieve differently. But I want to tell you there's one other person besides you that really knows how you feel, and that's Jesus Christ. Because the Bible says Jesus knows The thoughts of all people, he knows the hearts of all people. The Bible says that in John 2. 24, that he knows the hearts of all men. And one of the reasons why God the Father sent his son Jesus into this world is so that he could relate to us in our suffering. Listen to Hebrews chapter 2. For verily he took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham. When God sent his son Jesus into the world, he wasn't an angel. He came as a man. He came as the seed of Abraham. Why? Because the Bible goes on to say, wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful And faithful high priest. In other words, God the Father made him a man so that he could relate to us in all of our struggles and all of our sorrows and all of our difficulties. Jesus He can come to our aid, it says in verse 18 of Hebrews 2, that for he himself has suffered, and he's able to The word there is succor that is to run to the aid of, to come alongside those who are tempted or going through trials. Jesus is the one who runs to you. When you're sinking beneath the waves of sorrow. Remember Peter walking on the water? Jesus was far enough away. He didn't recognize Jesus. He could hear his voice and he knew the voice of Christ. Because Christ was so far away. And yet when Peter began to sink, because he looked at the winds and the waves, he cried out that eloquent prayer, Lord help. That's that sometimes is the best prayer you can pray. Lord help. And the Bible says immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and reached down and picked him up. That's the way Jesus is. You cry out Lord help, he's right there to help you. So God the Father is the God of all comfort because he gives to us Jesus, but also he gives us his mercy. Look again in verse 3. Even the Father of our Lord Jesus, the Father of mercies. I love that expression. The Father of mercies. This is an Old Testament expression about the character of God. To the Jewish mind, the phrase father meant originator of. You know, Satan is the is the father of lies. You know why lies originated with him. But our God is the Father of mercies. Because all mercy originates with him and can be secured from him when we go to him. The Bible says that the Lord is merciful and gracious. In Psalm 103 verse 8. Micah says this, I love this. Who is a God like unto thee that pardons iniquity? And he goes on to say, he retaineth not his anger forever, but he delighteth in mercy. I love that verse. What kind of God do we have? He's a God who delights in dispensing mercy. In fact, you know what this throne is called? It's called the throne of grace. The Bible says, come to the throne of grace that we might find mercy to help us. and grace in the time of need. Because he's the Father of mercies. And friend, when you're going through a difficult time, he will give you his mercy. He'll give you his grace. And so God is the God of all comfort because of what he gives us. He gives us his son. He gives us his mercy. But here's number two The reason he's the God of all comfort is because of what he does for us. Because of what he does for us. Look at verse number four. Who comforts us in all our tribulation? God comforts us when the trials come. That's the first thing He does for us. We have the promise of God. Beloved, don't think that you're going through it alone because God has said he's going to be there to comfort you. He's going to help you. He's the friend who sticks closer. than a brother. And notice the word all there in all our tribulation. You know what the Greek word there means? It means all. And everything that you go through, every stress, every valley, it doesn't matter what it is. Listen to Romans 8 31. What shall we say to these things of God before us who could be against us? And then he goes on to say this, he that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? God gave you his son. Do you think he's not going to be there for you when you go through a trial? And then he goes on to say, What's going to separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, same word as we see here in Corinthians, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? No. Nay, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. And so remember, beloved, God will comfort us when the trial comes. There's no trial or suffering. That we experience where God will not be there to strengthen and comfort us. But there's another thing he does. God controls the, he controls the trial. He controls the suffering. Look at drop down to verse number eight. Notice what it says there. For we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of the trouble which came to us in Asia. That we were pressed out of measure above strength, insomuch that we despaired even of life. Now, Paul was going through such a heavy trial That he was completely overwhelmed. I mean he was completely crushed. Notice the expression, we were pressed out of measure. That's figurative language that Paul's using here. The Greek literally says this, excessively beyond our power, we were burdened. So we can really say it like this. We were so utterly, unbearably crushed. One translation reads this We were under great pressure far beyond our ability to endure. Another one wrote this the burdens on us were so heavy that there was no way that we could tolerate them. In fact, Paul said the burden on him at that time was so great that he despaired even of life. That sounds pretty big. That Paul the apostle would despair even of life. Paul said we lost hope that we were going to survive. We didn't think we were going to make it through this. We thought all hope was gone. And by the way, you notice how Paul uses the word we? And he uses that term because he doesn't like to talk about himself, so it's kind of a humble way of referring to himself. Really, it's Paul is the one he's describing here. But he uses the word we again because he doesn't want to say I, you know. But he was the one who was crushed. He was the one who lost hope. He was the one that could not bear the burden. And Paul is describing the emotions that he felt at that time. You ever hear people say, well, you know, God will not put on us more than we can bear? Well, that's certainly not how Paul felt here. Because Paul said, you know, this is more than I can bear. This is overwhelming. This was more than my strength could bear. You know. But this is exactly how Paul felt. But the reality is that listen, it's not that God won't put more on us that we cannot bear. It's that God will not put more on us than he with his strength giving us we can bear. You see, we can't bear it on our own. We can't do it. But with the strength of God we can do it. That's the key. We have to learn to find strength in God. The same God who adds weight to the trial will add this a measure of strength so that we can bear that weight. He will give us the strength. How do we know that? Well, because Paul just a few verses later, he's praising God for the victory. Go to chapter 2 and look at verse number 12. Notice what it says, furthermore, when I came to Trias to preach Christ's gospel, and a door was open unto me of the Lord, I had no rest in my spirit. Paul said, you know, look, I was a tries There was a wonderful opportunity for me to preach the gospel, but I just couldn't do it. I had no rest in my spirit. Paul was so overwhelmed that when the when the opportunity came, he he just he didn't have the strength He couldn't do it. He was so burdened down. But then notice the very next verse. Look at verse number. 14. Now thanks be unto God, which always causes us to what? To triumph in Christ. Now here he's praising God for the victory. Now, while he was in the trial, he felt he couldn't bear it. But then God gave him strength, and then God gave him deliverance, and now all of a sudden he is on the other side of it, and he's praising God for the victory that God gave him. You know why? Because God added his strength to him at that time. And what God did for Paul, God will do for you and me. You see, God had full control over that trial that Paul was going through. And when Paul learned the lesson that God wanted him to learn, God delivered him. You say, what was that lesson? That's the next point here. God comforts us when trials come. God controls the trials, but also here's the next thing. God teaches us to depend upon his strength to bear the trial. Look again in chapter 1, look at verse number 9. But we had the sentence of death in ourselves Uh boy that's that's again Paul using figurative language. Paul was not actually given a sentence of death from a judge, but the trial and the affliction was so great that he felt the way he would have felt had a a judge given him a death sentence. That's how big this burden was. This is the label of the trial. What kind of trial do you have, Paul? What would you call it? Paul said, this trial that I have is the sentence of death. I mean, if you would have met Paul on that day and said, hey Paul, how are you doing? Paul would have said, I have the sentence of death on me. That's how I'm doing That's how bad this burden was. Why would God give a faithful believer a trial that severe? Well, Paul tells us why in verse 9. Look at the rest of it. But we had the sentence of death in ourselves. Watch this. That we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raises the dead. There's the key. God had to make the trial so severe that Paul would come to the end of his limited strength and find the unlimited strength of God. That's the lesson You know, the problem with some believers is not that they're too weak, the problem is they're too strong. And they think that in and of themselves they can bear anything And so therefore when a trial or something comes, you know, they they try to they try to bear it on their own. But that's not going to do friend because one of these days there's going to come a trial that you cannot bear. And what you need to learn is to find strength in God. And this is the lesson that God is teaching Paul here This is what he wants them to learn. And so what God will do for us sometimes is he will give us a trial and a burden that we in our own strength we can't bear it. Why? So that we can learn to set aside our strength and not trust in ourselves, but to trust in Almighty God. Sometimes God has got to put on you the sentence of death. He's got to lay that on you. So that you can find in God power the same God that raises the dead. That's the what kind of power does God have? Look at the end of verse 9. But in God which raises the dead. You see, that's the kind of power that God has. Resurrection power. God's grace raises the dead You might have the sentence of death on you, but that's okay because God has power that raises the dead. And you need to learn to trust in God and find that. Power. If God is able to raise the dead, surely He can furnish you with strength to go through the trial that you're going through. Surely He can do that. And once we learn that lesson, there's another thing that God does for us. He delivers, this is the next thing. God delivers us from the trial. Look in verse 10. Who delivered us from so great a death. And doth deliver, in whom we trust that he will yet deliver us. I love the way Paul just writes that. He says, you know, once we learn to trust in the strength of God, that God delivers us. We learn that God who has delivered us in the past will also deliver us in any present trial that we're in and any future trial that comes. Because he's a God of deliverance. That's what he does. And so the grace of God is such that it has the power to deliver us from anything that we face. We've seen it in the past when we've abandoned our strength and we trust in the Lord. We know that in the presence, I want to tell you, friend, the only way I'm either stand today or do anything is because of the grace and strength of Almighty God. And any trial that may come in the future, I have to put all of my hope in God to strengthen me to do that. To go through it victoriously. And that's what Paul's saying here. God delivered us from the past. He doth deliver in whom yet, in whom we trust that He will yet deliver us. And by the way, there's a beautiful parallel. That's exactly what happens at salvation. He delivered me in the past. That's justification. He has delivered me in the presence from the power of sin. That's sanctification. He will deliver me ultimately in the future from the presence of sin, that's glorification. He delivered me, he is delivering me, and he will deliver me. That's the work of salvation. But he's the God of all comfort. Why is he the God of all comfort? Because of what he gives to us. He gives us his son. He gives us his mercy. Because of what he does for us. He comforts us when the trial comes. He controls the trial. He teaches us to depend upon his strength. And then he delivers us from the trial. But here's the last reason. Here's the last thing. Why is he the God of all comfort? Because of what he does through us. Because of what he does through us. The last sermon I preached before I uh went away I talked about Job and uh and it was why does God allow the righteous to suffer? And Scripture tells us several reasons for that. To test the validity of our faith, if your faith is real, you're not going to quit on God No trial can destroy genuine faith. It can only purify your faith. But secondly, as we just saw here, to teach us to trust in God, I think another reason God gives us trials is to make heaven all the more sweeter. To wean us from the things of this world, to get us looking up into heaven. Look in 2 Corinthians, look in chapter 4, real quick. Let me show you this. Verse 17. Notice what Paul says here. For our light affliction Which is but for a moment worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal. You know what a trial does? It gets our eyes off of these temporary things that are seen, and we lift up and we look at the eternal things that are not seen. This light affliction is nothing compared to the eternal weight of glory that we have waiting for us. And so God makes heaven all the more sweeter by giving us trials. But I think the The thing that Paul's going to talk about here, the great thing that God does, is he will use a trial to strengthen us, to use us to help others. That's the whole point. God uses us to comfort others. God will place us in a trial so that we can learn to find comfort in Him, so that then we can comfort others. We can help others. God comforts us not to make us comfortable. He comforts us so that we can comfort others. That's the whole point. Believers receive comfort as a stewardship, as a trust from God to be passed on to others. Remember what Jesus said to Peter? He said, Peter, Satan has requested to get at you. This is right before Peter denied the Lord. And Jesus said, look, Peter, Satan is asking for permission to get at you. You know, Satan can't do anything until he gets permission from God. And Jesus was warning Peter, you're about to go through a severe trial. But when it's over, Peter, by the way, I prayed for you that your faith fails not. Thank God we have a great intercessor praying for us through the trial. And then he said this. He said, Peter, when you're done, when you go through that trial, and it's all over with, and you've learned from it, and you've been comforted from it, and you've been helped from it, here's what I want you to do. I want you to go and strengthen the brethren. I want you to use the comfort that you receive from God to go out, and I want you to comfort others. I want you to strengthen others. And Paul uses himself as an example of this. Look in verse five. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation, same word, so our comfort also abounds by Christ. Paul viewed himself as a conduit through which God's comfort could flow to the Corinthians. Because those who go through and experience the most suffering will receive the most comfort, and those who receive the most comfort, comfort, will be equipped most richly to comfort others. And so Paul says, you know, I'm going through all this, I'm going through the sufferings of Christ. He talks about the suffering of Christ because he's going through this because he's trying to be faithful to Christ. He's trying to stand for Christ. He's trying to do the right thing, and in doing so, he's suffering. So he calls it the sufferings of Christ. And Paul says the more I go through this and the more I receive the comfort of God, the more I'm able to comfort you as well. Look at verse six. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. All the suffering we endure, Paul said, is ultimately for your good. God has to afflict me. God has to allow me to go through the trials so I can in turn be a help to you. Now, let me give you a little the context of this. I know we're a little past, but just be patient. You know I got up here a little bit late today. So give me a few more minutes, all right? And besides I've been waiting for a while. I have a lot to say. I won't keep too much longer, but I want you to get this point. Why did you know what Paul you know they were accusing Paul of being irresponsible as a minister? They were actually mad at Paul when Paul wrote this letter. And they were saying, you know, Paul, you you promised to come and you didn't come. Why? Yeah, you know, they kind of We're accusing Paul of of being a hypocrite of being duplicitous. You know, you said you were going to do this and you haven't. They kind of cop this attitude, you know, Paul, what have you done for us lately? And Paul's responses right here really He he really his response is very simple. You want to know what I've been doing? You want to know where I've been? I'll tell you where I've been. I've been suffering. I've been going through trials. And that was what he was saying in verses 8 and 9. Whatever they had heard, Paul had been in great hardship while he ministered in the Roman province of Asia, which is now modern Turkey. And Paul is saying, you know, I've been going through all these things. I had a sentence of death on me, but the reason God put me through this is so I could be a better minister for you. That's what he meant in verse 6. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and your comfort and your strengthening. And so Paul says, you know, I want you, I have to have every confidence that you now will learn from this and that you will learn to endure. Look at verse 7. And our hope of you is steadfast, knowing that as ye are partakers of the sufferings. So shall ye also be of the consolation. I want you to learn to endure. I want you to learn to be faithful to the end, because whatever sufferings happen to me, they're going to come to you eventually. And I want to teach you, I want to show you how you can endure Even unto the end, and and God can use you to help others. That's the whole point. True believers will remain faithful to the end. True believers don't make excuses for their unfaithfulness. They learn to trust God through the darkness and the difficulty, and God then uses them in turn to strengthen other believers. That's what he does. And Paul had every confidence every confidence that the Corinthians had true faith. And so God What does God do through us? God will use us to comfort others. But here's the last thing God is glorified through our trials. Finally, look in verse 11. Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons, thanks may be given By many on our behalf. And Paul's simply saying there, listen, you know, just pray for us. Don't criticize. Pray for me that God will continue to be able to do this. So that it will also help you, and many others will be strengthened, and they'll pray and they'll thank God. And you know what? God will get all the glory for it. Because this is all the work of God. This is all what God is doing. So he encourages them to have the right attitude towards this whole thing. Our God is the God of all comfort. Why, because of what he gives to us, he gives us his son, he gives us his mercy, because of what he does for us, he comforts us when the trials come He controls the trial. He teaches us to depend upon him in the trial. And then he delivers us from the trial. He's the God of all comfort because of what he does through us. God will then use us to comfort others And then God will receive glory. That's the message Paul has. Well I was in England. I had the opportunity to go to South England to a beautiful place called Cornwall, there along the southern coast. And one day I took a I I took a day to just take a hike. Um ever you know, my I think my wife told me, Why don't you go take a hike? And I said, Okay I will. So I went from along the coastline of beautiful cliffs there. And it was uh just beautiful scenery. I I hiked from a place called Bute to Whitmouth Bay, about five miles And it was just just a beautiful day to hike and see all that. But there was a certain part along the the the cliffs there where the erosion made it dangerous to walk the path. So they kind of closed the path and they kind of redirected you to go out towards the road And so I kind of was redirected and for a little time there I was walking along the road. And while I was walking along the road, there were two British older gentlemen that were passing by me and I had a t-shirt on and the t-shirt basically was a a picture of the cross, a a hand holding onto the cross and it had in Latin on it et teneo, et teneor, which in Latin simply means I hold and I am held. And I could tell that when I was walking past them, one of them was studying the shirt, trying to figure out what it meant. And then finally he said, Oh, you you're a singer, you're a tenor. And I said, uh well sometimes it sounds like a tenor when I sing, but there's no guarantee of that. I'm not really a singer. And then I explained to him the meaning of the shirt. I said, Well what this is, this is a Latin and it means You know, it it's talking about Christ, you know, I hold on to the cross, and while I hold on to the cross, Christ holds on to me. And no matter what dangerous path I might go to in life, as long as I'm holding on to the cross, I know that Christ is holding on to me. And one and the one man looked at his friend, and then he said, Oh, he's an evangelical. And I said yeah, that's right, I guess, you know. I'm a Christian. I hold to the cross. And then they kind of they were done at that point with the conversation, you know. That they moved on. But I want to tell you something, friend. I'm not I'm not ashamed of the cross of Christ. I want to tell you something. As long as we hold on to the cross of Christ, you know what? Christ will hold on to us. He will uphold us no matter what trial you go through, no matter what difficulty you go through. Hold on to him. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for the comfort that you give us. That you are indeed the God of all comfort. You've given us your Son, Jesus. And with that, Lord, you've given us all things. You give us your mercy. And when we go through a trial, we have the promise, Lord, that you will comfort us in all. of our tribulations, so that we in turn can go and we can comfort others. We can strengthen others. Lord, thank you for that. May that be true in all of our lives. And I pray, Lord, especially for the person here who has, as of yet, has not been to the cross of Christ for salvation. Lord, the greatest comfort they could ever receive is to know that their sins are forgiven. That they're trusting in Christ and Christ alone for salvation. And I pray, Father, that you'll do that work of convicting them of sin and bringing real faith and repentance in their hearts so that they turn to Christ and Christ alone and that they hold to the cross The cross alone. And friend, if you're here today and you've never done that, if you've never reached out in faith to Christ, I would encourage you right now, don't hesitate. Make that decision today. Hold on to the cross. You know what? He will uphold you through whatever trial you go through. He will hold you fast. As you hold on to Him. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.