It's good to see you here tonight. Isn't it good to be in God's house with God's people? And this is a wonderful time of year when we uh of course we always worship and glorify and lift up our Savior. the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh but there's something special about Christmas time, isn't it? A time when we just we kind of get lost in the wonder of God made flesh and we think again of the blessed Blessings that we have in salvation. And that's what I just want to do tonight. I want to again point to the Lord Jesus and I want you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter twenty-two. We've been looking at some of the messages Messianic prophecies that Jeremiah gives. And I think some of the greatest Christmas prophecies that are in the Old Testament are found in the book of Jeremiah. And I want to point at one again tonight, and hopefully you'll see our Lord Jesus in this. I'm going to call it the Christmas branch. Again, this is a prophecy about the coming Messiah given by Jeremiah. It's good to look at these Old Testament prophecies because again they affirm to us that Jesus is truly the Son of God Christ has already come. And he is coming again. And so we need to be prepared for that. But look in Jeremiah chapter twenty two, and let me give you the setting of what's going on here in the life of ministry of Jeremiah. Do you you know why God called the prophets? Do you know some of the duties, the we could say job descriptions of the Old Testament prophets? Of course we know that they were called to proclaim God God's word. But one of the other uh things the duty that they were responsible to do in the old testament was to hold the kings accountable. This is probably an aspect of the prophetic ministry that we don't really Did you know that the book of Deuteronomy taught clearly that a king was to have by his side a copy of the scripture, a copy of the Torah? was being practiced. And he was to lead them in God's law. He was to lead them in God's way. That's why sometimes in the Old Testament kings are also called shepherds. And Jeremiah will use that term here in Jeremiah Chapter 23. They were shepherds because they were to lead God's people, God's sheep in the way of righteousness. In fact, the kings in the Old Testament were to be a type of the greater king to come. Executed righteousness, and he was to do it in the name of the Lord. He wasn't to call attention to himself, but he was to be God's co-regent. Uh now the government of the Old Testament Israel was not a democracy, obviously. It was not a monarchy. Uh you say, well wait a minute, they had a king, so it had to be a Monarchy. No, it was not a monarchy. It was a uh it was a theocracy. God was the one who ruled and reigned, but He He would mediate His reign through a earthly kingdom And so the king was to understand that. He was to know that really it wasn't his reign, but his job was to mediate the reign of God on earth. He was to be God's representative in this theocracy. And whenever a king got out of line, it was therefore the job of the prophet So we could say that prophets were the guardian of the theocracy They were the guardian of the Old Testament law. They were the guardian of God's principles to make sure that they were being enacted by this Old Testament king. And that's why we see in the Old Testament so many times The presence of Old Testament prophets with kings, where they would God would send them to a king. When David committed adultery and he engineered the murder of her husband, it was Nathan the prophet that went It said, Thou art the man. When uh Ahab uh stole Naboth's vineyard, it was Elijah that condemned both Ahab and Ahab's dynasty, and on we could go. And so if you're an old testament prophet This was part of your ministry. This is what you would do. And by the way, this was sometimes a very dangerous thing if the king was a a wicked person, because that king could have that prophet put to death. We read about Manasseh who was a wicked king and how Manasseh uh had Isaiah put into a hollow log and he was sown in two And so sometimes this task was a very dangerous task. You might even could say that the reason the children of Israel were going into exile was because Judah and Israel had so many wicked Kings. In fact, the books of 1st and 2nd Kings are actually books that are written to explain to the nation of Israel why they are in exile. If you want to know why you're in exile, just look at the And what do you see repeated over and over again in the books of first and second kings? Uh this king did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord. You see that over and over again. And here was this king, and he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. There were victory Very few kings where it was written where they said they did what was right in the sight of the Lord. Well this is what God's gonna call tell Jeremiah to do here. As we come to chapter 22. Look at chapter 22 and look at verse number one. Thus saith the Lord, go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak There this word. So God comes to Jeremiah and he says, Jeremiah, go to the house of the King of Judah. Here's what I want you to say, verse two, and say, Hear the word of the Lord, O King of Judah Judah that sitteth upon the throne of David, thou and thy servants, and thy people that enter in by these gates. And thus saith the Lord, Execute ye judgment and righteousness And deliver the spoil out of the hand of the oppressor, and do no wrong, do no violence to the stranger, the fatherless, nor the widow, neither shed innocent blood in this place. So Jeremiah was given this dangerous and difficult task to go and preach to the king, to call him into repentance because he wasn't doing what God had commanded him to do. I remember when I was over in England about a year ago, I went to Cambridge and uh you know I co visited around just because of the historical value. The Christian history is what I was looking into And I went to a church that was started really in the tenth century, if you can believe that, and was still there. And in that church there was a famous pastor. Uh whose name was Hugh Latimer. He preached during the fifteen hundreds there in England. And he was known as a very very uh bold and courageous preacher. When I went to that church, knocked on the door, the custodian of the church was in there and he let me in and uh he turned the lights on for me. And uh there in that church, the pulpit that Hugh Latimer preached from in the fifth There it was. That pulpit, it was just an incredible thing to me. I was amazed by that. But Hugh Latimer, let me tell you a little bit about him. He was so courageous that he was called uh the lion, courageous had the courage of the lion, and one day, this was under the reign of King Henry VIII, I think you probably know a little bit about him. He was Kind of a fierce king who could put people to death whenever he wanted to. But one time Hugh Latimer approached this immoral king, King Henry the the eighth and he gave him a New Year's Day gift. You know what it was? It was a Bible that he gave him, but the Bible had the leaf turned down to a certain pattern passage of scripture that he wanted the king to read first off when he had the Bible in his hand. The the the fly leaf was turned down to the passage Hebrews 13 for for mongers and adulterers God will Judge. That was a message there to the king. That was pretty strong. was committing adultery. And then at another time, if you can believe this, Henry the Eighth called him to come in and preach a service at his court. And when he went in, he pre And King Henry VIII got so angry that he demanded on the next day that he recant all of his denunciations publicly before the people. And on the next day Hugh Latimer went in and he stood before the people, and he preached even stronger against King Henry VIII than he did before. The people there thought surely that King Henry VIII is going to have him beheaded. And what he Latimer did was he took a page out of the prophecy of Jeremiah. And I think about him when I think about Jeremiah, where God said, Jeremiah, I want you to go now to the king of Judah who on the throne at that time was a wicked man, and I want to I want you to preach against him. I want you to give a scathing rebuke of what he has done and what he hasn't done before me. And Jeremiah does this. And look in verse number uh three again where he says thus saith the Lord execute ye judgment and righteousness and deliver the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor and do no wrong Do no violence to the stranger, the fatherless, nor the widow, neither shed innocent blood in this place. In other words, he said God was saying to him, Live righteously. You are to rescue people from the oppress You're to help those that cannot help themselves. You do not shed innocent blood. This phrase is used earlier in the book of Jeremiah to talk about the what was going on in the Valley of Jerusalem Where they would actually sacrifice children to a false God, which is hard to believe. By the way, today the shedding of innocent blood is still happened through happening through legalized abortion. Here in this country. God was angry at that nation. And I believe he's angry at our nation today. And so God said, You're to repent. And look at verse number 14. For if ye do this thing indeed then shall there enter in by the gates of this house king sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, he and his servants And his people, and God was basically saying, if you do what I tell you, if you repent and you start to do right, then there will be more kings in the line of David But if you don't, here's the warning in verse number five. But if ye will not hear these words, I swear by myself, saith the Lord, that this house shall So you might could say that in this particular uh time here, God was offering the kings of Judah one more time One more opportunity for them to repent. But they would not. And so we know exactly what happened as a result. God did indeed uh judge the Well then in the rest of chapter uh twenty two Jeremiah then gives as it were kind of a report card then for the rest of these kings that were not walking in righteousness. And we don't have time to go through all of them, but in verses ten to twelve he deals with a king Jehoahaz, and he basically says to this king Don't mourn for him. Look at verse 10. Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him, but weep sore for him, or but weep sore for him that goeth away, for he shall return no more, nor seeeth his native country. And so God says to this one king, he's also called Shalom in verse 11. He was a son of Josiah. Don't weep for him. He won't come back. He was taken to Egypt. He only reigned for three months But he's he's done with God said I removed him off the throne. Really, in the in the life of Jeremiah, there were several kings that he that his ministry extended through. First was Josiah. He was a godly king. And when Josiah died, Jeremiah lamented him. But after Josiah, there were no more godly kings. And here's his son. And God says, don't weep for him He's he's going away. And then after him there was Jehoiacum. Look at verse number thirteen on down to verse twenty-three. We won't read all of that. But look at verse thirteen. Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness and his chambers by wrong, that uses his neighbour's service without wages, and giveth not for his work. We say what was the problem with Jehoiakim? Well he was covetous During a time of international crisis, he was more concerned about b building his own spacious palace than he was about building a righteous kingdom. And he even used a Jewish and dying while he was busy admiring his palace. One historian says that he built an expensive fortress that was paneled with expensive cedar. It was painted in bright red And here Jeremiah denounces his covetousness. Notice in verse 15, look what he says, Shall thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar? Did not thy father eat and drink and do judgment and justice, and then was it well with him? In other words, Jeremiah says, Do you think that just living in a palace with cedar makes you a king? Did you don't you know that your father Josiah lived comfortably and yet he did what was right? You're just concerned about yourself. Cedar and a big fortress doesn't make you a king. And so God pronounced the will against him. But then there was another king after that. It was Jehoiachin. Look at verse number 24. As I live, saith the Lord Through Kaniah the son of Jehoichem, King of Judah, were the signet upon my right hand, yet would I pluck thee thence, and I will give thee into the hand of them that seek thy life. Another king and God says, You know what, e i if he were like a signet ring on my hand, I would take the ring off and I would cast it aside, I would cast it to Babylon. And that was speaking about the again The Babylonians coming in and taking him into captivity. This king was so wicked that God said, I'm going to cast you off uh out to the land of Babylon, just like a ring is cast off a finger and thrown away And that was the king's seal. It was a very distinct uh note of authority by that king to have that ring. And here God says, I I will cast it aside. He means nothing to me In fact he was so wicked, look at verse number thirty, thus saith the Lord Write ye this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his days, for no man of his seed shall Shall prosper sitting upon the throne of David and ruling any more in Judah. God said, Count him childless. Now Jehoiachim was a wicked man. He had um several children, but God said, You count them childless because none of his children will ever sit upon the throne of David. And indeed, this was the last king From the line of David to sit upon the throne in the Old Testament. And God said, None of his children will reign on this throne. In fact, God pronounced a curse upon this line of this man Man. Kaniah is another name given in verse number twenty-eight, but it's Jekaniah. God said no one from his family will reign. And then if you look in chapter twenty three, Verses one and two, God pronounces a general woe upon the godless kings and shepherds. Look at verse one of chapter twenty-three. Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter Scatter the sheep of my pasture, saith the Lord. Therefore, thus saith the Lord God of Israel, against the pastors that feed my people, ye have scattered my flock and driven them away. Visited them, behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings. So it's very obvious that God's angry here. God is pronouncing a woe upon all of the leaders These godless leaders, these godless kings who were supposed to mediate the reign of God on earth. And yet they didn't. They were wicked. And God pronounced them And God cast these other kings aside with judgment. And it's in this context, it's in this setting that God gives a great promise. Another great messianic promise to Jeremiah. Because what God is going to tell Jeremiah now, and you can imagine if put yourself in Jeremiah's place, he's probably a bit depressed. Uh he probably doesn't re And yet God is about to lift his discouragement because he's gonna give him a promise and here's the promise. Look in chapter twenty-three, look in verse number five. Behold the days come, saith the Lord, that I will raise up unto David a righteous French. And there's the prophecy. And the dark backdrop of all this wickedness that's going on among the kings, God says, I'm going to raise up A king. I'm gonna raise up someone from the house of David, and they will be a righteous branch. Look at verse 5: A king shall reign and prosper And shall execute judgment and justice in the earth. And so here God is talking about this future king that he calls here the branch And by the way, this has this became in the Old Testament a messianic title called The Branch or the Branch of the Lord. So it's in this time that God gives another great promise about The coming Christ, the one who is going to come, the son of David, uh this ideal king. When others have where others have failed, he will succeed while others walk in witness Wickedness, he will walk in absolute total righteousness while others fail to mediate God's reign on earth. He will be the ideal king that will mediate Now you might want to write down in your Bible in your margin uh Zechariah 38, where it says it uses the same title says, For behold, I will bring forth my servant the branch. God said later. And in Zechariah six, verse twelve, it says, And speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, saying, Behold, the man whose name And so this title, this messianic title became very significant in the old test Referring to the coming one, the son of David, he would be called the branch. Now let me just give you some characteristics about God's promised king. First of all, he will be a branch Three characteristics about this branch. He will be a branch of David. And again, if you look again in verse five of chapter 23, he says, I will raise unto David David a righteous branch. And so he will come again from David's house, from David's family. Uh now the question comes, how can this be if If God placed a curse on the line of Jehoiachim, uh Jehoiachim, excuse me, how can this be that he's going to come from David's house? Because we just read in chapter 22, verse Verse 30 that God will not allow any of the seed of Jehoiachin to sit upon the throne of David. And what's interesting, if you read in Matthew's genealogy, you're gonna find It traces the genealogy from Abraham down through Joseph and it mentions j mentions this name of this king, Jehoiachin. And so uh you the The question comes, well wait a minute. If Joseph is in the line of Jehoichin, how is it that Jesus would be the the right one One, because God put a curse on this line. And any son of Jehoiachin or descendant of Jehoichin is not going to be able to fulfill the requirement. You see, the first requirement was that he be a son of David, but he couldn't be from this particular line in the house of David. And yet Matthew points out Joseph is You say, what's the answer to that? It's very simple. What Matthew is setting us up for is to understand the necessity of the virgin birth. You see, Jesus wasn't a natural son of Joseph, was he? Not at all. Why? Because Jesus was virgin born. And so the virgin birth of Christ, the fact that he was born of a virgin Not the natural son of Joseph cancels out this curse right here. This is very interesting to me that God would show us this here, because it shows the sovereignty and the providence of God over every little detail of the birth of Christ. Now Luke traces the genealogy of Jesus through Mary, which was his natural mother And she doesn't come through the line of Jehoishin, she comes through the line of Nathan and on down another bloodline from the house of David. And so thus this curse doesn't apply to Christ. What it shows is is that He, in order to be the Messiah, had to be virgin born. He couldn't be the natural son of Joseph. And so he would be a son of David. What a fantastic thing that God God had all of this in control. He will be a branch of David. But here's the second thing I want you to see. He will be the branch of righteousness. Look in verse 6. In these his days, Judah shall be saved And Israel shall dwell safely, and this is he whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. And this is the next thing that's important about this Messiah. He will be our righteousness. You know what the Bible says? Without righteousness, none of us will ever see God. None of us. You say, well, how are we going to see God? It's not going to be our righteousness that gets us in there. We and of ourselves, we have no righteousness. We are all sinners The Bible makes that very clear. And society and the heart of man have not changed since the days of Jeremiah. Just as the people of Judah were sinful, even so we live in a sinful day today Just as the leaders and the kings were sinful, even so we see the same thing today. And so what we need is righteousness, but this righteousness can't be our own. It has to be provided Provided for us. And so this is this is what's so very important about understanding this phrase here, the Lord our righteousness. Because I want you to notice where it says our righteousness. He when he comes, he will be our righteousness. And that really is That's salvation. That's justification. And again, this is what we call the act of obedience of Christ being attributed to us. You see, when Jesus came and he lived a perfect life. And he obeyed all the righteousness of God. What happens is salvation is when we put our faith in Christ. All of that righteousness then is given to us. So It's not our righteousness. It's the righteousness of God of Christ that is given to us and it becomes ours because it's a gift. That's why theologians Actually it was Martin Luther the first one that came up with this term when he was wrestling about salvation. He was trying to figure out how he could ever be righteous before God. It finally dawned And then he understood that in Romans, when it talked about righteousness, it wasn't our righteousness Righteousness, it was the righteousness of Christ. And when he finally understood that, it dawned on him. He said it was like entering into the paradise, the gates of heaven. And then he came up with a term, and theologians have since used the term, an alien righteousness. What does that mean? It's a righteousness that is not of us. It comes, it's not our And now all of that righteousness is given to us when we put our faith in what Jesus did for us on the cross. And so this coming Messiah would be the Lord So the question I want to ask you tonight is this whose righteousness are you depending on to get you into heaven? Because, friend, if you're here tonight And and and you're depending on your own good works, your the religious ritual, coming to church, being a member, doing anything good in the sight of God, if you're depending on your own Righteousness to get you into heaven so that you can see God, friend, you will fail. That righteousness is not righteous before God. And so this Messiah he will be the Lord uh a branch of David. He will be a Look in verse six Again in his days, Judah shall be saved. Israel shall dwell safely, and this is his name, whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. Now, it's all capital letters there, right? In your Bible? Remember when I taught you about uh when you're reading through the King James Version, if you see the Lord in all capital letters, what does that signify That's that's the divine name of God. That is the holy name of God. That is the four-letter name, what is called the tetragrammaton. And we don't even know how to pronounce that name because to the Jews it was so holy they never pronounced it. In fact, when a Jew was reading in scripture and they came to this name, this four letter name of God, they wouldn't see They would have little indicators in the text that you don't say this name. They would replace it with Hashem, the name. Or sometimes they would replace it with Adonai, which means Lord. But it's not like the divine name. And and so what they would do in the Hebrew text is they would take all of the vowels from the word Adonai and they would add them to the four consonants Of Yahweh or YHWH, those four consonants. And they came up with, well, actually, it wasn't the Jews that came up with this, it was German scholars. That we were reading the Hebrew text, they didn't understand what the Jews were doing. And when they came to this name, they pronounced it Jehovah. But that's not really the name of God, it's Yahweh. They just didn't understand what the Jews were doing. The reason the Jews took the vows and put them to these four letters was to remind them you don't say this name, you say Adonai instead. Because The name, the divine name is so holy. The only time you ever pronounce this name is when you're in a life or death struggle, a life or death situation. But But notice that this Messiah, who's he going to be? He's going to be a son of David. That means he's going to be a man. He's going to be our righteousness, which means he's going to fulfill all the the law of God for us, and he's going to be our righteousness. He's going to give to us righteousness. What a gift that is. And then here's the next thing: He's going to be God. He's going to be the Lord. The divine name, God, our righteousness. And so this to me is an amazing prophecy Because I think right here, Jeremiah is showing that this Messiah will not just be a man, he will also be God in the flesh. And so this is again something that is hard for us to comprehend. And again, every year around this time of year, I try again I try to rot wrap my mind around the incarnation that God became a man You know what I find out? That my reason ends, I can't figure it all out. I just know this. He was fully, or we could say truly God, who became truly man. And that to me is the greatest miracle that has ever taken place. Now did you know that even today there are still theologians that are trying to explain this and you need to be careful that you don't explain it away? the incarnation and the full deity of Christ and the few full humanity of Christ. Because people have tried to explain it. For example, there was a heresy called uh uh the monothocyte heresy uh comes from two words mono meaning one, physicist meaning uh being and it actually has this idea that there was only one person, there wasn't two natures. There was a mixture between the divine and human. And so Jesus was a mixture of the human and divine. But That they don't make any distinction between his humanity and his deity. It was just mixed all and blended all together. And that became the monophysite heresy. And then there were on the heels of that there was another heresy Called the Nestorian heresy, and this argued that Christ had two distinct natures, one divine and one human, and so therefore there must be two persons there. And so you see there's opposite ends. There's one heresy that says he was a mixture of God and man, another says no, it was two persons, and they failed to see the unity between the two natures. Heresies like these came up, it became necessary for for the church in history to think through theologically exactly the ramifications of what the Bible means when it's Now a lot of people A lot of times in the ear in the church when they were trying to think through these the ramifications of things like this, doctrines like this, they would come up with something that was called the way of negation. In other words, what they that means is is that God was so great that a lot of times and some doctrines so hard to even comprehend that sometimes the best way to comprehend it is to say what it is not The way of negation. For example, we say God is infinite. That means God is not finite. We say God is immutable. That means God immutable means changing. Immutable means not changing. God doesn't change. And so they would use the way of negation. And what they did in the Chalcedon was They came up with four negatives regarding the humanity and the deity of Christ. They said he was truly God and truly man. And so there was no That's the first negative. Those natures were not mixed together. He was truly God, truly man. There was no confusion. And then the third negative was there was no sin Separation and the fourth was there was no division. Those two natures dwelt together in one person, no separation, no division, no mixture. And friend, that's Part of the mystery of it. We can't figure it all out, but we know this that there were times in scriptures where gee Jesus evidently showed his human nature and there were times when evidently he was He was showing his divine nature. Both of those natures dwelt together in what they called the hypostatic union. He was truly God and yet truly man. Now, people have tried to go beyond those negatives, and if you go beyond those four negatives that were given, you're getting off into heresy. You're getting off into error. And so that's why this was so important. Why he became God became man, why God was manifest in the flesh was so that he could sympathize and be a merciful Savior to To all of us. You know what? We can say, I think one of the greatest blessings of understanding that God became a man is that Christ can absolutely totally sympathize with us. And any burden, any trial that you're going through. In fact, Hebrews says this, Hebrews 2. 17. Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren Listen, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. He can sympathize with us. He can relate to all of our the weaknesses Timothy was discouraged and defeated. And Paul wrote Timothy, and he said, This Timothy, he said, remember Jesus Christ of the seed of David. And what Paul was saying was Timothy, you need to remember Christ and his humanity because whatever you're experiencing, he understands that. We can get on our knees and we can pray. And we can say, Lord, I know that you understand and you know what I'm going through because you Also, as a man went through the infirmities and the weaknesses of humanity. You felt all of those things, and indeed Jesus did do that. And so He was the branch of David. He was the branch of righteousness. He was the branch of the Lord. Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. And friend, that's who we worship. Let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we do tonight Get lost in the wonder, love, and praise of who you are. Truly God, you became truly man for us. You fulfilled all the law of God on our Behalf. You took all of our sins upon yourself on the cross. You cleansed us of our sins when we placed our faith in you. And now, Lord, you give us your righteous robe. You are the Lord our righteousness. And Lord, there's no greater gift than to have the gift of salvation, to know that Christ is our righteousness. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, it may be that you're here tonight. Maybe you're visiting. And maybe the Lord has spoken to your heart. I'm going to tell you something, friend. The greatest gift ever given to man is when God gave his son Christ to us. And now he offers to you the gift of righteousness, not our own righteousness. Righteousness of Christ. He wants to clothe you in the righteousness of Christ. He wants to forgive you for your sins. He wants to cleanse you. And he wants to give you righteousness so that you can have eternal life in heaven And what must we do? Reach out in faith. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know there's nothing I can do to merit salvation. I'm called upon you today to forgive me, cleanse me, impute to me your righteousness, Lord. Save me. And if you'll pray that he will do that indeed The Savior. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use your word in Jesus' name. Amen