Would you take God's word tonight and open to the book of 1 Kings in the Old Testament? The book of 1 Kings, chapter 2. On Wednesday nights, we are studying through 1 and 2 Kings. And uh this is a book where we can learn some things about how to live our life instruction. Remember what the Apostle Paul said, that these things that were written in the Old Testament were written as examples to us. He said in Romans 15 that that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. So I pray that God will bless us as we look at the lives of these kings and we can learn some things. Now tonight I want to talk about the last words of David or the last words of a great king. So we're going to look in 1 Kings chapter 2. We're going to be dealing tonight with verses 1 to verse number 10 in this story in the life of David. Look, let's read a few verses, verse one. Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man, and keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments, and his judgments, and his testimonies. as it is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way to walk before me in truth, with all their heart, with all their soul. There shall not fail thee, said he, a man on the throne of Israel. Moreover, thou knowest also what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, did to me And what he did unto the two captains of the host of Israel, unto Abner, the son of Ner, and unto Amesa the son of Jether, whom he slew and shed the blood of war and peace, and put the blood of war upon his girdle That was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his sea. Do therefore according to thy wisdom, and let not his forehead go down to the grave in peace. When Alexander the Great was on his deathbed, his generals and attendants kept asking the question to him, Who will be your successor? And his last words was the answer to that question. Alexander replied, in Latin, Quatistas. which means mightiest or it means strongest or it means the best. In other words, his response was, whoever is the mightiest Whoever is the strongest or whoever is the best, let that person be my successor. And with that, Alexander the Great died. Now, in our passage today, we read the last words of another great king, King David. David was among the greatest of the earthly kings, maybe the greatest king. Uh from boyhood we know the stories, we've read the Bible, he performed great heroic feats. As he was as a shepherd, he killed lions, he killed bears to guard the flock, he slew giants, he conquered kingdoms, he established his fortress, the city of Jerusalem. He took from the Jebusites and made that the capital of Israel, both political and spiritual capital. He fathered a dynasty And now, however, this famous and great king is is old and he's gray and he is on his deathbed. And this is how the story opens. If you were with us last week, we saw this that David is so um broken in his health that uh he can't even keep himself warm. He can't keep circulation going in his body to stay warm. It didn't seem to be matter how many blankets they put on him, it still wasn't enough. And so they hired a nurse that would lay beside him and keep him warm. This was in keeping with the medical customs of that day But get the picture, it's it's a picture of of feebleness, it's a picture of aging, and really it's a reminder to all of us that all of us are going to face death. All of us are going to go through this process. I heard about a man who died and went to heaven and he said to God, God, how come you didn't send messengers to warn me about my death? And God said, I did send messengers. I sent you failing eyesight. I sent you uh uh ears that would no longer hear. I sent you uh uh gray hairs in your head, I I sent you stooped shoulders and weakened limbs. All of them were messengers of death that it was coming. And indeed they are. David is about seventy years old here. And uh he again is about to go the way of all the earth. The Bible says in Acts thirteen, thirty-six, for David after he served his own generation by the will of God, fell asleep and was laid with his fathers. Now the question of who was going to succeed David was already established That was going to be Solomon. We saw that last week. Although Solomon was not the oldest son, he was the chosen son. He was the one that God put his hand on. And God came to David one day in 1 Chronicles 22. It records it Behold a son shall be born to you, who shall be a man of rest, and I will give him rest from all his surrounding enemies, and for his name shall be his name shall be Solomon, and I will give him peace and quiet And he shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his throne in Israel. This was God's choice. So the question was not Who will be king? That was not the question. But the question now is, how will he fill his father's shoes And so David on his deathbed is giving Solomon final instructions. These are very important instructions. You would think if these were the last words from a father to a son, this had to be very, very important. Uh and so the question is what did David say? What is he going to tell him? Uh have you ever thought about what spiritual legacy you would leave to your children or your grandchildren if you knew that you were going to die? And you had some last words to speak to your family, what would those words be? What would you say? Now we see here in David in chapter 2, this is a farewell speech, really. And it comes really in two parts. The first part is related to spiritual commitment. He's going to challenge Solomon with regard to his soul, his spiritual well being. But then the second part of the speech seems more political. So the first part runs from verse two down to verse four. Again it r it mentions his soul, the spiritual commitment a king needs if he's going to uh belong to the kingdom of God. But the second part runs from verses five down to verse nine and it addresses the security of Solomon's kingdom. These are the just the judgments he needs to make If he wants to secure the k the throne, these are judgments about his enemies that he needs to make and also about his friends. And so David is going to tell him these things. Now the language in the second part of this seems very harsh. If you read this, it seems like David is being vindictive. It seems like he's being ungodly. One commentator, Philip Riken, in his excellent comment commentary on First Kings, wrote this Some of his last words sound like something out of Mario Cuso's The Godfather in which the Mafia dons secure their power by ruthlessly killing off all of their potential rivals, end quote. And you know, there's he's got a point here. It sounds pretty ruthless. when you read some of the commands that David gave. Did David uh have the right to tell Solomon this? Is David indeed being Vindictive? What can we learn from these last words of King David? That's what I want to show you tonight. And so I want to give you then three principles we draw from David's last words that help us Because what was David trying to do? He was trying to prepare Solomon to do what? Face challenges in the future. All of us face that in this life. We've had challenges, and guess what? We will continue to face challenges. The question is how can we face them? What are the principles that we use to operate? And this is what we draw from these last words of David. David is trying to tell Solomon how to face these challenges. So here's the first principle. Number one, if you're taking us, write this down. This is what I see. Do what is necessary for the kingdom. This is really what David's saying. Now what we're going to do is we're going to look at the second part of the speech first, and then we're going to look at the first part of the speech. So this really starts in verse number five. And he's telling Solomon, do what is necessary for the kingdom. And basically he's saying, Solomon, when you get to the throne, there's some people that you need to be concerned about. Look again in verse number five. Moreover, thou knowest also what Joab, the son of Zeruiah, did to me And what he did to the two captains of the host of Israel, unto Abner the son of Nerah, and unto Amesa the son of Jathar, whom he slew and shed the blood of war and peace. and put the blood of war upon his girdle that was upon his loins and in his shoes that were on his feet. Now the first thing David says is, you know Uh in the second part of the speech is you need to look out for an enemy that you're gonna have, Solomon. His name is Joab. Ironically, served David for a long time. He was David's general. He was the chief general in David's army. He was a very effective military leader in many ways But there were times when Joab on certain occasions would use his authority and his power to not do what was best for the kingdom, but to do what was best for himself. He used his power in ungodly ways to advance his own personal agenda. And and David mentions two things here First of all, he murdered a man by the name of Abner. Who was Abner? Abner was another general who really was loyal to the house of Saul. And when there was a battle between the house of Saul and the house of David, and David's house was winning, Abner with his men withdrew from the battle, and Abner began to run from the battle because they didn't want any more conflict. But the little brother of Joab ran after Abner. He wanted a trophy from the battle. He had ambition in mind. He wanted to be a hero in the battle. And Abdurkett would call back and say, stop running after me, the battle's over. I don't want us to fight. But the brother of Joab, a man by the name of Azahel, ran, and the Bible says he was very swift on his feet, and he caught up And Abner had no choice, he had to turn and he fought, and he killed the little brother of Joab. But it wasn't intentional. And it was really something that should have never happened. Well Joab, rather than writing that off, the Bible says that And let me just read you the verse in 2 Samuel 3 27. And when Abder was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib that he died. For the blood of Azahel his brother. So picture this in your mind. Joab approaches Abner. Abner's getting ready to go into Hebrew, which was a city of refuge, by the way. Probably he was going there to be free from the avenge the avenging of of uh Joab. And Joab says, Hey Abner, I just want to talk to you. Look, man, I just want to bury the hatchet. This is over with. I want to be friends. Yeah, he wanted to bury the hatchet alright. He wanted to bury it in his back And the Bible says he pulled him aside, and he took a knife and he smote him under the fifth rib, and Abner died. This was nothing but cold-hearted murder on the part of Joab. But that wasn't the only thing. He also killed Amesa. Now who was Amesa? This was another man that David had confidence in, another military leader. In fact, Joab was demoted. Amesa was was took his spot. Joab didn't like it So basically, he simply assassinated Amesa. Listen to what the verse says here. 2 Samuel 20, verses 9 and 10. And Joab said to Amesa, Art thou in health, my brother? This guy Joab, he's really deceitful, isn't he? Hey, how are you doing? Are you feeling good today? And Joab took Amesa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him. I guess that's what they would do back then. And uh grab him by the beard to give him a kiss. But Amesah took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand, so he smote him therewith in the fifth rib. Something about that fifth rib that Joab liked. And shed out his bowels to the ground, and he died. So here's two murders. These were two men that David wanted to befriend to unite the kingdom of Israel. And rather than uniting the kingdom of Israel by putting these men to death, Joab brought trouble on Israel. Joab wasn't concerned about the kingdom, he was concerned about himself. And David remembered it. And David said to his son Solomon, now that David was dying, he said to Solomon, Solomon, you better watch out for Joab. In fact, Don't let him go to the grave in peace. And I think what David was saying here is that he will challenge you. Do you remember we we saw last week when Adonijah tried to make a coup against Solomon? Who joined him in that? It was Joab. Joab had already proven his disloyalty. And so David, in essence, is saying, Beware, watch out for him. Use your wisdom. Don't let him die in peace. Whenever he challenges you, you bring swift judgment, don't hesitate to do what is necessary and right to secure the kingdom. To secure yourself as king. But then he mentions another guy. This wasn't an enemy, this was a friend. Look at verse 7. Notice what David says to Solomon, but show kindness. unto the sons of Barzili the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table, for so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom thy brother. Now here's the opposite treatment. David says, now Solomon to Bar of Barzilli uh Barziliai and his sons, I want you to be really good. In fact, I want you to let his sons eat at your table. That is to say, let them be a part of the king's court, get them in the king's government, use them. These are people you can rely on, you can trust. How did David know that? Well, because in one of the worst days of David's life, when he was running from Jerusalem because Absalom his son had taken over And David's very life was in danger. And this was one of the lowest moments of his life. He had to retreat out of Jerusalem, run into the wilderness. People were against him. He had some men with him. He had no provisions. He had no resources. He had to run out quickly. Well, Barzillii, who was an old man of 80 years old at that time, you know what he did? He took provisions. And he went out into the wilderness, and he met David there, and he ministered to David. He gave him what he needed At the most difficult time of David's life, Barzillii was there for him. And not only him, but his sons as well were helping David at that time. And years later David says, I want you to remember these men. I want you to remember Barzilli, and I want you to heap rewards upon his family for what he did. to me. So what you have here is a a contrast of two different people, don't you? You have Joab who really does what's best for himself. He puts his own feelings and agenda ahead of the kingdom. And then you have the other man Barziliai who does the opposite He risks his own life to do good for the sake of the kingdom. He is selfless. He's generous. He's caring. He's honorable. He puts the kingdom first. But this is the principle that we see here in this contrast. Do what is best for the kingdom. That means making hard decisions. Some people you're going to need to get rid of. Other people you're going to need to promote. But whatever you do, do what is best for the kingdom. You know, that's a principle that all of us can take, isn't it? I think God calls us as his followers, as his children, as citizens of the kingdom of God. He calls upon us to have that same mentality, do what is best. for the kingdom. The kingdom should be first. But here's the second principle. And it kind of goes along with it. Defend the honor of the king. Do what is best, do what is necessary for the kingdom. And number two, defend the honor of the king. Look at verse 8, he refers to another guy. And behold, thou hast with thee Shimei, the son of Girah, a Benjamite. from Behurim, which cursed me with a grievous curse in a day when I went to Mahanayam And he came down to meet me at Jordan, and I swear to him by the Lord, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword. Now therefore hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man and knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him But his forehead, bring thou down to the grave with blood. Now who was this Shimei? This was another enemy. And David is saying, I need to warn you about another man. Shimei belonged to the house of Saul, and therefore he had a grudge against David for obvious reasons for taking the throne of his father Saul, even though David was the anointed king. And when David was retreating from Jerusalem during that difficult time in his life, when Absalom had rebelled against him, Shimei was there to watch him as he walked out of Jerusalem with his entourage. And you know what the Bible says Shimei did? He threw stones at them. In fact, this story is given, this is recorded in 2 Samuel chapter 16. You know, as a general rule, you don't kick a man when he's down. You don't pour soul into wounds unless you're really cruel. And Shimei obviously was extremely cruel and uncaring. And the Bible says in 2 Samuel 16, 6, when David was walking out, retreating, he was low, he was mourning, he was broken. Shemiah was throwing rocks at him. In verse number 7. And then in verse uh seven, he called him a man of Belial. That's kind of like a curse. And then in verse 8, he said, God's judging you. This you deserve what you're getting. In verse 11, he even threatened David's life. He threatened to kill the king. Now some of David's servants said, King, let us go over and let us take care of this guy. And David said, no, let him go. Just let him go. But David, he had forgiven them, but David also knew that this man Shimei was still around, and his hatred for David and his dynasty didn't go away. So David basically said to his son Solomon, Be careful. He will challenge you as well And when he does, remember how he dishonored me. Remember how he felt about me. That's how he feels about you. Don't hesitate to bring swift judgment. If you allow this It will endanger the kingdom. Now here's the question. Was this royal revenge? Was this right for David to say this, to hand out these death sentences? One commentator says, perhaps this is one of the many places where a great hero from the Bible acts in ways that are less than heroic. And of course that wouldn't surprise us because the Bible is very honest about its heroes. Heroes had flaws. They were human at best. But is this really what's going on here? I think there's another way to look at this You see, both David and Solomon, they were the anointed kings of Israel. They were God's choice. They were appointed to bear the power of the sword. They were appointed to do justice for the people And since David was divinely anointed as king, any assault against him was an assault against the kingdom. Any assault against Solomon would be an assault against the kingdom and ultimately against God. I think this really, these instructions from David are really based on the Word of God. He wants to keep the kingdom secure. And so really the whole mindset is do what is necessary for the kingdom, honor the king. Now again, we can apply that to us today. We have to keep the kingdom of God first. We have to honor our King above all things. And you know what? We honor our King by how we live, by what we say, by by How we present ourselves to a watching world. Do you realize the world is constantly watching us? Watching the church? Jesus is our king. Do we present a high view of our king? Does the world see in us a reverence for our king? Do they see us putting the kingdom first, doing what is best? God calls us to have a kingdom first mentality You know what I've noticed? People who don't have a kingdom first mentality, they can't understand those who do. Because those who do have a kingdom first mentality You know what they do? They make decisions that other people misunderstand. They can't understand how they would do certain things like go to a mission field and sacrifice and even leave family to go serve the Lord. Men like David Livingston, who suffered for 33 years, blazing a trail through the interior of Africa so other missionaries could follow, open it up to the gospel, which is what he did We think of also William Borden, that's often an overused illustration of William Borden, who was heir to the Borden Dairy estate. When he graduated from high school, he was already a millionaire, but he turned his back on all that. You know why? He wanted to be a missionary. People couldn't understand that. He wrote in his journal this, say no to self and yes to Jesus every time. That was his secret. Say no to self, say yes to Jesus every time. And of course you know that while he was studying as a young man he died and they found his Bible with the words no reserves, no regrets, no uh retreats, and so on. But his life perfectly illustrates someone who had a kingdom first mentality. Now let me give you the third principle that we can learn from these last words. First of all, do what is necessary for the kingdom. Number two, defend the honor of the king. Number three, depend on God's word. Depend on God's word. Now let's back up to the first part of this speech. Look down in verse number two and notice what David says. I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man, and keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes. And his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies, as is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper. Now David wanted the same thing for Solomon that every father wants for his son. He wanted Solomon to be strong. He wanted him to be a man. That's where he says here: you know, show yourself like a man. uh Solomon, show thyself a man. Many people think that physical strength make a man or sexual activity or professional success or fine or financial independence will make a man But if those are the only things we live for, we waste our life. You know who would know what makes a man? It was David. He was a man's man. He was a warrior. And you know what David said makes a man? It is complete allegiance and obedience to the word of God. That's what makes a man. And that's what he's telling his son here. Notice what I call the principle of sufficiency. He's pointing to the Word of God as being sufficient for whatever challenge that Solomon will ever face in life, the Word of God is sufficient to take care of that challenge That's what he's telling them. Look down in verse actually in verse 3, he will use seven different terms to describe the word of God. Look at verse 3. To keep the charge of the Lord thy God to walk in his ways, that's one. His statutes, that's two, his commandments, that's three, his judgments, that's four, his testimonies, that's five. That is written in the law, that's six. And then in verse 4, that the Lord may continue his word, that's seven, his word. Seven different titles for the word of God. Seven different terms. Each of these terms comes from the word itself, specifically from the law of Moses, the book of Deuteronomy. Each of these terms carries a different nuance of meaning of what God's word will Do for us. But here's David's main point. And using all these different terms, he's saying that his son should live by the word, every word that comes from the mouth of God. That's how you live. There's not one situation that Solomon will ever face in his life as a man or as a ruler in the kingdom, but that the word of God does not address it. God's word is sufficient. to take care of whatever challenge that he will ever face. As one scholar put it, the exercise of royal power is not to be arbitrary, for the king is not a law unto himself It is rather to be in accord with the law of Moses. No king could just get up and rule and do whatever he wanted. He had to rule according to the word of God. And this was his his sufficiency. It was the word of God. And by the way, what was true for Solomon is also true for us. There is not one situation that you will face in life that the Bible does not address in some practical way. The Bible teaches us how to think. The Bible teaches us how to speak. The Bible teaches us how to live. It tells us what to love. It tells us what to hate. It shows us how Proglorify God James Boyce wrote this. We believe the Bible to be the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith in practice. It is practical because we believe the Bible must be the treasure most valued and attended to in the churches. Life. End quote. And that's so very true. The word of God puts everything in perspective. You know what this is called? This is called the doctrine of the sufficiency of Scripture. Scripture is sufficient. When we say the scripture is sufficient, what we mean is there's no other writing, nowhere else you need to go. To help you learn how to live the way God wants you to live. To overcome the challenges, the spiritual obstacles. It equips us for a life of faith. It equips us for a life of service. You don't have to go anywhere else. Paul said this. Paul said all scripture is given by inspiration of God. You know this verse. It is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God might be thoroughly equipped or furnished unto good works. You don't need to look at other places. Every problem that we face The Word of God has the answer to that problem. I tell you what is disappointing is how sometimes God's people will walk away from the clear foundation of Scripture, the clear teaching of Scripture, and they will embrace The spirit of the world and drink in worldly ideas instead of standing firmly on the word of God. Because let me tell you something, friend, the word of God, standing firm on God's word will unite us Swallowing in man's philosophy will divide us. Paul warned about this in Colossians 2. He deals with the dangers that a church faces when the sufficiency of Scripture is challenged. by non-biblical ideas, ungodly theology, ungodly concepts. Paul warned the church at Colossae. Listen to Colossians 2. 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments, or we could say the basic principles of this world, rather than on Christ You don't need human tradition. You don't need deceptive philosophy. You don't need the basic principles of this world. You have the sufficiency of God's word. And God calls all of us to stand firmly on that. Jude would later write that the Word of God is and the faith is once and for all delivered That makes it clear. We don't need any other writings. There's nothing added to it. What we need is to know God's word and to stand firmly on the word of God. I think the sufficiency of Scripture is under attack today. And that's sad because I think the attack is not coming from the world. It's coming from people even in the church. People who claim to know God. They uh sadly that attack comes in our churches using management techniques, worldly methods of drawing crowds, entertainment, extra biblical revelation, mysticism, forms of psychology and counseling. That declare that the Bible precepts are not enough. And then vain philosophy, and we're facing it today cultural Marxism and all these other things is an attack against the sufficiency of Scripture. Jesus said, my sheep hear my voice. And they know me and they follow me. His voice is all we need. All we need is the voice of Christ through Scripture. And David is telling Solomon the best way to live your life is to live it based on the Word of God. There is no challenge that you will face in your kingdom that the Word of God cannot handle. The Word of God is sufficient for all of these things. And then what David does is he points to the promises of Scripture. Look at verse 4: that the Lord may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way and to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee, said he, a man on the throne of Israel. So David points to a promise of God. If Solomon was faithful to God, then he would receive a double blessing of personal prosperity. He would have a perpetual dynasty. He would prosper in everything that he did. By the way, the same is true for us today, especially if we define success in biblical terms. Obeying God's word. Will keep us close to the Holy Spirit. It will help us bring more people to Christ. It will show us how to glorify God in this world And God will bless us, just like he promised to Solomon. And so David points to the sure promises of God's word. So what are the principles we learned from David? His last words. Do what is necessary for the kingdom. Keep the kingdom first. Secondly, defend the honor of the king. Thirdly, depend on the God's Word. That is great advice, not only for Solomon, but for all of us. So look at verse number 10. So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David. And so this tells us where David was buried in the city of David. Nehemiah 3. 16 says it was located between a section of Nehemiah's wall and the pool of Siloam. Not long ago when I was over in Israel, I had the privilege of locating this precise spot. When I was over there on an archaeological dig, there was nothing there now but just simply an empty tomb, the place where David was buried. But when I looked at that, it reminded me of three things. First of all, it reminded me that all of us will face death. It is certain. And we have to get ourselves prepared for death. When death comes, all that will matter is how you live your life. The Bible says David served his own generation. He was totally selfless. He served the kingdom. And it also reminded me of the greater Son of David, Jesus who died for our sins. He also left an empty tomb because he resurrected, he conquered sin, death, in the grave. And the most important thing is knowing him, knowing this greater son of David. Do you know him? Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. And would you just uh examine your own heart in the light of scripture? And ask God to give you the the uh the the heart that David is talking about when he counseled his son Solomon to face challenges. If you want to face future challenges, just remember to do what is best and necessary for the kingdom. Put it first. Honor the King. Our King is Jesus. Honor him above all things. And then be dependent on the Word of God. If you do these things, whatever future challenges you face, you'll be able to overcome. You'll be victorious. God has not called us as believers to be victims, but to be victors, to be victorious in Christ. And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, I would just invite you to reach out to Him in faith. He's a prayer away. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will not cast out. You can reach out to Christ in prayer. Ask him to be your Savior, your Lord. Ask him to forgive your sin We're all gonna die, every one of us. We we'll go the way of all the earth. The question is, what happens to your soul? And you either go to heaven or you go to hell. Bible is very clear. And those who go to heaven are those who place their faith in the finished work of Christ, the one who died for them on the cross. Put your faith in Christ and Him alone. So, Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. Challenge us, Lord, if from the Scripture, help us to hold firmly to the Word of God. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen