The book of Joshua, chapter 2. As you know on Wednesday nights we're going through Joshua, and I hope that it's an encouragement to you. The whole theme of Joshua is having victory. And I hope and pray as a result of us studying this that you'll have greater victory in your Christian wall, that I too will put some of these principles to practice. Joshua chapter 3 tonight, and we'll touch on some verses in chapter 3 and chapter 4 because that's one all combined narrative together. It's not two different stories, it's one story. And tonight I want to talk about the river of impossibility. The book of Joshua is a book about facing challenges and overcoming challenges in the power of our living God. So I want to ask you tonight, do you have a challenge in your life right now? Don't raise your hand. We probably all could raise our hand tonight. and talk about the challenges that we have in front of us. Well, in chapter 3 and chapter 4, Joshua and Israel, as we come to this narrative, have a challenge, and the challenge is crossing an impossible river For forty years they've been wandering in the wilderness, and you know the whole story of Israel, how that a generation because of their unbelief had to perish in the wilderness, but now a new generation under a new leader was poised and ready to go into the land of promise. This is the land that God had promised them for so many years, all the way back to the time of Abraham. And now finally, it was the time To cross over into Canaan, there's only one problem. They have a major obstacle in front of them. It is called the Jordan River. Now listen, normally this wouldn't be a problem because really at this spot called Gilgal, normally the Jordan River was about 100 feet wide. But they were at this river at a certain time of the year called the time of harvest. In fact, look in chapter 3 and look in verse number 15. The last part of verse 15. There's a little parentheses at the end of the verse where it says, For Jordan overflowed all his banks at the time of the harvest. And so the problem was, what stood in front of the children of Israel was a swollen river that was literally uncrossable. It was the flood season. Normally this was a quiet flowing river, but now at this season, at this year, a time of year I should say, it became a raging torrent. This was the spring rains that caused rains to come down from the mountain. The snow was melting from all of the mountains there in Lebanon, which again the water was just coming down into that valley and it that Jordan Valley and it was filling up that Jordan River and what was normally a hundred feet wide had swollen to a mile wide. Just try to think about that. The Bible often talks about this in the book of Job. It's called the swelling of the Jordan. And so literally it is humanly impossible to cross this river. They didn't have the resources to cross this river Now remember, this is we're talking about two and a half million people to cross this river. They couldn't construct boats for two and a half million people. Besides, they would If they tried to do that, they would be right there, uh a target of the enemy, right there on the water. Besides, that was not God's plan. But humanly speaking, this was the worst time to cross. Let me ask you a question. Why is it that sometimes God commands us to do things at the worst possible time, perhaps for us? Just isn't a good time for us, but God says it's time for me. It might not be good for you, but now is my time. You know why? Because God does things in such a way that no man can boast. He does things in such a way where only he could get the glory, where we have to depend totally and completely upon him for his power. And this crossing of the Jordan River would be no exception. The only way they were going to cross this river was by the power of God. Was by the help of God. They would have to have supernatural health. And let me tell you something tonight, friends, and get this down. God wants to demonstrate to his people his supernatural power in their life God wants to demonstrate his power to you. He wants to demonstrate his power in you. And friend, he wants to demonstrate his power through you. God delights in doing that. But there's another reason for this timing, and that is God always does things in such a way so as to stretch our faith. Now God could have had them cross this river in the dry season And that wouldn't have been a problem. That was something they could manage. But God chose this specific time. From a human perspective, it was the worst possible time to cross a river, but this was the way God wanted it. And he put before them then an insurmountable problem. And he wanted to see how they would respond. Let me ask you a question. When God puts in front of you an uncrossable river, an insurmountable problem How do you respond? You know, sometimes some believers, the first response we have is to begin to doubt God and maybe complain. You know Uh and that's the response of some least. I've to my shame I have responded that way from time to time. Oh I I can just hear the Israelites saying, Oh, w we got here at the wrong time This is not the right time, and this is not the right place to cross. Look how wide this thing is. I mean, we we're out of God's will. We're out of his timing. But they were not. They were right at the right spot, at the right time, ready to enter into the promised land. But let me tell you something, friends, God will often bring you to a place where he'll bring in front of you a problem that is insurmountable. You know why? Because he wants to stretch your faith, he wants to stretch my faith He wants you to enter into a new spiritual level. He wants me to enter into a new spiritual level. Look in Joshua chapter 3. Look in verse number 4. Look at the end of verse 4. It says that ye may know the way which ye must go. For ye have not passed this way here to fore. God wants to take you to new places, places you've never been to before on your spiritual journey. So this means God is going to have to get you out of your comfort zone. So again, I want to ask you, how do you respond when you are faced with a river of impossibility, when you have something that you can't handle in your own strength? You might be here in that condition tonight, it might be a river of doubt It might be a river of weakness or besetting sin. It might be a river of physical sickness or a river of financial or family difficulty. It might be a river of a rebellious child that's gone astray. It might be a difficulty on a job or relationship gone wrong. But we all have rivers of impossibility in front of us. And God wants us to trust Him. And I'm convinced that many people don't overcome these things because they don't exercise faith in God. We sing the song, God any rivers you think are uncrossable? God any mountains you can't tunnel through? God specializes in things thought impossible. He'll do the thing nobody else can do. Now with all that in mind, I want you to see three things here in our passage, three things in our text that I hope will be a help to you. What do you do when you face a river of impossibility? Number one, write this down, we should expect miracles. We should expect miracles. Look at verse 1. And Joshua rose early in the morning, and they were removed from Shetim and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, and lodged there before they had passed over. And drop down to verse number 5. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Now you know what's interesting to me about these first five verses? As you come to chapter 3, Joshua still doesn't know how God is going to get them to the other side. Because God hadn't told him. He's not going to reveal that until later on in the narrative. And so God has not yet told him. And so Joshua, he doesn't know what God is going to do But he just believes that God's going to do something great. He just trusts in God. He woke up expecting a miracle. He said to the people, listen, tomorrow the Lord is going to do wonders. for you and among you. I love that about God. God is always ready to do great things on behalf of his people. In fact, I want to tell you, God is ready to do great things on your behalf. He wants to do wonders among us. And I think the people of Israel, they were expecting it. They were anticipating what is God going to do. There on the other side is the promised land, and here we are, we're ready to pass over, and in between us and them, there's this huge impossible river And I know God somehow is going to get us through this. I'm just not sure. But I think they said we know that we're going to be on the other side. We're excited to see what God is going to do. I'm convinced the reason God doesn't do some things for Christians is they just don't expect it. They're just not expecting God to work on their behalf. William Carey, the great missionary, said ask great things of God Expect great things from God. Do great things for God. Now what does Joshua do? Look at a few practical things here. Look again in verse 1. Joshua rose up early in the morning And they removed from Shetem and came to the Jordan. That is, here's the first thing. Just write this down. Face the river. Here's the first thing Joshua does. He does the only thing that he humanly can do, and that is he went as far as he could go To that river. He came to the very brink. They moved from that place Shatim and they came to the very brink of the Jordan. You know, many times when we have a river of impossibility, we want to pretend it's not there We want to stick our head in the sand and pretend that it doesn't exist, but God doesn't want you to do that. The first thing you need to do is just face the river. Don't pretend it's not there. Realize it's there. Face it bravely. And do as much as you can do humanly possible. Confront that river. And faith. You know, I remember when I was uh going through seminary, I was pastoring a small church. And uh I was going I had of course four small red-headed children that were hungry. And I had to I had to basically provide for the family and also go through seminary and the seminary that I went through you had to pay all of your bill up front. I mean they didn't let you pay it out monthly. At the beginning of the semester, you had to pay everything up front And that was a challenge to do from time to time. I want you to know. And I remember on one semester, I knew at the beginning of the semester I was not going to have enough. I knew I was two hundred dollars short. And uh When we registered, you would go from one table to another. They'd take your you know student I give you student ID and then you'd get your classes and then you'd get them approved and then you get your library ID and then you just go through this whole process. Well, the financial table was the last table. And so I thought, well I'm just going to go through this whole process. And I'm going to go until I can't go no more. And I'm going to pay everything I have. I know I'm short. But I basically said, Lord, I'm going to do all I can do and then the rest is up to you. And I remember I went through that whole thing, got to the financial table, and I paid the money and the lady said, you're $200 short, but last week someone left $200 on your bill for you And I thought, well, thank you, Lord. The Lord was able to I think sometimes God wants us to do what we can do, and then just leave the rest up to Him. Face the river. But here's another thing. Watch God. Look in verse 3. And they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, And the priests, the Levites bearing it, then he shall remove from your place and go after it. That is, he's saying, watch for the ark. When you see the ark coming, when it moves, you move. Now you know the ark is you we all know what that is, that golden box that was in the Holy of Holies about four feet wide and two feet deep. And uh it was a a box that was holy unto the Lord. It had a lid on it and the mercy seat where the blood was sprinkled And most of the time people didn't get the opportunity to see that ark because it was in there in the Holy of Holies. But here the ark will be brought out before all of Israel. And Josh, and by the way, that ark represented the power and the presence of the Lord. When they saw that ark, they naturally uh made belief that that God's presence was there with us. And so there's a sense really in which he's saying, when God moves, they were to move. When you see the ark moving, then you move When God moves, you move. When God stops, then you stop. And by the way, this is a valuable spiritual lesson because listen, beloved, sometimes when we are facing a crisis, When we need direction in our life, we need to learn to be sensitive to the movement of God around us. And when God is moving, we need to move. And when God says stop, then we stop. But that's part of this thing of learning to know the ways of the Lord, being sensitive to the Lord's leading. God said to David one day, he said, David, when you hear the marching through the mulberry trees, You're going to know that I went before you. And when you hear that marching, it's time for you to go. But until then, you wait. So when God moves You move. So watch God, watch for the ark. That was the next thing. But then here's the third thing. Follow God. Look at the end of verse 3, where it says, Then ye shall remove from your place And go after it. They were to watch God. They were to move when He did. They were to pursue God. And again, the lesson for the believer is this, it's not enough that you know what God is doing. There comes a time when you must leave your place and you must go after Him. It's one thing to know what God's doing. It's another thing to be willing to leave your comfort zone and to follow what God is doing. Israel was about to Move from that bank of safety and cross a river that was over one mile wide. That couldn't have been easy, but it was necessary and it was right And friends, let me tell you something. The easiest, following God might not be the easiest thing you will do, but it's the right thing to do. When God moves, we move. And then here's the next thing. Honor God. Look in verse number 4. Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about 2,000 cubits by measure. Come not near unto this, that ye may know the way by which ye must go, for ye have not passed this way heretofore. And so here he says, make sure, Joshua says, there's a space between the ark and between you. In fact, 2,000 cupits, that was about 3,000 feet. That's about a half a mile. And so Joshua says, stay about a half a mile behind this ark. You know why? That's so that everyone in Israel could see what was happening So that everyone could see. So they could know that it was the Lord that was leading them into the land. God doesn't just send us someplace. He leads us. He goes before us. And Joshua wanted and God himself wanted everyone to see that it was God leading them into the land. It wasn't Joshua, friend. It was the mighty, powerful, living God that was leading them into the land. And it was God that would get the glory for what was going to happen. And then there's also another lesson here, and that is this was also an expression of reverence and holiness and honor to that ark which represented God. And friend, we need to always be careful to be reverent. To not be careless with God, to not be flippant with God, to not have a spirit of familiarity that would cheapen our walk with God. God is a holy God And we are to reverence God. We're all the time. In fact, look in verse number 5. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. And that is, he is saying to them, to the people, sanctify yourselves, that is, purify yourselves and and put aside and confess your sin. And remember what God said in Joshua chapter 1, this book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein. That's how God told them. to sanctify themselves. And I think the reason sometimes God is not doing wonders among some people is because some Christians are living an impure impure life They're not living a clean life. They're not keeping their accounts short with God and confessing sin and seeking to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord. And so Joshua says, Uh, sanctify yourselves. Isaiah 59, 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that he cannot say, neither is here heavy that he cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God. And so Joshua's saying, get rid of all iniquity, confess it, sanctify yourself. And so what do we do? We are to face the river. Watch God Follow God, honor God, and here's the next thing: step out in faith. Look at verse number eight. And thou shalt command the priest that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink Of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan. Look down at verse 13. It shall come to pass as soon as the soles of the feet of the priest that bear the ark of the Lord The Lord of all the earth shall rest in the waters of the Jordan, that the waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above, and they shall stand upon a heap. Now here, God gives some orders and he tells Joshua and the priests that bear the ark. He says, look, you tell those priests, step into the water. And when they step into the water, the waters will part and go to the middle of the river there. And so they were the first step, take a step, and go into the water. Now this is the way God Now this plan might sound irrational to us. You know what we would say? We would say, God, you open up the waters and then we'll go through the through the parting there You show us the path, you clear the path, you open the water, and we'll go in. God says no. You move forward, you get your feet wet in faith, and then I'll open the waters. You know, a lot of times we want everything planned out for us in advance. We want it all right out. We want it mapped out in front of us. But friends, God doesn't operate that way. God says, you trust me And then I'll show you step by step what you are to do. This took faith. And they didn't see any waters party. until first they got their feet wet. Listen, unless you're willing to step out in faith and get your feet wet, you're not likely to make a whole lot of progress in the Christian life Unless you're willing to do that. And by the way, let me tell you something else. God doesn't always do the same thing the same way. You know, when God parted the waters for Moses, he had Moses stretch out a rod. When God parted the waters for Elijah and Elisha, he had them smoke the waters with a mantle. But here, God does something completely different for Joshua. You know what that tells me? God doesn't always do the same thing the same way. Get your orders from the Lord. You know, Jesus, when he healed a blind man, the Bible says he took spit and made mud and he put the mud in his eyes. And he healed him. And then another blind man, he just took spittle and he put it in his eyes and he healed him that way. And another man, he just touched his eyes. And immediately you have three new denominations, the Muddites, the Spidites, and the Tushites. And they're all saying, well, I know how God heals the blind. The way God heals the blind is He makes mud. Someone else says, no, no, he he does it with fit. The other guy says, no, he just simply touches the eyes Let me tell you something. God doesn't always do the same thing the same way. You know why? God doesn't want us trusting programs. He wants us trusting Him. He wants us to look to him. Theodore Eth in 1939, he founded Back to the Bible, the radio ministry, and then he was the first one to do that, and then others came behind him. And they all came to him saying, you know, tell us how to do this. And you know what he would always tell them, get your orders from God. That's a good response. Get your orders from God. And so we see here then, God wants us to step out by faith. And what's the last thing? Face the river, watch God, follow God, honor God, step out in faith, and then write this down, cross the river. Across the river. Look in verse 15. And as they that bear the ark were come unto Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped in the brim of the water. For the Jordan overflowed all of his banks at the time of the harvest, that the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city of Adam that is beside Zaratan, and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea failed and were cut off. And the people passed over right against Jericho. Verse 17. And the priest that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan. And all the Israelites passed over on dry ground. Until all the people were passed clean over Jordan. And so this is just an incredible thing I think God does. Verse 17 has three strong verbs. The waters stood, rose up, were cut off. That's the idea that the flowing river stopped. And the waters, the Bible said, rose up in a heap. By the way, that word heap there is the same word used in Exodus 15. 8 about the waters on the Red Sea when God parted the waters of the Red Sea And so God did a miracle for them. Now, this place is identified today as called Teledamaya. And that in four hours will get you a cup of coffee at Starbucks. But you say, why are you bringing that up? Well because there are of course there are scholars and uh I should say liberal scholars and skeptics and they say, oh, we know this spot This wasn't a miracle. This was natural phenomena. And they trace it back and they say, ah, you know, on December the 8th, and 1267 BC. Did you know that at that very spot, tell Ed Demaia, there was an earthquake which jam up the river for about 10 hours? And they try to explain it away as natural phenomena. Let me tell you something, friend. God could have used an earthquake if he wanted to But none of what they say fits the text because look what happened. God predicted this was going to happen in verses 13 and 14. He said the waters were going to stand upon a heap. Verse 13 And Joshua said in detail, and the timing was perfect. Again, look in verse 15. And as they that bear the ark were come into the Jordan, that the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped in the brim of the water In other words, at the moment that the priests put their feet in the water, it happened at that very moment. Explain that. At that very moment. And also keep in mind this took place when the river was at flood stage, and so the wall of water had to hold in place for many hours, perhaps. And then look at verse 17, because did you notice how many times the Bible says dry ground? And the priest that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on what? Dry ground. In the midst of the Jordan, and all of the Israelites passed over on dry ground. They weren't slipping and sliding in the mud because some earthquake came and dammed up the river. No, they walked over on dry ground. Explain that, Mr. Liberal. This was a miracle from God. And by the way, when the priest got up out of the water, The Bible says the waters came right back into place. Look in chapter four. Look at verse number 18. And it came to pass when the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord were come up out of the midst of the Jordan And the souls of the priests' feet were lifted up into the dry land, that the waters of Jordan returned unto their place and flowed over all his banks. as they did before. Wow. What a miracle from God. Cross that river, that river of impossibility. Now God will do miracles for us. He will do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. Friend, do you believe that? He will. He just will. Now, number one, we should expect miracles But then write down number two, we should erect memorials. We should erect memorials. Look in verse 1 of chapter 4. And it came to pass when all the people were clean passed over Jordan, that the Lord spake unto Joshua, saying, Take ye twelve men out of twelve men out of the people of every tribe of man, and commanded them, saying, Take ye hence out of the midst of Jordan. Out of the place where the priest's feet stood, firm, twelve stones, and ye shall carry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place where ye shall lodge this night. Now this is the words from the Lord. God said, Joshua, here's what I want you to do. I want you to choose out twelve men. They're to go right out there in the middle of the Jordan, right where the priest stood. You pull out twelve stones. And then you bring those stones. These had to be hefty Israelites. These are probably huge stones. And take these stones and you put them on the s on the side of the Jordan where you came out of, where you're going to camp that night. And you just put them there and you arrange them there. And we'll see they're arranged kind of in a circular motion or circular shape there. And you make a memorial there of this event Now I want to say something, friend. You know what? A memorial is a reminder to God's people. You know why? Because we have a tendency to forget what God does We had a tendency to forget the miracles that God has already done for us in the past. We have short memories Like one man said, he said, I I get to the point where I write everything down that I want to remember. That way I don't spend a lot of time trying to remember what I wrote down. I just spend a lot of time trying to remember where I put the paper. Because we just seem to forget. And we're short of memory. And the danger is we often forget the God who helped us. Remember in Exodus, God did this Red Sea miracle? for the Israelites in Exodus 15. And just three days later, they are groaning, they are complaining. In Exodus 15, they are singing. In Exodus 16, they're sobbing. How soon we forget. And so all through the Bible you'll see that when God does something great, he'll have sometimes his people put up a stone Or do something as a memorial of what God had done. And the men respond immediately. Look in verse 8. And the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded. And took off twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, as the Lord spake unto Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, and carried them over with them unto the place where they lodged, and laid them down there. And then Joshua does something else. Look at verse 9. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests, which bear the Ark of the Covenant, stood. And they are there unto this day. Joshua went another step there. Not only did they put a memorial on the bank of the west bank of the Jordan. But they put, Joshua put a memorial right there in the middle of the river, right where the priests stood, that very spot. So today we remember where the Ark of the Covenant was and what the Lord did for them. And that very spot on the west bank of the Jordan where they erected that memorial, that became a place called Gilgal. And Gilgiah, by the way, comes from a word which means to roll away. It has the idea of a wheel in the Hebrew, but it means to roll or to roll away. It was a circle of stones. And every time Israel came to Gilgal, they would see that memorial, and they were reminded of how God rolled away the reproach of Egypt for for them, and rolled away the reproach of all the other nations, and did something great for His people. And Gilgal became a base of operation. In fact, Gilgal, uh, later in the in the time of Israel became such an important center, so many other things what happened there at Gilgal because it was such an important place. Israel crowned their first king at Gilgal. David, uh after coming from uh back from Absalom's rebellion State at Gilgal. Samuel visited Gilgal often. Elijah and Elisha established a school of prophets there at Gilgal. And so this became a very important place. Why did they need a memorial there? I'll tell you why, because the road ahead would be hard. They were just beginning. To get victory in that land. They had a lot of battles ahead of them. And when they went out to battle, they would come back to that base of operation and they would look at that memorial. They would look at those stones and they would remember the power of God. They had a long road ahead of them, they need to be reminded that God was leading them. And also generations that came after them Needed to be reminded of what the Lord had done. This is so important that in chapter 4, it's mentioned twice at the beginning and at the end. Look in verse 6 of chapter 4. He says that this may be a sign among you that when your children ask their father in time to come saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then ye shall answer them that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. When it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be a memorial. Look in chapter 4, look in verse 21, again at the end of chapter 4. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean these stones? Then ye shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. This memorial was needed because of the tough times ahead. And God's people need to be reminded of the power of the living God. But also, we need to remind our children, you know what, children need to see what God has done for us. And they need to be reminded. There needs to be some memorials set up as a testament and a reminder of the victories that God has won for us in the past. Why? That it might sow faith in their heart. So that they too will trust in the living God. But also, friend, because the people on earth needed a memorial as a testimony to the one true God. Look at verse 24. of chapter 4, that all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty, that ye might fear the Lord your God forever. Friend, this was a testimony to all the people of the earth. So all the Canaanites, all those in that land that worship gods that were not gods, but there is one true and living God. He is the real God, and he does wonders for his people. Francis Schaefer said this, the stones were to tell the other nations round about that this God is different. He really exists. He is a living God, a God of real power. So I want to ask you, friend, tonight, do you have memorials in your home? in your life. It might uh memorials that others can see, your children can see. It might be a worn-out Bible. It might be a tear-stained prayer list. I want to tell you the best memorial is a changed life. A life that is changed by the power of Almighty God. So, number one, we should expect miracles. Number two, we should erect memorials. But here's the third thing I want you to write down. We should express meaning. We should express meaning. When they ask, why these stones? Why these stones? Yes, we talk about God, but I want you to see also that these stones There's a spiritual reminder behind these memorials. These stones not only announce a presence, they announce the presence of God in the past. These stones also acknowledge a principle. You know, in fact, this whole story is a picture. of salvation. You know, all the Bible is about Jesus. All the Bible is about salvation history. And this is a story of the of the death and the burial and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. It foreshadows what Jesus is going to do. The Jordan River is a picture of judgment and death. That river flowed down into the Dead Sea. And so symbolically, geographically, it spoke of judgment and death. The ark is a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as that ark went down into the Jordan and came up out on the other side, even so Jesus entered into the chilly waters of death. But he didn't stay there, friend. He came out on the other side. And he rose from the dead. And by the way, if you study geography, you know what you're going to find? This very spot where the priest stood with the ark was the location where Jesus was baptized. When it came time for him to be baptized. And when the ark went into the water, it stopped the flow of Jordan all the way back, the Bible says, to the city of Adam. That we read there in chapter 3 and verse number 16, all the way back to the city of Adam. And friend, because of Jesus' death, burial, and resurrection for me, he stopped the flow of judgment in my life all the way back to my father Adam He gave me complete victory. And friend, if you want victory, if you want God to do wonders in your life, it starts with knowing Jesus. It starts with understanding who he is. But also at the same time, the stones in the midst of the Jordan speak about our union with Christ. Because those stones in that middle of that river speak about our oneness with that ark and our oneness with Jesus. And friend, when he died, I died. When he was buried, I was buried. When he rose, I rose And so we're one with the Lord Jesus Christ. These stones announce a presence. These stones acknowledge a principle. These stones affirm a person. Look in chapter three, back up to verse seven. And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel That they may know that as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. Whatever God did for Moses, God is now doing for Joshua. And God was showing Joshua that, and God was showing all Israel that That just as he was with Moses, now he's with Joshua. He parted the Red Sea for Moses, he parted the Jordan River for Joshua. And I want to say something else, dear friend. Just as he was with Moses and Joshua, he's going to be with you. I know God parted the Red Sea for Moses, and I know he parted the Jordan for Joshua. I want him to do something for me. I want him to do something for me. And friend, he'll do something for you as well. But then also these stones accentuate a promise. And it was a promise of of God's victory. But let me move on quickly to the last thing. These stones arouse a people. You know what memorials do? Memorials are not just an intellectual reminder But friend, they are designed to stir our affections, to stir our emotions. They shouldn't just stop in our mind. When we see a memorial to something God has done. It should stir our heart. And that's what this was designed to do. And that's what memorials, by the way, are designed to do Uh if you don't believe me, take a trip down to Arlington National Cemetery and look in there. And if you can look at all those white stones and not be moved, there's something wrong with you. But friend, even more than that. God sets up, for instance, an illustration of this is the Lord's Supper. Every time we come to the Lord's Supper, this is a memorial. And we're remembering what Jesus did for us. We are looking at the cross through the eyes of faith. And you know what it should do? It should stir our heart. And when we look at that bread, we should be reminded that all the blessings I have are because of the brokenness of Jesus on the cross for me. And when we look at that grave church, we should be reminded of the precious blood of Jesus that was shed for me on the cross. And friend, when we leave that, we should be more stirred. than we ever were before. Like the writer who wrote the beautiful song, When I Survey the Wondrous Cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gains I count but lost. and pour contempt of contempt on all my pride. And then he says, were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small, love so amazing, so divine. Demands my soul, my life, my all. That's what it's designed to provoke in us. And so I want to ask you a question, friend. Are you facing troubled waters? Are you facing a river of impossibility? Trust God. Trust God. Watch Him work in your life. And when He does, don't forget what He's done. And tell others others about it. And let them know. We should expect miracles. We should erect memorials. We should express meaning. Now let me just uh give you this story that I read this week and we'll be done. I thought this was an interesting story. There was a man by the name of George, he studied at Stanford University. This was during the Great Depression And uh like all the seniors that were studying there, uh he never anticipated having a job in tough financial times like that, especially if you don't graduate at the top of the class. And George was not at the top of the class, he was at the bottom of the class. He just wanted to finish the final. He wanted to get just past the class. And he studied so hard for the final that he got there late the next day. He arrived late because he studied so hard late into the night. And the class had already started The teacher had already given the instructions. So he kind of sheepishly took the final exam, sat down, and he started to take the test and he noticed there were eight problems, eight difficult math problems on the test, and two that the teacher had written on the board. Well, he did eight problems on the paper, and then he tried to tackle the two problems on the board, and he just couldn't seem to get an answer. And he got discouraged and he thought, I know I've got too wrong on this test already. I'm gonna fail this thing And so right when he was turning his paper in, he just said to the professor, would you let me take these two problems home and see if I can figure them out? And to the shock of the student, the professor said, sure, go right ahead. So he took those two problems home. He worked on them all night. I mean he poured himself into those problems with a vengeance. And the next day he handed the paper in, and then he went back home, and that very next morning there was a knock on the door where he was staying, and it was his professor. And he said, congratulations, George. You just made mathematics history. He said, what do you mean? He said, well you didn't come in, you didn't hear the instructions, but the two problems that I put on the board were problems that are impossible to solve. He said even Einstein couldn't solve these problems. And I put them up there as a testament that sometimes You're going to face impossible problems in life, but don't get discouraged. Just keep working at it. I was kind of encouraging the students. He said, but congratulations, George. You've got the answer to the problems. You see, George didn't know that they were impossible He didn't know that there was no way to do it. And you know what? When I read that I thought, you know, God's people are people that don't know that there are problems that are impossible. You know why? Because we serve a God of the possible. And He can do anything. So we don't know a problem that's impossible. Because we follow the living and powerful God. And with God, all things are possible. Let's have a word of prayer together. And so, friend, as we bow our heads and close our eyes, do you believe him? Do you trust him? He wants to do wonders in your life. But are you willing to step out? Are you willing to trust him? Maybe there's someone here tonight that will say, Lord, I'm facing an impossible river. And I'm asking you by faith to do wonders on my behalf. And that's your prayer tonight. And you say, that's me. Would you pray for me tonight? If that's your prayer, God, do wonders. I'm facing a river of impossibility. Do wonders for me. Father, bless your word. And these hands and those that are facing difficulty, Lord, bless them, increase their faith, encourage their heart. And may we realize, Lord, that You can help us cross impossible rivers if we're willing to get our feet wet. If we're willing to trust you. May that be our testimony tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.