Chapter 8. Very familiar chapter, Romans chapter 8. And I want you to look down at verse number 26. Romans 8, verse 26. I think perhaps the greatest book in the Bible is the book of Romans. It's probably the closest thing we have to a systematic theology from the Apostle Paul. It has changed so many lives, and perhaps the greatest chapter in the book of Romans is Romans chapter 8. Martin Luther has called Romans the Christian's Constitution. And if that's true, I think Romans 8 is kind of the bill of rights, you could say, or we could sol could say the bill of blessings, because Romans 8 tells us of all the blessings that we have because of the work of the Holy Spirit. Now, thank God that we as Christians have the Holy Spirit. We could not live the Christian life without Him. And the truth is, we are weak. We're weak. And we need His help. And God gave us the Holy Spirit not as a reward for our faithfulness but as a gift for our weakness. Sometimes I hear preachers say, well, you know, if you're going to have the power of the Holy Spirit, you have to do this and you have to do that. And you have to do this. And I say, friend, if I could do all that, I wouldn't need the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is not given to me because of my faithfulness. He's given to me because of my weakness. And I want to talk about one of the weaknesses I have in my Christian life. You might have the same one, and how we need the Holy Spirit to help us in this weakness. And I want to confess tonight to you that I am weak in this matter of prayer. I need help in prayer. I don't pray like I ought to pray. I don't pray as much as I should pray. And my weakness is in prayer is not because I don't have faith in God. I do have faith in God. I know God answers prayer. I believe that with all my heart. I know that we have a God who is merciful, He is prayer hearing, He is prayer answering. And my weakness is not Faith in Jesus Christ. I believe that Jesus is the great intercessor in heaven. I thank God that He's there interceding on behalf of the child of God. He ever lives to make intercession. And I believe that Jesus brings my prayer request to the Father. I believe He prays for me. My weakness is the fact that I do not utilize the help of the Holy Spirit the way I should. Now you know that all three members of the Trinity are involved in prayer. Effective prayer is this. It is praying to the Father, through the Son, in the power of the Spirit. And so the Holy Spirit then is my prayer partner. And I must never try to go at prayer alone. I have to have the help of the Holy Spirit Spirit. The Bible calls this praying in the Spirit. Notice Romans chapter 8. Look at verse number 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And so notice that the Spirit of God is our helper. Also, write down in your margin, Ephesians 6. 18, praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. To the end that you might with all perseverance make supplication for all saints. Also write down Jude verse 20, not chapter 20. Don't look for 20 chapters in Jude. There's only twenty verses where it says, praying in the Holy Spirit, building yourselves up in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit. So we must, as Christians, learn to pray in the Spirit. You said this helps to build our faith. Now the truth is God makes us perpetually weak. That we might be perpetually dependent, that we might be perpetually powerful in prayer. Now look again in verse number 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. Just circle the word help there, because I want to tell you a little bit about this word. It's a very interesting word. Greek scholars tell us that it's a compound word, so it's three words that we could put together, a su, which means with, ante, which means face-to-face. And lambana, which means to take hold of. And so it's a compound word that means to take hold of with face to face. Now this is how the Holy Spirit helps us in our weakness in prayer. The only other time this word is used in the whole New Testament is when Martha came to Jesus. And she said, Lord Jesus, make Mary help me. That's the only other time this word is used Dr. Herschel Hobbes, a scholar in his own right, he kind of illustrated the word like this. He said, picture a man, uh, this is back in the days when they had horse and wagons, picture a wagon door on the uh the back of the wagon opened up, a bale of hay falls out of the wagon. He has to stop and get out. It's on the road there. So he got this bale of hay. He picks it up. He's got one end of it, but he can't get it into the the wagon himself. And so you come along And you see he needs help. So you stop, you get at one end of the bale of hay, he gets at the other, you pick it up, you're face-to-face, you have a hold of it. And each of you just throw it up into the wagon. He said, now that's the idea behind this word here. Face to face, taking hold of And lifting it together. And that's how the Holy Spirit helps us in our prayer. You see, we have this prayer burden, right? And we are trying to bring this burden to God in heaven. And the truth of the matter is we really wrestle with it. We're weak with it. We really can't bring it to God the way we need to, and we need a partner. And so this word here implies partnership. That's what real prayer is. Real prayer is a divine partnership, you and the Holy Spirit grabbing hold of the burden of prayer, laying it before the throne of God together, bringing it to God, that's prayer. So you could say it's kind of like moving furniture, isn't it? You know, I I don't like to move furniture by myself. I try to get my wife to move all of our furniture in our house. But I don't like to do it by myself. I get my wife and my children to do it, right? I need help. Do you ever try to lift a big piece of furniture by yourself? You just can't do it. You need someone to lay hold of it with you. And the same is true of prayer. The Holy Spirit is our partner. He's our helper. The Holy Spirit inspires us in prayer. He guides us in prayer. He sustains us in prayer. He energizes us in prayer. And we can't do it without Him. And he will not do it without you. And so that's the divine partnership in prayer. And I like to illustrate it like this, you know, when my son Jeremiah was very little, a little toddler, one time we were in a parking lot, I think we were waiting for my wife. uh she was shopping in there and we had some time on our hand and so I put them in my lap and I put 'em behind the wheel of the car. I don't recommend you doing this. Please don't turn me into the police for this We were in a parking lot. There was no one else there. I let him take hold of the wheel and drive around the parking lot. Now I never, in all fairness, took my hand off of the wheel completely. But I, you know, I let him drive around, and boy, he was having a ball driving that car all around the parking lot. Now, the truth of the matter is I didn't need his help to drive. Some of you might think that I did did, but I don't. I don't need his help to drive. I can drive without him. He couldn't do it without me. He needed my help But together we had great fellowship. And that's really why when I think about prayer. You know, there's a mystery about prayer, isn't there? You know, God really doesn't need me to do what he wants to do. I mean he's sovereign. He doesn't need me. He already knows what I need before I say it We don't have to ask God or or we have to tell God or inform God, I should say, about what we need. He already knows that. We don't have to remind him And the truth of the matter is God doesn't need our hands on the driver wheel of the universe to run in. But you know what? There's a mystery there. So why does God let us do it? He lets us do it because he loves us. And he wants us to share in that great privilege of accomplishing great things. And there's a sense in which God will say, here, put your hand on the wheel with me. As we take care of this, as we accomplish this, as we drive the universe, you could say. And he doesn't need me, but he lets me. And the truth is we have great fellowship together. And so, friend, that's what happens when we depend upon the Holy Spirit. We, through the power of the Holy Spirit, are able to pray. But now here's the first thing: we have to confess that we are weak in prayer. We have to confess it. Again, I don't know about you, but I'm weak in prayer. And if I'm able to overcome my weakness, then I need the help of the Holy Spirit. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to see five weaknesses that the Holy Spirit helps me to overcome in this matter of prayer. And here's the first one, indifference. Just write down indifference. Look in verse number five. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the spirit, the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded is death But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. And you know why most of us don't pray as we ought? Because we're fleshly minded, because we're carnal. Just admit it. Just confess it. There's something in me, and there's something in you that does not want to pray. You say, what is it? It is that old carnal mind that's inside of us. That old sin nature that's indifferent to prayer. And it's that old sin nature that makes me apathetic. Someone said the problem in America is apathy, but who cares? And the problem in prayer is apathy, and many do not care. You know why we don't pray? Because we don't want to. There's a problem with our one-er. Our winner is broken. Our one-er is listening to the flesh. Did you ever notice that we find time to do the things that we want to do? We always find time to do the things that we really want to do. And the reason we don't pray the way we ought to pray is because we don't want to, because we have no appetite for prayer. And that's because our flesh, my flesh is in warfare against Almighty God. And so when my flesh is in control, then I don't want to pray. You might as well expect your cat to go swimming. Or your dog goes to the opera as to expect your flesh to want to pray. So you know what we need to do? We need to stop trying to cover up our indifference. And be honest with God and say, God, my number one weakness is sometimes I'm just indifferent. I confess my indifference to you. And you know what? After you're honest to God about your indifference, then you yield to the Holy Spirit. And you know what? I find that God helps me in that weakness. at that time. Write down Galatians 4. 6. And because ye are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying out, Abba Father. Look again in Romans 8 verse 15. For you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father, you see, when the Holy Spirit is in control of my life, I cannot help but want to pray. It's the exact opposite. When the Holy Spirit is helping me, I want to pray. I tell you, when I'm spirit-filled, I desire to pray. When I uh when I'm allowing the spirit to work, I'm always praying. I'm praying when I'm driving, I'm praying when I'm working, I'm praying when When I'm in the office and when I'm writing letters, but friend, when I'm in the flesh You have to drag me by the nap of the neck into the prayer closet when the flesh is in control. So to pray in the flesh is to fail. It's a drudgery. To pray in the spirit is to succeed. That is delight. And friend, we are to pray in the spirit. Pray in the Spirit. And so Paul here, he just confesses his weakness in verse number 26. He just confesses the matter of prayer. He confesses that he was infirm. Look again in verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helps our infirmities. That word infirmities means a weakness. He helps our weaknesses. Friend, look at me. You're looking at a weak man. But don't look so holy. I'm preaching to a weak people. Amen. Because we are weak in this matter of prayer. Now, there's two reasons why you want to confess your weakness. Here's the first one. Number one, it's a fact. It's a fact. We already established that. But here's another reason you want to confess your weakness. Number two, it's an asset. You see, your weakness is not a liability, it's an asset. You say, how so? 2 Corinthians 12, 9. But he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for you, my power is made perfect in weakness Paul said. Therefore will I boast all the more, Paul said, of my infirmities or my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. You see, what happens is when we confess our weakness to God, then what will happen is the Holy Spirit will make that a strength. Because he takes over. So that's why Paul said, I can glory, I can boast in my weaknesses, because when I am weak, then I am what? That I'm strong because that's when God takes over. So the first thing we need to do is to confess that weakness, that indifference. That's my first weakness. Let me tell you about number two. Not only indifference, but number two ignorance. Just write down ignorance. Looking in at verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought. Now people come and uh you probably had this happen a lot, they come and they say, Would you put this on your prayer list? And you'll write it down. And then another person will say, put this on and you'll write that down. And you'll collect that prayer list will get longer and longer and longer. And through the years it gets so long that some of you you have a prayer list longer than a telephone book Because you have all these prayer requests, and that's not a bad thing, beloved. I'm not I'm not saying that's bad, that's good. I know you love your brother and sister in Christ, it's wonderful that you want to pray. But the truth of the matter is when you get on a prayer list that long, um, you know, I don't know about you. My experience is, you know, you get halfway through that thing and say, I I don't have time, I can't be here all day praying for all these things. That prayer list gets so long. And if you try to pray for everyone and everything, you know what will happen? You'll stop praying. You see, the key to prayer is not praying for everything, but praying for the right things. That's the idea. And this is what Paul's telling us. Listen, you don't want your prayer life to become a stagnant swamp. You want it to become a mighty river. And so the idea is that you have to channel your prayers in the right direction. You have to pray for the right thing. For prayer to be effective, it must be Selective. So we have to know what to pray for. How do you know what we should pray for? And friend, this is where the Holy Spirit comes in, because the Holy Spirit will guide us. And he'll show us what we should pray. And so this is the great secret of prayer. The prayer that is like completing a circuit. The prayer that starts in heaven will end in heaven. It's like completing a circuit. All we do is we close the circuit. You see, effective prayer is the Holy Spirit finding a desire in the heart of God Then bringing it down into our heart, putting that desire into our heart, and then we send it back to heaven in the power of the cross. That's what prayer is. And so a lot of times when we pray, we ought to say, Holy Spirit, help me to know what to pray and what to pray for. Have you ever thanked God for unanswered prayer? Never look back and say, Man, I'm so glad God didn't answer that prayer. If He had answered that prayer, I I would have been in trouble. There are four basic responses to our prayers. One is no, your request is not in God's will. One is slow. Your request is not as good, but it's not at the right time. Another one is grow. Your motives are wrong. Keep praying or keep growing. And the other one is go. Your request, timing, and spiritual condition are all good. And the answer is yes. But thank God for the times when God said no. If God had answered all my prayers, I would be in big trouble today. And so I thank God for saying no. Uh Graham Bell, she's the wife of Billy Graham, she said this. She said, If God would have answered every one of my prayers, I would have married the wrong person six times. And so as the Holy Spirit is my prayer partner, when I make a request, the Holy Spirit will sometimes say, Father, this is what Jerry's asking for, but this is what Jerry needs. And so he'll help me. He'll guide those prayers. And a lot of times he'll lay on the heart of a Christian what to pray for. Uh you ever have a troublemaker in your life and you say, Lord, strike 'em down, get rid of them for me. And God not answer that Well, you laughed, but the early church probably did that. You remember Saul Tartus? I can I can just can you imagine being in a prayer meeting in the early church when Saul was out persecuting and killing Christians? Oh God, kill Saul, please. God, please kill him. Get him out. He's an enemy. Strike him dead. But you know what God did? God struck him alive. And he made him a great, great apostle. And so let me ask you a question. Don't you believe that the Holy Spirit can lay on your heart? A specific need for someone. And you've probably experienced that where maybe just for some reason you don't know, you have a desire to pray for someone. And you don't you're not exactly sure why, but you just think about a person and you want to pray. You say, well, how do I know that's God? Well it's not the devil telling you to pray. And we just learned it's not the flesh because the flesh doesn't want to pray. So by process of elimination, who is it? Who's left? It's the Holy Spirit. And the Holy Spirit can lay a person on your heart. He can lay a need on your heart. And when that happens, beloved, just stop what you're doing and just pray. You say, I don't know what what it is. Well, that's okay. If the Holy Spirit is leading you and guiding you to prayer, then do it Now, this is the subjective side of the Christian life, but it is a very real thing. Have you ever had anyone call you at one time and say, you know what, I'm praying for you. I don't know why. What's going on in your life? I remember a few years back when I was pastoring down south, there was a time when really literally all hell broke loose on me. And I was just going through just a severe, severe trial. And that very day, I received an email from a pastor in London, England. You know what the email said? I just had a burden to pray for you. What's going on? Well you you talk about making an impression. That made an impression on me That all of a sudden that man would email stop what he was doing, email me and say, look, the Holy Spirit just laid you on my heart, and I am praying for you. What's going on? Has that ever happened to you And that's happened to me several times because I believe the Holy Spirit can guide us into knowing what to pray for. Now let me give you a third weakness that the Holy Spirit helps us with. Number one, there's indifference. He helps me with my indifference. And number two, he helps me with my ignorance. But here's another weakness he helps me with, my inability My inability. You say, what do you mean by that? Many times we're just weak physically. I mean, you ever try to pray and get tired physically? You just get sleepy. Your mind just kind of gathers cobwebs. Physically you're just, you know, you start to daydream. You can't really seem to get focused. It's kinda like the uh the guy who got fired from the orange juice company because he couldn't concentrate, you know. I appreciate that courtesy laugh. I think it's funny, I just want you to laugh, all right. So the spirit sometimes is willing, but the flesh is weak. Remember Peter, James, and John in the Garden of Gethsemane? Jesus said, watch and pray. And they just fell asleep. You know, a lot of times there's a legitimate fatigue. There's a legitimate weariness that we have. Jesus was tired. He fell asleep on the back of a boat. He he rested at the well at Sychar. And sometimes we're just tired. I know some of you, maybe in the evening when you try to pray, you just get tired. And God understands that. And so, how does the Holy Spirit help us here? Look in chapter 8, look in verse 11. It says, But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up price from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you And I think this is what the Spirit will do for our bodies. Now, some think this is a verse referring to the resurrection. By the way, we will be resurrected one day by the Spirit. There's no question about that. But I think this is referring to energizing our bodies. And I don't think it's talking about one day when we're no longer here. Because if you read in the context of verse 12 and 13, it's talking about living in the nasty now and now, right now. And there are times when the Holy Spirit will give strength. To our bodies. Strength that we didn't know that we had, and truth of the matter is, strength that really we don't have. But it's the Holy Spirit that will give us that strength. And so there's inability that he helps us with. Let me give you a fourth weakness. Not only indifference and ignorance and inability, but also right down number four, inaccessibility. Inaccessibility. You ever feel like when you pray your prayers don't reach heaven? You don't feel as if you are in God's presence? You ever feel like, you know, I don't have the right to approach God about anything? There's times when I feel that way. I feel unworthy. And truth of the matter is most of the times I I am unworthy. I feel unworthy. And you just seem like you can't seem to approach him. Now there are times when I feel faith welling up in my heart And I feel like approaching the throne of God, but there are also other times when I just feel so unworthy in prayer. Well when you say, how does the Spirit help us there? Well look in verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. You see, it's the spirit of adoption that will bring you into the presence of God. I love that title for the Holy Spirit here, the spirit of adoption. You know why? Because he reminds us that we are adopted into the family of God. That we have a right to come into God's presence because we are now His children. And He also reminds us about the blood of Jesus Christ. I can't go into God's holy presence on my own. Friend, I got to go into God's presence because of the blood of Christ that was shed for me. And so through the Spirit we have access to the Father who reminds us of our right and he gives us the power. You know, when I was the administrator of the school here My children went to school here. My daughter Abby would sometimes just walk past the secretary, go right into my office, burst open to the door, walk right in. That was not normal protocol for children in the school. Normally a child would have to get permission or get an appointment. Not Abby. She would just burst in. Now, you know why she felt like she could do that? Because she was of my blood. And she would say, Dad, I need you to do this. And of course I would never rebuke her because she had special access. I didn't have a problem with that. She was my child. But no other student had that kind of access. There was a protocol. But there were times when Abby would actually, you know, she'd talk to a student, and the student said, I need to talk to your father. She said, come on And she would grab that student, walk past the secretary, burst into the door, and she would say, Dad, this student needs to talk to you, and then she would say to the student, go ahead and tell them. And I never I never would rebuke her because again she felt like she had the right and the power To do that. Now, that's what the Holy Spirit does for me in prayer. The Holy Spirit will take me by the hand. And he will usher me into the majestic presence of God when I don't feel like I have access, when I don't feel like I followed all the right protocols, when I don't feel like I'm worthy He will take me by the hand and he will bring me into the throne room of God, reminding me of my rights, and he'll say, go ahead and tell him. Tell them what you think. That's what the Holy Spirit does. He reminds me of my access to God the Father. He's called the Spirit of Adoption, and He teaches me to cry out, Abba Father. Let me give you the fifth weakness. I'm weak as far as my indifference, and the Holy Spirit will take that indifference away. My ignorance and the Holy Spirit will teach me what to pray. My inability, and he will sometimes quicken my mortal body. And then my inaccessibility, I won't feel worthy, but he will remind me as the spirit of adoption that I'm a child of God. But then here's number five. I'm weakened my inexpressibility. My inexpressibility. Many times when I come to God, I don't know how to express what I really want to say. I don't really know how to put it in words. You know, words are only really vehicles that carry thoughts, just like trucks carry freight. Words are vehicles that carry thoughts. And many times our thoughts are too heavy for the vehicle of words. There are no words big enough to carry the thoughts that I have. You know, it's like having a 10-ton thought, but I only have a two-ton word here. And so my word can't carry my thought. And so I I'm lost as to know what to say in prayer. I don't have the words to convey my emotion. And you know the truth of the matter is sometimes in prayer the only thing I can really do sometimes is just weep. It's just cry out. Sometimes just groan. Sometimes I don't say anything. I sigh. And you know, at those times that's when the Holy Spirit helps me in my weakness. I can't verbalize what I'm trying to say. But notice again in verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helps our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Look at the word groanings here. That means pains. It's a word used of childbirth The groans of a mother giving birth. That's how deep and expressive that word is. You ever have something just break you? You're broken before God And you really can't express it. And sometimes the best prayers have absolutely no words. You're just broken. You know what the Holy Spirit does? He takes those wordless prayers. And he brings them to the Father, and he has the ability to interpret exactly what you are saying at that moment, and he lays it before the throne. That's how the Holy Spirit is my prayer partner. And that's how He is your prayer partner. And so I just recommend that don't pray without your partner. When you pray, make sure that the Holy Spirit is there with you. That's praying in the Spirit. That's praying in the Spirit.