Thank you. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Luke chapter 22? Luke chapter 22. We're going to look at verse 39 down to verse 46 of Luke chapter 22. I want to speak this morning on the prayer that changed the world. There are two j uh gardens that frame the Bible. The first garden is the Garden of Eden. In that garden a man said, Not thy will, but mine be done. And he brought sin into the world, and death passed upon all men. The second garden is Gethsemane, and in that garden a man said, Not my will, but thine be done, and brought redemption to the world. The Bible begins in a garden of rebellion and a climax is the gospel story climaxes in a garden of submission, that is the Garden of Gethsemane, and actually from Gethsemane to the Garden Tomb we see the story of re-redemption begin to unfold. I'm going to do a series with you uh for the next few weeks as we go into the Chr to the Easter season. Get my seasons right As we head into Easter, I want to just kind of go through the story of redemption and call it from garden to garden. I want to go from Gethsemane all the way to the garden tomb. And that is between Luke chapter 22 and Luke chapter 24. We see the Garden of Agony and then to his betrayal and to the trials of Jesus. to Calvary and and then to the the the garden tomb. Every hope that we have, every promise of salvation, it stands or falls based on what happens between Luke chapter 22 and Luke chapter 24. And so I want us to look today at chapter 22, verse 39. This is the passage that gives us this intimate moment of the life of Christ. when he's in the Garden of Gethsemane, right before he's ready to journey to the cross. And this is a very special place for several reasons. First of all, the Garden of Gethsemane was a place of supplication. A place of supplication. We see this in verse number 39. Look at verse 39. And he came out and went as he was wont to the Mount of Olives, and his disciples also followed with him. This was the passion week. This was on Thursday night right after the Lord's Supper. or the Last Supper, where he instituted the Lord's Supper. The next day Jesus will die on the cross. And so Jesus left the upper room and he went with his disciples to the Garden of Gethsemane. There on the Mount of Olives. Now why did Jesus go there? Well again in verse 39 we see that expression as he was wont. This was the place of prayer for Jesus. He often went there. That was where he would regularly meet with the Father when he was in Jerusalem. He would teach in the temple, and then he would go in the evenings there to the Garden of Gethsemane. Luke chapter twenty-one, verse thirty-seven tells us this, that he would go there away from the crowds, and it was there that he would have intimate communion with the Father. And the disciples all knew that this was his private place. In fact, when Judas betrays Jesus, he leads the band of soldiers and temple guards to the guard to Gethsemane. Why? Well, because he knew he would find Jesus there Because that was Jesus' place. That was the place of prayer for him. The Gospel of Luke emphasizes the prayer life of Jesus more than any of the other Gospels. This fits Luke's larger theological aims, which Luke presents Jesus as the one who was dependent on the Father, the one who is the Spirit-annointed Son, who lived in constant communion with the Father. That's how he presents Jesus. And he models a life of prayer for us, his followers. There are several important prayers that only the Gospel of Luke records. There is uh when Jesus is introduced in his ministry at his baptism, none of the other gospels record that Jesus prayed. But Luke does, in Luke chapter three, verse twenty one, at his baptism and Jesus also being baptized and praying, the heaven was open. We don't know that we didn't know that Jesus was praying when the heaven was open, but Luke tells us that He wants us to see that the revelation of the Son of God occurs in the context of prayer Luke chose prayer as the pattern of Jesus' life. It was his habit. In Luke chapter 5, verse 16. And he withdrew himself into the wilderness and prayed. Before great works in public ministry, Jesus retreats into private prayer. And again, Luke points this out over and over again in his gospel. Jesus prayed. He prayed before every major decision. In Luke chapter 6, verse 12, before choosing the twelve disciples, the Bible says he went out into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. Again, only Luke tells us that before he selected his twelve, he spent all night in prayer. Before he did that And Luke shows prayer at the Transfiguration. We went up into the mountain to pray. It was while Jesus was praying there in the Mount of Transfiguration that the glory began to shine outward. Prayer is the atmosphere in which his glory was revealed to all those that were there. And Luke records uh the teaching of Jesus on prayer more than the other gospels. It includes the Lord's Prayer, the friend who comes to visit his other friend at midnight to borrow some loaves, the persistent widow, the Pharisee and the publican, and And Luke even gives the, when he gives the parable of the widow, gives this one thesis about prayer. Men ought always to pray and not to faint. Luke shows that Jesus prayed for his disciples. Luke said to Peter, Simon, Simon, Satan has desired, he's asked permission of you, but I've prayed for you that your faith fail not. And it's Luke's gospel that gives us the most detailed accounting of what took place in the Garden of Gethsemane by telling us Jesus. It's really this whole scene is all permeated with the prayer of Jesus. And later on Luke will record for us that at the cross Of the seven sayings of Christ, two of those were prayers, and Luke records both of them. And what were they? Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And then the last words that Jesus ever said before he died. Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. Even in death, Jesus prayed. Jesus died praying. He died praying. Prayer is the ultimate expression of dependence on the Father. And here's the point. If Jesus, the sinless Son of God, lived his entire life in the atmosphere of prayer, continually dependent on the Father in prayer, how much more should I, or you and I, as sinners, live our life in prayer? And express our dependence on the Father. We need a garden, so to speak. We need a place to go where we have communion with the Father. We need that quiet time with the Lord, that time that strengthens us. And this is really the reason why Jesus went to Gethsemane. Part of it was is preparation. This will be the setting where Jesus will prepare himself for for that for his sacrifice on the cross. So after the Last Supper, Jesus leaves the city of Jerusalem. He would have to come through the eastern gate and he would have to go down through a little valley and cross a little brook called Kedron. And the word Kigran actually means dark or murky. And it's got it, it got its name because the blood of the sacrifices would drain out of the temple into that brook. So only hours before his death, Jesus would have stepped over that brook, which was really just bloody red water. And looking down, seeing the bloody water was a reminder to him that he was going to shed his blood and become the ultimate sacrifice for sin. And after crossing that brook, Jesus continued up into the Mount of Olives into a garden called Gethsemane. Gethsemane literally means olive press because it was a garden with olive trees and there was a big olive press there. of course to make olive oils. And there beneath the olive trees in this garden would be the place where Jesus would prepare to go to the cross. There's a Jewish document out in the Mishnah. There's a part of the Mishnah called the Tractate Yoma. And this is a part where it Talks about in that day what the high priest would do to prepare himself before he went into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement. Remember, one day every year the high priest would go into the Holy of Holies in the temple on the Day of Atonement to sprinkle blood on the altar. That was a very holy day. It was a very serious act. And the Tractate Yoma tells us how the high priest would prepare for that moment. And it tells us that the high priest did not sleep the night before the Day of Atonement. He would uh go to a private place to pray all night. And he would bring some younger priests with him to help him, to support him. And when the high priest began to fall asleep, the younger priests around him would snap their fingers and say, Sir High Priest, Sir High Priest, stand up. Don't fall asleep They were there to help the high priests. The purpose of this was preparation and vigilance for this most holy time of entering into the Holy of Holies and sprinkling the blood on the mercy seat there. But now here in this scene, Jesus is now the great high priest who will offer his own blood as the sacrifice for the sins of the world. And Jesus is following that same tradition Before the atonement of the cross, Jesus goes to Gethsemane to prepare. And he will not sleep. He will be praying. Through the night and he brings with him, as it were, some of his younger priests. He brings the disciples with him. Eight of them he leaves at the entrance. He leaves eight of them at the entrance. He takes three of them into the garden with them, Peter, James, and John, and he leaves them at one spot, and then he goes, the Bible says, just a stone's throw away. Look in verse number 41. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down and prayed. So Jesus will pray there. However, we're going to see that Jesus, the great high priest, it was not Jesus who was falling asleep, but it was the disciples, the younger priests, that are falling asleep. Because Jesus is a greater high priest. And Jesus is facing the greatest hour of testing. You say, what is the what is the test here? What is the temptation here that Jesus is going to face? Well, Satan's goal throughout Jesus' life was to keep him from going to the cross. Satan didn't want Jesus going through the cross. The fact that the temptation after his baptism, Satan three times tempted Jesus By offering him the ability to bypass the cross, to give him what was already rightfully his, to get him to bypass the cross. He was trying to prevent the Lord from going to the cross. And this is what Satan is going to do here again. This moment is called the hour of the power of darkness. That's why Jesus said in Mark 14, verse 34, and saith unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful unto death. Unto death. When he told the disciples to stay there and watch him pray, he said, My soul is sorrowful even to the point of death. That's how intense the conflict was for Jesus at this moment. This is not hyperbole here The agony he bore was so severe that potentially it could have brought Jesus death. It brings him to the very brink of death. And may have killed him had it not been for the fact that God the Father strengthened him there in the garden. Look at verse number 44. And being in agony, he prayed more earnestly. And his sweat was, as it were, great drops of blood falling down to the ground. The agony was such that he prayed with such intensity that Luke says his sweat were as great drops of blood. That that's amazing for two reasons. First of all, because later on that night, after Jesus is arrested and Peter follows afar off, and then we find Peter warming himself by the fire of the group of people that were just outside the high priest's home. So the point is that that night was cold enough that the people had to build a fire to keep warm. And here is Jesus praying that night, and even though it's cold, he's praying and he's sweating. That's how intense that his prayers were. But secondly, Luke says his sweat was as great drops of blood. Now the the question some ask is, is this literal drops of blood? There are really two views regarding this that I've studied as in studying this passage. First of all, there's the simile view, which basically a lot most modern scholars say that Luke is using a metaphor or a simile here. He wasn't sweating blood, but as drops of blood. He's using a metaphor or a simile. This is not literal. So in this reading, Jesus did not sweat blood Rather, his sweat looked like large drops of blood falling to the ground. That's one view. And then another view is the literal medical view. Others believe Luke is describing a real physiological phenomenon known as hemohydrosis, which is a rare condition. in which in extreme cases of stress it causes the capillaries surrounding the sweat glands to rupture, allowing blood to mix with sweat And several physicians have noted that this phenomena has been medically documented in situations of intense fear and trauma or anticipation of death. And that's what I think is happening here. I think that this is Jesus' sweat mingled with blood. I believe that's the correct view. I believe that the literal view is the right view, and I believe for several reasons. First of all, Luke was a physician. He's called the beloved physician. You would expect a medical doctor to point this out. Luke is writing this, and I think he's telling us this. None of the other gospels really give us this, but Luke, we're not surprised that Luke points this out. He's giving us the specifics. of what is happening while Jesus prayed. But this the description is unusually vivid. When he uses the word great drops, that's one word in the Greek, it's thromboy, where we get the word thrombosis and it can refer to blood clots. clots or thick drops, kind of strengthening the idea that it was blood mixed with sweat. But the emphasis of the passage is on the extreme agony that Jesus is going through at this time. This isn't any normal thing. This is something that is that is incredible. The agony here, agonia is the Greek word, their intense struggle the pressure that he was under. The uh the understanding that he would bear sin for the world, I think that He literally sweat drops of blood. The suffering of Christ really begins in the Garden of Gethsemane. Early Christian writers, that's how they understood this as well, writers like uh Justin Martyr or Irenaeus. They are assuming that something extraordinary is happening here physically, and I think they're right. This is Jesus preparing himself to be the sin bearer for our sins. But this was preparation not only for Jesus, but also for the disciples. Look what Jesus tells the disciples in verse number 40. And when he was at the place he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. So Jesus exhorts the disciples to pray because they also were about to enter into a time of severe testing. And being the disciples of Jesus meant that they would have to stand against the opposition and the hostility that Christ would also endure, some of it anyway. We learn here that prayer is not just for asking things. We think of prayer, we think of, oh, you know, it's to procure things from God, to get things from ourselves. It's not just about asking. Prayer is also for protection. We need to pray to protect ourselves. Jesus teaches here that prayer is protection from temptation. These disciples were about to be tried. They were about to be tempted. Jesus taught us to pray in his prayer, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Give us the strength to overcome the temptation when it comes. Because it is going to come. That's why we all need to be praying. You stop praying, your kids will be vulnerable. You stop praying, your marriage will be under constant attack. We will never know until we get to heaven the value of our prayers. So we need to continually pray. But the disciples are blind to their need because look at verse number 45. Look what Jesus finds in verse 45. And when he rose up from prayer and was come to the disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow. And he said unto them, Why sleep ye, rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. They were sleeping when they should have been praying and preparing for what was to come. And Jesus gives them a rebuke. Wake up and pray. In Matthew's gospel, it records he said this to Peter, Peter, what, could you not watch with me one hour? Watch is the idea of guarding. Why? Because there was a spiritual danger around. So watching is to be spiritually alert to the temptation. to the danger, the hour of temptation, and Jesus wanted his disciples with him. He wanted them to be alert spiritually. When Jesus said, Lest you fall into temptation, What did he mean by that? Enter into is the Greek word ice erkomi, meaning to fall under the power of something, to be overwhelmed by it. And Jesus is not saying, you know, you pray so the temptation doesn't appear. That's not it. He's saying you pray because when the temptation does appear, you don't want to be overwhelmed by it. Because temptation will come. And so just before Gethsemane, Jesus warned Peter. He said, Simon, Satan has asked permission of you. You understand that? You're going to be tried, but I pray for you. The spiritual assault is about to take place. What would be the temptation here? Well, the disciples would be attempted or be tempted to abandon Christ, to deny Christ, to flee from danger, or to lose courage. In other words, the temptation is apostasy under pressure to walk away from Christ. And prayer is the means God provides so that believers will endure the test when that time comes. Now the disciples, they are Really oblivious to their great need. They failed to take prayer seriously because they were blind to the real danger that they were in. And I think sometimes that happens to us. I think the reason we don't pray the way we should is because we really don't understand the danger that we're in, the temptation that is about. If we can only see ourselves as the Lord sees us. We would pray about everything because we would see how truly needful we are. But we don't seem to see that. We can't even draw our next breath without the Lord's mercy. Jesus said, without me you can do nothing. But there's also a relational aspect to this, an emotional dimension. Jesus had just said, my soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even to death. And we see here a picture of the true humanity of Christ. And so he invites his closest disciples to remain with him, near him in this moment of sorrow. He wanted their presence there with them, so he would not bear this just by himself. So he says, Watch with me. It is not that Jesus has depended on them to accomplish redemption. He didn't need them to accomplish redemption. He would go to the cross alone, but he desired their presence He desired their sympathy, yet the tragedy of the scene is that they could not even offer that Luke says they were sleeping for sorrow. The very moment when they should have been most alert becomes the moment of their greatest weakness. And this creates one of the powerful contrasts of Gethsemane in the narrative. Jesus faces the coming crisis with prayer, and the disciples face it with sleep. And when the and when the trial actually arrives, the outcome reflects the difference. Jesus stands firm before the Sanhedrin and before Pilate. What do the disciples do? They scatter. They scatter. Christ called them to be watchful because temptation was near. He called them to prayer because weakness was certain. is overwhelming and they slept. The disciples were operating on a human plane, not on a spiritual plane. They were allowing the flesh to dominate the spirit. They were tired and depressed, so they slept. And so when the test arrives, Peter starts wielding that sword. He denies Christ. The others flee for their own safety, and the disciples fail. This is exactly what Jesus warned about. The very thing he warned about. Spiritual neglect leads to spiritual vulnerability. So that's why we all need to be people of prayer. In Central Africa there was a revival that took place and many people were saved and they didn't have a church building, they just had a central place they would meet in the jungle, and so th y you would see all these paths from from their huts to this central place where they would come and pray. And when one of them would begin to backslide and lose their enthusiasm or lose their first love, one of their friends would come to them and say, brother, the grass is growing over your path. You need to get back to the place of prayer. The question is, is the path is the grass growing over our path? Are we praying the way that we should? Gethsemane was a place of supplication, but here's number two. Gethsemane was a place of submission. It was a place of submission. Look at verse 41. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast and kneeled down and prayed, saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. So Jesus is now praying in anguish, in deep anguish, and he prays this prayer, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. So the question is, what is going on here? Is Jesus having second thoughts about dying? Is he praying to be delivered from the cross, as some have proposed? The question that we have to ask ourselves is, what is the cup that he is referring to here? What does it mean? What does it symbolize? So think with me about the contents of the cup. First of all, it's not physical pain and suffering. Some say that Jesus was shrinking back from the physical pain and suffering he is about to experience. The tortures of Calvary. And of course, crucifixion was one of the most brutal executions in the ancient world. And in this interpretation, then Jesus is expressing his legitimate human desire to avoid suffering, yet he's doing it without rebelling against God's will. I don't think that this is what Jesus meant by the cup. I don't think that Jesus was afraid of the physical pain. Uh you say, W well why? Well because others had suffered crucifixion before Christ Many believers endured martyrdom without the kind of agony that Jesus was under here in the garden. Jesus is not shrinking back and having second thoughts about dying for sin. I mean, he understood that this was his purpose all throughout his ministry, and he was determined to fulfill that. For example, he prayed this in John 12, 27. Now is my soul troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour, but for this cause came I unto this hour. Jesus was not afraid of what man could do to him. He was not afraid of what man could do to him. He taught his disciples, fear not them which are able to kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Jesus wasn't afraid of that. So what is the cup here? The cup is a symbol of divine wrath. Of divine wrath. And by the way, that is well established in the Old Testament. And when Jesus said this, I think the disciples knew exactly what he meant. When this was recorded and when they overheard him saying this, in the Old Testament, the cup is the symbol of God's wrath poured out in judgment. For example, in Psalm 75, verse 8, For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup, the drag thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out and drink them. A picture of God's wrath falling in judgment on sinners. And then in Isaiah 51, verse 17, Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which has drunk the cu uh which is drunk at the hand of the Lord, the cup of his fury. Then in Jeremiah twenty two, verse fifteen, take the cup of his fury at my hand. So in Jesus' day the cup here Is well established to be the imagery of the cup of wrath. Divine wrath. Jesus is contemplating the moment. When he will bear the guilt of human sin and experience the wrath of the Father in judgment against sin. He who knew no sin became sin for us. And all that time was placed on Jesus. Christ was not more weak than other men, but he was placed in the presence of the dreadful tribunal of God. and felt the weight of divine vengeance. He understood that he was going to bear sin. And Paul will describe this moment. when it says that he had made himself to be sin for us. So the cup was the wrath of God. The cup with cr was Christ becoming a curse for sin. Paul writes this in Galatians 3, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. And he knew that at that moment he would experience a separation from the Father, a separation and fellowship, something that he has never, ever experienced before up until that point. When there would be a separation and fellowship from the Father, when Jesus would bear sin and the Father would turn his back on Christ, and therefore we hear the cry of dereliction from the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So the request here to remove the cup is because Jesus understood that he would be bearing divine wrath. And by the way, the request of Jesus to remove the cup does not demonstrate weakness. What it does is it demonstrates absolute holiness. Absolute holiness. His response is profoundly important because it reveals to us the absolute holiness of the Savior. This is exactly how we would expect someone who is absolutely holy to respond. Not to shrink back from the pain of the crucifixion, but to shrink back from the fact that he would become sin and bear The wrath of God at that moment. That is exactly how holiness responds to the prospect of becoming sin for us. Then we see the consumption of the cup. But look at the rest of what Jesus said in verse 42. He said, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me. Watch the rest of it. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. After expressing the desire that the cup might pass, Jesus immediately submits to the Father's will. Nevertheless, not my will. But thine be done. Holiness in Scripture is not only a hatred for sin, it includes a complete devotion to the Father's will. And in this prayer, Jesus is not having second thoughts. He's not rebelling against the cross. This is the opposite of rebellion. In fact, this is the most perfect act of obedience ever recorded. He set aside his own will in a desire to perfectly obey the will of the Father. This prayer demonstrates how Christ always surrendered his will to the will of the the Father. And the the first Adam faced a test in the garden. He chose his own will over God's commands. And another garden here, the last Adam, confronts the greatest trial imaginable. And he chooses the Father's will above his own human desire. The first Adam said, Not your will, but mine be done. The second Adam said, Not my will, but thine be done. And Paul says this by obedience of by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Because of the obedience of Christ. There's an important lesson here. Remember this. Remember that Christ did not have a sin nature. He had no sinful appetites. He never had a sinful desire He never had an inclination to do wrong. And if he, being sinless, needed to submit his appetites, his desire, his will to the Father With such purpose and such dedication, how much more should we who are sinful submit our appetites, our desires, our will to the Father? That is something we constantly have to battle We constantly have to do that. If you expect to live a life for the glory of God, you're going to have to submit your desires, your will, your appetites to the will of God. And this has to be applied to every area of our life. This morning when the alarm clock went off and you realized you lost an hour of sleep your body said, if it be possible let this alarm clock pass from me. And some of you said, uh, nevertheless, not my will. And you're here this morning, and I commend you for that. Others are like Peter, James, and John and they slept in. This principle of submitting your will to the will of the Father has to be applied every day of our life, all the time, the every area of our life. If the sinless Savior needed to purposely submit his will to the will of the Father, we also need to do that. Let me give you the last thing quickly here. The Garden of Gethsemane was a place of supplication. It was a place of submission. But here's number three, it was a place of strengthening. Look at verse number 43. And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. This is a remarkable moment in the gospel narrative, the Son of God who spoke the universe into existence into existence is now in such agony that heaven sends a messenger to strengthen him. And this is significant. Luke is very interested in showing both the true humanity of Christ and the compassion of God in the moments of suffering. And here in the darkness of Gethsemane, heaven responds to the cry of the Savior. And the garden becomes a place of strengthening. And that's really the purpose of it here, to strengthen Jesus, to prepare him. We see here two things, human weakness. Here we see the true humanity of Christ. He was truly God, yet he was truly man. And being truly man, that means he suffered the weaknesses of being a man. And we see this this throughout the Gospels. He he got tired and he slept. He got hungry and he ate. He was truly man, and here he is suffering weakness. He's not pretending to s to suffer. He's actually suffering. Jesus was never detached from the pains of this life. He suffered all of it. He fully entered into the weakness of our human experience. And we see this here. Hebrews will later say, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. He knows how we feel. But we also see heaven strength because God the Father sends an angel from heaven. God often gives us strength after we surrender in prayer. And the reason some Christians don't have that strength is because they want to bear the burden by themselves. They don't surrender in prayer. But right after Jesus prays this beautiful prayer of submission, strength comes. After the prayer showing utter dependence on God, God sends strength. And again, prayer is the greatest expression of your dependence on God. And God sometimes will send help in unexpected ways. God sends his angel from heaven. What did the angel do? Well the scripture doesn't tell us. Perhaps he spoke words of encouragement. Perhaps he reminded Christ of the glory that will follow the cross after he suffers. But the key point is this: God did not leave his son alone in that moment. Heaven responded. Strength came from heaven. Prayer doesn't always remove the trial, but what it will do is it will equip us to endure that trial. It'll equip us to go through it and endure it. A little while later, and we know that Jesus was equipped because a little while later the soldiers come to arrest Jesus. Peter tries to use his sword to stop the arrest. And listen to what Jesus said. This is in John 18, verse 11. And Jesus said to Peter, put up your sword into the sheath. Shall I not drink the cup which my father has given me? He was going to drink that cup. He was strengthened. It's evidence that God strengthened him there at that moment. And in our time of weakness, when we surrender to the Father in prayer and depend upon him, he will do the same for us. He will give us this. Strength. That's what we learn. And so we see then the Garden of Gethsemane was a place of supplication where Jesus prayed. A place of submission where he surrendered to the will of his Father, a place of strengthening where God prepared him to drink the cup of wrath that he would bear for us at the cross. Jesus did that on our behalf. He suffered for us. There's a story told from the days of the Napoleonic Wars about a soldier who had been condemned to die. And the order had been written, a cup of poison was to be brought to him, he would drink that cup. of poisoning, but another sold soldier stepped forward and said, This man has a wife and children who depend on him. I ask permission to take his place. And the officer agreed. And the second soldier stepped forward and he took the cup and he drank that cup of poison, meant for another, and died in his friend's place. And the guilty man walked away free because another had taken other cup for him. That's exactly what happened at Gethsemane. Jesus determined to take the cup that was meant for us because of our sin. He drank that cup in our place. So that we being guilty would be able to walk away free. And that's why he prayed in the garden, Father, not my will, but thine be done. And because Christ was willing to say that, we are the recipients of blessing. We benefit from that. But you know what? All of us as followers of Christ need to pray that same prayer. We need to say, when obedience is hard, when suffering is heavy, when the path is costly, we need to say, not my will, but thine be done Let's bow for prayer together. Heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to ask you, friend, do you know for certain that you're trusting in Christ? He who took your sin debt, he who drank the cup of divine wrath for you, so that you might have salvation, so that you might have eternal life. Have you put your faith in him Have you trusted in Christ? Do you know that with absolute certainty? If that's not something that you're certain about right now, I would ask you just to reach out in prayer right where you are and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me. Please forgive me for my sin. Please save me and he'll save you right where you are. If you're here and you're a child of God, you know that you're trusting in Christ. Friend, how's your will? Are you allowing the flesh to dominate your will? Or are you living like the Savior taught us to live? Not my will, but thine be done. Submitting our desires, our appetites, our will to that of the Father. That's the key to living a godly life. Have you surrendered your will to him? Let's all stand together. We're going to have a moment of invitation. We're gonna have some ministers here at the front. If you need someone to pray with you, if you want to know for sure how you can trust Christ, please come. We want to be able to help them. We'll sing a few stanzas for this song