Would you take your Bibles, please? Open to the book of Matthew, chapter 18. Look at Matthew chapter 18. And we are going to continue our discussion about this topic of forgiveness, uh the freedom of forgiveness, learning to forgive the way the Bible teaches us how to forgive. And uh we have gone over this for uh this will be our third week really talking about this topic And uh hopefully we can uh finish it up today, but we're not in any rush. And uh so I'll teach a little bit and maybe get some questions from you all with reference to this topic And let me just review with you a little bit about what we've already talked about with reference to forgiveness. Remember we had talked about why we all need to learn to practice this. You know, if you're someone who will never forgive, I hope someone um you never sin against someone else. Because we all need to learn to forgive others and we need to um uh learn to uh uh practice that forgiveness. And s several things that we talk about, you know, we in our nature, it's our sin nature, to kind of to retaliate. We like to, you know, get even. And so this is why we need to learn to forg to forgive. It doesn't really come natural. When someone does something against us, we want to get them back. But the Bible also says that the blood of Jesus is something that we should think about in reference to forgiveness. Remember, the Bible says that the blood of Christ speaks of better things than the blood of Abel. Remember when Abel was killed in the Old Testament, his blood cried out to God from the ground, and what did it cry out? Justice But the blood of Christ says something different. The blood of Christ cries out forgiveness. Now there's certainly nothing wrong with justice, but something that's even better than justice is forgiveness. And so the blood of Christ speaks of better things, the Bible says. But then also the burden of bitterness. Remember we had said that to carry burden to carry bitterness around in your heart is is something that's only going to damage you personally. It's not going to it's not going to in any way hurt your enemy. It's not going to in any way uh get back at the person that you're angry at It's only going to eat away at you. It's like a corrosive acid that that eats away its own container. And so that's a burden to carry around. And you don't want to carry around that burden of So we talked about the pattern of biblical forgiveness, and you'll remember that one of the questions that we asked was, is the biblical pattern conditional or unconditional forgiveness? And remember, you know, the passage that we looked at at Ephesians 4. 32, be kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. And I and I think from this passage of Scripture, the Bible is teaching us that the default mode of the believer is unilateral, unconditional, uh unceremonial forgiveness. We just forgive people. That's what we do. That's the default mode. I think that we're to be unconditional in our forgiveness. Now some people would look at the verse and say, Well, this means your c your forgiveness should be conditional, because if we forgive the way God forgave us God doesn't forgive until we recognize our offense and then we repent, and then only after we've done that do we uh get forgiveness from God. But I think that misses the point of the passage of Scripture I think that normally we just we just our mode is just to forgive. There are times, however, when our our our forgiveness must be conditional. And However, unconditional, we had said, unconditional forgiveness is the normal pattern in the scripture. And then again the question is, what about confrontation or non-confrontation? This kind of goes along the same line. Should I confront someone when they've sinned against me and elicit a response? uh elicit a an apology uh whenever they've done something to irritate me. And remember we said that along with this mode of being just forgiving. We don't need to confront people over every little issue that they've done, perhaps to maybe to offend us. We just we just let it go. Why? Because the Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. Uh and so we talked about the the difference whenever the possible, especially if the offense is petty or unintentional, it's best just to forgive unconditionally. When someone does something against me And it's it's not really a major deal. It's kind of petty in the scheme of things. Um I'm just gonna automatically just forgive them. I'm not gonna go to them and let them know that they've offended me. I'm not gonna say anything about it, I'm just gonna for forgive. I'm not gonna confront them. So we just let that go. We also said if you're the only one only injured party, even if the offense was public and flagrant, you you want to choose to forgive unconditionally. And again, we gave biblical uh illustrations of this and uh how that in the Bible this is the way David forgave, this is the way Joseph forgave. and and others. You just you just let it go. Uh even it's a even if it's uh uh intentional and public and flagrant, you just you just forgive. You just don't hold that against them Okay. Number three, we also said if you observe a serious offense that is a sin against someone else, then in that case, however, you may need to confront. We talked about biblical principles principles about that. If I see someone defrauding my brother or taking advantage of my brother or not doing right towards someone. I might want to go and plead the case for this one that's being sinned against, but even there, I'm not doing it with a vengeful spirit. I'm not trying to give back at that person. I'm just trying to bring um peace in that relationship and to do what is right and just before the Lord. When ignoring the offense might hurt the offender, confrontation is necessary. Remember we said this is another time when my my forgiveness, which normally is unconditional, in this position, in this case, is going to have to be conditional because If I see a person in a pattern of behavior that is destructive to them personally, is only going to hurt them, then in that case I need to go to them. And now my forgiveness is conditional, but it's not because it's not selfish. I'm not withholding forgiveness because I'm angry at them. I'm withholding forgiveness because I want them to change their behavior. Because if they don't repent and start doing what is right, this thing that they're doing can just destroy them. It can destroy their family. It can hurt other people. And so in this position, I'm going after them with respect to reclaiming them. And the but what does the Bible say? Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. And so I see a person battling and wrestling over sin and they're carrying this burden of sin that I want to go to them and I want to help them with that. And then another thing we said is when a sin is scandalous or otherwise potentially damaging to the church, confrontation is necessary. And we gave you the illustration of this in First Corinthians chapter five, where there was a sin in the church, and it was it was a scandalous sin. It was giving the church uh a black eye, so to speak, and a public Testimony. The name of Christ was being shamed as a believer in the church was doing something terribly wrong and having an affair with a woman in church. And Paul said, Look, even though I'm not there in the church I'm going to judge this situation as if I were there. And what you need to do is cast out the leaven that uh so that the leaven doesn't spread. And he was using leaven as a as an illustration of sin. Sin in the church can spread And there were even people in the church that were defending this man doing this sin. And Paul says, some of you are even puffed up about it. And so if if it's something that is s hurtful to the church, then you're going to need to go to that person. And in that case, you withhold your forgiveness. It's conditional at this point because for the same reason, again, we want to see repentance. We want to see that person turn and for them to be fully restored to Christ and to the church. And so number six we also said anytime an offense results in a broken relationship, confrontation is necessary. If if uh If if there's a situation where the sin was such that that relationship is not whole, then there has to be confrontation at that point. You have to sit down and talk it over, and there has to be forgiveness on either side. So what we've taught you so far is the difference between conditional forgiveness and unconditional forgiveness, between confrontation and non confrontation. And what you'll notice the common denominator, I think, the the pattern in the scripture is if it's just me, then I normally just forgive. But if it involves someone else or if it hurts that person, then I'm conditional. in my forgiveness that I have to confront. And that's pretty much the normal biblical pattern that we see in the scripture. So then number two, we also talk about the practice of biblical forgiveness. Remember we said it's a deliberate decision. You don't forgive because you feel like forgiving. Notice this is a command in Ephesians 4. 32 When it's saying forgive one another, God is commanding it. He's not saying feel like it, because a lot of times, to be very frank with you, sometimes I don't feel like forgiving a person that's offended me. Thank you. M me and Miss Martha are the only ones here. You ever you ever that way? You ever you ever sometimes someone do something and you just don't feel like forgiving them, you don't want to forgive them? I mean that's human nature Because a lot of times we want, again, we want to get even. But the Bible doesn't say do it because you feel like doing it. It's not an emotion, it's an act of the will. It doesn't come natural to fallen creatures. A lot of times we're too driven by our feelings. Don't worry about your feelings. Don't worry about your emotions. Just make a choice. to forgive. I'm going to write this off, I'm going to forgive. No matter how I feel about this, I'm going to do it. And this is an imperative in in Ephesians 4, which simply means God is commanding us. God's not suggesting. He's not saying, Jerry, you know it would be a good idea if you forgive that person. No, he's saying, Jerry, you forgive that person. It's a command. And so we do it because God tells us to do it, not because we feel like doing it. And as I said before, just do it and your heart will catch up with you later. Don't let your emotions in your heart drive what you do. Do what is right before God and let your emotions catch up later. We said biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision, and it is a decision to release the offender from the guilt of his sin. What are you doing there when you forgive someone, you're actually saying not guilty? It's like a judge bringing down the gavel in a case and saying, boom, not guilty. I declare you're not guilty. It's it's you're releasing them from what they've done. They no longer bear the guilt of it. And then number two, we also said it's to refuse to bring up the offense to use against the offender. That means you're not going to talk about it anymore. The Bible says that when God forgives us, God says, For I will be merciful towards their iniquities and I will remember their sins no more Now, when it says that God doesn't remember our sins anymore, it's not divine amnesia, right? It's just that God chooses not to bring it up. One day when I stand before God in judgment, you know what God's going to say to me? He's not going to say, here, here remember some of those things that you did in the past. No. What does the Bible say? There's no condemnation. God's not going to bring it up. It's not going to come up in judgment. Because God has already, when I put my faith in Christ, God has declared me not guilty. It's not the fact that God doesn't remember what I did. He knows everything I did. He just doesn't bring it up. It's over with. And that's what forgiveness is. To refuse to bring it up to use against that person later. You know, a lot of times in our heart we keep this ledger book and we refuse to let that go. We refuse to erase people's names or the offenses out of that book. And later on down the road when they do something else, you know what we like to say? Yeah, y y y y you did this before. Remember what you did the last time? Which shows what? She was they haven't really forgiven. They haven't really let it go. So you gotta let it go. Alright? And then also it's we said that it's to refuse to talk to others about the offense. We're not going to talk to other people. We're not going to go around saying, hey, you know what so-and-so did to me? But I forgave them. Looking for kind of a pat a pat on the back. Guess what I forgave so-and-so for for doing. You'll never believe this. And in a way what you're saying is, look how great I am, look what a scoundrel they are. When you go around talking about it. No, you don't talk about the offense. It's gone. It's over with It's in the past, it's in the tomb of time. You've forgiven them, which means you don't remember it, you don't bring it up, you don't talk about it. It's over with. Okay? You refuse to talk about it. And then also we said it's to be reconciled with the offender as far as possible. As far as possible. You want to be reconciled. Um you want to seek to rebuild that relationship. Okay? So it's to release the offender from the guilt, to refuse to bring it up. To refuse to think about the offense, to refuse to talk about it to others, to be reconciled as much as possible. This, again, is all under the idea that forgiveness is a deliberate decision that a person makes. And all these things are included in that. And so let me just move on here. The other principle that we want to that we talked about was that biblical forgiveness is undeserved. It's undeserved. Now, some people might reason, we know this person doesn't really deserve to be forgiven, so therefore I'm not going to forgive them. All forgiveness normally is undeserved. It doesn't really matter. You just forgive them. It's not a matter of whether they deserve their their forgiveness or not. God forgives us even though we don't deserve it. And so we f biblical forgiveness is undeserved. Um And the other thing that we talked about is biblical forgiveness is total. It's not temporary. You know, when God forgives us, does he forgive just some of our sins or all of our sins? Does he forgive our sins just for the time being, temporarily, or does he forgive them for all eternity? All eternity. As far as the east is from the west, right? Now you know that that concept is from the Old Testament, the scapegoat, when the priest would lay his hands on the scapegoat, confess the sins of the nation on that scapegoat, and then the priest would lead the scapegoat out the um eastern gate, uh down through the valley of Kedron, on out and on a distance and you know tradition says they would take it all the way out to a cliff and push the goat over the cliff And that goat was never seen ever again. And so when they're leading the goat away, they're leading him as far as the east is from the west, out the eastern gate, westward, they're leading him away, leading him away. Which is the idea that God, He remembers our sins no more, they're completely gone. God doesn't ever bring them up again and use them as leverage against us. So we would say biblical forgiveness is final. It is final. It's not temporary. I forgave you yesterday, but not today. That doesn't work. Okay? And it's just like God. God's forgiveness is eternal. So that's all review. Now I want to talk to you about the perspective of biblical forgiveness, and that is to forgive others, we must understand the perspective needed. Uh in forgiving, this would help us to forgive. Um you know We uh need to understand these perspectives. Many Christian authors emphasize the benefits that forgiving others will bring to you, and it's true. You will benefit by forgiving others. You'll get rid of your bitterness. Which eats at your soul, you will enjoy the restored relationship with people, along with many other blessings. But the truth of the matter is, you should not primarily be fo be focused on what forgiveness does for you As much as is what it does in glorifying God. Forgiveness glorifies the Lord. And so the motive in forgiving others should be to glorify God. who has who has forgiven you for so much. We we this has to be the focus. If I focus on the person, you say, well that person doesn't deserve it. I agree with you, but I'm not doing it for that person. I'm doing it to glorify God. I'm doing it for God's sake. I remember one time I was uh preaching on forgiveness. I was up here waxing eloquent as they say. And uh My eyes happen to catch the eyes of a woman in my congregation. You know, it's amazing what you're thinking about sometimes when you're preaching. You guys have no idea some of the things that goes through my mind. I'm looking at people, and in a moment I caught this woman's eyes. And when I saw her face, it just had an immediate impact on me. And in that moment when I'm up there preaching, I'm thinking to myself, you're a hypocrite. Talking to me, not her, me. You're a hypocrite, Jerry. Because could you forgive The way this woman has forgiven. Let me tell you the story of this woman. She was a dear lady that went to our church. Sweet, sweet lady. She uh her daughter one day was found missing. They couldn't find her. She came to me one morning and said, please pray for my daughter. She's been missing for three days. We can't find her. Finally, after several more days, they found her. They found her SUV. She had been murdered. Her her body was found wrapped up in in um in plastic in the SUV. Um, just a terrible thing. And of course they crushed her. She was a widow, her husband had died. This was her only living relative, her daughter. And our immediate family. She was very close to her daughter. We had a detective in our church that actually conducted the investigation. He conducted the investigation and after months of investigating what he found out was that this woman was murdered by her own husband. This woman's son in law, who had shady ties with some characters in Chicago, needed money knew that if his wife died, he could cash in on her insurance. And so he did all that and all this investigation proved that. In fact the the whole story made national news It was on one of these news shows, I think it was um 48 hours or something like that. Was talking about the whole story of it. And come to find out that her son-in-law not only did that, but even before that, when her husband died, uh he def he took and stole a lot of the money. from her that her husband had left for her and her family. This this guy ended up being a real scoundrel and was thrown in prison. And here this woman had to wrestle with this whole thing in her life. That she doesn't have a daughter now because her son in law had done this terrible thing. And she had gotten to the place in her life where she uh was learning to forgive him, not because he deserved forgiveness. But because of the bitterness that would tear her up personally. But most of all, she had learned to forgive him because she knew that it would honor the Lord She knew that it would glorify God. And again, this this whole story became a big public scandal. And the eyes of many people were on her to see her response. And she gave she was able to forgive that man for the glory of God. For the glory of God. And I'm thinking about this the whole time I'm up there preaching and I kind of saw her and our eyes met, and that's why I had this thought, you're a hypocrite. Because I had to ask myself in that instant, could I forgive like that? The way this woman has. Could I do that? And I want to hear I'm here to tell you folks that in and of myself, I couldn't forgive like that. You know, the only way we can do that is with the help of Almighty God, isn't that true? Only God can help us to do that. But the thing that we have to focus on Is the glory of God. We do it for His glory. That's one of the motives in forgiving. We keep our eyes on the Lord. If someone sees how much you forgive someone else, they might praise you, but be quick to divert it and say, Let me tell you why I can forgive the way I did, because God has forgiven me for so much. And um and this this is really the next point. Remember how much God has forgiven you in Christ. You say, Man, it's hard for me to forgive for some of these monstrous things that people have done against me. And the thing that we need to focus on is not only the glory of God in forgiving, but the second thing we need to focus on is how much God has forgiven us. And this is where this parable comes in. Look in Matthew chapter 18 and look down at verse number 21. Let's look at this parable here because this kind of helps us Keep this perspective. Look at verse 21. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him till seven times? Now Peter, this text starts off with a question from Peter. Of course we know Peter was a disciple that was always speaking out. He was always making confessions. He was always asking questions. And we've seen in the New Testament how that there are times when Peter kind of put his foot in his mouth and sometimes he said the wrong thing. But we have to be thankful for Peter because a lot of the questions that he asked kind of helps us. And the truth of the matter is the disciples were thinking the same thing. They just weren't uh bold enough to ask. So he w he was kind of the spokesman there. And so Peter comes and he asks the Lord a question. And notice it's a future tense verb here. How else shall my brother sin against me? So Peter is anticipating later possibilities when people will sin against him. Now remember the context of this whole question. In the previous verses, what did Jesus just get done teaching? He just got done teaching when a brother trespasses against you what to do. And if you good good look at Matthew eighteen, look at verse fifteen, moreover, thy brother shall trespass against thee. Go and tell them by fault between he and thee alone If he shall hear thee thou hast gained thy brother. And what Jesus is giving here, he's teaching the church principles on it's been called church discipline, or I like the phrase church restoration. If I see a brother sinning, a sin that is gonna h hurt him or hurt the church. I go to him, I go to him one-on-one. If if he repents, the Bible says you've gained your brother. What if he doesn't repent? Well Jesus said, then you take what? Two or three witnesses, right? You take two or three witnesses that every word will be established. And you go to this person with love and meekness and say, Please stop doing what you're doing. If they still don't hear you, the Bible says, tell it to the church. Why? So the whole church collectively can go after them And say, hey, please, we love you. Please stop doing this. It's hurting you. It's hurting the testimony of Christ. Please. And if they still don't hear you The Bible says that at that point they are excommunicated, and in verse 17 it says, But if he neglect to hear the church, let him be under thee as a heathen, as a publican. And then he says in verse 18, Verily I say unto you, whatsoever shall be bound on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatsoever shall be loosed on earth shall be loosed in heaven. That is to say, all the authority of heaven is behind this whole process of you trying to go and restore someone who has who has fallen away or who has been dominated by this fault or this sin. Because look at verse number 19. Again I say unto you, the two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask It shall be done unto my Father which is in heaven. Now we like to use this verse in the context of the church and prayer, and that's okay, but the context of that passage there is church discipline. Look at verse twenty. For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them. The idea is when you are going to restore someone And I'm wanting them to repent and come back. When you go with two or three, guess who's with you? The Lord Jesus Himself. So this is the whole process that Jesus just taught. This is what he's talking about, about forgiveness. And then right on the heels of that, that's when Peter asks this question. And the idea here is that how many times we have to go through this process, Lord? How many times do I have to forgive my brother? And what's the implication of the question? The implication is there's a limit to our forgiveness. There comes a point in time when surely we don't have to continue to forgive, right, Lord? I mean if this person just continues to sin and over and over again. Where do we draw the line? And notice the question was personal with Peter in verse twenty one. He said, How often shall my brother sin against me? This was Peter's concern. Lord, I don't want to be a doormat for anyone If a person just keeps sinning against me and again and again and again and again, how many times am I required to forgive that person? And so when can we say enough? How many times do we have to do this? And Peter's touching on something that's very real in all of us, isn't it? When you've been hurt by someone, you don't want to be hurt again, right? When you've gone through that, you don't want to be hurt again. And there's something in all of us where we have this self-defense mechanism where that when we've been hurt again and again, we kind of then begin to withdraw and we put a wall around us and we don't build any meaningful relationships with people. We keep everything on the surface and we keep everyone at arm's length because we don't want to open up because if we open up that makes us what? Vulnerable. Vulnerable to what? Well, being hurt again. And so a lot of times what people will do is they'll just withdraw. And there's a sense which Peter is saying, Lord, do I have to continue to open myself up and be vulnerable to people? How often do I have to forgive? That's why later on, now Peter gets the message because later on Peter will write in 1 Peter 4. 8. That we are to be fervent in love. Be fervent in love. He says that uh in chapter one, verse twenty-two And so Peter makes a suggestion in verse 21. Till seven times? Lord, how often shall I forget? Till seven times? Now again, I think in Peter's mind he's thinking he's being really generous here. And the reason so is because did you know that in Jewish tradition you were only required to forgive a person three times? And that was based on a misinterpretation of certain Old Testament passages like Amos 1, where the Lord says, for three transgressions of Damascus And for four I will not turn away its punishment. Other words, God says, I'll forgive you three times, but the fourth time no. And he goes through a litany of people where he says that same thing, and there are Jewish rabbis that kind of seize onto that verse and they kind of misinterpret it, take it out of its context, and said back in Jesus' day that you only have to forgive a person three times. After three times you're not required to forgive them anymore. In fact, there were certain rabbis. Here's a quote from one rabbi. He who begs forgiveness from his neighbor must not do so more than three times. Rabbi Yehuda said this: if a man commits an offense once, they forgive him. If he commits an offense a second time, they forgive him. If he commit commits commits an offense a third time, they forg Forgive them the fourth time, they do not forgive them So three strikes and you're out. You don't have to forgive the fourth time. So I think that when Peter made this suggestion to the Lord and said, Lord, how many times would I have to do this? Seven times? I think in a way Peter was kind of patting himself on the back. Seven. I'm willing to forgive seven times. I'm willing to dub it, double it, and add one extra. I mean this is a huge tip here. I mean, I'm really being generous. And I think Jesus' answer blew Peter away. In verse 22. Look at it. And Jesus said unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. I think that Peter had to get up off the ground after that statement I think that you what, Lord? 70 times seven? And again, Jesus wasn't being literal here. He was He was saying, you just keep on forgiving. There's no limit. You just keep on forgiving. Now, on the heels of that, that's when Jesus gives this parable Look at verse number 23. So Jesus, just to emphasize this point, he gives some perspective in verse 23. Therefore, this the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. Now These words servants do lie, there were household servants that had a lot of liberty, and under a king a lot of them had been given a lot of responsibilities to help them rule over their providences And part of the responsibility for certain servants was to collect taxes, which were then turned over to the Royal Treasury. This no doubt was a servant that had that kind of responsibility And here's a king and he wants to audit all of his accounts. He wants to find out where he is and all of his accounts. And so in verse twenty four, and when he had begun to reckon One was brought unto him which owed him 10,000 talents. In the process of having his books audited, it became known that he had a servant that was skimming money. That has stolen from the king, and how much? Ten thousand talents. Now, this is an enormous sum. Just to give you some perspective. A talent was the highest monetary standard. Okay? It uh literally reads myriad of talents. A myriad was the highest number that could be stated in that day. So this is a large number. Again, a talent was the amount of weight that a soldier carried on his backpack. That was about 75 to 100 pounds. A talent equaled 6,000 denarii, a denarius equaling one day's pay. Okay, so think about that. One talent would be 20 years work by an average worker. Now by comparison, let me just sh tell you this. Around the time of Jesus, the total revenue collected by the Roman government over Judea, Samaria. Listen, was six hundred talents. So when the so when the Roman government collected their taxes over Judea and Samaria, they came up with six hundred talents total. Okay. Um the total revenue collected from Galilee was 300 talents. So think about that. So if this guy embezzled 10,000 talents, That's the astronomical figure. Another example, when the tabernacle was built, uh it included uh uh many of the instruments being overlaid with gold. In Exodus 38, 24, it tells us that there are only 29 talents of gold used in the tabernacle. When the temple was built, David donated 3,000 talents of gold. Alright? Now listen to this. If you multiply $1,000, which is the price of an ounce of gold today, I think, last time I checked, if you multiply $1,000 by 16 ounces Then by 75 pounds, then by 10,000 talents, the equivalent worth today would be, you ready for this? 12 billion dollars. 12 billion dollars. That's how much the guy embezzled. This guy was busy. 12 billion dollars. How would you like to be in debt for 12 billion? This was an astronomical number. The bottom line, this is an impossible bet. There's no way possible For this man to pay back this much money, twelve billion dollars. And so when Jesus gives this a amount When he says to the to the people, you know, this man took ten thousand talents, the people listening to this story were like, that's incredible. That would be like a child saying, a million gazillion This is a number that no one could ever pay back. It's too much. So look at verse number 25. But for as much as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and children, and all that he had and payment to be made. So the king makes a decree, since the slave couldn't pay back the debt Then his wife and his children will all be sold into slavery. The king could never recollect the loss, but that's what you did back in that day. You would take a person who could not pay back the debt, you would uh sell all they had, including them into slavery. That was a legal thing to do. You couldn't just declare bankruptcy back then. And so this man's life is pretty much over. But now look at the desperate plea of the servant. Look at verse 26. The servant therefore fell down. And worship to saying, Lord, have patience with me and I will pay thee all. Really? You're going to pay this back? Lord, have patience with me and I will pay thee all. Now, think about this prayer. First of all, he was in the right position. He fell down. I think this man was devastated. He knew that he couldn't possibly pay it all back. He didn't deny his sin. He just confessed his guilt. And he just said, Lord, have patience with me. Notice in verse 26 where it says he fell down and worshipped him Worshiped him. The phrase literally means to kiss towards. Comes from kissing the hand or kissing the the foot. I can just imagine this guy throwing himself down Kissing this man's foot and saying, Oh please, oh please, be patient with me and I'll I'll pay it all. This man is so desperate. And then this Lord, the king, does something that is unbelievable. Look at verse 27. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion. And loosed him and forgave him the debt. Are you kidding me? Are you serious? You're going to forgive him for all of this. He just loosed them. I love that phrase. Loosed them. It means that he just released him from his obligation. He just let it go. Completely loose. It's a financial term. It means he canceled the debt. He wiped it out. Why did he do that? Because the Bible says he was moved with compassion. This king is a loving king. This is an incredible king. And even though the debt was incurred against him personally, and it was him stealing against him, this man had compassion on this unworthy servant, and he just completely canceled the debt. He completely forgave Him. In fact, in verse 27, the Greek literally says the king forgave him the loan. The king was so tender hearted he considered it as a loan instead of money embezzled, and he canceled it. He canceled the whole loan. He releases him of the obligation. This man is fully, completely free of that debt. Unbelievable. But now look what happens. Look at verse 28. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence. Now, so this man is fully forgiven. What's he do? Is he go out and just say thank you and and and and begins to extend that kind of forgiveness to others? No. He went out, he found one of his fellow servants. This might be someone who also worked under the same king. That perhaps was under him, who also collected taxes or something like that. We're not, can't be sure. But notice he doesn't inadvertently run into the guy. He found him. He was searching for him What's this guy do? Right after he's been forgiven for so much, he begins to search for people who owe him. And then he finds this guy. Who owed him 100 denarii? Now how much is that? 100 denarii? Well that that would be comparable. That would be about $18 today. 18 bucks. This guy had just been forgiven for 12 billion. He goes and finds a guy who owes him 18 bucks. And notice what he does. And it says in verse 28, he found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence, and he laid hands on him. And took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. Now the king, as much as this guy has stolen from the king, the king never got violent against him. But here this guy finds a guy who owes him $18, puts hands on him, he begins to choke him. French writers speak about men going to their debtors and grabbing them around the neck and choking them until blood came out of their nose. This was kind of the old collection agency approach, you know. Pay it back. And notice this man, notice what he says. Look at verse 29. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet. And besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Now does that sound familiar? That's the exact same line that he gave the king that he owed twelve billion to. And so you expect this same response, right? Look at verse 30, and he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt He refused to forgive this guy. Threw him in prison, debtor's prison. And that again that was a way to kind of force family members to pay the death if they're family members in prison. And so the contrast is pretty obvious here, right? Here's this man that had been forgiven for so much, and he refuses to forgive. So look at the next scene. Look at verse 31. And so when his fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. Then his Lord, after that, he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that the debt because thou desirest me, should not thou also have for had compassion on thy fellow servant, even as I had pity on thee, and his Lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him And so when this uh king finds out that this man that he had forgiven went out and refused to forgive a fellow servant, he calls him back in. He calls him a wicked servant there. The emphasis is in the Greek on the wickedness. And he says, you know, I forgave you. Should you not have forgiven or had compassion on thy fellow servant? This is the whole point of the parable. And what Jesus is giving here is the real perspective that we have to maintain if we're going to forgive. And so notice the punishment in verse thirty-five. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you if you from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses. Now let's interpret this together. Who does the compassionate king represent? God, right? What does the debt represent? Our sins, right? We all have a huge debt of sin that we have committed against our gracious king, right? The servant who incurred the debt, who does that represent? That represents me. That represents you. We are the ones that incurred this debt. The fellow servant, who does that represent? That represents our fellow believer, brother, or sister. Someone else. And here's the point. We racked up this insurmountable debt against God. All of us. You might be thinking, how so? I mean my my debt of sin isn't that bad. You don't think so? Well just think of it this way. Just imagine with me if you've committed three sins a day. All right. Now I I'm sure I've committed more than three sins a day. I probably average much higher than that. And don't look at me so wholly. You probably average a lot more than that. But let's just say I average three sins a day. Uh you kinda that's about a thousand sins a year. I'm fifty none of your business years old. If I add all that together, that's over 50,000 sins that I've committed against God Now let me tell you something. God is so holy that it only takes one sin for me to be punished with eternal punishment. But fifty thousand is pretty low. You can just double that and multiply another fifty. And these are all the sins that I've incurred against God. And when I came to Christ, God wiped it out. He canceled it. It's all gone. And think about the the debts that you have incurred against God and how God just forgave them all. Jay Adams kind of illustrates it like this. He says, God has forgiven us, but he says, imagine sitting in a movie theater. The theater is packed. The show is about to begin. Then you discover that this movie is an unedited, undeleted story of your entire life. The soundtrack will contain everything that you've ever said. In fact, the movie will project everything you have ever thought, including all the things that you would have liked to have done if you thought you could get away with it. Can you imagine being in a movie theater and that's the show? And then Jay Adams says this, every one of us is relieved that such a movie does not exist. But then he says this, but God has that movie. God has it. And you know what God does when we come to Christ? He takes that whole movie and he tosses it into the sea. Never ever to be seen again. All of our sins are completely gone And this is the motivation that we have to forgive others. If God has forgiven us of such a monstrous debt, shouldn't we forgive others? For their we have this twelve billion dollar sin list. I want to forgive the guy who has an eighteen dollar sin list against me. I want to just write it off. This is our motivation for forgiving. But also notice this in in verse 30. Four where it says the Lord delivered them to the tormentors. I believe that people that have an unforgiving heart are tormented inwardly. There's a suffering, an emotional suffering, a damage that is done in inwardly to them. You'll be delivered over to the torment, maybe the torment of a of a wounded conscience and and all kind of other inward issues. Look at verse 35. So likewise shall my heavenly father do also unto you. If ye from your hearts forgive not everyone as brother their trespasses. Listen, if you don't forgive others, then God's not going to forgive you. What did Jesus teach us to pray? Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And so this is the reason that we want to forgive. But another reason is we remember how much God has forgiven you. We want to glorify God. We remember how much God has forgiven you, but also we want to remember That God is sovereign over all that happens, and He's the righteous judge of all. In other words, you know, you say, well, I had this happen to me. Well, God and His sovereignty allowed this to come into your life He's sovereign over law. He has a purpose in it. When somewhere in wrong Jew, it helps to control your anger, root out bitterness Make you ready to forgive if you remember that God has allowed this to happen for his purpose and for your ultimate good. What does the Bible say? God works all things together for good. So it may be that you're going through what you're going through because God in His sovereign wisdom decided to allow this to happen in your life, and He has a purpose in it. That purpose might not be immediately understood for us. We might not understand that purpose till years down the road and we might not even understand it then. Heaven knows. I know that God knows what he's doing. And so we have to understand that God is sovereign over all these things in our life. Remember, Joseph got this perspective, you know, when his brothers did all those mean things and then he was unjustly thrown into prison Joseph could have been a mean, bitter, angry person, but at the end of his life we don't find that at all. We find him peaceful, happy, joyful, thankful. God blessing him. And when his brothers came to make sure that he had forgiven, what did Joseph say? You meant it for evil, but God In other words, he saw that it was God's sovereign hand over all of it. God allowed all of it to happen. God allowed all these things to come into his life because God had an overall purpose. And we have to think about that when people sin against us, we have to remember that God has a purpose even in allowing these things to come into our life. And so we just need to forgive. We have to keep this perspective. We want to do it to glorify God. We want to forgive because of the God has forgiven us for so much. And then we want to understand that God is sovereign over our life. And He's the one who allows the various trials, the various difficulties. even the difficult people to enter into our life and the and the h hurtful things that have happened, he allows all of that. Because God has a purpose in it. And part of it may be to humble us, to teach us dependence on the Lord, to glorify God in some other way. All that is included in that. And so we want to exercise this kind of forgiveness to others. Now there's more I could say on that, but again we're we're we're out of time here. I was going to try to allow for a question. Maybe we have time for one question. Anybody have a question before we we go? Yes, sir. We're going to do the past How did they what? Well well, only God could help them to do that. Only God by his grace. And that's what we really want to take from this, that in order to really forgive the way God wants us to, we have to be dependent on God, right? He's the one that does that. Someone else, Mark? Yeah, go ahead. Hello? Go ahead. Okay, go ahead. Um one of the things we end with is the prayer of Saint Francis Um, you know, it kind of says that we have to love to be loved, to understand, to be understood, to forgive, to be forgiven. That's by so forgiving one finds. You know, and the reading I was doing this morning in my devotions Which was this exactly on this subject. It said a joyful life of grace toward others grows in the soil of gratitude I remember that grace I received came at a cost of another. Then I am joyfully motivated to give that grace to others. 1 John 4 19. We love him because we are first loved. Amen. That's good. That's a good way to end. Let's all stand together and we'll have a word of prayer, and our service will follow in just a few minutes. Father, thank you for The forgiveness that you've given us for the huge debt of sin that Lord you just canceled because of the precious blood of Christ that paid our sin debt. Father, help us to remember this. Give us a forgiving heart. And I pray, Lord, even now if there's someone here today that's maybe in their hearts struggling over this, Lord, you'll help them. Lord, you've helped all of us, and the only way we can do this is with your help. It goes against our very nature. But Lord, you give us perspective in your word and you give us strength. And so help anyone here today, just to, even now, just to release any offenders that they may have. Just to write off any transgressions and let there be freedom, the freedom of forgiveness. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.