Take your Bibles tonight. We continue our study in 1st and 2nd Kings, and we're looking at chapter 7 of 1 Kings tonight. 1 Kings chapter 7. And tonight I want to talk to you about the Well Furnished Soul. That's the title of my message tonight, the Well Furnished Soul. Look in 1 Kings chapter 7. And now this section that we're going to deal with is uh kind of long, but we'll we'll deal with this and get through it well. But look at verse number 40. I just want to read you one verse in this narrative And Hiram made the labors and the shovels and the basins. So Hiram made the end an end of doing all the work that he made King Solomon for the house of the Lord. So I want to talk about the furnishings of the house of God tonight and what it has to do with us spiritually And how does it speak to us in our own life right now? You know, when Carol and I first got married, we were still in college. We we had one year left in college. We our first apartment we rented from a professor. It was a uh apartment over a garage. It wasn't very big. As college students, you know, we didn't we didn't have a whole lot of money And uh the advertisement on the apartment was that it was a furnished apartment. And what furnished meant was this. It had an old couch in there that had seen better days. It had a double bed, it had a small table, uh that was again had seen better days, and two rickety old chairs. And that's what furnish meant in this apartment. Now Carol was very resourceful and she was able to make end tables out of boxes. And she put linens over the boxes and made it actually look pretty nice. And she even took boxes and made a chair. and and put blankets over it for pe that was sturdy enough for for guests to sit on. At least we were hoping when they sat down that it would hold them up. Now you might say that uh the owner of the apartment kind of cut some corners in uh furnishing the apartment. Um maybe it was because he didn't have the money to really put some nicer furniture in there Or maybe because he wasn't staying there it really didn't concern him that much. But it was furnished nonetheless. It just wasn't very well furnished. Um I'll never forget when we finally reached the point where we had enough money where we could buy our own furniture. uh and buy new furniture and put it in our house. Nice nice furnishings can really uh make a make a house. It can make it much more comfortable comfortable. It's very Very nice to have furnishings that are comfortable in your house. And think about this, you know, furniture is such a part of our life. We really don't think about it that much. But a lot of our life is centered around uh our furniture. Every time we we get dressed for the day we we go to our furniture, right? To get out our clothes. Every time we gather around the dinner table Uh and we eat and we have fellowship. We we sit on furniture. Every time we sit down to watch a movie together as a family, we we sit on furniture just to be together and just to talk. Furniture is a part of our lives Now, I bring all that up because in the second part of chapter 7 here in 1 Kings, it's all about the furnishings in the house of God. If you've been with us in our study, you know already that Solomon has spared no expense in building a great temple for God. We saw that in chapter uh five, the preparation, then in chapter six. But here in chapter seven, uh we see that Solomon also spares no expense in putting furnishings into the house of the Lord. And actually these are furnishings that God had commanded for Solomon to put in there. And we're going to see that this was made by the best craftsman that was available of the day and that was made out of the best materials. Now here's the point. Just as God lavished Solomon's temple with furniture God wants to lavish our lives. He wants to put uh furnish our lives with his grace Let me read to you what uh Philip Ram Riken wrote about this. He said, as the place where God chose to dwell with his people on earth, the temple was patterned after God's throne room in heaven. The temple and its furniture thus testified to the glory of God and displayed what kind of grace he had for his people. I like that The furniture in the temple really symbolizes the kind of grace that God wants to lavish in our own life. And that's really the whole idea Here in chapter 7, the beautiful furnishings of the temple is representative of how God spiritually furnishes our soul. You see, God has grace for us in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't have to go to Solomon's temple like they did in the Old Testament to get grace. The grace that we have now is furnished to us by the Lord Jesus Christ. Now remember that in the Old Testament God had a temple for his people, but now in this er era, in this age, God has a people for his temple. We are his temple. You see, now instead of making his home in Solomon's temple, God makes his home in you, he makes his home in me. Through faith in Christ, the Bible says we are a holy temple in the Lord. We are a dwelling place for God by His Spirit, the Bible says in Ephesians. And the Spirit has fulfilled the promise that God made to the Son concerning the Father to everyone who loves him. Remember what John 14 said, we will come to him and we will make our home with him. For all those who put their faith in Jesus Christ, God the Father and God the Son says we're going to come, we're going to make our home in you And so the soul of every believer, then, is sacred space. And the place where God now does his interior decorations or his furnishing is not in Solomon's temple anymore, it is in the lives of his people. And so as we see the furniture in Solomon's temple We can understand the real true spiritual meaning it has for us and how God wants to furnish our lives with grace. Now having said all that, let's look at some of the furnishings that God gave for his temple. And w first of all, notice with me two pillars of strength I call this. Look in verse number uh thirteen. The furniture in God's temple was designed again by one of the great masters. Verse 13, and King Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre. He was a widowed son of the tribe of Napali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass. And he was filled with wisdom and understanding and cunning to work all works in brass, and he came to King Solomon and wrought all his work Now the people in Tyre were very famous for their skill in working with metal. And the most famous of all was this man by the name of Hiram. The writer tells us a little bit about him. He was uh uh his mother was Jewish, although his father was from Tyre. But the most important thing about him is the Bible says He had this God-given skill for just working with metal. In fact, some of the words that's used to describe him We see also in the book of Exodus, you remember there were two particular men in the Old Testament in Exodus that the Spirit of God came upon, and they had skill as well and furnishing the tabernacle. The same words are used here to speak of of Hiram of Tyre And this reminds us, you know, of how God has given all of us gifts and abilities and talents that we're to use for his kingdom and for his glory. Now the first thing that he makes are these massive pillars. So look down in verse number 15, for he cast two pillars of brass. of eighteen cupits high apiece, and a line of twelve cupits did he compass either of them above. So these are two bronze pillars that stood at the entrance of the temple. They were hollow But they were also just very big. In fact, using our units of measurement, they were approximately 27 feet tall. They were 18 feet in diameter, and they were several inches thick, but they were hollow on the inside. And at the top of each of the pillars, there was what the architectural term is a capital, we could say a crown. Uh and this was where they would they were uh they would uh use all kind of ornate decorations to m to set the pillar off and to make it look good. The Bible tells us from verses sixteen down to verse twenty. that uh they had decorated in there rows of fruits and and chains of flowers. There were two rows of pomegranates. All of these are kind of echoes of the Garden of Eden to remind us that the temple was the gateway to paradise And uh also the pomegranates kind of identify the priests. You might remember that the priests wore at the bottom of their robe pomegranates. Uh I think I told you before when we were digging some archaeology at Shiloh, one of the great discoveries was a ceramic pomegranate that They have studied it since believe that that came from one of the robes of the priests that ministered there at Shiloh And so also on the tops of the pillars there was lilywork. Lilies were a symbol of life and also of love. But the real important thing about these pillars were the names. They had two particular names. Look in verse number twenty-one. And he set up pillars in the porch of the temple, and he set up on the right pillar and called the name of it Jacan. And he set up the left pillar and called the name of it. Boaz. So one is placed on the north, Jacan, one is placed on the south, Boaz. The word Jacan actually means he establishes. He establishes. This same verb is used to talk about how God establishes his promises. It was particularly used to talk about how God established his promise with David. The idea there is that God will establish his kingdom. What does this mean to you and I? Well, this means to us that you know what? God will establish us Spiritually, you know the work that God's doing in you right now? He's establishing you in the faith. He's making you strong. The Bible tells us that Write down some of these verses. Romans 16 25. Now to him that that is of power to establish you According to my gospel. In Colossians 2, where it says, If ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him, rooted and built up in him, established in the faith. 1 Thessalonians 3 verse 13, to the end that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God 2 Thessalonians 3. 3, but the Lord is faithful who shall establish you and keep you from evil. That's the work that God's doing. He is establishing you in your faith. But then here's the other name, which is Boaz. Now again, this might have been a more personal reference because if you remember in the Bible, Boaz married Ruth Who was Ruth? That was the great-grandmother of David. So thus Boaz was David's great-grandfather. But the name Boaz means in him is strength. In him is strength. Now, something interesting, did you know that Psalm 21 begins with this word Boaz? And it ends with the word Boaz, and each time that Hebrew word is translated strength. Psalm 21, one, the the king shall joy in thy Hebrew Boaz, but it's translated strength. The king shall joy in thy strength. The last verse, verse 13, be thou exalted, Lord, in thy own Boaz, in thy own strength. And so it may be possible that this pillar is referring to that psalm there to remind God's people of the strength of God. But again, I ask, what does this mean to you and I? It means that God is our source of strength. And part of the way God furnishes your soul is He gives you strength. He gives me strength. I don't know about you, but I couldn't make it without the Lord's He is the pillar in our soul that strengthens us. I don't know what you're facing, but I want to tell you there's nothing too big for God. And God can strengthen you. I heard about a little boy traveling on an airplane to visit his grandparents. He happened to be sitting next to a seminary professor, and the boy was reading a Sunday school take-home paper And the seminary professor thought he would have a little fun. So he said, young man, he said, if you can tell me something God can do, I'll give you a big shiny apple. And the little boy thought for a moment, and then he said, Mister, if you can tell me something God can't do, I'll give you a whole barrel of apples That's a good answer. Let me tell you something. There's nothing God can't do. And that is the God, our omnipotent God, that gives us strength. Again, you may be here tonight and you might say, Man, I'm pretty weak. Well, just remember that in your soul you have strength that you might not know about. Because God furnishes your soul with strength. And Psalm 18. 1, I will love thee, O Lord, my strength. In Psalm 1832, it is God that girdeth me with Strength. You know, all of God's giants were weak men who understood that God was their strength and they learned how to get in touch or they learned how to use that furniture in their soul. called strength. So we see then, and by the way, let me just tell you one more thing about this. It's interesting. Did you know there's a promise God gives to believers who are faithful? in the midst of their trials. This is listen to what Revelation 3. 12 says. Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of God. And he shall go out no no more or no more go out Or go no more out, excuse me, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is Jerusalem. God says, you know what, if you are faithful to persevere Go through trials. One day I'll make you a pillar in my temple. And I'll write my name on you. Your name will be on that pillar. My name will be on that pillar. And really this is a reference to true believers. You know what it's saying? True believers are those that will not quit, they will not stop, they will persevere. And God says, I'll make you a pillar in my temple. So we see two pillars, which tells us that God furnishes our soul with strength But let me give you another thing. We see the molten sea of peace. Look down at verse 23. Now Hiram does something else here, and he made a molten sea, ten cubits from the one brim to the other It was round all about, and his height was five cubits, and a line of thirty cubits did come past it round about. And so Hiram makes in the courtyard this beautiful bronze, they call it C, and the reason they called it a C is because it was so large. This large basin, we could say, was actually had the circumference of 45 feet. It could hold 11,500 gallons of water. Now that's about the size of a medium-sized pool in your backyard. 11,500 gallons of water. And it rested on the back of 12 bronze oxen The Bible tells us that these oxen were uh facing, there were three facing the north. Three facing the south, three facing east, three facing the west. And so here you had this this huge bronze, or we could say molten sea of just water. And by the way, it was it was pretty high, about seven feet high. Now what does this mean? Well, Old Testament scholars debate over what the symbolism here could be. Part of it could be that it for the children of Israel, it's a reminder that God delivered them through a Red Sea. And God had power to deliver them. But I think more specifically that the still water represents the peace of God God has control over the chaotic troubles of this fallen world. Did you know that the sea For a people in the Old Testament, the sea was something that symbolized forces of chaos. Threatening forces. It represented rebellion. It represented trouble. That's why, by the way, it says in the book of Revelation, one day in heaven, there will be no more what? No more sea. I think that speaks of the chaos and the trouble and the difficulty that we face. We see this a lot in the Old Testament, for example, in Psalm 46, verse 3. The psalmist wrote that the mountains trembled at the sea when it began to swell up. In Psalm 93, verse 3, it says, The seas have lifted up, O Lord The seas have lifted up their voice, but the Lord on high is mightier. And so here's the point. That the sea stands for chaos, it stands for trouble, it stands for turmoil, but God is mightier and he's able to bring the seas And he's able to bring the waves under his control. Again, if you look through the Old Testament, you're going to find this is how God is portrayed a lot of times in the Old Testament. For example, listen to Psalm 93, verse 4. Mightier than the thunders of many waters, talking about God, mightier than the waves of the sea, the Lord is On high is mightier. Psalm 89, verse 9. You rule the raging of the sea when its waves rise. You still them. Again in Psalm 77, verse 16, the water saw you, O God, the water saw you and writhed. The very depths were convulsed. And Job talks about how God limits the sea. He puts a band around the sea and limits the ways of the sea. Again in Habakkuk, you trample the sea with your horses. Habakkuk 3. 8. In Nahum 1. 4, he rebukes the sea and dries it up. He makes the rivers run And I think this is what it's talking about. It's a picture of the power of God to bring the chaotic seas to peace. And so the mighty power of God then is on display right there at Solomon's temple with this large volume of water that is symbolically stilled right there And again, the same is true for our own troubles in life. God is able to settle or to bring the peace, the chaos in our life. And by the way, it's not without significance that in the New Testament we find Jesus walking on the what on the water, walking on the sea. What is that a picture of? That's a picture of him being God, this God that we see revealed in the Psalms, that is able to put down the seas and to bring peace. Here's Jesus walking on the waters. Listen to Psalm 18, verse 16. He that is God reached down from on high and took hold of me and he drew me out of the deep waters. You know what such a picture of? Remember Peter when he sunk? And Jesus reached out and he pulled him out of the water. Maybe Matthew had that verse in mind when he recorded this miracle of Jesus. And what does Jesus say to the sea? Peace be still. Peace be still. One of the greatest miracles that Jesus performed. And he can do the same for your soul. He can command, peace be still, and whatever chaos there is in your life. He can bring peace to your heart. We live in a world filled with chaos today, don't we? But for God's people, you know what? Even though the world may be filled, With chaos and headline hysteria. God's people have the peace of God. We have peace. You know why? Because God furnishes our soul not only with strength He furnishes our soul with peace. So we see the two pillars of strength. We see the molten sea of peace. Let me give you a third thing here. I call this the ten labors of cleansing. Now look at verse 27, because there's something else that Hiram does as he furnishes the temple. And verse 27, and he made ten bases of brass, four cubits of length of one base, and four cubits of breadth thereof, and three cubits of height thereof. And uh so what is he describing here? And I'm not going to read all of the verses, but what he's talking about here is Hiram constructs Ten identical movable labors for the temple court. It's kind of like they were like small pools of water on wheels. You could think of it like that. They had a base, they had wheels. And on that base they would put this pool of water. And uh they would they put five on the north side of the court. They put five of these on the south side of the court. And what were they used for? According to 2 Chronicles 4. 6 They were used for cleansing the altar and the court after the bloody sacrifices. As the priests labored for the Lord in the temple, they they became dirty, defiled, and they there was a need for them to be clean uh cleansed. And so they would come to these and obviously they were on wheels because they can when they needed to be to change the water, they can wheel them out and put new water in and wheel them back in And so they had huge quantities of water. In fact, each laver could contain 230 gallons of water. And so the huge quantity of water and all these labors shows what that God had a deep concern for cleanliness as they were ministering there in the temple. And this symbolically speaks to us of personal holiness. You know what God wants from his people? He wants us to be clean Spiritually, he wants us to be clean. Just like the priests in the temple needed to be clean as they ministered, even so God's people today need to live clean lives. You know, God's priests still need that cleansing. Now there's two major differences between the priests in the Old Testament and you and I. Here's the first difference. Number one, remember this, we are all priests. In the Old Testament, only the Levites ministered in the temple. Only they performed the priestly ministry. But you did you know that today all of us that are saved, we are a kingdom of priests. Remember Peter says that in 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 5, we are a Holy priesthood. We are working in a spiritual house. All of us are priests of God. Now in the Old Testament, they would give animal sacrifices, but now as priests of God, we don't give animal sacrifices today, what sacrifices do we bring? We bring the sacrifice of our praise, we bring the sacrifice of a dedicated life. Remember, Paul said we are we are to be a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. So every person in here tonight, you are a priest of God if you know Jesus as your Savior. And you know what God wants? If you're going to serve Him. He needs you to live a clean life. He needs you to live a holy life. Which brings us to the second major difference. And that is this, we need a deeper cleansing than the priest did in the Old Testament that ministered with or for Solomon. They were cleansed of their body, their skin outwardly. But the cleansing that we need is inward cleansing. The cleansing of our sin. You see, because now we have become the temple of the Holy Spirit, the place where God dwells. And the cleansing then takes place inside of us. Remember what the writer of Hebrews says that the worshiper could not perfect his conscience because he was only cleansed outwardly, but when we're saved, we're cleansed way down deep. The great sea of God's cleansing grace comes through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Spirit makes our heart clean from sin. And we need this cleansing all the time. Now, when you get saved, God cleanses you from your sin, but you know what? Daily we still need to confess our sins. You say, why do we need to confess our sins if God has Cleanse us from all sin, and there's no condemnation for those that are in Christ, and we can't lose our salvation. And the Bible is very clear about that in Romans 8. We can't lose it. You say, Well, then why do we need to confess our sins? Well, because There's several things. Even though you can't lose your salvation, there are other things that you can lose. And one of them is you can lose your fellowship with God. The Bible says the blood of Christ cleanses us from all sin, and we are we have fellowship, the Bible says in 1 John 1. We don't want to lose that fellowship with God. If you're living with unconfessed, harbored sin in your heart. That breaks the fellowship with Christ. We can lose our fellowship, we can lose our usefulness. And this is the whole point here Paul said to Timothy, he said, that in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and earth, some to honor, some to dishonor. And then he said this, if a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor. Sanctified, meet for the master's use, prepared for every good work. If you want to be someone that God can use, you need to live a life of cleanliness. And holiness. When I say cleanliness, I'm talking again about spiritual cleanness. There's another thing that we can lose. We can lose our reward. 2 John 8. Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought. The rewards that you may have gained through good service, you can lose if you don't live a holy life. And so There's the promise of God's cleansing. When we sin, we need to remember the furniture God has provided for our soul. We need to remember that God will cleanse us from our sins. So we see two pillars. God furnishes our soul with strength. We see the molten sea. God furnishes our soul with peace. We see the ten labors of, and that means God furnishes our soul with cleansing. But let me give you the last thing here. The last thing here. These are the golden vessels. I call these of access. Look down to verse number 38. Because I want you to see here that um he he also makes uh well actually I'm not going to go over all these verses, but let me tell you what he's doing here. He's kind of summarizing all that Hiram has made so far. And then he goes on to talk about some other things. Look at verse 40. And Hiram made the labors and the shovels and the basins. And so he made an end of all the work that he made for King Solomon for the house of the Lord. Again, if you look in verse 43, down to verse 46, he's summarizing in the 10 bases and the 10 labors on the bases, the one sea, and the 12 oxen under the sea. And then he mentions in verse 45 the pots and the shovels and the basins and all these vessels. And uh so he's kind of again giving us a little bit of a summary here. In verse 45, it says they were made of bronze. That's not a precious metal, but it's very valuable, very functional. In verse 46 and verse 47, he tells us that they were never weighed. Why? Because there were so many of these other little things that he made that they never bothered to weigh them. And then he also talks about verse forty-six where he made them in the clay ground. It says in verse 46. Interesting that he makes this note here. In the clay ground between a Sakot and Zeratan, that that specific area there, the clay was made to molds into which the bronze was cast And so you could say that the furniture in Solomon's temple was made much the same way that God made man himself created out of the ground, out of the clay. And so basically we see then these vessels here gives us a summary. Now, something different takes place in verses 48 down to verse 51. These are different. These are vessels now that are made of gold. And we see several things here. Look at verse 48. And Solomon made all the vessels that pertain unto the house of the Lord the altar of gold. Now what altar is this? This is the altar of incense that was right there before you went into the Holy of Holies, just a golden altar. And you know what they did? They burned incense, and incense was constantly rising. up to the s uh up to the heavens. The incense had a sweet smell. What does that symbolize? It symbolizes prayer The place where God hears our prayers. And so it speaks to us of the prayers of God's people. Every time we receive any blessing. Our prayers of thanksgiving should rise like this incense. Every time we see someone in need, our prayers should rise up like this incense. Our prayers should be constant. just like this incense was constantly burning. And then we also see the golden table of showbread, looking again in verse 48. And the the table of gold where on the showbread was. Again, this was a golden table where they had 12 loaves of bread, which represented the 12 tribes of Israel. And what does this remind us about? Of course, that Jesus is the bread of life. He's the one that nourishes our soul. We feed constantly on the Lord Jesus Christ. And then there's the ten golden lamps, look at verse forty-nine, and the candlesticks of pure gold, five on the right side, five on the left, before the oracle. That is the holy place. With the flowers and the lamps and the tongues of gold. So here are ten golden lampstands. Now remember in the tabernacle, there was only one golden lampstand. But here the temple is much bigger. It needed more light. So there were five on one side, five on the other. Now again, how does this speak to us? Well, of course, every well-furnished home needs light, and this light was practical, but it speaks symbolically about the light of Jesus Christ The Bible also tells us, of course, in the New Testament that Jesus is the light, the true light that lights the world, the light of the world, John 8, 12. And so when we put our trust in him, the light of God starts to illuminate inside of us, and it continues to light every part of our soul. You know, the longer I am in Christ, the more light I get from Christ. Christ, the more he gives me, the more the darkness is banished, the more illumination that he gives me. And again, these are all made of gold. It all speaks of of sacred use. And then in verse number 50, he mentions other articles of sacrifice. He mentions the hinges of gold. That were on the doors. Now let me just tell you, I think the common denominator between all of these things here, I could just give it one word, it would be access. It speaks to us of the access that we have with God. That now we're able to go into his presence. Now we know that in the Old Testament they they couldn't do that, but it speaks prophetically of what God was going to do in the future. We were going to be able to go into that holy place. We were going to be able to feast on the bread. We were going to be able to have the light of God's revelation, the light of Christ. We would have access. You remember when Jesus died, the veil was rent in twain, and the Bible says now because of Christ, we have access into his presence. The Bible tells us this in Romans 5. 2, that in whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand. Now again, a Jew in the Old Testament to have access into the very presence of God was unheard of. But you know what? Now, because of Christ in the cross, we have access and we stand in this grace. We stand in the presence of God. And so again, all these things are the way God furnishes our soul. So, how does God do it? Two pillars of strength. God furnishes us with strength. The molten sea, God furnishes us with peace. The ten labors, God furnishes our soul with cleansing. And the golden vessels, God furnishes our soul with multiple blessings in Christ. That's the way God wants to furnish you tonight. And He wants to remind you. He wants to give you stability and strength like mighty pillars. He wants to cleanse you With the fount, with his cleansing grace. He wants your prayers to rise continually before him. He wants to feed you with spiritual food, the bread of life. So the question I would ask you tonight is, is your soul well furnished? Do you have these blessings when your life seems to be falling apart? And you're not sure how much longer you can stand, just remember that Jesus is your pillar. When you're defeated by sin and you're feeling unworthy, That you doubt that there's anything you can do for God in your life. Just remember that the blood of Christ purifies you from all sin. He provides cleansing. And so what I would tell you tonight is based on this passage. Take advantage of the spiritual furniture that God has put in your soul. Use it. And if you're here tonight, you're not sure that God has furnished your soul. Then friend, you can make sure of that tonight. You know, when we buy furniture, you know one of the things that's really bit is irritating is you have to wait for it to be delivered. You ever have to do that? Buy furniture and it takes two months later it finally comes. You know what? There's good news. If you want to have your soul furnished, you don't have to wait. God can furnish your soul right now. If you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, He will give you stability. Cleansing, fellowship. He'll nourish your soul. He'll give you light. Without God, how empty this temple is. Let's let's bow for prayer together. And so can I ask your friend, are you sure of your own salvation? Do you know the Lord Jesus? Maybe you're here tonight and you say, yes, I'm a child of God, but I feel so very weak. Let me remind you of how God has furnished you. You have strength, my friend, in Christ Claim that strength to help you through whatever trial. Maybe your life seems to be in so much chaos. Maybe the things around you are causing you to be anxious. Remember that God furnishes your soul with peace. Maybe you're discouraged about sin. Remember that God furnishes you with cleansing. And maybe you feel as if you're not close to the Lord in fellowship. Well, remember, you have access, He's giving you access. And if you're hungry, you can eat. And if you feel like you're in darkness, he is the light. And if you feel like you need to speak to him, well, you can pray. He's given you that privilege. Let your prayers rise like incense before him. Whatever your need is, he's here for you to meet that need. Would you just take a moment right where you are? I don't know what your need is, but you do just take a moment and tell God what your need is. Ask him for what you need. Take advantage of the furnishings that God has given you. Father, bless these words to every hearing soul here tonight, we pray, in Jesus' precious name. Amen