Would you take God's words, please? And uh open to the book of Matthew, chapter eighteen. Matthew chapter eighteen, and we're going to look at verse twenty-one. And Would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning, please? I want to read a few verses with you. Matthew chapter 18, verse number 21. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him till seven times? And Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king, which would let take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him which owed him ten thousand talents. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and his children, and all that he had, and payment to be made And the servant therefore fell down and worshiped worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him and forgave him the debt. much you may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for the privilege of worship, what it does for our heart Lord, would you please bless us now as we go to the Word of God? Give us attentive hearts and minds. And may the Spirit of God use the truth to help us. May we apply it and be blessed. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We we talked a little bit about Matthew eighteen last week. I I wanted to kind of finish up this chapter, and I want to talk about the the freedom of forgiveness. You know, the world today is characterized by anger. I don't think I've seen so many angry people in my life as I have lately, all over. And it's fueled by society, this anger. It's justified by psychology. People are being told, you have a right to be angry. Your anger is justified. You were mistreated. It seems as if everyone is a victim nowadays. And you need to be angry. Anger anger is how you deal with the way that you were mistreated. That's that's what you're taught in society. I saw a cartoon where a little boy was asking his father for something and the father said, What do we say? That gets us what we want. And the little boy said, I'm offended Used to be please. This anger is just fueled by this selfishness where everybody thinks they're the most important person in the world. And anyone who offends them, well, they deserve the they're worthy of the serious m most serious payback or perhaps even violence. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 7. 9, be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools The Bible says that if you allow your life to be driven or controlled by anger, that is folly. That is foolishness. But this is what is driving our society today. There's anger everywhere. There's anger in our music. There's anger in our films. Films about violence are the ones that seem to be the most appealing, about vengeance. There's anger in our television program, there's anger in our schools, there's anger in the universities, there's anger in families. It's everywhere. And the absent virtue in all of this is forgiveness. Let me just say it's impossible to live in this world and not be offended by someone. Eventually, someone's going to hurt you. And that's probably not going to be once. It's going to happen over and over again. You are going to get hurt. You're going to encounter people who will hurt you or treat you wrongly. Whether it's a dad who deserted you, a mother who treated you poorly, a teacher who who who humiliated you. A child who has rejected you, a colleague perhaps who betrayed you, someone who slandered you, and on down the list we can go, you're going to get hurt. And here's the reality. How do you deal with that? The question is again is not, will you get hurt? Will you be offended? Will you be mistreated? That's going to happen because we live in this sinful world. But the issue is, how do you deal with those who hurt you? How do you deal with it? Society says you you get even You have a right to retaliate. And and and so therefore we retaliate at the smallest offense that is given. Deep down in the human heart, there's this vengeful retaliatory spirit that's a part of the curse of sin and it's in all of us. And frankly, society today makes heroes out of the people that retaliate. They take nothing from no one. And our society looks down upon the gentle, the forgiving, the gracious, the merciful. The people that demand nothing. They say that's weakness, that's cowardice. But that's not what the Bible teaches And that's certainly not what marks a true believer. The Bible says this in Proverbs 19, verse 11: the discretion of a man defers his anger, and it is his glory to pass over a transgression. The discretion here that it's talking about is wisdom. And it's wise to control your anger, the Bible says. Wisdom is slow to anger. When someone sins against you and you're willing to overlook that, give it a pass, the Bible says that is your glory. You're never more like God than when you forgive. And Scripture teaches us that the normal pattern of forgiveness is to be unconditional. The Bible makes clear when our forgiveness must be conditional. But the normal pattern of our forgiveness for all of us is it's just unforgiv uh uh unconditional. We overlook offenses. We overlook sins against us. And we do it in a way where we it's unceremonious, it is unconditional, it is unilateral. You just overlook it. You don't go around telling everyone else what a great person you are because you've forgiven this other person who did this dirty thing to you. You just forgive quietly. You overlook it. The love demands this. 1 Peter 4:8. Above all, keeping love one to another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 13, 5, Love does not behave itself unseemly, seeks not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. That is not easily provoked or thinks no evil really is we could literally translate that doesn't take into account a wrong suffered That's the way love is. Love doesn't take that into the account. The actual word here is really an accounting term to place in a ledger Each of us has a ledger book in our heart. And when there's an offense against us, we put that in the ledger book. Why do we do that? Well, because we want to pay back later. That's why it's in the ledger book. But love doesn't put an offense into the ledger book of our heart. It doesn't take an account of that. It just lets it go. That's biblical forgiveness. Biblical forgiveness is a deliberate decision. Listen to Ephesians 4, verse 32. And be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. The thing I notice about Ephesians four thirty two is it's a command It's in the imperative mood. God is commanding us. He's not commanding an emotion. Sometimes people say, I don't feel like forgiving. Well, it's really not a feeling. It's just a a decision of your will to forgive. You're not trying to command a feeling. Of course you don't feel like forgiving. That's against our human nature. But you make the decision to do it and you let your heart catch up later. You just decide to do that. We have a tendency to be driven by our feelings way too much. Forgiveness is a deliberate choice that runs counter to our feelings. A friend of Clara Barton, who was the founder of the American Red Cross, once reminded her of a a especially cruel thing that someone had done to her and Miss Barton did not seem to recall it. And she said this don't d the friend said, Don't you remember this? And she said, No, I distinctly remember forgetting it. Forgiveness is a choice to not remember. It's a choice to drop the offense. Let me just give you a real quick definition of it. There's really five aspects to forgiveness. Number one, to release the offender from the guilt of his sin. When God forgives us, you know, he hammers down the gavel when he says not guilty. Not guilty. That's what forgiveness is. Whatever the offense is against you, you declare them not guilty That's forgiveness. It's to refuse to bring up the offense, to use against the offender. The Bible says in Hebrews 10, 17, their sins and iniquities will I remember no more. Now God does not have divine amnesia, but God chooses not to bring it up again. He chooses not to talk about it. He chooses not to speak on it or remember it. And that's what forgiveness is. It's choosing not to dwell on it, choosing not to talk about it, not using it against the offender. But then number three is to refuse to think about the offense. Again, thank God God's not in heaven rehearsing over our sins. And number four is to refuse to talk to others about the offense. If you say that you forgive someone, then you tell everyone else about this offense that this person has done against you. You're trying to make the offender pay, which is not forgiveness. That's not forgiveness. You you drop it. It's over with. It's gone. And another thing about biblical forgiveness, it's to be reconciled with the offender as far as is biblically possible. God forgives us so that he might be reconciled to us. To have a close relationship. When we forgive others, we should seek to restore that broken relationship as much as is possible, as much as we're able to. That means that we can at least have a cordial relationship, at least be friends. If I say to a person, I forgive you, but I I never want to see your ugly face again, that's not really forgiveness. So biblical forgiveness is a decision. It's to release the offender from the guilt of his sin, to refuse to bring up the offense to use against them. It is to refuse to think about the offense. It's to refuse to talk about this to others. It's to be reconciled with the offender as much as is possible. Now, admittedly, that's not always easy. And we can't do this in our own strength. We're unable to do this. So how do we do this? To forgive others in this manner, and here's the whole point. Please don't miss this. To forgive others, and the way the Bible tells us to forgive, we have to remember how much God has forgiven us in Christ. Right. When you remember that, forgiveness is not so hard. So that's the whole point of this Parable that Jesus is going to give here in Matthew eighteen. I want you to notice three things from our passage. First of all, the pride of unforgiveness Notice in verse 21, Peter comes up with a question. Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him, till seven times? So Peter starts off with asking a question. Peter was the disciple that was always speaking out, always making confessions, always asking questions. Often he put his foot into his mouth. But we're thankful for Peter's questions because it helps the rest of us. And Peter had basically Uh when a person sins against you, what are you to do when a brother sins? And the church is a family, we are accountable to one another. If my brother sins, I need to help them. If they're overtaken in a fault, I need to approach them in the spirit of love, hoping for reconciliation. And remember that this process is not for every offense. This is, remember, our general attitude is to overlook offenses, but when there's a sin in a person's life where it's damaging them or potentially damaging the others in the body of Christ or shame in the name of Christ, then we have to be conditional in our forgiveness. Then we have to approach. And Jesus gave us the process. We already went over that, four steps, talk to them privately, take two or three witnesses, tell the church, if they still don't repent and all of that, you regretfully you must treat them as an outsider. Now, Jesus had just talked about that, so Peter asked a question in verse 21. Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? I mean, how many times do we have to go through this process, Lord? What if they do it again? What if we forgive them and they do it again? What is the implication of that question? That there should be some limit to our forgiveness, right? I mean there there should come a point in time when a person sins and and we forgive them and they sin and we forgive them and then after a while we say you know what we don't have to keep keep forgiving you You know, there's a limit to this. That's the implication. And Peter's concerned about himself. Sin against me. Lord, how many times am I allowed to be sinned against? I mean this is personal. I mean we don't want to be a doormat, right? I don't want to be a doormat. I don't want people to keep sinning against me. When can we say enough? I mean, there is in all of us this self-defense where we put up a wall around us when we get hurt, we're tired of getting hurt, and we kind of want to put a wall around us and we kind of want to say, you know what, I I don't need to be hurt anymore. I don't want to be hurt anymore. So we we we put up that defense. That's that's that's human nature to do that. That's understandable. But Peter in his question, he kind of gives a suggestion. He's kind of helping Jesus out here, Lord Seven times? Now you have to understand that according to Jewish tradition, a person was could be forgiven three times. But on the fourth offense, according to Jewish tradition, you didn't have to forgive. If it happened four times. Where did they get that? Well, the Jewish rabbis got that from the Old Testament, Amos chapter one. Where the Bible says, Thus saith the Lord, for three transgressions of Damascus, and for four I will not turn away his punishment. And then he goes down the list of others, Gaza, three transgressions, but on the fourth you'll be punished, and so on But also in Job 33, 29, behold, God does all these things twice, three times with a man. And because of verses like this, rabbis taught that you had to forgive a person three times, but on the fourth offense, that's when you don't have to forgive. That's when divine punishment comes. One rabbi said, He who begs forgiveness from his neighbor must not do so more than three times. So he only had to forgive three times on the fourth time. You don't have to forgive. And I think Peter is very proud of his comment. I think he thinks he's being really generous. Lord. Seven times? So he doubles the three and adds one more over good measure? Seven times? I think Peter was thinking the Lord was going to say, Peter, how gracious you are. How generous. Wow. What a guy. Seven times, my goodness. But I think the Lord's response to Peter shocked him. I think it shocked him. Look at verse 22. And Jesus saith unto him, I say unto thee, until seven times, but until seventy times seven. I I I think that Peter's mouth dropped open. I think that he was shocked. I think that the people that heard were shocked. This lumber this number is so large That how do you keep count? Four hundred and ninety times? And s let me take care of this while I got it. He uh what is the Lord doing here? This is he this is not being literal. In other words, what's the message? You just keep on forgiving. You just keep on forgiving. That's the whole point here. Even if it's possible for a person to sit against you 490 times in one day, that person should still be forgiven. So don't forade the vengeance and the unforgiving spirit as if it's some type of virtue, like some people were doing in that day. Like I've already done all the forgiving I'm gonna forgive, and now I have a right to be angry. Now I have a right to be vengeful. Unforgiveness is not a virtue, it is a manifestation of pride, of selfish pride. So then there's the parable here of unforgiveness. So here's scene one. So Jesus gives a parable right on the heels of that. Look at verse 23. Therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. So Jesus gives this parable. Here's a king who has servants. Take account. That is, this king wants to settle his books here. The servants here really were household servants. They had the responsibility, if you're in the household of a king, to do the king's bidding and part of that was to help them take care of taxes, levying taxes and collecting taxes. And then they were to be turned over to the Royal Treasury. This of course is a great big responsibility. And in the process of having his books audited, this king discovers that one of his servants has been skimming off the top and taking it for himself. And the amount that he has stolen for himself was a huge amount. Look at verse 24. And when he had begun to reckon, he was brought unto him uh which owed him ten thousand talents. That's an enormous sum. Let me let me explain to you what this would be in that day. A talent is the highest monetary standard that they had in this time. And the Greek literally reads myriads of talents. So a talent was the weight of a soldier that he carried on his backpack, about 75 to 100 pounds. A talent equaled 600 denarii One denarius was equal to one day's pay. Alright, so you think about that. One talent would be twenty years work for an average worker. One talent. In comparison about this time when they were collecting taxes, the Roman government was taking from that region taxes from Idumea and Judea and Samaria and the total amount collected for that whole area for taxes. That went to the Roman government was 600 talents. Think about that. Galilee was taxed 300 talents. We're talking about one man stealing 10,000 talents. That is enormous. Just again to give you an idea, if you multiplied the price of gold today, the an ounce of gold, you multiplied that And then you added 75 pounds and then by 10,000 talents and you do all the math on that, what you come up with, the equivalent worth of that today would be $15 million. Excuse me, not no. And so look at verse 25. But for as much as he had not to pay, his Lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife and his children, and all that he had, and payment to be made. So the king makes a decree, since his slave will never be able to pay back this debt, everything that he had would be confiscated, his wife would be taken as a slave, his children would be taken and sold into slavery. The king could never r uh collect the loss, but that's what they did in that day, if you couldn't pay a debt. There was no such thing as just declaring bankruptcy. Couldn't do that. All this man had would be taken, and everybody would be sold into slavery. And so notice his desperation. Look at verse 26. And the servant therefore fell down and worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Here the servant falls down. This is quite a prayer. First of all, he's in the right position. He falls down. I think the man was devastated. He was at the end because he knew that He could never pay back this debt. What he was facing was just a loss of freedom, permanent bondage. And uh he was overwhelmed. By what he had done. And the Bible says he worshipped him. And he said, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. There's no way he could have ever paid all that back. No way he could have ever done that. But notice in verse 27, then the Lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosen and forgave him the debt. This is incredible. He forgave an absolutely incomprehensible debt in a moment of compassion for this debtor. The phrase loosed to means that he was absolutely, completely uh forgiven. The whole debt had been completely canceled out. All of it canceled out. It was wiped out And why did he do that? Why would he do that? Compassion. It was he he genuinely loved this servant. The Lord, this king, happened to love that servant. Just the way God loves us. And when he saw this man in this situation, he saw that there was no remedy. He saw that he would never be able to repay that debt. There was no way Yet his love for that servant was not diminished, he continued to love him. And the king forgave him the uh servant. Literally the Greek reads forgave him the loan. He just considered it a loan instead of money embezzled, and he canceled it all out. He canceled it out. He said it's gone. It's gone This is incredible forgiveness. Incredible forgiveness. But I want you to notice scene two, forgiveness refused. Look at verse number 28. But the same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants, which owed him a hundred pence. And he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. So notice what happens now. This man being fully and freely forgiven by the compassionate king, what does he do? He goes out and he looks for one of his servants. This wasn't just he happened to bump into one of his servants. No, he went out looking for someone who owed him one of his servants. And he found him. And when he found him, he grabs them, the Bible says, pay me what you owe. Now, the Bible says here that this servant owed him about a hundred pence. How much is that? It's about eighteen dollars. Here this guy goes out, finds a guy who owes him eighteen bucks. And then he seizes him. He laid his hands on him and he took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. I mean, we don't read the king grabbing the guy by the throat when he owed the king. But here this guy he grabs them by the throat. Roman writers often speak of men going about to their debtors, wrenching their neck until blood ran out of their nose and mouth. This is the old collection agency approach. Wants to strangle the guy to death if he doesn't pay. And notice his response in the fellow servant In verse 30, and his fellow servant fell down at his feet and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, I will pay thee all. Does that sound familiar? That's exactly what that guy prayed before the king. Back in verse 26. Same exact thing. And he was forgiven, yet this guy here, he refuses to forgive. Pay me what thou owest. And verse 30, and he would not, but went and cast him into prison till he should pay the debt. This wasn't this wasn't a big debt. I mean 18 bucks But again, the way to force a person to pay would be to throw them into prison, forcing the family or the sons or someone to pay the debt. The family would have to come up with a payment. I mean the contrast was is obvious here, isn't it? What is stressed here is the terrible hypocrisy of the man who had been forgiven for so much and yet he refused to give to forgive this little debt. This is a lack of compassion. But then I want you to notice scene number three. I call this forgiveness revoked. Because word gets back get gets back to the king. Look at verse 31. So when his servant fellow servants saw what was done, they were very sorry. So there's some fellow servants that actually see all this taking place. They know this guy, they know he had been forgiven by the king, then they saw his actions toward this other servant. And they saw all this. They saw this person's unwillingness to forgive this man, and they were Excessively grieved. That's really what the word here means. They were grieved. And that should be our reaction when we see one Christian refusing to forgive another. They were grieved. And I think that perhaps these guys, before they go to the king, they're going to go to the king and tell the king what happened. But I think that and and I'm kind of reading in this a little bit, but I'm thinking uh I can imagine these guys going to this guy first and saying, hey, don't you realize you've been forgiven for so much? Don't you want to forgive him? And this guy just would not. So they come to the king, and look at verse 31. So when his fellow servants saw that what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their Lord all that was done. In their sorrow, this group came and they reported to the king what had taken place. I can just see these guys coming before the king. with broken hearts saying, you know what, here's what happened, even though he was forgiven for so much. And we we talked to him about it, but he will not forgive. And they bring it to the king. I think that's a picture of believers when we seek to restore another who has sinned, or perhaps someone else who has not been forgiven, and they refuse to do it. Finally we just have to bring it to the Lord. We have to bring it to God. And the Greek word says they told him. That is, they gave him a carefully outlined detail of everything that happened. Everything. And notice the rage of the king. Look at verse 32. Then his Lord, after he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant. I forgave thee all that debt, because thou besoughtest me. He comes and says, You're a wicked servant. As much as I've forgiven you, I forgave you all the debt. And again, this is the whole key to the whole story. You have been forgiven this huge, insurmountable Debt. I forgave you all. I wiped it out. It's gone. And you for you refuse to forgive this man for this little debt that he owes you? And the Bible says in verse 34, and his Lord was wrath, and delivered him to the tormentors. Till he should pay all that was due unto him. There's a third part of this, and I call this the punishment of unforgiveness. The punishment of unforgiveness. So let's kind of interpret this together. I know that you've already put this together in your mind. The compassion of king represents who? God, right? The debt represents what? Sin. In the Bible, sin is often given as a debt, represented by debt. The servant who incurred the debt, who is that? Well, that's me. That's you. You realize that we incurred a huge debt against the Holy God that we could never repay Every person in here, we have we are we're all in debt to sin, a debt that none of us could ever pay, ever, against the holy God. Who is the fellow servant here? It's our fellow believer, our brother, our sister in Christ. And here's the point. We are the servant that racked up the insurmountable debt, and since God has forgiven us for all the sins that we've sinned against His holy name, we should in turn immediately, freely, completely forgive all of the little debts that people have incurred against us You say why I uh You know, ha i it's hard for me just to imagine that I've sinned that much against God. Well let me help you. Let me help you. One sin against God is enough to damn you to hell. You understand that? He is holy. He is holy. How just would a judge be if uh he let a criminal go Because he said, Oh, you know, you only did this one time, so I'm just gonna let you go. What about a judge who would let you go for many sins? But God does not do that. God is holy. So let's just imagine with me, let's just suppose that I'll just use myself as an example, so I won't make you feel so bad. I'll be the wretch What if I sinned against God three sins a day? Three sins a day. That's about a thousand sins a year. And by the way, that's giving me a whole lot of credit. Three cents a day. If I add that up, that's about a thousand cents a year. My age, I'm much younger. No. King. Now I'm uh sixty years old, sixty-one, gonna be sixty-two. But anyway, that's about sixty thousand sins against a holy God. And again, that's given me a lot of credit. Sixty thousand sins. You just multiply that by a whole lot more. And yet, God, when I came to Christ, wiped that slate clean It's clean before a holy God. It's gone. It's gone. Jay Adams illustrates it like this. He says, imagine sitting in a movie theater. The theater is packed and the show is about to begin. Then you discover that this movie is the unedited, undeleted story of your entire life. And the soundtrack will contain everything that you have ever said. In fact, the movie will project everything you have ever thought, including all the things you would have liked to have done if you thought you could have gotten away with it. That's all going to be put in front of the screen there. For everyone to see. Every one of us is relieved that that movie does not exist. However, it does exist in the mind of God. God sees all that It exists in God's mind because God is omniscient. He knows every thought of your heart. But you know what God does with that movie reel when you come to Jesus Christ? He takes it and he casts it into the deepest sea. It's gone. It's gone. You are forgiven all when you come to Christ. Because of what Jesus did on the cross. He took all of those sins upon himself. He paid your sin debt, and when you put your faith in the finished work of Christ, it's gone. They're all gone because of Christ. Who do the tormentors in this story represent? Who are the tormentors? Remember in verse 34, his Lord with wrath and delivered him to the tormentors till he should pay all that was due. Well, this is God's chastisement for unforgiveness. This is God's punishment for an unforgiving heart. Do you wonder why there might be trouble in your life? Wonder why maybe God's not blessing you? Why you're not why you're miserable? Why things aren't going well? Why you feel as if you have inquisitors or tormentors in your life tormenting you? That's the pressure of God's chastisement being applied when you because you lack this joy, you lack this freedom, because you have stored up Offense after offense, offense after offense, and you refuse to let it go, you refuse to forgive forgive. And my friend, bitterness is a is an acid that destroys its own container. It's destroying you. The problem is you just need to for you need to forgive. You need to let it go. And again, the perspective for doing that is for what based on what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. That's the basis of it. And by the way, an unforgiving spirit doesn't stay in its container. I've noticed this in a lot of counseling. Then a person might be angry or bitter against someone who has hurt them, but that anger doesn't stay directed to that one person. That anger and that bitterness spills out and it's directed to all the people around them. This person becomes eaten up and angry and bitter at everyone around them, even the people that love them the most. They become attacked by this one angry person that is unwilling to forgive the offense, and it is eating them up. And everyone else around is being splashed with bitterness that spills out from this one person. You live in a prison of unforgiveness. See, my fear is it's the spirit of this world, the attitude of anger, this Age of rage is filling into the church where we feel like we have this right to nurse these feelings, these grudges. We've been influenced by the hatred. Of our age, the hatred of the world, the anger of the world. Everyone's telling you you have a right to be angry. Politicians are telling you that. Activists are telling you that. And quite frankly, we have people in government places and high places in government that are not a very good example of this. But we are children of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we do what we do for the glory of God. So I would just encourage you to remember what Christ has done for you. Remember the sin debt that has been forgiven against you. And also Be willing to remove from the leisure book of your heart all of those who you have been piling up. Free all the prisoners from your heart. Just open up the prison doors and let them free and be free and experience the joy and the freedom of forgiveness in your life. And you know what? You do it for the glory of God. Forgiveness is my responsibility. It's a choice of my will to release a debt by faith to the glory of God. That's forgiveness. And that's what God expects of all of us. Let's bow for prayer. Father, there are no words that are sufficient to give you the thanks that you're worthy of. For the sins that you have forgiven us for. There's no words that give you the praise and the honor and the glory that you're due, because, Lord, of your grace and your forgiveness. For giving us your Son Jesus Christ, who took all of our sins upon himself and was crucified. Suffered and died to satisfy your wrath over our sins, to be forgiven for so much. God forgive us for harboring petty offenses, sins against us. Lord, help us through your grace by remembering the cross. To be able to release all the debtors that are in our heart, to clear the ledger book, to open up the prison, free all the prisoners And experience the freedom of forgiveness. That forgiveness that you've given us in Christ. May we Grant that to all around us. And may Lord we be able to see, to say before we leave today, my heart is free. I'm free. I've forgiven all. Might not feel like it, but I choose, by the choice of my will, to hammer down the gavel and say not guilty. I forgive. Lord, give us this grace, and we pray in Jesus' name