We're going to look in Matthew chapter 13. If you've been here on Sunday night, you know we've been looking at the parables of our Lord Jesus here in Matthew 13. And tonight we consider yet another parable And in these parables, Jesus is trying to teach us mysteries regarding the kingdom of God. Now I want you to read along with me or follow along as I read in verse 31, the next parable in this string of parables that he gives. Verse 31. Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field. which indeed is the least of all seeds, but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof Now, these parables here that Jesus gives to his disciples and also to us are given for the purpose of encouraging us by letting us know God's plan, what he's going to do. in this age in the kingdom. Most believers, I'm sure, from time to time struggle with discouragement. Perhaps there are times when we wonder if the the diligent work that we do in the church and in the kingdom Uh if i is it really making a difference? Sometimes we labor and it seems like the rewards for our labor are somewhat meager. And reading, I have found that even godly pastors go through low times. They wonder if the investment they have made is really producing results. If you're taking notes, write down number one, a small scene. This is how it starts out, a small scene. And again, look in verse 31, another parable putting forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of a mustard seed which a man took and stowed in his field. Now Jesus again is telling what it's going to be like in the kingdom as it grows and as it develops. And here he again uses a very familiar story. He uses a story of a mustard seed. And think about with me the size of the seed. Notice that's the focus here. This seed is very, very small. A grain of the mustard seed. Which Jesus says in verse 32, which is the least, and indeed is the least of all seeds. Now the mustard seed that Jesus is referring to here is the black mustard seed, the synapses niggas as it is called. It was a very, very small seed, and indeed Jesus said it was the smallest of seeds. Now let me just say that there are some people that come along and they use this here to question the accuracy of the Bible. Here they accuse Jesus of making an error. They say, well, Jesus said this was the smallest of seeds and we know that there are seeds that are smaller than the mustard seed. And so this is proof that the Bible has errors in it. And we got you here Now, beloved, just let me tell you that don't be afraid of these kind of arguments. The Bible can withstand the most hostile scrutiny of its enemies and the liberals You say, well, how do we respond to those accusations? Well, first of all, it was the smallest need, excuse me, known to the people in Palestine. Remember, keep this in context. Jesus is addressing his audience. He's addressing the people of Palestine. And to those people there, this was the smallest seed. They didn't know any seed smaller than that of the mustard seed. Keep in mind, Jesus wasn't teaching a botany lesson or an agricultural lesson. He wasn't addressing those issues. He was just telling a familiar story, one that everyone knew very well. But also notice where it says the grain of a mustard seed. That would be the good translation, the more literal translation, a grain of a mustard seed, the Greek word kokos, a single grain. Not just the seed, but the grain of a mustard seed. Let me read to you what the great professor and scholar J. Dwight Pentecost explains about this. He explains it very well. He was visiting in Israel one time and a guide was explaining to him and showing him the grain of a mustard sea. This is what he wrote, quote The guy took us to what appeared to be a tree, some ten to twelve feet high, and removed a seed pod. And when he opened it, we saw the familiar mustard seed. Then the guide put the seed in the palm of his hand and he crushed it with his thumb. What appeared to be a smudge of black dust spread out of the crushed seed. This dust was identified by the guide as the seed of the mustard, or we could say the grain of the mustard seed. And so he says what we familiar uh see as the mustard seed is really just a container For a multitude of smaller seeds that are like grains. And again, this is exactly what Jesus is referring to here. The Greek is very specific the grain of a mustard sea which is so very small that it's hard to even see. Now are you listening, Mr. Liberal? Hammer away, ye hostile hands. Your hammer breaks. God's handle stands. You're not going to be able to find anything wrong with the scripture. Now, did you know also that the rabbis used the mustard seed as a symbol of something that was extremely small? And so Jesus is telling us here that the kingdom of heaven is going to start out just like that. In the beginning stages of the kingdom, it's going to be very, very small, almost invisible. And if you're not careful, you could overlook it. That's how the kingdom will start. Now Jesus here is referring to his own ministry Again, there were multitudes that followed, but that those multitudes didn't reflect people who truly believed on his name. We already saw in Matthew 11 where that Jesus pronounced a curse upon the Jewish cities because they did not believe on him. There was just a handful of people that truly believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. In Luke chapter 13, verse 23, the disciples asked Jesus this question. They said, Lord, are there few that will be saved? Now why did they ask that question? Jesus was taking his final journey into Jerusalem and they were stopping in villages and towns and again preaching the gospel of the kingdom and there weren't many people responding and the disciples said Lord there is there going to be few That will be saved because they weren't seeing the results that they thought they should see. In Luke chapter 12, verse 32, he addressed them as little flock. Listen to what the verse says Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Now the word for little there is mikros. It's where we get the word micro. Very, very small. Jesus said, fear not, little flock. God is going to give to you the kingdom. And so they started out very, very small. Think about it. In the upper room, how many followers were there in the upper room after Jesus ascended to heaven? There was what, 120? Just 120 people. And so the kingdom of God seemed very, very small. It seemed very, very insignificant at the beginning. But I want to tell you something, friends, when God works, he often starts small. He starts in the beginning with something small. When the nation of Israel started, he started with one man And a woman who couldn't bear children, and from that grew out the mighty nation of Israel. Zechariah 4. 10, for who has despised the day of small things? And by the way, this is the reason why a lot of people were not uh grabbing hold of Jesus and the ministry there, because they were expecting when the Messiah came, he would come with a great fanfare, with a great splash That he would overthrow the shackles of Rome, he would set himself up as king, that he would lead the people into a time of freedom and prosperity. None of those things happened None of those things. And so people were wondering. And again, notice it's seed, not plural, but seed singular. And notice that this man here that plants this seed, he's not scattering then seeds all over. It's just one individual small seed. This is unlike the first parable where we see a sower just sowing thousands of seeds. It's unlike the second parable where this was a householder who had servants who went out and scattered seed in his field. Here's a man, and he's planting just one seed. There's not a lot of fan there about planting one little seed. I mean that doesn't make front page news. This is something that is done secretly almost. Invisibly. This man just plants a seed. So we see the size of the seed And then think secondly about the sowing of the seed. Look again, which a man took and sowed in what? In his field. Now, again, just like the first two parables, what does a seed represent? It's the word of God. Okay? And so We see some common denominators here about these first three parables. There's a sower, there's a seed, there's a field, and then there's the sowing of the seed But here, this man, he has his own little field. Notice it's his field. By the way, Christians, do you know that God has given you your field in which to sow a seed? He's giving you your own place. You say, what's my field? And by the way, Jesus is a landowner. He's the one that we will give an account to one day. But you have a field or you have a garden that God has given to you, and what God wants you to do is He wants you to plant your seed in that field that He has given to you. You say, What what is the field? Well it could be where you work The places you go, the neighborhood in which you live, your own home, the community around you, whatever area of responsibility that you have, whatever area place where you live That is your field. This man had his field, and he put his seed in his field. And that's what God wants you to do. He wants you to plant that seed. And until you do, you won't see anything happen. Sometimes people say, well, aren't more people getting saved? Well, how many seeds have you been planting in your field? You see, you know, what if you go home and you go to the garden nursery when spring comes and you buy a package of seeds, let's say they're tomato. plant seeds and then you go and you uh uh the the uh you read the package and it says that you should expect tomatoes within several weeks and then you put that pack on your shelf and after a few weeks you say I don't see any tomatoes You take the pack back to the gardener and you say, hey, now wait a minute. This package said I should see some uh some fruit. And the gardener says, well when did you plant the seeds? You say plant the seeds I didn't know you were supposed to plant the seeds. You see, I can't think of anybody that would be that stupid unless it's the Christian who expects to see a harvest and does not plant the seed in the field. And we see that all the time in church. We wonder, why aren't there more people getting saved? Well, how much seed are you planting? You have to plant the seed in the field And so this man, we don't know who he is. We don't know his name. He's unknown. He just takes his seed and he puts it down into the field. And that's it. He doesn't do it in a fancy way. He just plants the seed. He doesn't use, you know, uh wonderful techniques when he does it. He just plants the seed. You say, why are you bringing that up? Because I think sometimes we think that we have to come up with all these cutting-edge methods to get the church to grow. No, you just got to plant the seed. I think there's a lot of preaching out there that actually takes away from the growth of the church rather than adding to the growth of the church The Apostle Paul said that. He said, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ be made of none effect. Sometimes a person can get up there and they can be so overpowering in their oratory and their speech and they can run back and forth and be so dynamic that the people get their eyes off the message And they get it on the messenger, and people start to think that's the way that the gospel should be preached with all this fanfare. But I want to tell you something, friend. The power is not in the messenger, the power is in the message. In the gospel itself. It's in the seed itself. All this man did was he just sowed the seed, he planted it, and it began to grow Now, let me go to the second point. Not only the size of the small small seed, but write down number two, a sizable shrub. A sizable shrub. Look at verse number 32, which indeed is the least of all seeds. But when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs. Now, again, here Jesus is giving a contrast between a small beginning and a large ending. He's stressing the difference between the minuscule size of the seed, which you can barely see in the palm of your hand, and the great shrub that it produces. What we see here is the power of the seed. Notice that phrase, but when it is grown. And again, I want to emphasize: there's power in that seed. It produces life. Friend, that's what the gospel does. That's what the Word of God does. It produces life. It's the only message that can produce life. You know, we can't uh make a seed in spite of all the advances of medical science, or excuse me, modern science, no one can produce anything as simple as a living seed. You can assemble together all the brilliant scientists of the world. They can study seeds. They can struck a study the DNA structure of a seed. But no one can create a seed with life in it. Only God does that. And friend, there's only one message in the world today that has life in it. Oh men, they come together and they have all their philosophies, they have all their messages, but there's only one message. That produces life. There's power in a seed. Have you ever thought about the power of a seed? I mean, if you put some seeds underneath the foundation of your house, you know what? You might have a tree growing through your living room if you're not careful. It'll push everything out of the way. We've seen sidewalks where uh a seed got in between the crack and that something grew up and it just separated those huge slabs of concrete Because there's power in that seed. You just give it time, and you'll see the power that comes out of that seed. You look at the giant Redwood trees in California, 300 feet tall, 30 feet wide. They come from just a very small seed. And friend, that's the way it is with the Word of God and the kingdom. It is powerful. It can transform not just individual lives, but whole cultures, whole nations. I recommend you read some books, if you don't believe that. Don Richardson's book, The Peace Child, and Lords of the Earth. If you want to read us some exciting stories of how the gospel has gone into a culture and just totally transformed that culture. You read books like that and you'll see the power of the gospel on display. I was reading the story of a man by the name of Chester Biderman. He was a translator for Wycliffe Bibles. uh translators and in 1981 he was murdered by Colombian terrorists. And a reporter went down to interview the family And this reporter was probing into the family because he thought that perhaps this missionary had some ties with the CIA, that perhaps this missionary was a a covert operator for the CIA. Because he could not understand why the Columbians would kill this man just for translating the Bible into the language of the people. That didn't make sense to him But what the Columbians understood and what this reporter didn't understand is that there's power in the Word of God. And it's the greatest weapon that is out there. They knew that that word could trans form cultures. There's more power in the Word of God than all the weapons in all the world. And so there's the power of the seed. But notice the product of the seed. Again, it's the greatest among the herbs It grows up into a large tree. Now, just some interesting facts about the mustard plant. A mustard plant can grow very large in a single season. They have a large and rapid growth. The oriental mustard plant in one season can reach a height of 12 to 15 feet. Now remember when Jesus said when it's grown, it becomes the greatest of the herbs, and that is true. It's generally viewed as the largest of garden plants. And so again, Jesus is teaching us here that the kingdom of God is going to start out very small, but it's going to grow, and it's going to be large. That's what's going to happen in the end. It's going to be a sizable shrub. That's what's going to happen. Now again, this had to encourage the disciples. This was going to be the end result. Now let me give you the third point. We see a small seed, and then we see a sizable shrub, and then larger than that, just write down number three, a strong shelter. A strong shelter. Look again in verse 32. And become of the tree so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof. Now what's the point here that Jesus is making? That in this parable that the kingdom of God, although it will start out small, it's going to grow big, and it's going to get to be so big That it's going to bless all of the world. It's going to bless all of the nations. What's going to happen in the end? The birds of the air are going to come and they're going to lodge. in the branches of this mustard seed tree. And again, the word lodge here to fix one's abode, to dwell, to build a nest in. And so this thing becomes so b so big, so strong, so stable, that the birds can come and they can lodge there in those branches. These are not just flimsy flexible branches. These are sturdy branches in which they can build a nest, in which they can find shelter. In fact Mark in his gospel, in the parallel passage, he gives an even stronger, I think, image of this. Write down Mark 4. 32. But when it is sown, it groweth up And becometh greater than all the herbs, and shooteth out great branches, so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of him. So the birds nesting, finding shadow and shelter under this tree, what does that communicate? That is communicates blessing. That communicates refuge. That communicates a shelter. And so this tree is going to be a blessing. This tree is going to be a sanctuary. Now let me just say that there are some who interpret this, the birds, in this parable. to represent the work of Satan, to repres represent demon spirits and evil forces that will come and lodge in the branches there And they point to the birds in the f in the first parable as being, you know, the the work of Satan, snatching up the seed when it falls on stony ground. Now, I don't believe that that's the idea here I think that the birds, although they may they uh they certainly do represent the work of Satan in the parable of the soils, I don't think that means that we have to say that the birds represent the same thing here Remember the whole point here is encouragement of the kingdom of God growing and getting bigger. The idea of evil, evil is alien to the context of this individual parable I think. We know Satan is going to try to oppose the kingdom. We understand that. But despite all of his opposition, the kingdom of God is going to continue to grow and get bigger and bigger, so much so that the birds are going to come and lodge in it. You say, what do the birds speak of? I think it speaks of all of the nations of the world. They say why that why do you believe that? Well you remember in the Old Testament Nebuchadnezzar had a dream. You remember this story. Remember it was a dream about himself. There was a tree, and it grew to be so big In his dreams that all of the birds in the world could build a nest in this tree. And all the animals of the field could come under the shade of this tree. And it produced so much fruit that it could feed everyone in the world This tree represented Nebuchadnezzar and the kingdom of Babylon. You remember in that story that that's what that represented. Why? Well the Babylonian Empire had grown and there's a sense in which it was a a benefit to all the world. They had advanced the world in arts, literature, architecture, e uh the economy agriculture and all those things. There's a sense in which the the the uh the Babylonian Empire did help all of the world. Now of course we know God was reminding Nebuchadnezzar in that dream that God was the one who did all that, not just Nebuchadnezzar. But nevertheless, in that dream, all of the birds represented the nations of the world that find refuge. in that tree. Also write down Ezekiel 31, verses 3 through 6, talking about the Assyrian Empire. What does God compare the Assyrian Empire to? He compares it to a large cedar of Lebanon. And notice what God says about this huge tree that was so high it had huge branches. In verse 6 of Ezekiel 31, all the fowls of heaven make their nests And its branches, and under its branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young, and under his shadow dwelt all great nations. So in the Old Testament, when Uh birds or animals found shelter under the branches of a tree. It consistently represented the nations Now I think Jesus was aware of this. I think the disciples were aware of this. And I think the whole idea here is the kingdom of God, starting out tiny and small, is going to grow big. So much so that it's going to bless all of the world. Now again, remember the purpose of this parable is to encourage the disciples. Because they're looking around. They don't see a whole lot happening. Things weren't going the way they thought. And they were wondering, is this thing going to survive? Is this this kingdom going to survive? And Jesus is teaching them that it will. Not only will it survive, it's going to bless the whole world. In fact, let me give you another parallel. Go to Matthew 16. I think Jesus is saying the same thing here in Matthew 16. Now here in this chapter, Jesus withdraws his disciples into the city of Caesarea Philippi, which is 25 miles northeast of the Sea of Galilee. And remember that this city is filled with temples and false gods and uh or temples built to false gods, I should say. And Jesus is going to elicit a confession from the disciples. Notice chapter 16, look in verse number 13. And when Jesus came into the coast of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? And they say, some say that thou art John the Baptist, and some Elias, and others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. And he saith unto, Say ye that I am. Now here's Peter. He's the spokesman for the disciples in verse 16. And Simon Peter had answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. Well, that's a great confession there. Now remember, this is exam time for the disciples. Jesus, their teacher, was giving them an exam. He had been with them now for two and a half years. He had taught them He had discipled them, and now he wants to get this matter settled in their mind and in their heart once and for all. Who do you say that I am? Now someone will say, now wait a minute, didn't this didn't the disciples already Believe that he was the Son of God? Well, sure, they confessed that at the beginning of his ministry. They believe what John the Baptist said. Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sin of the world. They believe that But you know what? They began to do go through times of doubt. You say why? Because they saw all of the negative reaction. Even John the Baptist in Matthew 11 Say, are you this one or should we look for another? Even John the Baptist went through a time of doubt. And the disciples were going back and forth on this whole matter And it was getting close to the time where Jesus was going to go to the cross, so he says, I want you to settle this in your heart now and forever. Who do you say that I am? And Peter said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And I love the response that Jesus gave. Look at verse 17 And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father what? Peter, you didn't come up with that answer on your own God the Father revealed that to you. And based on this confession, Jesus blesses Peter And then he gives a promise. And look at the promise in verse 18. And I say unto thee, thou art Peter, and upon this rock will I build my church. Upon what rock? The rock of Peter's confession, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And based on that confession, on that rock Jesus said, I'm going to build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Now again, this had to be a great encouragement to the disciples. Because later on Jesus is going to prepare them. He's telling them he's going to die. He's telling them what's going to happen. But he's saying, I'm going to build my church. And after Jesus was gone, they had the huge responsibility of taking the gospel out into the world. And for a time there, everything looked bleak for the disciples. When the church first started out, it didn't look all that good. The pastor of the church, Jesus, was crucified as a criminal. The treasurer, Judas, he had run off and betrayed the Lord. Uh the board, the board members all ran. The only ones there with the cross were a few ladies from the women's ministry. Amen, women. That was the only thing that was really going on. And it didn't look very good. But I want to tell you something, friend. The church and the kingdom is not in man's hands. It's in God's hands. And even when things don't look good, you can rest assured on this. Jesus said, I will build my church. I will build my church. You know what? God didn't call me to build a church You know why? Because Jesus is going to build his church. He's the builder. He built the world. He was the carpenter. He is building a mansion for you and me in heaven. And friend, right now, he is building his church. He is the head of the church. And this is the promise that Jesus gave to his disciples. It starts out small. But it's going to grow big. And it's going to begin to be so big. It's going to be a strong shelter that's going to bless the whole world. Now let me ask you a question. Did this happen? Is this happening? Well, let me give you some statistics. Now, of course, you know on the day of Pentecost there were 120 believers that were in the upper room. Peter preached on the day of Pentecost, and how many were saved on Pentecost? 3,000, we know that. Shortly after that, 5,000 more were saved and added to the church. You talk about church growth. There's 8,000 instantly. Then there came a time of persecution to the church, a persecution that ended in 313 A. D. with the Edict of Toleration. There were about at this time 10 million professing Christians alive in 8313. 10 million. By the year 1,000, this number had grown to 50 million Christians. And keep in mind you have people dying. And other people coming to know Christ. So the church is getting bigger and bigger. By the end of the 1700s, most of the missionary uh endeavors had kind of stalled, yet the number of professing Christians had grown to 215 million. That's an increase of 165 million in 800 years. In 1795, the modern missionary movement began with William Carey, who sparked that. We call him the father of Baptist missions, that great man. He pushed missions And by the year 1900, the number had grown to 500 million professing Christians. That's an increase of 285 million in one century. Then by 1980 Just eighty years short, uh eighty short years later I should say, that number had grown to 1. 3 billion professing Christians. Then by nineteen ninety, that number had grown roughly to one point eight billion Christians. That's an increase of one point three billion in the twentieth century alone. And around the world today, it is estimated that there are two and a half billion Christians around the world. So, and by the way, there's nothing that approaches this in the annals of history for something like this to grow in this manner So is Jesus building his church? Absolutely. He's building his church. That little mustard seed that was planted in the ground is growing up to be a big tree. And the nations of the world are coming and finding refuge in the branches. Now Satan, he doesn't like this. He's going to stop it. But notice what Jesus said again in verse 18. Of chapter 16 in Matthew, I will build my church. And we are notice the next phrase, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. Now, what is the gates of hell here? You know, there's several interpretations to this. Some people say this is a defensive posture for the church. Hell's going to attack the church, but will not be able to overcome it. Some say this is a uh a a uh the church in uh more of an offensive mode, that the the the gates of hell are being attacked by the church I think when it says gates of hell, excuse me, I think what it's referring to here is simply death. Gates of hell is an expression used in the Old Testament to refer to death. The gates of Sheol, the gates of death will not prevail. In other words, Satan will try to stamp out the church through death, and you know what? He's not going to be able to do it. He just won't. And I said this last week. Persecution doesn't hinder the church. It spreads the church. It grows the church. Did you know that there are in Africa there were there were 10 million Christians in 1990? Today, there are over 300 million Christians in Africa. Christianity is not just a Western religion, it is a world religion. And that church grew there in Africa despite the fact that Christians have been persecuted and murdered mercilessly Has that stopped the church from growth? Not at all. Is continuing to grow all over the world despite The persecution because Jesus said the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Jesus is the builder of the church. He's the owner of the church. He said, My church Here in Matthew 16, he's the protector of the church because he said the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Now Let me just uh give you one other illustration and I'll be done. He said, Well, have the birds of the air come and lodged in the branches of the kingdom of God of the church? That is, has the church provided blessing and shelter and refuge to people around the world? Oh let me just give you this one illustration. I thought about this, and I have a lot here, but I just want to give you one more. You know, when I took my first trip to Africa Um I went to Cameroon, Africa, and the guy who uh wanted me to come and and preach to this seminary and these pastors at this conference. Said you have to now listen when we take this trip, this trip is not for the faint of heart. He said, we're going into some rough places. He said the travel is going to be brutal. He said, you just have to be ready for that. You're not going to be staying at a five-star hotel. All right? And so we landed in a place called Douala, Africa. And then we stayed in a house there. We spent the night. And then we set out on a journey. And we traveled all day over really rough terrain. And we ended up in a place called Beminda, Africa. It was funny, you know, last summer when we had the pastoral training thing We had a young man from Africa and I was talking to him. I said, Where are you from? He said, Oh, you never heard of it. It's a village way out of the way in Africa. It's a place called Bemenda. I said, Yeah, I spent the night there. He couldn't believe it We stayed there. It rained incredibly that night. Really bad thunderstorm. And then we got into the Jeep, uh kind of like a van Jeep type thing, and we drove for another whole day Over really bad roads. I thought the roads were bad the first day. But when the rain came it just washed out some places. It was very hard to get over certain areas of that road. But we drove over difficult roads And we drove for another full day. And I'm telling you, we drove up into the mountain jungle area there of Africa. I'm telling you, in the middle of nowhere. And I'm thinking, where in the world are we going? Are there going to be any people when we get there? I remember as we were driving, Uh we were on this really rough dirt road and all of a sudden out of the middle of nowhere We came upon a hospital. I'm talking about in the jungle. A hospital. And it was a beautiful hospital. I was just shocked. I couldn't believe it. There in the middle of nowhere in that jungle mountainous area was this beautiful, beautiful hospital. There were people waiting outside. to get treated in this hospital. We s we stopped there, we rested there for a little while and I found out that and I was just shocked that this thing was even there. How did it get there? Who put it there? Many, many years ago, Baptist missionaries had come into that area and they began preaching the gospel. It started out very small, just one little church. And then more churches developed around that. And then more churches. And pretty soon there were needs, medical needs there, and so they decided to start uh some kind of medical help there and actually it started out as a leper colony to help lepers in that region and then it developed into a full-fledged hospital through the years, to the point that now this hospital there in the middle of that jungle, which is called a Baptist hospital, you know why? It's supported by all the Baptist churches That had grown into that region of Africa, and they're giving their monies to support this hospital, and it treats now 100,000 patients a year. It has 527 people on staff. It has doctors. They can do any kind of medical operation that you can think of. They have beds for 280 people. They're in the middle of nowhere. Why? Because of the church, because of the gospel. Because the mustard seed was planted there, and it grew into a sizable shrub. And then it grew into a strong shelter. And now people from all over can come and find refuge. And shade and the shelter of this place. Because, and friend, that's what the kingdom of God is doing. And I want to tell you that's but one illustration. This is happening all over the world. All over the world, people are coming and finding refuge in the branches Of the church, the kingdom of God, as the Lord Jesus continues to build his church. You know what I think of when I think of that? I'm just glad I get to be a part of this. I'm just glad I get to have a little role in this thing of spreading the gospel. And I want this to encourage you because I want you to know this, friend. Nothing that you do for Jesus Christ and his kingdom is insignificant. Nothing that you do. And the truth of the matter is we don't know what God is doing through our efforts We don't know how far the gospel is spreading because of what we're doing. Let this encourage you, friend. That mustard seed is going to grow into a sizable shrub and then a strong shelter. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you for this parable. Thank you for the encouragement that it gives us May it motivate us to continue to serve with all our heart. Lord, what a privilege that we have to be a part of the ministry, to serve. In any capacity, in any way. I'm preaching tonight, Lord, to servants of God all over. Some in ministry full-time, some who work and support themselves, and yet they serve. No matter what That is, Lord, we're all your servants. No matter how we approach the kingdom or how you use us, Lord, we're all your servants. And Lord, may we all be encouraged to know that the gates of hell is not going to prevail against the church, that the kingdom is going to grow and grow. And others can come and find shelter in the branches. So, Father, may we continue, as we look out over the horizon into the future, may we continue to be faithful to Sun Serve, knowing Lord, that we're on the winning side. We're on the winning side. We know that sin cannot win and faith cannot fail. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.