Much. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Luke, chapter number ten. The past few weeks I've been looking at parables and I want to look at another parable this morning in Luke chapter ten, verse twenty-five. Down to verse uh 37. We'll read a few of these verses. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? Luke chapter 10, verse 25. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And verse 26, and he said unto him, what is written in the law? How readest thou? And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. Thank you very much, you may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, your word, the entrance of your word gives light. It gives understanding unto the simple. Father, we would seek your understanding and all of your word, especially the words spoken in these parables by our Lord Jesus that give us such valuable spiritual insight and truth. So Lord, would you help us today and help me as your servant to make this all clear. And I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now the question, what must I do to inherit eternal life, I think easily that's the most important question that anyone can ever ask. The most important question of your life. It's more important than the question, whom will I marry? It's more important than the question what career path shall I take? What shall I pursue? Life is so uncertain that a person could be in the grave before he marries anyone or has any career We never know when death's going to come. A man who was a scholar and an expert in Old Testament Jewish law asked Jesus this very question, as we've read here in the passage. Now it's possible to ask the right question with the wrong motive. And that's exactly what this Jewish lawyer did. He knew the answer in his head. But his heart was not right with God. And he was not open to the fact that he himself needed eternal life. He was thinking asking this question with the assumption that he himself was all right. But what about others? All he knew was that he knew the law better than any average person since he was a a Jewish lawyer, which means a expert in Old Testament law, and he thought he kept the law. And the reason he asked this question was to test Jesus. He wanted to trip Jesus up. He wanted to demonstrate in front of the crowd that Jesus was speaking to his superior knowledge. of God's word than the Lord Jesus. But Jesus basically turns the question back on him and the parable that he gives him here silences this lawyer. It's kind of like a theological gut punch. that this guy got. He was silenced. This parable is perhaps the best known of all Jesus parables, the most beloved, the most interesting, and has a common story to it that illustrates kindness to strangers. It's a compliment to call somebody a good Samaritan. We need hospitals after this parable. We need mission organizations after this But the lesson of this parable is not merely one of exhorting those to help other people in need. Like most parables that Jesus gave, it goes deeper than that. Most all of the parables that Jesus gave have a element of salvation to it. And certainly this parable is no exception. And he's basically explaining to this lawyer why, who thinks in his own self-righteousness, he's good enough. To inherit eternal life, Jesus illustrates very clearly before this man that that's not the case. And it may be that there are some people here that Just make the assumption, hey, I have eternal life. I know that I'm all right. Well we need to compare the words of our Lord Jesus next to our own life like we do all the time when we read the Bible, right? God's word is the only book that when you read it, it reads you back. So I want us to see three lessons in this story here today. Number one, the priority of love. The great question I call this. And we have to consider the context of this. The real point of the parable becomes really clear when we pay attention to the immediate context. And let me just kind of give you the setting. During Jesus' ministry in Galilee, he met a lot of relentless opposition from religious leaders. They did not like him And Jesus also in Luke chapter 10 was sending his disciples out on these mission, short-term mission projects where they would go and they would help people and then come back and report. And he knew that his disciples Met with opposition and would meet with opposition. And he instructs them in verses ten to twelve. And then he continues with some words of condemn condemnation for three specific towns where Jesus already spent a great deal of time doing a lot of things and it seemed like the people there just simply didn't respond. That's why Jesus pronounces woe. Woe unto you, Khorazin Woe unto you, Bus Sayadah, woe unto you, Capernaum. Uh one time I was over in Israel, I went to that little village of Khorazin And there's nothing there. Absolutely nothing. It's in ruins and it's all nothing but buildings set in black basalt stone. It looks like it would burned up in a fire. I mean literally everything around is just blackstone, it's forsaken, it's gone. And I thought of the words of the Lord Jesus when he pronounced woe, woe in the Eukorus in. And woe unto you, Baseada, and woe unto you of Capernaum, you have been exalted to heaven, but you're going to be brought down to hell. Why was that Well they were exalted to heaven in the sense that they had Jesus Christ himself in their presence giving truth. Friend, that is a foretaste of heaven. But you know what they did to all that? They turned their back on it and they didn't respond. And so Jesus most harsh words, words of condemnation, were given to these towns. Where are some of these religious leaders lived, who already opposed the Lord Jesus. They didn't like him because he was tearing apart their whole religious system and exposing them as religious frauds, who had a form of godliness on the outside, but denied the real power thereof. And this is the point. Here's a legal expert, one of the hostile religious leaders, who come to Jesus He's a Jewish lawyer, not a Roman lawyer, again, which means that he is a theologian, not an attorney. He was an expert in Jewish law, and he wanted to challenge Jesus. So look at verse 25. And behold, a certain lawyer stood up And tempted him, note that, tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Good question. The most important question. But this man was not an honest seeker. He was attempting to trap or embarrass Jesus. It was a challenge to debate. It wasn't an honest question. It was like, let's have a debate about this. Let's talk about eternal life. He wants to impale Jesus on the horns of a theological dilemma. So he raises the question, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Now again, despite his evil motive, still a good question. And this lawyer no doubt thought he had already had eternal life I mean he was devoted to the study of Jewish law. He never missed the Jewish feet feast. He tithes everything, including uh his uh His spices and and and you know, I always was puzzled when I read that that they they they s they tithe even the spices in their cabinet. How do you do that? By the way, please don't try that here because we are not prepared for that Leave your spices at home in your cabinet. I mean that was kind of really, you know, kind of crazy religious, you know, thinking God's going to be pleased with that. He observed all religious ceremony. He kept the Sabbath. He thought that he had all his bases covered So he comes to Jesus. And notice how Jesus responds to the command. Look at verse 26. And he said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou? Jesus answers his question with a question. And notice he holds up to this lawyer who's an expert in the Old Testament the law. How does the law answer? I mean, you should know this. What does the Old Testament say? And again, Jesus didn't play to Pharisaical tradition or religio religious ordinances that they had. He didn't say, What is your Head Pharisee say, what do your teachers say? He says, what does the Word of God, what does the law say? And Jesus directs them right back to the Word of God. And notice the lawyer's response. He gives the right response, verse 27, where he says, And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself. Now that is the right response In fact, he's quoting out of the Shema, which here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. The Shema is named after the first word here in Hebrew, which is Shema. And that's one statement. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, strength, soul, and then you love your neighbor as yourself. That was just Jewish basic teaching. This is exactly what Jesus wanted them to say, especially the part about the neighbor. In Leviticus 19 it says, and you're to love your neighbor as what? As yourself. You love your neighbor as yourself. And notice Jesus his response, verse 28. And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right, this do, and thou shalt live. Just do this. You're right. Go do that and you're gonna live. You want eternal life? All right. Obey the law. All of it. This you do and you're gonna live. Now we're here saying, now wait a minute. We can't get saved by obeying the law, right? I mean, Jesus' reply at first glance would seem like he's contradicting the very heart of the gospel. Because Galatians says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ, we're justified by faith in Christ, not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no man be justified in his sight. It's pretty clear. So what's going on here? Why did Jesus do this? Why does Jesus hold up the law to this guy and say, oh yeah, that's right. You just go and do that. No problem. Do all that and you're going to have eternal life. Theoretically, we could be saved if we obeyed the law perfectly. The only problem is none of us can do that. And none of us have ever done that. And if you're here and you think that you have, you haven't. You're the worst offender. Because none of us can. One You violate one law and you've broken all of it. If I'm hanging from a cliff by a chain and one of the links breaks, I don't say, oh great, and other links are okay. I just have one link that's broken, man. I'm gonna be okay here. No, one link breaks, I'm gone. And so it is with the law of God. You have to keep it perfectly. God demands absolute perfection. None of us have that. None of us have that. This lawyer vainly thought that he was keeping the law. And so Jesus uses the law as it was intended. He holds it up next to this guy and says, okay, here you are. We could say that Jesus was using the law as a tutor to bring this man to faith. We see the pattern of this in the gospels. Whenever Jesus re would encounter people that felt like they were good enough. You know, Jesus would basically show them that they were not good enough. If a person came to Jesus broken over their sin, Jesus would say to them, just believe then, believe. Come to me and find rest for your soul. And then he would say, Go and re repent and then go and sin no more. Believe in me and then go and sin no more. If a person came to Jesus unbroken, proud of their religious life, they were self-righteous, you know what Jesus would do? He would hold up the law next to them. Why? To wake them up. To get them to see who they really are. If they came to him mourning, Jesus would comfort them. If they came to Jesus comforted, Jesus would bring them to mourning. You could say if they were afflicted, he would comfort them. If they were comforted, he would afflict them. This man here, he was infested with religious pride. He didn't come to Jesus humble and broken. You come to Jesus humble and broken, you know that's that you're ready for the kingdom. All you have to do is believe in Jesus and you're saved. But the problem with people today, and even in the church and the religious world, nobody's humbled or broken over their sin. Everybody thinks, oh, I'm all right. Or in comparison to I'm okay. No. Before God, let me start with me. I'm nothing but a sinner. Undeserving of the least of the mercies of God. And I see my sinfulness, and I cry out to Him for mercy. And salvation. And the Bible says that's what it means to be poor in spirit. When we come poor in spirit, what does Jesus say? Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. The problem is not many are poor in spirit. And so what you need is you need the mirror to be held up, the mirror of the law, to show you what you are. God's word is a mirror. You know, in uh I woke up this morning and looked in the mirror, I'm like, ooh, I'm not ready for church. I uh there's some things I needed to fix here. Get myself ready to be up you know in front of people and to be in God's house. You know, the mirror just shows you what you are, shows you the changes that you need to make. And this man was basically looking into the mirror that he had, and he was saying, mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the most religious of all? And he was thinking that he was good. But the mirror of the law was saying, It ain't you, buddy. It's not you. And that's what Jesus was doing. He was holding up the mirror and saying, Look, this is what you think you are, but this is what you really are. This is what you are. He should have felt deep conviction. He could have he should have felt humbled and penitent and contrite. His next question should have been, Lord, then how can I find mercy? Because I know that I can't do that. I've fallen short. In fact, I'm broken over my own sinfulness. But he doesn't say that. Look at verse 29. But he, willing to what, justify himself? Said unto Jesus, who is my neighbor? Who's my neighbor? He felt the need to justify himself So that tells me there was a a little bit of his conscience that was awakened at that time. He didn't love his neighbor, and he knew he didn't. He knew that he didn't do that. But He did something that people do when they look into the mirror. They said, there's got to be something wrong with that mirror. That can't be right The mirror is distorted. I know what I am. I know who I am. No, a lot of times we don't. So rather than believe the mirror, he tries to reinterpret this whole thing. And after all, he's a lawyer. He can find a loophole in the law, can't he? He was not willing to admit that there was something wrong inside. Can't be me. He wanted to maintain the facade. He was desperate to make himself look religious in the eyes of others. And you have to remember there's a crowd here listening, so you know he's got to say face. So who is my neighbor? Who is my neighbor? Well the rabbis had dealt with this in Jesus' day, and they took the verse Leviticus 1918 and rather than Interpreting the word neighbor for what it was, any you know, your neighbor, they interpreted it as a synonym for brother or people. And so the r the religious rabbis in Israel that day taught, your neighbor is a fellow Israelite You don't have to take care of foreigners. You don't have to take care of Samaritans. You don't have to take care of heretics or renegades. In fact, you can just push them into the ditch. And so really the lawyer was s asking, Who do I really have to love though? I mean, really, who do I have to love? He was implying, I don't have to love everyone. I don't have to show love to anyone. I can just show show love to fellow Israelites. I'm not required to do anything beyond that. Now Jesus could have dismissed him at that point. He could have said, you know, I can see right now that you're shut out of the kingdom of God and you you don't get it. You don't get it. But Jesus had compassion on them. And he gives them a wake-up call. And the wake-up call is in the form of this parable here. This story should have served to humble him and bring him to conviction. So let's look at the story. Not only the portrait of love, the great question, but or excuse me, the priority of love, the great question, but number two, the portrait of love, the good Samaritan. Here's the story. Notice the traveler, look in verse thirty. And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. The story begins with a journey on a very dangerous road. It was a road from Jerusalem down to Jericho. And that road is a very real road, and I've been on that road. Even today when you take a trip from Jerusalem. which is about twenty five hundred feet above sea level to Jericho, which is about eleven hundred feet below sea level, you go thirty six hundred feet down over a course of about ten miles, so you're just constantly going down and it winds and you're in a big ravine and a chasm. And even bus drivers when they're driving it, they're very careful, thank God. when they drive that road because it gets close to the edge of the ravine and you know it's kinda g get a little scary there. But you can imagine in Jesus' day on a path just going down, down, down, down into this ravine into this road that goes all the way down to Jericho, which is below sea level. And by the way, many of the priests that ministered in the temple in Jerusalem lived in Jericho. So when it was their lot, when it was their course to go and serve in the temple, they would make the trip from Jerusalem down to Jericho all the time. So this is a well-traveled road. This man is going from Jerusalem down to Jericho. He was probably in Jerusalem for the temple service. He most certainly was a Jewish man. Making this trip and he falls among thieves. Suddenly he's attacked, suddenly he's mugged. Muggings were common on this road The Jewish historian Josephus tells how that Herod had released forty thousand construction laborers who built rebuilt the temple. He he had released them. They didn't have any employment, and so many of them turned to crime. And being thieves and robbers. They did that just to exist. So someone being mugged on a road like this was not uncommon. This man is not just robbed, he's brutalized. He's left bloody, naked, and dying. They took everything he had. They leave him there thinking he's gonna die. No one's gonna help this guy. We would say today this guy's in critical condition. Here's a dying man on a desert road. What hope does he have? Good news, a priest is coming. Look at the priest verse 31. And by chance, there came down a certain priest. Oh, praise the Lord. Priest knows the law. Certainly he'll show compassion. He understands what he's supposed to do, right? I mean, this guy, a priest, I mean, that's the top of the religious system. Surely he'll help. He was probably serving his rotational term as a priest. Just had just been at the house of the Lord, worshiping in the temple, making sacrifices. He leaves with joy, comes to this, and here he sees this man. Surely this spiritual man who offers sacrifice to the people would show compassion. He represents the best. He knows Leviticus 19, 18. But all hope fades because when this man encounters this Fellow Jew lying in a pool of blood, life ebbing away, carefully passes by on the other side. Look in verse number 31 And by chance there came down a certain priest that way, and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. Greek word anti-perchomai. Cross over on the other side. This would be like you see someone walking down the street and you go on the other side of the street. I'm I'm sure you've never done that. Went over to the other side. Sees the guy, sees the condition, goes to the other side of the street, and he just walks by. He's careful not to touch him. After all, if you touch he could be dead if you're a Jewish person to touch a dead Man, especially if you're a preacher, you're contaminated. He would have to go back to the temple to go through the ritual cleansing. That would be a real hassle. Make sure he didn't want to touch this dying man. And this that's the way this guy rationalizes, oh you know, this guy's gonna die, there's nothing I can do for him, I'm not even gonna touch him, you know, I don't want to have to go back for ritual cleansing in a temple after all. Oh, I'm in I'm a priest. But he has no compassion. He just avoids the guy and he just goes on. Now can you imagine what the crowd's thinking of hearing this story? He just goes on. And then the Levite. Well good news. That's okay. We got a Levite coming here. Surely he'll help. Verse 32. And likewise the Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him. And passed by on the other side. Here's another religious man on the scene, a Lev. He too no doubt served in an important role in the service to the temple. Levite serve to assist in the temple in many ways, but he passes by on the other side. He doesn't even stop to check. To tend on him. He leaves them beaten there on the road. These two men represent the best of the Israelite religious establishment. The best. And again, they were probably thinking, you know, we're going to make sure we follow the law about cleanliness. We don't want to touch this guy. You know, it reminds me of the lady who took a first aid class and she went all through the weeks of first aid and then there was an accident that she came upon. A person was laying down on the pavement, their lifeblood ebbing out. She said Men I saw that accident. It was so horrible. And there this person they were bleeding there. And I remembered my first aid. I sat down and I put my head between my knees so I wouldn't faint. Kinda missed the purpose for first aid there. Both of these men Very good people, probably, involved in the service of God, but they really didn't come to grips with what serving God was all about. They were educated, they were highly esteemed among the people of Israel, but they didn't know God. They didn't know God. And they were able to give good reasons why they they really didn't have time to help them. Spurgeon says this, I never knew of a man refused to help the poor who failed to give at least one admirable excuse. And so these two don't help at all. And before we condemn them, we need to examine our own life. Gary Inrig wrote this We should not make the mistake of thinking these are bad men, quote unquote. No, not bad, but busy for them, and too often for me. They intrude awkwardly on my privacy. They deflect me from my duty. They distract me from my responsibility. They keep me from my pleasures. I agree they need help, and I hope that someone does But not me, not now, not here. I got a different agenda. Well, then comes the Samaritan. Look down in verse number 33. And a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was, came to this man. And when he saw him, he had compassion on him. And he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an end, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence and gave it to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. Wow. Now that by this time I think the audience is caught up in the story. They're wondering who's going to save this half-dead man. The clergy failed. But they didn't really expect these next words. But a certain Samaritan, a who? A Samaritan. This is the Euro here. That's why we call him the good Samaritan. The Jews, by the way, hated Samaritans. They saw nothing good in them. A Samaritan, the Samaritans likewise hated Jews. They were enemies. That's because in 722 BC, the Assyrians conquered the 12 northern tribes to 40, some 20,000 Jews. And they replaced them by foreigners who moved into Israel to replace them. This led to the intermingling of Jews and Gentiles, and if you were intermingled that way, you were a Samaritan and you became despised by Jewish people. And the Samaritans developed their own worship. They developed their own priest, their own place of worship, Mount Girzim. They had all of that. In essence, they became competitors to the Jews that were in Judea. So in essence, to say here's a Samaritan, an enemy of the Jews, he comes along. This had to get the lawyer's attention. And so look how he acts. This is how love acts. Love refuses to ignore me. He didn't ignore him. He comes right to where he is. Right to where he is. It has compassion. In verse 33, he he he c he feels this guy's pain. He you know, he doesn't give the guy a lecture about how you shouldn't travel by yourself. No. He meets the need. He went down to him. He did the polar opposite of what the priest and the Levite did. They went on the other side. The Samaritan went right to this guy. They went right to him. He bandaged his wounds, he poured in oil and wine. Wine acted like an antiseptic in that day. Oil was a healing bomb that would seal the wound and prevent infection. The Samaritan used his own cl his own clothes to make bandages. For this guy. This this tells us this guy was not stingy. I mean, his love to this poor man was lavish. He sets him on his own beast, probably a donkey. That means he he walked the rest of the way and let the man ride his animal. Jesus was emphasizing the incredible care. This was not minimal care. He didn't just leave him on the side of the road and say, okay, you're on your own now. He did his little part. No, he does more than that. He brings them to an end. This end they were probably the closest things to an emergency room back then. He brings them there. And you know, love is always costly. Look at verse number 35. It says, and he took out two pence and he gave them to the host, and he said unto him, Take care of him. And whatever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee. This is a a denarii as a pens. Two full denarii. That's two full days' wages. Now you know what the cost of staying in a inn was at that time at found out some archaeologists found a little post on a sign that was advertising how much it cost to stay in an inn for one night. And it ended up being one thirty second of a denarii. For one night. So if he gives them two denarii, that's enough so that this guy can stay in that inn for two months. Two months lodging. Again, this isn't stingy. This is very generous. This is incredible love and charity. And then to add to that, he says to the innkeeper, look When I come back, whatever else you have to spend on this guy, you just put it on my bill and I'll I'll take care of it. I'll take care of whatever that need is. He doesn't give them a limit. He just says, whatever it is, I'll take care of it when I come back. That's incredible. Incredible love. Incredible generosity. And then Jesus, when telling that story, turns the question back onto the lawyer, and he says this. In verse 36, which now of these three thinkest thou was neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said unto them, He that shows mercy on him, then Jesus said unto him, Go and do thou likewise. He asked me, lawyer, What do you who do you think was the real neighbor here? And he had to be, you know, shocked and just startled at this whole story. And I think convicted to the very core by what Jesus just told them. Who's the real neighbor? Well, the one who showed mercy. Yeah. Go and do the same. Go and do the same. And the point is not that this man is able to do it. The point is that he's not able to do it. And this is the third part real quickly, the practic the practice of love, the great challenge You know, again, keep in mind that this parable is sort of a backhand reply to the lawyer's question, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? And the only thing you can do is obey the law perfectly, which shows perfect love, which means none of us have done it because all of us have failed. And so therefore we all fall short. We can't do it. And the law demands this kind of perfect love, not just on one act, but it demands it all the time. All the time. And here's the point. What you and I cannot do in and of ourself in our own strength through the law, the gospel is able to accomplish through us. That's the point. I have to recognize I uh this is not me. I can't do this. I can't fulfill any of God's law. And what I need to do is realize my sinfulness and come before Christ. Broken and contrite before him and pleading for his mercy and salvation. That's what I have to do. And when that happens, you know what The Bible says we're forgiven for all of our sins, and the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of us, and then through the power of the Holy Spirit, I then can begin to practice godly love the way Jesus wants us to. But that's not in my strength. That's in the strength of Christ. And I'm still not going to do it perfectly, but I'm going to learn more and more how to walk in love. But the whole point is I can't do this in and of myself. I want to be this good Samaritan. I want to love like Christ teaches me to love. But now, thank God I've been forgiven for all of my Failures and shortcomings, and now through the power of the Holy Spirit, by the grace of God, we can demonstrate this kind of love to others. I want to be that kind of person. That's the whole point. To you. To you. Story is told of a young man by the name of Bob who received a new car from his brother as a present, a brand new car. Credible present from his brother. When he came out to his office to drive it home, he noticed the street kid was admiring this shiny new car. And the boy said, Is this yours, mister? And Bob said, sure is. He said, my brother gave it to me And the little boy was astonished. You mean he just gave it to you and it didn't cost you anything? He said, yes. And the little boy said, boy, wow. I wish and then he paused. I I wish and Bob was thinking, he's going to say He wishes he had a brother like that. And the little boy bowed his head and he he said, I wish I could be a brother like that. And then Bob was so astonished by what the boy said, he offered him a ride in his car. And the boy said, I would love a ride. So they went off, and the little boy's eyes were sparkling with excitement. And After a while the boy said, Mister, would you mind stopping off in front of my house? And Bob said, Of course. He thought, well, this little boy wants to show off a little bit. So sure. So he took the boy in front of his house and almost As soon as he got the car into a stop, the little boy bounded out of the car and he went into the house. The little boy said, before he went, wait a minute, I want to I want someone to see this and A few minutes later, the little boy came out of the house, and to Bob's amazement, he was carrying over his back his little brother who was crippled, who could not walk. Because on his back. And Bob heard him say, There it is, John. Just like I told you. There it is. His brother gave it to him, and it didn't cost him a cent. And he said, someday I'm going to get you one just like that. And you can ride in it with me, and we can see all the things that we've been talking about. And Bob was so moved by what he saw and heard that tears came to his eyes as he lifted the little boy and his brother into the car. And for years later, Bob would say the greatest gift he had ever received was not the car, but the attitude of that little boy who said, I wish I could be a brother like that. I wish I could be a brother like that. And that's what this parable is designed to make us say. When we read this, we should say, I wish I could be a good Samaritan like that. I wish I could do that. And there's one more deeper lesser here again. What that good Samaritan did for the traveler, Jesus did for us. He found us mortally wounded by sin. Men could not help us. Religion could not help you. Didn't help me. The only thing that could help me is knowing Jesus. Jesus came to me where I was, broken in the deadness of sin. And he showed me his compassion and his mercy and his love. And you know what, friend, you need a savior like that. If you don't have him, you need him. And then once you know him, It should be the desire of our heart that we live as he lived, that we love as he loved. And say, I wish I could be a good Samaritan like that. Let's bow for prayer together. So just take a moment and I'll ask you to do just a little bit of self-examination. Are you broken over your sin? of God's word revealed you for who you are before a holy God. That should break us. That should cause us to mourn. But the good news is you can be comforted. The good news is when you become poor in spirit, you're ready for the kingdom of God. Jesus is ready to comfort those who mourn over their sin and their brokenness and their fallness. And friend, if you'll just come, you know what? He is so merciful. He's so merciful. That all you have to do is reach out. God be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. Help me to be a brother like that. Because I can't do that in of myself. Save me, Lord Jesus. Does your heart cry out for that? He will come to where you are. He will save you by his grace, forgive you for your sin, give you eternal life. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart. Strip away, Lord, from us, religious pretense, self-righteousness. Help us to be real about who we are before you. Bring us to a place of true brokenness and repentance so that we, Lord, can be blessed by your mercy and forgiveness and grace Save us, Lord Jesus, and help us to walk in love as you would have us to walk. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name.