Would you uh take God's word today? Would you open fleece to the Gospel of Luke and the New Testament, the Gospel of Luke? We have been looking at some parables of our Lord, and we're going to look at another here today. In the Gospel of Luke chapter 12, we're going to look at verse 13 on down to verse 21. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Luke chapter 12, verse 13, down to verse 21. And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother that he divide the inheritance with me. And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. And he said, This will I do. I will pull down my barns and will build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall those things be which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. May God bless us today as we hear God's word with reverence and may we apply it to our life. Will you pray with me? Father, thank you for your word. It is so powerful, it is so practical, and it is so relevant for us. So Lord help us as we look at this beautiful parable to receive truth from it for our own life. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I uh read where recently a famous actress died 20 years ago, but her two sons are still feuding over the inheritance. Part of the inheritance is there in Los Angeles in a storage locker filled with the stars and memorabilia. She indicated in her will that everything should be divided 50-50. But they haven't been able to agree on what's fair, what's 50-50. And so then now they have lawyers involved. Families fighting over inheritance is nothing new. In fact, a family squabble over an inheritance is really the reason why Jesus gives the parable that we just read. While Jesus is teaching to crowds. A man speaks up and he basically says, you know, hey, speak to my brother and tell him to divide the inheritance with me. I mean he kind of interrupts Jesus right in the middle of teaching and asks him to do this. According to the Jewish custom, the eldest son would get the large portion of the inheritance, he would get two thirds, the younger son would get a third. So he would get double what the other sons would get if there were other sons. And obviously this son wanted more than he had received. And so a squabble broke out about the inheritance. And so this man just requests that Jesus settle the dispute. Now in that day people would often call upon rabbis to settle legal disputes. According to the law in Deuteronomy, if there was a dispute over division of inheritance, a judge in a matter like this could be made by, or a judgment could be made by a rabbi. He could serve as a teacher. He could serve also as an attorney. So this man is asking Jesus to be his attorney, to represent him, and to make sure that he got more. Now this request, look in verse number 13. And one of the companions said to them, Master, speak to my brother, that he may, that he divide the inheritance with me. Again, he interrupts Jesus with this request. Now this uh this is uh inappropriate, you know, to interrupt Jesus in the middle of teaching to do this. It was abrupt, it was rude, it was out of sync, it was disruptive. The question really had nothing to do about what Jesus was talking about. If you read the whole context, Jesus was teaching on eternal salvation. He was telling people to confess to make sure that they know him, to be to be willing to confess him before men, uh to know that they're truly saved. And so he's giving warnings about False religion, he's giving warnings about eternal judgment. And he's talking about the Holy Spirit of God. very serious spiritual issues. And in the midst of all of this, this guy just blurts out, hey Jesus, tell my brother to give me what's mine Just disruptive. I mean he can't wait for the Lord to stop talking about heaven and salvation and re and and you know eternity so he can talk about the things he wants to talk about, the really good stuff according to him. I mean he could he doesn't care about confessing the Son of God before men. He doesn't care about the things that he can't see. He only cares about the things that he can see, the earthly things, the temporal things. He doesn't care about heaven. He's into earth and he's not even embarrassed about that. This man's mind was on money and material things instead of what Jesus was talking about. Here is the truth incarnate, Jesus speaking words of life, and this man's not interested in that. He's more interested in settling a family dispute. Now he now mind you, he doesn't ask Jesus to make a fair evaluation uh over this. He doesn't ask Jesus, you know, for justice. You know, Lord, evaluate this case, look it over as my attorney, and then give a fair just decision. No, he's not interested in that. He just says, Jesus, tell my brother to give me more. Just tell me give me more. He wants to use Jesus to get more money for himself. A lot of people do that. He's consumed with riches. This man should have been focused on what Jesus was saying. The real treasure are the things that were coming out of Jesus' mouth. That was the real treasure. But he was more concerned about getting more of his father's inheritance. You know, when we come to church we need to forget about our bank book and maybe focus more on the Lance Book of Life and make sure our name is written there. Now Jesus didn't like his impertinence at all because he addressed him as man. We don't see this anywhere else. Verse 14. And he said unto him, Man. Who made me a judge or a divider over you? Jesus would not be drawn into settling a domestic dispute over inheritances. To put it in our vernacular, Jesus would have said, look, this is not the People's Court, and I'm not Judge Walkner. I'm talking to you about spiritual things. One day, of course, Jesus will be the ultimate judge, and he will judge all matters. But at this time in his ministry, that's not what his ministry is all about. And the other thing about this request was that Jesus saw out of this man a covetous spirit. Getting one's legal fair share is not a good thing if it's motivated by a covetous spirit. And so Jesus is not about making sure that you get every material possession that your heart desires. Some people think that's what Christianity is all about. Those who preach the health, wealth, and prosperity gospel. It's all about you making sure that you get all the wealth and all the health that you can get here in this life. It's not what Christianity is about. At this point, Jesus turns to the crowd and he warns all those gathered there. Look in verse 15. And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness. For a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of things which he possesses. Covetousness is simply a desire to have more, more than your fair share. Now, God already gives us more than we deserve. But somehow it's not enough for some. Covetousness just wants more, no matter how much God gives us, no matter how gracious and good he is to us, there's just something in us that wants more. And I think one of the biggest sins that we commit is to snuff at already the gracest gift that God has given us by saying, I need more than what you've given me. It's not enough. Someone once asked the billionaire Rockefeller how much money was enough, he said just a little more. The beast of covetousness is never full. It's never satisfied. And covetousness isn't a, it's not an issue of amount. It's an issue of attitude. It's over-attitude. The poorest can be greedy. The richest can avoid being greedy and not be covetous. It's an attitude of the heart. And it's a sin that God hates. It's a destructive sin. In the 1950s, wrestling was popular and is about as authentic as it is today. The European champion was Joseph the Turk, who came to America to fight Strangler Lewis for the World Championship and $5,000. Joseph won and insisted that the five thousand be paid in gold, which he stuffed into his championship belt until he had reached safely home. He boarded the first available ship to Europe, headed home, but halfway across the Atlantic the ship floundered floundered, excuse me, in a storm and began to sink. In a panic, Yusuf grabbed his championship belt, threw it around his waist, jumped into a lifeboat, but he missed the lifeboat. And he went straight to the bottom. His golden belt had become a golden anchor. What a vivid illustration of what our Lord is going to talk about here. He's going to talk about the danger of that kind of covetous spirit. So let's look at this parable real closely here. We're going to divide it into three parts. First of all, number one, the reaping of the rich full. This is the parable of the rich full. Of course, a parable is a word. The word parable means to cast down. uh para alongside from the Greek word bole to cast down alongside. And so what is it? It's when you take a earthly story and you cast it down alongside of a spiritual truth in order to get Truth, it'll help you to understand a spiritual reality. And this is what Jesus does. He's so good at teaching parables. So notice verse 16. He gives a parable in this occasion. And he spake a parable unto them, saying The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. So we're introduced to a first-century yuppie, we could say. Wealth often begets wealth. This man is already rich, but he's about to get richer. He's a farmer and he has big barns already. But in this particular harvest season, he has a bumper crop. I mean he has a really big crop. God's blessed the harvest. God gives him just enough the right amount of rain and sunshine. There's no disease or pestilence that ate away at his crop. The lack of any of these things or the presence of destructive things could take away his profit However, and this farmer knows that, but everything went perfectly this season. The conditions, the circumstances, they were absolutely perfect to get a good crop. And this rich farmer, it couldn't have been any better for him. It says the ground brought forth plentifully. The Greek word for plentifully is euphorio, where we get the word euphoria. Now when we say euphoria today, we're talking about someone being happy, thrilled, you know, that's the idea. But did you know it came from having a big crop That's where it comes from. And so this man is in a state of euphoria. He's happy. To say he's happy is an understatement. And this man has reaped a s a surplus of crops. And by the way, there's no criticism in this. I mean, this man worked hard. Thank God for farmers, by the way. Where would we be without him He got his wealth honestly, like so many of you. He didn't cheat his friends. He didn't devour widows' homes. He was not an abuser of employees. He did good, diligent, hard work, and God bless his good hard work. He's blessed with abundance. The problem here is not in his accumulation of wealth, it is in what he decides to do with it. The problem is not in his reaping. The problem is in his reasoning. What does he do? So notice not only the reaping of the rich fool, but notice the reasoning of the rich fool. Look at verse 17. And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do? Because I have no room where to bestow my fruits. So he's thinking to himself, you know, I have so much produce, I'm not going to be able to fit it into my barns. What am I going to do with all this extra gain? And so he has several options. So notice his deliberation He's thinking about it. Now, he could divide the extra among the farm laborers. No doubt they work hard to help produce this successful harvest. These men work in the fields and these are men that really don't have a lot. They barely have enough to survive. They work day by day to take care of their family. He could have just said, You know what? I have so much extra. I'm going to divide this up among my workers and laborers and be good to them. No, he doesn't do that. There were always in the local towns widows and orphans who had to scrape to survive. He could say, you know, I'm going to take this down to the town center and I'm going to have them distribute this extra among the widows and the orphans and all those that are poor and really need help, that's what I'm gonna do with this. No, he doesn't do that. He good could go to the temple or the local synagogue. And give there. In fact, there's an Old Testament law that says you're to bring the first fruits of your increase to the Lord. Take it to the house of God and give a portion to the Lord and even more Well that was the last thing on his mind. Using it for the kingdom of God or to further the kingdom in any way. He wasn't thinking about laying up treasure in heaven. He doesn't have the slightest interest in that. So what's his decision? Look at verse 18. And he said, this will I do. I will pull down my barns and build greater, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods Notice he says, you know what I'll do? I'm just going to pull down the barns that I have and I'm going to build greater. Greek word mega. I'm going to build mega barns and get mega bucks. He doesn't just sell all the grain to make money, because if he did that it would flood the market with too much grain and the prices would go down. He didn't want that. He would be losing money if that happened. So what do you do to keep the grain prices up? You restrict supply. He doesn't just build more barns in addition to the ones he has, because if he did that, that would take up more ground, and he's using the ground to for his crop and And that would cut into his profits. So he doesn't he doesn't want to just add more barns. He says, what I'll do is I'll tear down the present barns that I have, and on that foundation, I'll build bigger barns, I'll build taller barns, I'll build mega barns That's what I'll do. Much higher. Archaeologists have found large tall grain silos on farms where wealthy absentee landowners live in cities like Sephoris, which is not far from Nazareth where Jesus grew up. And he says this in verse 18, and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. He would stow up all his fruits in these mega barns and hoard it for himself. He said, I'll just keep it for myself. Hooray for me. Alright for me. I'm just gonna build it bigger. He would store it up and let it out at whatever pace he wanted, controlling the prices on the market and keeping the price, keeping the money coming in. So he basically determines he's going to be a a Middle Eastern local guru or a fat cat. He's going to control the prices. He will be this selfish miser. He'll be this materialist. And look at verse number 19. Notice what he says. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. You want to know how much of a materialist this guy was? He talked to himself. He didn't say to his wife or his children, this makes me think he's single. He said to himself, favorite person he likes to talk to. He likes to talk to himself. Hey, you know what, soul, you did really good. You did good. You know what? You have many goods laid up for many years. Eat, drink, and be merry. Enjoy your life. All you have to do is control the spout at the bottom of the silo, and you'll control the grain prices, and you're set for life. You don't have anything to worry about. It's all good. Notice not only his we we see his decision, but then notice also his determination. Look at verse 19 again. Where he says, take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. So take thine ease means retire. Eat, drink, and be merry. This is blatant hedonism Party. You know, the materialist motto is you only go around once, so get all the gusto you can. This is the thinking of a of a pagan. This is the thinking of an existentialist. Party now, party hard, party on. You never know. So his life from that point on would be characterized by hedonism. But he's a fool, Jesus said Because he doesn't really understand what's ahead. He's not planning for what's really, really important. You know, Solomon could teach him a lesson or two. Solomon once thought like this. Solomon had everything the world could offer. Everything. His income was set $75 million a week. That was after taxes. I mean, he had it all. You think Manny was happy? No, it says in Ecclesiastes 2. 17, therefore I hated life. Solomon learned that it is a gift of God, you know, that that gives, and really there's not satisfaction in those material things. So I want you to see the next thing, not only the reaping of the rich fool and the reasoning, but I want you to see number three, the rebuking of the rich fool. Look in verse number twenty. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be which thou hast provided? So there's two voices in this parable. There's the voice of the rich fool in his uh siloquy siloquy, whatever, his speech. But then there's breaks in at the end the voice of God who says, Thou fool, you're a fool. Now in the Bible, to be a fool, it doesn't it's not a matter of your intelligence. God's not saying you're unintelligent or you're uneducated. A fool is someone It really it's not a mental issue, it's a moral issue. If you look in the Bible, a fool is someone who lives as if there is no God. He may believe there's a God, but he doesn't really live as if there is a God. And he doesn't live with eternity in mind. A fool is someone who just says no to the things of God. The fool said in his heart, No God. The idea that not that there is no God, but no God in the original there. And it's really, you're a fool based on the decisions that you make. You see, wisdom in the Bible is not theoretical, it's practical. You're wise according to the decisions that you make. And this guy's making all the wrong decisions. He makes several bad ones. What are they? First of all, he chooses to focus on time instead of eternity. Look what he says in verse 20. This night, not tomorrow, not next week, not next year, but this night thy soul shall be required of thee. The word required here is from the Greek word apateo. It's a commercial term. It's used to speak of a loan. At this crisis point He discovers a truth that everyone will learn sooner or later. God owns life and he gives it out as a loan. And God will call in on that loan at some point. And God can call in on his loan at any time. You're not guaranteed to live until you're 95, die in bed with your toes pointed up and your family around you. You don't know when you're going to die. You don't know that. God could call in his loan any time. This man was so worried about his earthly accounts, he forgot about his eternal account with God. This rich man made a deliberate, thought-out decision, but he left out one critical factor. He left out eternity and all of his decisions. Time here on earth is very short and eternity is very long. If you focus all of your attention on the earthly now and you don't think about eternity, you are a fool. You're a fool. Someone else will own everything that you have years from now. And you have to give an account before Almighty God. Death is a great leveler. You can't take any of this with you. It's a great leveler. You might be rich now, materially, but spiritually, how rich are you? You may there's there's people that are poor materially, but they're spiritually rich. And the opposite is true And so he chose to focus on time instead of eternity. But number two, he chose to focus on the body instead of the soul. Again in verse 19, he said to himself, Take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. He's only focused on his physical life right now. But not on his spiritual soul, which lives on forever. He's concerned about what he eats and what he drinks. He's concerned about being married. He only wants physical pleasures for his body. But God said, This night thy soul shall be required of thee. This night thy soul will be required. Our body will die. Their new statistic out I heard is pretty accurate. One out of every one dies. And we're all gonna die. But you know you have a soul that does not die. You have a soul that lives on in eternity, and the question is, is that soul gonna spend eternity in heaven with the Lord? Because this life here is temporary. And we have to focus on that. God owns our soul. The Bible says in Ezekiel in Ezekiel 18:4, all souls are mine. And God will make the decision where a soul will spend eternity. This man was evidently very healthy, and he planned on living for many more years. But God said this night, thy soul is required of thee. You know, things don't always work out the way you plan it You know, you can you can get as healthy as you want, and I I I commend that. Get healthy, you know, eat well, do all of that. Go to the doctor and do all of that. But none of that guarantees that you're gonna live to be a hundred. None of it does. We don't know what a day is going to bring. Death comes suddenly and many times unexpectedly. This man reminds me of the man in the book of James, the the businessman who said, go to now, I'll go into such a city and buy and sell and get gain. And then it goes on to say, but what is your life? It's like the vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away. You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we'll do this or we'll do that. This man making all these plans, he failed to comprehend the complexities of life. Things don't always turn out the way you think they will. Life is more complex than that. Our dreams are dashed. Sometimes we may count on accomplishing things, and it never happens. He failed to comprehend the uncertainty of life. The Bible says, You know not what is on your on the morrow. You don't know what's going to happen. The Bible says, Boast not thyself for tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Every once a while I'll be driving in my car and have the radio on and someone will come on, give a traffic report, and in that they'll say something like this: Well You know, we have a backup on 695. There was a fatality, an accident where, you know, a person died, and uh that's going to be an hour delay, so on. They kind of pass over it like it's no big deal. And you know, I always think, here's a man who got up that morning, got ready for the day, got ready for work. I wonder if he kissed his wife goodbye. I wonder if he hugged his children before he got into his car. Because he did not know that when he got into this car that morning and came out over the highway, that that would be his last day on earth. He didn't know that. And now he's just a blurb in a traffic report. That there was a fatality as if and we all go in and we run our lives. We don't know how fragile life is. This man failed to comprehend the brevity of life James says, life hangs by a brittle thread. Life is like steam from a tea kettle. Life is like a puff of smoke. It's like breath on a frosty morning. And as you sit here and listen to me today, there is but a heartbeat between you and eternity. And someone has described that heartbeat as a muffled drum beating a funeral march to the grave. Our days on earth are as a shadow, the Bible says. My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, Job seven six. Remember that my life is but a breath Job 7-7. Psalm 102 verse 3, for my days are consumed like smoke. So here's this man, he's rich. He chooses to focus on time and not eternity. He chooses to focus on the body instead of the soul. He chooses to focus on himself instead of God. That's one of the problems with this rich man. He fails to acknowledge God's hand in any of it. As if he did it all himself. What does the Bible say in verse 16 of this parable? The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. It didn't say the rich man brought forth, it said the ground did. The ground gave of its fruit. Who made the ground? Who owns the ground? God does. And the reason this man had a bumper crop is because of the providence and the goodness of God. All things had to happen right, and God in his providence made them all happen right for this guy A few years ago the Associated Press released a study done by the Agricultural School in Iowa and it reported that to produce one hundred bushels of corn from one acre In addition to the farmers' labor, it required four million pounds of water, six thousand eight hundred pounds of oxygen, five thousand two hundred pounds of carbon, 160 pounds of nitrogen, 125 pounds of potassium 75 pounds of yellow sulfur and other elements too numerous to list. In addition to all those things, you have to have Enough rain and enough sunshine all at the right time in order to produce the crop, it was estimated that five percent of the produce of a farm can be attributed to the efforts of the farmer. Five percent 95% is all God. It's God who does it. The Bible says every good every good and perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of lights. This for he's thinking he did it all. He's focusing on himself. There's no hint of gratitude. There's no thank you, God I want to do something for the kingdom. I want to give back. I want to bless others. No, we can count eleven personal pronouns in this story, all referring to the rich man himself. There are six eyes, five my's, and four I wills. It's all about him. It's not about God. He doesn't act as if he's a steward of what God has temporarily given to him. He doesn't pray and say, Lord, what do you want me to do with this extra that I have? All this extra. Never thinks about that. He just thinks this is all me, this is all due to me, this is what's mine, I'm just going to build bigger barns. He doesn't acknowledge God. Greed says this: I'm great and I'm getting what I deserve. Gratitude says, God is great, and I don't deserve anything that I get. But God's giving it to me anyway. And this fellow does not acknowledge God. He just pats himself on the back, says, good job. Take it easy. You deserve a break. And there's a fourth bad decision he makes that makes him a fool. He chooses to focus on time instead of eternity. He chose to focus on the body instead of the soul. He chooses to focus on himself instead of God. And then he chooses to focus on earthly riches r instead of eternal riches. In verse twenty, God says but God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then who shall those things be which thou hast provoked? God said to this man, look, you have all these riches stored up, but when you die, you're gonna have to leave it all. And then someone else will get it all. Someone else will get it. This this man thinks he's rich. But you know what? He's a pulper. He's poor. And he's the worst kind of poor. Because he doesn't know anything about eternity. His soul is not ready for eternity. And friend, that's as poor as it gets That's as poor as it gets. He's going to leave it all behind. All the barns are going to be behind. Death strips him bare, and death will reveal what he is before Almighty God. He hasn't laid up anything in heaven, says in verse 21. So is he that layeth up treasure for himself and is not rich towards God. How do you get rich towards God? Let me tell you how you get rich towards God. Here's the first thing. Recognize that me and you and all of us we're nothing but sinners before a gracious God. And he sent his son Jesus to die on the cross for our sins. And Jesus took the sin of the world upon himself. And we have no righteousness of our own. The Bible says we're without holiness we can't see God. And I'm not holy. I'm a sinful man. My only hope is the righteousness of Christ. That's true treasure right there. Jesus lived a perfect life. All his good works were laid up And when on the cross he took all of my sins upon himself. Now you know what happens now when I come to Jesus and I say, Jesus, I'm a sinner, thank you for dying for me. I put all my faith in what you did for me on the cross paying for my sin, taking the wrath of God upon yourself. You know what Jesus does? He takes the treasure of all of his righteousness and he puts it on my account. That is being rich towards God. And that's the riches that you need. That's the riches that all of us need. To make sure that we have. You know how as you get rich towards God, you start living for the kingdom. You start giving for the kingdom. You start doing all things for the kingdom of God. Seek first the kingdom of God, Jesus said. And all these other things will be added unto you. These other things are not important In comparison to the kingdom of God, it's not important. Give to the poor, tithe, give, support the spread of the word of God. Share the gospel with all your family and friends. Pray and plead with them to come to Christ. That's how you lay up treasure in heaven. Amen. People that go there before you, that you had a a part in helping see, come to the kingdom of God with all of the things that you do to be a part of this wonderful kingdom. A lot of people are just like this man in the parable. They're so absorbed with their earthly existence and their earthly life and getting all the bills paid and then having extra and doing all these things and I'm not saying that's not important. But that should not be the obsession of our life. We should be obsessed with the cross of Christ in the kingdom of God. So The question is that we have to ask: Am I a fool before God? Am I a pulper? Before God. What are you doing with your treasure? Are you rich towards God? Let's bow for prayer together. Father in heaven, thank you for again your word in this beautiful parable, Lord Jesus. How profound this is, how simple it is, and yet how profound it is. This simple story laid alongside eternal truth. Shows us what's really valuable, what's really important in this world, in this life. And Father, may we focus on the kingdom, on the important things, eternal things, the things of God. God help us. Help us, Lord, to see what real riches consist of. And I pray, Lord, for every soul that's here under the sound of my voice That they're not like this man who is so consumed in his earthly existence that he has not prepared his soul for eternity. And he's not ready. He wasn't ready. He thought he was going to live forever, Lord. And that night, that was it. Father, may we all be ready. May we all know with certainty that we are hiding in the righteousness of Christ. That our faith is in his finished work, that our repentance is true, that our faith is real, that Christ is our obsession, not gold. And earthly things, that the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God, is foremost on our mind as we live in this world. So Father, work in hearts and lives for your honor and for your glory. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to, right there where you are, just do a little spiritual evaluation of your own life. Where are you in all of this? And is your soul ready to meet God? If God had to assess your life, would he say, what he said about this man, thou fool. You're a fool. You've been living just for the the earthly. You're not prepared for eternity. You're a fool. Because this night thy soul could be required of thee. God might cash in on his lung. I plead with you, friend, make sure that you're ready And you say, I'm a believer, I know it, then lay up treasure in heaven. Put your investment where it counts Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name.