It's good to see everybody here tonight. I ta invite you to take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of Acts, chapter six. This is a special night tonight. We get to recognize our deacons and ordain two men that are going to be joining on a our deacon board to serve our church. And I thought tonight it would be appropriate just to go to God's Word and see what the Word of God has to say. to say with reference to this ministry of deacons and leadership in the church, we need to remind ourselves of these things. Every so often it's good for us to do so. So look in Acts chapter 6. I heard about a little girl who was with her mom and dad on a vacation. They were visiting another church. The church was observing the Lord's Supper. And after the service was over, the little girl said to her parents, she said, I like our church better because when the Lord's Supper is being served, she said, All of the demons sit on the front row. Obviously she got demons and deacons a little confused there. Sometimes, you know, in in churches, some churches it's easy to get the too confused, I think. Certainly not here. I've been in churches like that where they're you know you could get them confused. In all seriousness, you know, a godly group of deacons can bless a church in a tremendous way. And I'm grateful to God for the men who have served here at Grace for many years under pastors' uh leadership, and they continue to serve our church. And it's just an honor to be able to serve the Lord in this We need to remind ourselves that the Bible teaches that a church will rise no higher than its leaders. It will go no higher than its leaders. Everything rises and falls on leadership. And that is so very true. The Bible says this in Hosea 4. 9, like priests, like people. Like priests, like people. Again, it's that same principle. The church will go no higher than its leaders. That's why Paul wrote to Timothy, he said, Timothy, lay hands on no man suddenly. Don't do it quickly. Be careful, be prayerful about choosing is the most biblical pattern and they'll talk about various things and they'll quiz me what do you think? And I always respond the same way. I'll say the major issue to me about leadership in the church is not so much the government, it's godly man It's putting godly men in the right position. You could have various forms of government, but if you don't have godly men in those positions, you're in trouble. And I have known churches that have had various forms of government. Churches use they think it's a better form of government. You can believe that if you want to, but again to me, I've seen churches that didn't have godly men in leadership positions and it just hurt the church. church. And so the most important thing is to have godly men serving. And so uh men that are trustworthy, men that uh the church will follow and I realize that for myself even as pastor that I have to build trust uh in you as being a leader here in the church. That's something that doesn't come automatically That's something that's earned through a track record of good decisions and good leadership. I understand that I have to earn that trust And it doesn't come easy, I believe that. But let me just say I have no personal agenda other than just leading the church in a thoroughly biblical ministry and seeing people come to know the Lord Jesus Christ and see God's house. Filled. And in order for that to happen, it's not an individual effort, it's a team effort. We have to have all working together for that one goal of seeing people come to know Jesus Christ and conform to the image of Christ. And so godly leadership is a very, very important issue. And seeking spiritual leaders, what kind of person does God look for? If you look in the Bible, God says that in the life of Abraham, God blessed Abraham when he called him to be the leader of the nation of Israel. And then Nehemiah 9:8 tells us why. It says, For thou foundest his heart Faithful before him, that is before God. Abraham's heart was faithful before God. The qualification for leadership that God saw in Abraham was simply he had a faithful heart And in the life of David, when God sent Samuel to the house of Jesse looking for a king, God said to Jesse, To Samuel, don't look upon his outward physical appearance. Don't look you don't man God doesn't see the way a man sees. A man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. God was looking for a man who would be a man after his own heart. Toward the end of David's life, God gave him a son named Solomon, and it was David's task to pass on the throne to Solomon. And these are the words that he passed on to him. He said this in first Chronicles twenty eight verse nine Thou Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind. That's good advice That's how we're to serve our God with a perfect heart, with a willing mind. The Bible says of Josiah the king, and it tells us why God used him so mightily. It says, Thine heart was tempted And thou hast humbled thyself before thy God. These are all important issues with reference to spiritual leadership. And there are many other passages of scripture. Scripture that we can go to. But suffice to say that when God is looking for spiritual leaders in the church, He looks on the heart and He wants to have men who are are of a faithful heart Who love the Lord, who are men after God's own heart. Paul wrote to Timothy about establishing leaders in the church at Ephesus, and he Told Timothy what to look for, and if you read that carefully, we'll refer to it here in a moment. The issues are all spiritual issues. Spiritual issues And so I want us to talk about that tonight. Now in the New Testament, of course, we know this is pretty basic that in the church God has given two offices of church leadership. And we could also say slash elder or slash bishop because whenever those words are used in the New Testament, they're always used in a synonymous way. talking about the same office. Pastor, Bishop, or Elder. The word elder presbyteras emphasizes the spiritual maturity and dignity that has to come with that office. That leadership. The word bishop is episcopas, and it's the idea of an overseer. He has to be the one that oversees the whole thing as well. And then there's also the word for So there's pastors that God gives to the church, and then there's also the office of deacon. And I want us to look at Acts chapter six because I think this is where we see the origin of this office. So let's take a look at it. I want to actually show you three things tonight, Lord willing. We have time. And that is number one the origin of deacons. I'm going to talk about that. Then we'll talk about the office and then we'll talk about the opportunities. Look at look at Acts chapter 6, verse 1, as the origin. And in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews because of their widows, because their widows were neglected. and the daily ministration. Now, we see here, first of all, what I call the multiplication. Now the church in Jerusalem was just growing by leaps and bounds. In fact, if you read the book of Acts and you read about the growth of this Jerusalem church, this is the most incredible record of church growth ever in the history of the New Testament. It's really just amazing when you think about it. In Acts chapter 2, verse 21, on one day 3,000 souls were saved. 3,000 was added to the church. So overnight you have a church of 3,000. In Acts chapter 2, verse 47 it says, and they added daily to the church, not weekly. Daily. Daily, they're adding people to this church here. And when you get to Acts chapter 4, verse 4, the number of men was 5,000. And they're just counting the men. So if you count women and children You can you can pretty much triple that to about fifteen thousand if you count that. And then in Acts chapter five, verse fourteen, you have more men and more women added to the church. And so this church is just growing by leaps and bounds. God is doing mighty things. And wherever there's growth, there's always going to be some friction. You understand that? Wherever there's growth, there's friction. Even in this church Church here, the Jerusalem church, notice the murmuring that we see. In those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied, it's growing like crazy. There arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews. Because their widows were neglected in the daily ministrations. Now the people in Jerusalem were poor, and we talked about this when we were studying First Corinthians, that the church in Jerusalem had so many people that were dependent, some men lost their jobs because they got saved. They were kicked out of their position. And others Jews who came there to the Pentecost and got saved stayed there And so you had a whole bunch of poor people that were there because men didn't have jobs. And then of course there was a worldwide famine that was prophesied by the prophet Agabus, and that hit Plus you have the Roman government that's sucking life and resources out of the economy there in Palestine. So you had a whole lot of poor people, and because of this There were many widows in the church as well that needed help, and widows in this day were just people that were destitute. If their husband was gone, they didn't have a child to take care of them. These were women that were so dependent upon help from outside resources they had no other place to turn. And we see here in the book of Acts the church would just Taking care of one another. They were selling what they had and laying the money, the prophets at the feet of the leaders in the church, and they were using that money to help take care of these people in the church. And included in that were the were the widows. Now there was arose a murmuring because the Grecian widows felt like they were being neglected. Who is that? These are Jewish widows that spoke Greek. They didn't speak Aramaic The Hebrews here that were mentioned, where it says the murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, these were native Jewish women of the population of Palestine. They were resident Jews. Now the Grecian widows probably felt already that they were outsiders coming into the church. And so they felt that way perhaps And they felt also that they were neglected. And it tells us here in verse number six, because their widows were neglected. This wasn't something that they just felt, it's just something that was a reality When it came time to give them food and to and to serve them and to take care of them, they were being neglected. And now this neglect was not Was just taking off, and they couldn't possibly keep up with all that they had to do. And so these women were nevertheless neglected. You understand that sometimes in church it things just get busy for for leaders and sometimes I I feel this I'm overwhelmed sometimes that That, you know, uh there's so many needs and so many things that have to happen. If we're not careful, things slip through the cracks. And sometimes people can be forgotten. That's not purposeful. That's just the way it is. You get so busy doing ministry things. And by the way, the most important thing about ministry is people. I know this there are some pastors when they come into a church, they are more concerned about the trellis than they are the actual vine. And they spend a lot of time painting the trellis, but by doing that they trample on the vine. They're more concerned about the looks, the overall structure than they are the actual people. in the church. We don't want to make that mistake. What's most important are the people. The people are the ministry. And if you are not careful, you can get so busy doing good things and the right things That you forget about the main thing. And so this wasn't purposeful. It was just they were busy. And so the church had to have a little bit more Organization. We know that the church is a living entity, it's an organism, but it has to have organization. Organization has its place. It's a great servant. We don't want it to be the master But it's a great servant when you organize. Some churches are overly organized and they cause more problems than they solve. But here this church needed a little bit more because it had grown so quickly and they needed some help in this area. And so because these widows were neglected, they began to murmur. They began to complain. They felt neglected. And so this led to the meeting, the next thing, the meeting. Look at verse 12, verse 2, rather. Then the dis the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, It is not reason. That we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look out ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. And so this problem then brought about this meeting of the apostles. They decided that part of the problem was they were trying to do too much and they needed help. They needed men in the church that they could trust, trustworthy men that could serve. The church that could serve the body of Christ and take care of all these needs, they realized that they couldn't leave what their major calling was, which was is to the preaching and the teaching of the Word of God They said it's not meat for us to leave the Word of God and serve tables. This is our priority. We have to feed the sheep the Word of God. We need men that'll help us And these other areas. And so that's part of the reason for this office. They understood that the meaningful things of prayer and study of the word is what builds the church It's the spiritual stability in the church for the church to constantly be fed the word of God and taught the scripture. This has to happen. And I want to tell you, that's hard work. It's hard work. You know, my daughter one time, Abby, she said to me one day, she said, Dad, what do you do at church all day? I mean what do you do? I mean all you do on Sundays you get up and you say a few words and the rest of the week what are you doing Uh and I said, honey, um and by the way at that time she was doing a term paper in school and she was fretting over that term paper. It was a ten-page double spaced paper where she had to do research and turn it on in and I said to her, I said, you know that term paper that you're doing for for school? She said, Yeah. I said, I do three of those a week. She her mouth dropped open. There was no more questions about what dad did, you know. It it's just work. I mean, you know, if we uh in order for me to feed you the scripture, which is the major calling of a pastor, along with other things, then I have to dig. I have to I have to get into the Word of God. Not only me, but other ministers, other pastors that we have here at Grace. And of course, we have a long-standing tradition of our founding pastor feeding the Word of God to God's people. We want to continue in that legacy. But that means there's other things that we need help with because the pastor and even the pastor staff can't do it all And so we have to feed the sheep. Jesus said to Peter, Peter, feed my sheep. Feed my sheep. And so this is the reason that he comes up with this office. Again, look at verse 2. Then the twelve called the multitude of disciples unto them and said, It is not reason That we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. And then it says in verse 3: Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, who we may appoint over this business. Notice where it says, Look out among you. Who are they talking to? Not the apostles among them themselves. They were already met together. He was saying, Brethren, look among yourselves. If they're talking to the congregation. And what we see here is the first nomination process. You find among you men that are trustworthy men that can serve the And notice that he gives them some guidelines here. They have to be of honest report. They have to be men who are trusting the people who are not going to be able to do that. Trustworthy men, a reputation for honesty, because they were going to be dealing with what? They're going to be dealing with material things. They're going to be dealing with finance They had to be men who were full of the Holy Spirit, Spirit-led men, full of wisdom. They were going to need wisdom in dealing with situations that arise. There's always situations that arise in ministry. where it requires wisdom. And so this is the first nomination process where they said, you choose. And then we see the ministry. So look down in verse number uh verse four. It says that we will give ourselves continu Look at verse five and the saying, please the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith. And then it goes on to name the other seven. And then in verse 6 it says, when they set before the apostles and they when they prayed, they laid hands on them. So what we see here is we see nomination happening in the church We see dedication where they these men were set aside by the church, and we see ordination. They laid hands on them and they prayed What is this? This is a public recognition of the church to the office to which these men were called. Uh this is this is official officer of the church They're there to serve the church. And the fact that it's a public recognition and public ordin ordination means that these men are accountable to the church to serve in the way that And I think that this is the origin of the office of deacon in the Bible. Now I know I've read commentaries where they disagree with that. They say that this is not really the beginning of deacons and the reason given is they say they don't see the title for deacon in a chapter. All they see is a temporary position used to meet a specific need and that's all. And there so therefore there are some that debate that. But I think this is the beginning of the ministry of deacons in the church for several reasons. Number one, while it is true that these men are never called deacons as an official title, several words related to deacons are found here. Although we never see the word deacon used as a noun in this passage, we see it used as a verb over and over again. It's the word where we get our word deacon from, where they in verse one Where it talks about the daily distribution, the daily administration. In verse 2, where it talks about serving tables, that's di conine. Where we get the word deacon. And it just simply is a word that simply means served. We see it again in verse number four, where it says that um talking about ministry. It's the same word there. You don't find the official title, but you do find the duty. This reminds me of how people sometimes worry constantly over titles. That's not the point here, it's the service. I see people in the New Testament that serve in a specific capacity, but the title isn't necessarily applied to them, and yet that's how they're serving it. Acts chapter 8, Philip is an evangelist, and so on. And then the other thing that helps me to, I think, see that this is the beginning of this office is they laid hands on them. Again, this is showing that there's some Something special happening here. How do we know? Because the apostles don't just say, okay, we have seven men, you go serve, God be with you. No, they don't Do that. They laid their hands on them. This wasn't typical. This was something special. They were being set aside. They were being recognized for this duty and this office. The church only laid hands on men who were set aside for a special service. That's why Paul told Timothy, Timothy, lay hands on no man Suddenly. Don't do that suddenly. Why? Because this is a position of leadership. And you want to make sure that they're worthy. And so I think again this is the beginning of the office. And later they're recognized officially as the seven You know, the the apostles are recognized as the twelve. It's just talking about a group of men set aside. Here, these men will later be recognized as the seven. And again, the fact that they're recognized many years later as an original group of seven men, I think again argues for the point that this was the beginning, the official beginning of the office of deacon. And so we see here I think the origin of this office. It was brought about as a result of a need Because the leaders in the church couldn't continue prayer and ministry of the word and do all the other things that were needed, there were other men needed that could serve the church in a myriad of other ways, doing basic little service things. So that the focus of the pastor and the ministers can be on the Word of God. Now, throughout church history, that role changed a lot, and I'm not going to give you a rundown through that of church history. Suffice to say that this is the biblical beginning of it. But Paul Meek summarizes what deacons are not. This is what he says. And then what they are. He says they're not a church director Not a figurehead, not an honorary office, not a church boss or a pastor's boss. He says they're not to be chosen because of social or financial position, nor chosen in order to get him to attend services Let him first be proven, the Bible says. Describing it always says the first responsibility of these men was to assist the pastors in the spiritual ministry of shepherding and caring for the flock. And to free the pastors for the ministry of prayer and preaching and training. And they were selected, actually, he says, you could say in a way that they were under shepherds, under the And so this is the origin of beacons. Now, let me just spend a minute here. I want you to hold your place in Acts 6, but go to 1 Timothy 3. three. Go to 1 Timothy 3. Because I want you to see what I is the office. And here Paul is writing Timothy. And let me give you a little background. Paul gave Timothy a very difficult assignment. He was to stay in Ephesus and Correct and set in order the things that were happening there. There were some problems there in the church at Ephesus, and Paul leaves Timothy there, his protege, one he had trained, to take care of some of these issues. One of them was the problem of false doctrine. And also to make sure that the leadership was up to par in the church. In fact, the key verse in First Timothy is in chapter three down in verse number fifteen where it says But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of truth. Timothy this This is how you are to behave in the church, and he's giving guidelines on how to behave and how to instruct the church And part of it is men are to pray, men are to be marked by prayer. Chapter 2, verses 1 through 8, chapter 2, verses 9 to 15. Women are to adorn themselves in modest apparel and be submissive. And chapter 4, verses 1 through 11 He says, rebuke false teachers. In chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, he says, treat members of the church like your own family. That's good advice. Timothy Treat the older men like your father. Treat the older women like they're your mother. Treat younger women like they're your sisters and the Lord with all purity. Treat young men like they're your brother. That's just good advice. But here in chapter three, he gives guidelines or qualifications for leadership in the church. In chapter three, verses one through seven, he gives a list of qualifications for leadership. first for the pastor in these seven verses. But then look at verse number eight. There's a key word there. Likewise That's an important transitional word. He's introducing a new category. First, he gave qualifications for pastors, now for deacons, but he's connecting the two Essentially, what Paul is saying is that the qualifications for deacons are just almost the same as the qualifications for pastors. There's some of the same things that are necessary there. In fact, if you compare the two lists, you're going to find that they are the same Except for one quality the pastor has to have. It's not listed for deacons, and what is that quality? It is apt to teach the docticos. He has to be skilled in teaching. The pastor has to be able to do that because that's going to be his major role in calling. But let's just look at some of these things that it says about the deacon. Their moral life. Look in verse 8. Likewise must the deacons be grave. And the word grave there simply is a word that means dignified or serious. It carries the idea of serious-minded serious in character, someone who is worthy to look up to and to follow. This was a person who had a stateliness about him. In short, as someone who was serious about the things of God, serious about spiritual issues. Grave, and then it says this, not double-tongued, in verse number eight. And this is a word, a Greek word, die, which means two logos, speak, speaking twice, or literally double-tongue or two-tongue. And again, here what's it what's referring to gossip, someone is quick to discuss a private matter. And because in the church ministry, deacons will be privy to have certain information given to them, they have to be men who are trustworthy. With that information, not to pass it on. You know, there's a stewardship with the things that we hear and the things that we know. And we have to be careful with that And there needs to be a premium on verbal honesty and integrity. And then it says this in verse number eight: not given to much wine. And what this means here, it's the word that means to hold near. It's used in a metaphorical sense to to mean to turn to one's mind to or to be occupied with. This person is not addicted or uh a a an alcoholic we could say someone who is addicted with drink and wine he has control in that area he's not greedy a filthy lucre it says In verse number 8. And I think that kind of implies some of what they were doing back then. Again, if you're going to be dealing with money, if you're going to be dispensing material things to others, this person can't be someone who's greedy with money. But someone that's trustworthy with that respect. So we see there in the first of all in their moral life, their qualifications, then their ministerial life. Look at verse 9. Holding the mystery of faith in a pure conscience. And the word translated mystery here, mysterion, refers to something that was once hidden, now revealed. It's the mystery of faith. It's the new Testament revelation that was hidden generations past and now has been revealed in Christ. And so in short, these are men who have to know the word They have to know scripture. They have to know doctrine. These are not immature spiritually people. These are people that know the faith. They know the word of God. And also they have a pure conscience. It mentions pure conscience there. That is a clear conscience. It's just one that obeys the truth. He's committed to the Word of God. His conscience is clean. There's nothing that could cause him in any way to be a hindrance to the work of the Lord or a disgrace in any way to the church His conscience is clean. He's living with a pure conscience before God. And notice this in verse number 10. And let these first be proven. In other words, Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, don't put a guy in the office and hope that he'll live up to this. Let this first be proven. You see this first You look at these things and make sure that this is characteristic of this person first. Let these first be proven. Dokimas. Let him be tested and found to be qualified. And how do you do that? Simply by watching his life. Watching his character, making sure that he meets up to all of these things and and make sure that they he continues to do that. That's why it's right to honestly take an evaluation Of ourselves at times to make sure that we're living up to these qualifications. These are not pick and choose. All these things have to be true. There are times in my own life where I have to look at that and say, am I living up to this? Is my life like this? If I don't meet these qualifications front, I don't want to go on empty in an empty way just going through the rote mechanics of serving if I don't fit the all There's no integrity there. There's no blessing from God there. And so we have to be proven in these areas, the Bible says. And then it says it uses the word blameless. Also first be proven, then let them use the office of a deacon being found blameless. And find out that they measure up with all these things, and you find that there's blameless, there's no one that could give a charge against them and it have any kind of teeth in it, then if that's the case, then you let them serve. In the office, this is where we get the idea of an office here. Let them then serve in the office of a deacon. So we see their moral life, qualifications, we see qualifications in their ministerial life. And then he gives qualifications in their marital life. Look at verse 11. Even so must their wives be grave. Now he's going to some of the things things he said about the the men, he's going to say now about the wives, not slanderers. This is again A word that talks about information using it in the wrong way. Diabalas is the actual word here, translated devil. That's what the devil does. He slanders Just like the men don't can't have a double tongue, even so their wives can't be slanderers because they may be privy to certain information that they have to be faithful with and responsible with And then he says, sober, sober-minded, that's sensible, faithful in all things, that just simply means trust And verse number twelve, let the decon the deacons be the husband of one wife, literally the Greek construction there of one woman man. It's the idea of being totally Faithful and of the one wife that God has given you. Your heart is devoted to her. This is a person who doesn't have wandering eyes. He's faithful and devoted to the one woman that God has given her. In his heart, he's totally devoted to this one woman. And then ruling their home well, it says verse number 20. And again, just as an elder has to demonstrate leadership in his home or a pastor, even so a deacon has to demonstrate do the same thing. They must manage their children, their possessions well. Because again, if they're going to be doing administrative things in the church, if they can't administrate their own home, how are they going to administrate that In the church. That's the whole point there. They have to rule their own house. They have to be models for others to follow. And so here we see the office Now let me give you the third thing quickly, the opportunities. Once a person fulfills this role and does it well, notice what Paul says about them In verse number twelve, let the deacons be husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well. Verse 13, for they that have used the office of a deacon well, per Paul says, Look, when you do well and you serve well in this capacity, The result of that is a good standing. That's the idea here. You purchase to yourself a good standing. And what he means by that is very simply that they're exalted. They're exalted by God. And they're they're exalted in the hearts and minds of the people that watch them serve. It's really the idea of stepping up above, being put on a pedestal. There's a sense in which you Humble yourself through humble service to the people of God. And what does God do in return? God puts you, He exalts you, He puts you up. The people hold you in high esteem. There's good standing. There's great boldness in the faith. It says right there. Great boldness in the faith which is in Jesus Christ. Which to me has the idea of being a witness. You remember who the first martyr of the church was? Stephen. Remember that? Remember why? He debated with some men in the synagogue because they were challenging him about Jesus the Messiah, and Stephen knew the scriptures so well that they They couldn't stand with him. They couldn't hang with him. And they got angry. And as a result, he was stoned because he of preaching Christ. And so this shows that men that are devoted to the Lord can be used in so many ways And he was a man that boldly spoke the faith and now is venerated and remembered in the church for a man of being the first martyr. But then also there's other things that we see in the book of Acts, and that is increased growth The church was able to just continue to grow because all these other things were being taken care of. The church was being ministered to by conscientious servants of God who wanted to please God, who were filled with the Holy Spirit and had wisdom. And you know what? If you have men that do that in the church, the church is going to just grow. Needs are going to be met. So there was increased growth, and finally, there was decreased grumbling. All the grumbling went away. When deacons serve, you know what happens? Grumbling comes down to a minimum. You know. And I've been in some churches where the deacons cause grumbling. It's not again, it's not here. Uh I've served in some churches where it was it was just hard because the leadership wasn't up to par, and when the leadership's not up to par, it just makes it so much harder But again, I I'm grateful for the men that God has given us here. I'm grateful. Again, I I've said this before, and it's just true. I step into a ministry that's been prosperous, that's had stellar leadership, that's had godly men serving And so I get to be the benefit of kind of stepping into this role. But you know what? We just want this to continue. We want it to continue on. In fact, we want it to just get even better We want to continue to build on the foundation that was laid. We want godly men continuing to serve the church. It is such a high and noble calling to serve God's sheep. To serve God's people. And that's what this is all about. And so this is a very special time we get to recognize, you get to see our deacons, and we get to recognize two other men that are stepping into this role and serving our church. And let me just ask you as a church to remember to pray for the leadership of the church. Pray for me to have wisdom. Pray for our our our pastoral staff, pray for our deacons that we would serve well, serve in an honorable way, and meet all of these qualifications and see God's hand of blessing on the church. So let's let's bow for prayer quickly now. Can we as we bow for prayer, I'm gonna ask for our deacons to get into position. I'm gonna ask for Brother John Baronella just to come up here and I'll tell you what Just stay here on the floor and stand up here in the front middle. And Brother Paul Baxley, if you'll also come, these are the two men that we're we're going to be laying hands on tonight. And if our deacons can come and come around them and lay hands on them. So men, just come on up Here. And Father, bless this time now when we set aside these servants to serve in your church. And Lord, may we apply these truths to our life All of us. We know that these principles apply to really to all of us who want to serve you. And we we pray that we'll take these things to heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.