Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the Old Testament Book of Judges. We are going through a series in Judges on Wednesday night. We're calling Being Faithful in Faithless Times. Learning some lessons from these judges here and how we can apply these things to our own life. And we're in j Judges chapter 9 tonight, and we're going to look at this is a long chapter and uh pray for me that I'll get through it And for you that you'll be able to listen and discern everything that I'm saying here in this chapter. The title of the sermon tonight is The Bramble King. When ambition replaces anointing. And you'll understand what I mean by Bramble King as we get into the story, but this is really all a message about the dangers, the perils of selfish ambition. William Penn once said that if we're not ru uh willing to be ruled by God, we will be ruled by tyrants. And in this period of the judges, Israel continually refuses to be governed by God. We've seen that, right? And the chapters before us, uh there were the consequences of their choice were very obvious. We've seen how that they've gone through a cycle of rebellion and how they've got punished them for it, and they seem to go through it again and again And chapter 8, Gideon verbally refused the offer of kingship, but he governed and he reigned like he was a king, and when he had a son, he named that son Abimelech. And the name Abimelech is the Hebrew word which simply means my father is king. It's Ab is Father, I it's my father. Melech is the word for king. My father is king. So even though Gideon didn't uh accept being their king, he in his mind felt like he was a king because when you name your son my God as king, you have an ego problem. And that was Gideon. He had a concubine who gave who he had this child through, and when he named him Abimelech. And so many scholars question why this account of Bimelech is even in the book of Judges. When you come here to chapter 9, some might scratch their head and say, why is this even in here? Um Abimbalek is not really a judge that is appointed by God. So far when we look through the book of Judges, we see these are men and women, one woman, Deborah, that God raises up to be judges for Israel. But we're going to see here Abimelech is not really appointed by God. He did not deliver the nation from outside invaders. as we see. He was a self-appointed opportunist who had an inordinate lust for power and for authority. And so this narrative kind of It serves really several purposes. Chapter 9 serves several purposes, and one of them is it shows the consequences of Gideon's actions in chapter 8. Everything that Gideon did were the seeds that he laid that later blossomed into what we see here in chapter 9. All the atrocities that Abimelech is going to commit here in Chapter 9 is because Gideon made that possible in chapter 8. Sometimes the consequences for our action we will not we might not see in our lifetime, it may happen generations later. It also shows the consequences for Israel's choice. Since Israel did not want God to be their king or for God to reign over them Then it shows that God allows tyrants to do so. God says, you don't want me to reign over you, then I'll let you be ruled by tyrants. And that's what this illustrates here. It also underscores the need for Israel to wait for God's appointed king, just as it is taught in Deuteronomy chapter 17, that God will raise up a man after his own heart to be his king. It also underscores the notion that Israel's problem is not external, the problem is internal. The problem with Israel is not the enemies on the outside, it's the problem of sin on the inside. And uh this also shows that the problem of sin and the nation wasn't located to one region. It wasn't located to the north. That's where we see the judge judges of Deborah and Gideon. It wasn't located It wasn't uh limited to the south. That's where we see the judgeship of Ehud and Athniel. It wasn't just in the east, that's where Jephthah will judge, or in the west, that's where Samson will rise up But this is right here in the central part of Israel. In other words, the problem of sin in Israel is not just in one region, it's nationwide. It's all over. And so it's it's obvious that the writer wanted Israel to learn some valuable lessons because he's going to spend a lot of time emphasizing this because this is the longest chapter in the whole book of Judges. And really this drama unfolds in three acts. We can give it three acts. Acts one is the treacherous politics of Abimelech. This is where Abimelech takes center stage in the first part of the chapter. And then we see Act 2, the truthful parable of Jotham. This is where Jotham will take center stage. And then the third part of it is Act II is the triumphant providence of God. This is where God will take center stage. So let's go through this drama in three Acts. Here's Acts 1. Acts 1, the treacherous politics of Abimelech. We see this in the first six verses. And really when I look at Abimelech in this in this narrative, I see the story of a man who was perhaps one of the first politicians. Because the truth of the matter is, uh it reads like a modern political campaign today. Uh it's that nasty. He had ambition and he wanted position, he wanted authority. So we see first of all he establishes his campaign headquarters in verse number one. And Abimelech the son of Jeroboam went to Shechem under his mother's brethren. Shechem was a very important city. This is one of the main cities in the central region of Israel. This was located between two mountains, Mount Girzm on one side and Mount Ebal on the other. This was very historical, but when Abraham first entered into the promised land, uh he went to Shechem. When Jacob later bought some of that property in the Promised Land, he bought Shechem and he dug some wells that are we see later on in the New Testament, Jacob's well, they're still there. This was also the place where Joshua gathered Israel, you might remember, when he had a big covenant renewal ceremony where he took half of the Nation of Israel, six tribes on Mount Girzam, six tribes on Mount Ebal. Someone read the law in the valley, and those on one side would say amen to the curses, and those on the other mountain would say amen to the blessings. It all happened right there in Shechem. That was a basically a natural amphitheater where someone speaking on one mountain could hear someone on the other mountain. Someone speaking in the valley could be heard by both mountains. And so it just had those acoustical properties to it. But this is also the place where the bones of Joseph were buried. So it's an important historical spot. And this is the place where Abimelech begins. We also see his constituents In verse number one, where it talks about unto his mother's brethren. He went to his mother's brethren and communed with them and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying, Speak I speak, I pray you in the ears of all the men of Shechem. So first of all, he will gather together supporters of his relatives on his mother's side, and he enlists them to secure the support of the men of Shechem. Look in verse number two again. Speak I pray you unto the ears of all the men of Shechem, whether it is better for you either that all the sons of Jerubabel, which are three score and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over you. And remember also that I am your bone and your flesh. So he says, talk to all the men. And by the way, the Hebrew literally needs Ba'al Shechem, that is the lords of Shechem. This is the leaders. Get all these leaders together and speak to them. And this is what I call the conspiracy. Ask them, is it better for seventy people to reign over you or just one? In other words, do you want to be reigned over by the seventy sons of Gideon or by me? So he begins spreading lies. The seventy sons of Gideon were not trying to reign over them. They were there no such rule ever existed, but he's kind of spreading these lies. He begins this whispering campaign against the seventy sons of Gideon Gideon, and it works, because look in verse number three. And his mother's brethren spake o of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words, and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, He is our brother. That's the campaign slogan right there. I am one of you. I feel your pain. I am your brother. Now Abimelech appealed not to God's will but to family ties It's a human preference. And again, unlike the judges we we saw earlier that were raised up by God, Abimelech is not being raised up by God. This is all personal ambition. This is all selfish ambition. Leadership is calling. It's not a career ladder. Leadership is serving. It's not selfish ambition. But we see the danger of selfish ambition here. Selfish ambition always rejects God's rule. But then we see his contributors. Look at verse number four. And they gave him three score and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baal Barry. Like any campaign, he needs money. And he finds contributors. He gets people who are Baal worshippers. And he gets them to take money out of the house of Baal and to contribute to his campaign. And then also we see his cabinet in verse number four, because with that money he will hire These were empty, reckless men. He hires them to execute his plan in order to have him reign over all of Israel. And that's how ambition operates through persuasion, through manipulation, and through the use of corrupt resources. Ambition often manipulates people for personal gain, using charm, using flattery uh and all that sort of thing. And so we also see his campaign. Look at verse number five. And he went into unto his father's house at Orpha, and watched this, and slew his brethren, the sons of Jerubabal, being threescore and ten persons upon one stone. So on one stone, and the meaning here is not absolutely certain what this one stone is. It it may be an altar there where he slays them one by one. According to 1 Samuel chapter 14, they use one stone to slaughter oxen and sheep. But on this one stone he will slaughter all the sons of Gideon, except one will get away. It tells us here in uh verse number five. that yet Josim, notwithstanding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubabul was left, for he hid himself. So one escaped this slaughter. So all of the sons of Gideon are slaughtered by Abimelech. And then after that we see his coronation. Look at verse number six. And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Milo, and went and made Abimelech king by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem. And so all the men of Shechem crowned Abimelech as king beside the oak of the pillar at Shechem. There's a famous oak there in Shechem that the Bible refers to often. there and right there in that spot he is qu he is uh uh made a king. So he his rise to power, we could say, is baptized in blood. Selfish ambition is never content with cooperation. It breeds rivalry, division, and destruction. And this is what happens here. History is full of leaders whose ambition leaves a trail of blood. We all know that, right? From Caesar to the dictators to these modern times. So that's Act One, the treacherous politics of Abimelech. But here's Act Number Two. I call this the truthful parable of Jotham. Because in verse number seven, begins the next part of this. Look at verse 7. And when they told it to Jotham he went and stood at the top of Mount Girizim, and lifted up his voice and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you. So he's going to begin to speak a parable. Here is the one son of Gideon that was able to escape, and he goes to the top of Mount Girizim, and where he could be heard. I call that his pulpit. He uses a mountain for a pulpit. By the way, his name Jotham means the Lord is honest. In contradistinction to the name Abimelech. His name here means the Lord is honest. Jacob is about to use truth to expose Abimelech, to show everyone the character that he is. This is the first time we see a parable in the Bible, first time in the Old Testament. We don't really see parables in the Old Testament, but here is a case of one So on the top of Mount Girzam. By the way, why does he go to the top of Mount Girisam? Well, first of all, so that all the people in Shechem could hear him. Because on the top of that mountain, everyone was going to be able to hear what he had to say And also remember, this is kind of a natural amphitheater where the acoustics were so very good. So that's why he chooses this very spot. Secondly, because it was a safe distance away, he could make a really quick escape if he needed to, if people didn't like what they were hearing. He could run away quick. So that was a safe spot Reminds me when I was in college, I was at my assignment in my Hamalax class was for me to preach in a bar. That was the assignment. And so I had to go do it. So I when I went to the bar, um I got permission from the bartender, uh you mind if I preach a sermon to these guys? He said, I'm not responsible for what happens to you after this if you So I stood right by the door for a quick escape, right there in front of the door. Anyway. If you any of you guys ever do that, I would suggest you do the same thing. So he was on the top of Shechem because he knew that he could get away quick if things didn't turn out well. Then we see his parable Look at verse number 8. So he gives this parable. I call it the parable of the trees. The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them, and they said unto the olive tree, Reign over us. So here in his parable, the trees are looking for a king, the trees go to the olive tree. And by the way, this whole parable is a message to all Israel. He's going to give them a really good message here. And really the message is when people exalt worthless ambition over godly leadership, destruction always follows. That's really the message here. So He goes to the olive trees. And this is the first part of the parable I call it the refusal of the worthy. He says to the olive trees, all the trees say to the olive trees, reign over us. And the olive tree is invited to be the king, but he refuses. Look in verse number nine. But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness wherewith by me they honor God and man to go and promote over trees So the olive tree says, look, I'm too busy serving God and man. I don't have time to be king over the trees. The olive tree provides a service. Olive oil is probably the most valuable agricultural product in the ancient world. It was used every day. It was used in cooking oil and medicine as a laxative, as a lubricant, as a leather softener, fuel in lamps, and ingredients in uh And perfume and so on. It also is used to anoint kings and anointing ceremonies. And so the Aleph says, look, I'm too busy, the Aleph tree says, I'm too busy doing something important. I can't be your king. So they said, fine, so they go to the fig tree. Look at verse number ten. And the tree said to the fig tree, Come down, reign over us. So they invite the fig tree to be the king. But the fig tree refuses, look in verse 11. But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness and my good fruit and go be promoted over the trees? And so the fig tree service to Israel also was too valuable. I mean, figs were one of the staples, staple fruits of the land of Israel. They could be eaten at harvest time, they could be preserved, and and they could be baked into cakes, and they were extremely sweet and also healthy. And so the fig tree says, I'm too uh busy uh Uh should I leave what I'm doing? Uh I mean to bear sweet fruit? Uh should I leave doing that only to grasp for power? No, I'm I'm afraid not. So they say, fine. So they go to the vine. They offer this position to the vine. Look at verse number 12. Then said the trees unto the vine, come thou and reign over us. And again the vine refuses. Verse 13, and the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go and to be promoted over trees? And so the vine refuses kingship. And again, it's because what the vine is doing is too important, providing wine And by the way, that was so very important back in that day. A lot of times the water was not safe to drink because it was polluted many times, and just by adding some of the drinking water into wine, that wine kind of protected the water. The alcohol in the wine kind of had s these properties where they could it would help up kill some of the harmful uh bacteria or harmful organisms that were in the water. And so wine was safer to drink than water and also it would cheer the heart. And so again, the vine says, I'm too important. So the the bottom line is these fruitful trees were too important doing what they were doing to stop what they were doing to be to take a position to reign over the trees These fruitful trees represent godly leadership. Men who serve God and bless others. That's really the idea here. They were too busy producing fruit to chase crowns. And the application is that true leaders do not seek position for themselves. That's the whole point here. They focus on serving God and bearing fruit. Ambition looks for thrones Faithfulness looks for fruit. And that's the whole point here. But then we see the second part of the parable, the rise of the worthless. Because they don't stop there. Look at these trees. Look at verse 14. Then said all the trees unto the bramble Come and reign over us. At last the trees turn to the bramble. And verse number 14. Now this is the plant that has absolutely no positive contribution to humanity. This was basically a thorn bush. And it was only used to kindle fires. It wasn't really used much else for that. It was useless for fruit. It was painful to touch. It would always leave you with a sting. It was dangerous when it was dry, because these brambles could cause fires. But notice verse fifteen And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow. And if not, let fire come out of the Bramble and devour the cedars of Lebanon. And so here the Bramble says, Yeah, if you want me to be your king, just come to me and I and trust in my shadow. That's a joke. The the idea that a bramble could actually provide shadow, that's laughable. Some little thornbush is not going to be able to provide shadow here. So it's he's kind of making light there. This this bush has no shade, it has no good use, it produces no fruit. And notice the phrase, if in truth ye anoint me to reign over you The Bramble is saying, if you trees are not playing games with me and you really want to come to me, then Then make it make it so, but don't play games for me because if you are, then don't miss the illusion of fire, then fire's gonna come out and devour you. That's the idea here. The bramble bush again was only good for fire. So what happens? They make the Bramble king over them. And here's the lesson. Worthless leaders crave crowns, but cannot give care. Here, this Bramble claims to be able to provide all of this, but can really do nothing except really be a destructive force. When God's people choose Bramble leadership, they are pierced and they are burned. We see illustrations of this in history again. So we see not only his pulpit and his parable, but also his prophecy. And these next verses he in he's going to interpret the parable. Look down at verse number sixteen. This is Jotham. He just gave the parable, and now he's going to interpret it for us in verse sixteen. Now therefore, if ye have done Truly and sincerely, in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jeroboam in his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of his hands. You kind of get where he's going here. If all of you men coming together, if you were sincere in making him your king, if you think you did the right thing with my father's house and killing all the sons which you did Look at verse 19. If ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with the Rubbi and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech And let him also rejoice in you. If that's your choice, if that's sincerely who you want, you think you've done right by my father's house and doing all this, okay fine, rejoice in what you have. You deserve what you have is the idea there. Sometimes nations get the leaders that they deserve. And he's saying here, you you deserve what you have here. But also in verse number 20, notice what he says, But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the men of Shechem and the house of Meloh, and let fire come out from the men of Shechem and from the house of Meloh and devour Abimelech. And so really this is a curse. This is kind of a prophecy here, but it's a curse. And later on in Judges chapter 9, we'll see this prophecy kind of happen. This is the leader that you want. That's who it really is who you chose? Fine. Then let fire come out from him and devour you. And you devour him. You deserve each other. You're going to destroy each other. That's the idea there. Now after he gives this parable in verse number twenty one, Jotham then flees to safety And he waits to see what will take place. But again, the application of all of this is that ambition outside God's will always ends in destruction. It ends in destruction. Leadership chosen by pride or politics or blood will never prosper A house built on sand collapses when the storm comes, and there's a storm that will come. And that's Act Three. So we see Act One, the politics of Abimelech, Act Two, the Parable of Josel. Here's Act 3. I call this the triumphant providence of God. Because remember what I told you in the first part of Bimelech's center stage, the second part? Jotham takes center stage now here in the last part of this chapter. God is the one who's going to take center stage in all of this. And the writer begins to make it clear that God is in control of these events. And he begin and he begins to bring it all together. We see the expression in verse twenty-two, then God. Then God. And then in verse fifty-six, and that thus God So God is going to work all this out and he's going to bring judgment here. So first of all, we see the discord of Shechem. Because in verse 22 and verse 23, everything's going well. Abimelech reigns for three years over Israel. And then in verse 23, then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem. And the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech. Notice what it says here. It doesn't say that Abimelech lost control. It doesn't say that his politics changed. It says that God sent division. God did this. Even the hostility between wicked men is under divine sovereignty. And so uh We see this God stirring things up here. Matthew Henry writes this, those who combine in sin will not will no longer continue in peace. God can make the greatest friends of iniquity to be one another's scourges. And the alliance that was built between Abimelech and these men of Shechem was not built on righteousness, it was built on deception and bloodshed, and now they turn on each other. There's a complete reversal. Because look down at verse number twenty-five. And by the way, it says there in verse 23 and verse 24, God's doing all this to bring uh to the c it's the consequences of what They have done earlier, Abimelech and the men of Shechem. Look at verse number twenty-five. And the men of Shechem set liars in wait for him at the top of the mountains. And they robbed all that came along that way by them, and it was told Abimelech. And so the men of Shechem set up ambushes in the mountains. They began robbing travelers. They began to destabilize the region And the city that crowned him king now is quietly resisting him, putting up a revolt against him. And so He'll hear about this. Abimelech will hear about it. And we also see another thing that happens. God will raise up another man. I call this the default the defiance of Gael There's another surprise here. Another person is introduced into the narrative, a man by the name of Gael, in verse number 26 and verse 27, and he begins to mock Abimelech. During a drunken festival in the temple of Baal Barit, he begins to mock, and the people begin to curse Abimelech openly. We see this in verse number 26. And in verse number 277. By the way, this is the same temple that funded him for his campaign. And now they're cursing him. Notice verse 28 and verse 29. And Gaal the son of Echad said, Who is Abimelech and who is Shechem that we should serve him? Is not he the son of Jurebbable? And Zebul his officer, serve the men of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for why should we serve them? So you see what's going on here He's giving this political speech and he's basically saying, why are you following him? And he kind of uses the same campaign slogan that Abimelech used, I'm one of you. Start to follow me. So God raises up an enemy And Zebul, who is there, this is Abimelech's lieutenant, he's hearing this and he secretly informs Abimelech of what's going on. And the result of that is a catastrophe because what Abimelech does is he gets some soldiers together, he gets his troops together, and he goes down against Shechem. This was his campaign headquarters, this was the main city, but now he's going to come against it. And he's going to destroy it, uh essentially. In verse thirty-four down to verse number forty one, he kind of conceals his he divides his troops into four companies, he conceals them, and at sunrise he's gonna go in and he's gonna invade the city of Shechem. In verse 36, when Gael mentioned that he sees out there some early some some movement going on in the mountains there, Zebel just says, Oh, those are just shadows. Don't worry about that. And then finally, when he can deceive Gael no longer, notice what Zeebel says in verse number 38. Notice what he tells him. Then said Zebu unto him, Where is now thy mouth wherewith thou saith, who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? And is not this the people that thou hast despised? Go out, I pay thee now and fight with them. So now when he when when Gahel realizes uh this is Abimelech and his troops coming against them, uh Zebel then kind of turns it around and says, you know, where's your boasting now? Go out and meet them. Go out and fight 'em. Put your put your money where your mouth is. And get out there on the field and fight. And so basically what happens is the uh Abimelech slaughters He's slaughtering them. People are running. And some of them are running to a place to hide. Look down in verse number 45. Notice what it says in verse forty-five. And the Abimelech fought against the city all that day, and he took the city and slew the people that was therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt. To sow salt into the into the land is basically a way of saying this land is now cursed. It also is a way of saying nothing's going to grow in this soil anymore by putting the salt in there. And so he's just absolutely wiping out this city. And then comes the terrible fulfillment of Jophan's prophecy. Look in verse number forty six. And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard it, they entered into the hold of the house of the God Bareth. Buried in verse 47. It was told Abimelech that all the men of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together. In verse 48, and Abimelech got him up to Mount Zaman, he and all the people that were with him. And uh basically what he does is he starts cutting down wood. And oh here are all these people that run into this tower and they're trying to they run into it for safety. And Abimelech sees that. He goes to start to get wood, cutting down wood, he tells his other men to go do the same thing. So now they're bringing wood and they're putting it up to the tower. What are they going to do? They're going to burn this thing down. They're gonna burn it down. By the way, there was a um archaeological dig that was done there in that region and they uncovered uh a temple there. And uh that has three different names here in the text, but the archaeologists found out that all those three names all refer to one building, the temple and the tower, that's all one. And they found it there. And that's what these people run into. They run into this tower. They run there for safety. Abimelech again sets it on fire. Look down at verse number 49. And it says, and all the people likewise cut down every man his bow, so they're getting all the wood together. And uh they're and And he basically burns the whole thing down and put them to the put them to a hold and set the whole on fire upon them so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women. So he burns down this whole tower. Remember the prophecy of Jotham? Let fire come out and devour them. Fire from the bramble. This is exactly what he warned about. The Bramble King who promised protection now becomes the instrument for destruction. Just like the prophecy. The one who offered shade, he brings fire. What a picture of sinful leadership. Leaders driven by pride and ambition often promise security, but ultimately they produce devastation. As we see right here. And then we see the next part of this, the death of Abimelech. You guys still with me? You want to see the you want to hear the end of this? All right, here's the death of Abimelech. We see this in verses 50 down to verse 57. Now Abimelech's not satisfied with just destroying Shechem. He's still angry. So he turns his attention to a neighboring town. I mean the previous episode kind of reads uh let uh leaves the reader wondering, um, is Abimelech going to escape the second part of Jotham's curse? It seems like he will, but no, not for long. Because now he's going to go to a neighboring city called Thebes. This is probably a little satellite town right next to Shechem. And he begins to invade this city, and the people see him coming, and you know what they do? They run into the tower, just like the people in Shechem did. They're running to the tower for safety. Look in verse number fifty one. But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it to them, and got them up to the top of the tower. And verse 52, and Abimelech came unto the tower and fought against it and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire. So he's kind of doing the same thing, right? All the people are there in the tower. He's going to burn this tower down too. So he's he's he's gathering wood to do the same thing there. And something unexpected, you're expecting the same thing to happen. He's going to set this tower on fire. The people are going to die, just like in the other scene with Shechem. But something unexpected happens here. Look at verse number 53. And a certain woman, doesn't name her, just a certain woman, cast a piece of millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to break his skull. Wow. So this nameless woman picks up a millstone from the top of the tower. Now, she must have been a pretty strong gal to do that. To pick up a millstone on her own, that's the first thing that comes to mind. It's like, whoa. I mean those things are pretty big. So this was a really strong lady. And the other thing you're left wondering here is where are the men? They're standing there watching her do this? Why are they what are they doing? Again, this is another one of those instances in the book of Judges where a woman steps forward where the men did not. So she steps forward and she picks up this millstone and uh she crushes the man who slew many. Remember, he slew many on one stone, right? Now sh he is killed by one stone. That's the irony here. The mighty warrior who slaughtered seventy brothers falls beneath a household object thrown by an unnamed woman. And so uh even in this, however, Abimelech's pride surfaces. Look down in verse number 54. Then he called hastily unto the young men, his armor-bearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword and slay me. That men say not of me, a woman slew him. And a young man thrust him through and he died. So evidently he was conscious enough just long enough to give a final command. Please kill me. I don't want people saying I was killed by a woman. That's the worst thing for a warrior back in that day. And so again we see his pride here. That's the most disgraceful way of being killed in that time. And so It's it again we see the irony. In the beginning, Abimelech roots his political ambition in the identity of a woman, his mother, who is a concubine, and in the end he is killed by a woman. That's the end of his his political life, his life period. And again, the role of women in the book of Judges is highlighted He is the man who shamelessly plays the female card in the beginning, and he shamefully falls victim to the representative of this change agenda here in the end. But let me just close with this. We see the chapter closes with a theological explanation to everything that happened. Look down at verse number 56. Thus, and don't don't miss this. Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, and slaying his seventy brethren. And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads, and upon them came the curse of Japham, the son of Jerubabal. I think this is one of the clearest statements of divine providence in the whole book of Judges. God allows Abimelech to rise, God stirs up the division, God orchestrated all the downfall, God repaid the wickedness. Here. Abimelech thought that he was in control of events. No, it was God who was in control of events. Now let me just give you just real quick, just a few quick lessons. Number one, sin eventually destroys itself. Abimelech rose through violence and he dies through violence. Number two, wicked leadership always harms the people. We have seen this all throughout this story. His ambition devastates an entire region. Leadership matters. Having godly leadership matters. Number three, God's justice may be delayed, but it's never absent. It may look like for a while that Abimelech's getting away with it, but no. Divine justice arrived precisely on time. It's like Thomas Watson, the Puritan, wrote, God's mills grind slow, but it grinds exceedingly small. God will always have the last word. But then one other thing here. Now again here in the book of Judges, as we'll see many in many of these stories, that Judges is doing something very profound. And you know what it's doing? It's creating a longing in the people and in the reader for a greater king, a greater judge. And it all points to Jesus Christ. It points forward to another son, who is perfect son. Abimelech murders his brothers to secure a throne. Jesus will come and die for his brothers. A son is rejected by his brethren. That is Jesus. A son who does not kill to reign, but he dies to redeem. And where Abimelech grasps for power, Christ humbles himself. Where Abimelech burns a tower full of people, Christ saves sinners from a fiery judgment. That's why he came. Abimelech is the Bramble King. Christ is the righteous branch. He is the righteous king. And Judges 9 again shows us what happens when Israel crowns its own Savior. But it also prepares us to long for the king whom God appoints. And this parable of Jotham teaches us that true leaders bear fruit. They serve God's purposes, not their own pride. False leaders are brambles. Scratching and burning and destroying those under them. The Christ is not a bramble king, he's the vine, he's the olive, he's the fig tree, all in one, he's fruitful, he's life-giving and protective Let's bow for prayer together. I want you to think about our Lord as we're closing tonight. Think about the passage in Philippians where it says, in Philippians 2, where Jesus is absolutely selfless, he humbles himself. And becomes obedient unto death. He's not grasping for anything. He's letting go of his divine privileges. And the Bible says, wherefore God also has highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. The true King. Father, thank you for this reminder of the danger, the perils of selfish ambition. Reminds us again of what we talked about on Sunday night of self-denial. We constantly have to deny self. That's the Christian life. Put aside our own ambitions and submit and surrender to the will of God. And Christ is the greatest example of this. Who picked up the cross and bore it on Calvary and died for our sins, and now if we want to follow Christ, we we too also must pick up the cross and follow him. So Father, may that be so in our life. And we pray Pray in Jesus' name, Amen