Would you take God's word tonight and uh open to the book of Philippians, chapter 3, verses 4 to 11 is what we're going to be looking at tonight. And speaking of the gospel, this is such a beautiful passage that makes clear the gospel. And so we want to look at it tonight. And we've been studying the book of Philippians here on Sunday night. And uh so look at verse number four. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he have whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. And then Paul from verses 5 on down to verse number 6 gives his religious resume of all the things that he has done. in his own religious life. But then in verse 7 he says this, but what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. The airline mangled Debbie's luggage. You ever have that happen? Her purse was gone. Instead of entering the airport through an enclosed corridor, she stumbled off the plane and pouring rain. She was drenched. She was far from home. She had no money. She had no identification. She had no dry clothes Under normal conditions, Devi would have been furious. But it didn't matter that night because he had just survived the crash of Flight 1420 in Little Rock, Arkansas. And she said this, when I walked off that plane, Debbie said, I walked off with nothing. Then I stopped and thought, I have everything. I have everything. She had suddenly realized that her life was more important than all that she had lost. It takes sometimes a dramatic turn of events. To alter our perspective and to help us to see what our real gains are and what our real losses are. Well, that was certainly true for Saul of Tarsus He had treasured his hard-earned reputation for righteousness. He uh thought that he was more righteous than any uh uh uh uh in the Jewish world. And but when he met Christ on the Damascus Road, his whole perspective altered. Things changed in his mind. And later he wrote in the verse I just read in verse seven, but what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Now this passage that we're going to look at tonight is a very autobiographical passage of the Apostle Paul. It describes the inner workings of his heart and his mind when salvation came. If you read Acts chapter 9, you will see the outward experience. that Paul had when he met the Lord Jesus on the road to Damascus. That is the historical record of what took place when others saw that as he was on the road to Damascus. But here in this passage, in verses 4 down to verse 11 of chapter 3, Paul talks about the internal working of God in his heart. It's the record of the Spirit of God working inwardly and and altering the perspective of a man who became truly repentant over his sin and he understood and saw his self-righteousness for what it was. This is all that was going on in Paul's mind. It's a m it talks really about a miraculous transformation. That day when the Apostle Paul met Jesus on the road to Damascus, it literally transformed his life. He went from being a proud, self-righteous Pharisee, a persecutor of the church. To being a humble, repentant sinner. Paul the proud Pharisee became the slave of Jesus Christ. And as a result of meeting Jesus there on the road to Damascus, all of his religious accompliments were shattered All of his self-confidence and his religious deeds, that was all gone. It vanished. All the the things that he boasted about, all the religious things that he took pride in. It became nothing. Paul said it was nothing. The badges that he wore, they all fell off. And Paul looked at his religious resume, something that he was proud of in the past, and now he just tears it up. He absolutely tears it up. In this passage, Paul counts everything that was previously considered as a gain. Now Paul says, I count all of that loss. It's all a loss. It's all a loss. And Paul, as it were, becomes an accountant in this passage. Brother Mark Hilton, you would appreciate this passage. He speaks like an accountant here. He talks about gains and losses. That's really and really the heart of the passage is verse seven and eight. What things were gained to me, those I count at loss for Christ. Verse 8. Nay, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb that I might win Christ. The word gain Kurtos, that's a profit gained on an investment. The word loss is again an accounting term, suffering the loss of something financial. This is the exact opposite of the word for gain. Paul is saying this: look, when I met Jesus Christ, I took a loss on some things, but I also gained some things. But so he's really describing salvation as a business transaction. When I met Jesus, there was a business transaction that took place. And I took a huge loss. Now, normally when someone, especially a businessman, takes a loss on something, they're not very happy about it. But here, Paul, he's very happy about the loss that he took. The reason is is because the gains so far outshine the loss that it was a great transaction. Transaction, Paul says. This was a wonderful transaction. What did Paul lose? Paul lost all his religious works, which amounted to filthy rags in the sight of God. But in exchange, he gained the vast riches that are in Jesus Christ. That's the whole point. The Bible says in Colossians 2. 3 that in Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And so at salvation, there's an exchange. We could say there's a transaction that takes place. We exchange all that we are as sinners for all that Christ offers, all that Christ is. as our Savior. And Jesus referred to this kind of transaction in the Gospel of Matthew. He said this. He said, excuse me, for whosoever will save his life shall lose it. And whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it. And what shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? There again, that great transaction. In Matthew 13, Jesus gives a parable and he talks about a man who was walking in a field and he finds a treasure, a treasure that was hidden there in the field. We don't know how he found it, but he stumbles across this hidden treasure and he realizes how valuable it is. And what does he do? He goes and he sells all that he has to purchase that land so that he could have Again, Jesus is describing a transaction that takes place there. At salvation, we give up all that we are to get all that what Christ offers in the gospel. That's the whole point. What a great trade. And Paul is thinking this way. He's saying all my religious accomplishments, all the things I boasted in, all the things that I was proud of, suddenly, it became it became garbage. And the word that Paul uses in verse number eight, a very strong word, I do count them but dung. Dung is the word scubula. It literally means manure, waste, trash, garbage. And it would it could be a word that Paul has used in association with or using in association with the false teachers that he called dogs. Remember these Judaizers that came behind Paul. Wherever Paul went and he preached the pure gospel, the true gospel, there were always the Judaizers that would come behind and say, Well, you need to add to what you have You need to add to your faith these works, these religious works. And Paul, you remember if you were with us last time when we studied this Philippians, he called them dogs. Beware of dogs. And uh the again I told you that the the the dogs here were not cute little poodles. These were scavenger dogs that were dangerous. And Paul says, you know, that's these Judaizers, they're dogs and they're dangerous. And you need to beware because they're not teaching you the true gospel. And so based on this, then what I want you to see tonight are just three factors. regarding this great transaction that takes place that Paul talks about here in this passage of scripture, something that we need to hold on to And remember, this transaction that takes place at salvation. First of all, there's what I want to call the empty assets of a religious man. The empty assets of a religious man. And we see this in verse number four on down to verse number six. Though I might have confidence in the flesh, If any man think that he had whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more. Now we have to consider again this in the context. Paul is rebuking the Judaizers. who taught that salvation was by faith plus works. You had to add to your faith some of your own works. They had to add to the work to the faith the works of the law. And so salvation was not just by Christ alone. You had to add Moses to that. And so therefore the Judaizers were teaching a false gospel that taught people to boast in their own religious works. It was a mixture of human righteousness with faith. Human effort with God's grace, human merit with God's mercy, that you have to add all that together. And when you add anything to the gospel of grace, you distort it. You pervert it. And Paul wants the Philippians to understand this very, very clearly. So in this passage, Paul is going to demolish this idea, and Paul will use himself as an illustration. And he's basically saying to the Judaizers and anyone that would listen to him, look, if if you think they have a good re resume, a religious resume that they think that they can add to their salvation, if they think that they can glory or boast about their religious works, They have nothing compared to me. I mean, they're nothing compared to what I had, what I could boast in. If anybody has whereof to glory in religious works, I more, more than all of them. And then Paul begins to rehearse or give his religious resume. First of all, his ritual. Look at verse number five. Circumcise the eighth day. This was of course the ritual that God gave to Abraham in Genesis 17. uh that was a sign of the covenant that a that of Abraham that made with God. Since that time every male Jew was to be circumcised on the eighth day. This was the ritual, this was the pattern that they were to follow. Only pure-blooded Jews were circumcised on the eighth day. And by the way, this kind of evolved into some Jews thinking that this was a way of salvation, that you were saved, because you went through this ritual. And so that was very meaningful. Paul says, look, that's on my resume. I was circumcised on the eighth day. But then he speaks about his race. In verse number five of the stock of Israel. Paul had been born a Jew. Again, he's taking aim at the Judaizers here. Some of them were Gentile converts to Judaism. But here Paul was saying, look, if you want to brag about religious pedigree, I'm I'm more Judaism than any of them. I'm I'm born a pure-blooded Jew. And then also his rank of the tribe of Benjamin. Not only was he born a Jew, but he came out of the most prominent tribe of all the tribes of Israel. Israel's first king was from the tribe of Benjamin. Rachel was the mother of Benjamin. And when the promised land was divided among the twelve tribes, the holy city of Jerusalem was included in Benjamin's territory. So, and after the captivity, uh the tribe that Benjamin was the tribe that formed the nucleus around which Israel would kind of revolve. in that time. So this was uh definitely the right tribe. If you're going to be a Jew and from one of the twelve tribes, this was the right one to be from. This was the tribe of the aristocracy of Israel. But then at his roots, he said a Hebrew of Hebrews. Paul was simply saying that he was Hebrew through and through. He was born to Hebrew parents He spoke the Hebrew language. He lived by Hebrew customs. He was schooled in the Hebrew traditions. He learned at the feet of Gamalia, one of the greatest Hebrew professors. We see that in Acts chapter 22. Where Paul talks about that. But then we also see his religion as touching the law of Pharisee. Paul had worked hard to acquire a number of things that would commend him to God. And here he had become a Pharisee. This was the strictest of Judaism sects. He earned that. And normally when we think of a Pharisee today, we think in negative terms, and we understand that why. But you have to remember that in Paul's day, to be a Pharisee was to be among the relief. He was in the top of his class, we could say, the religiously elite. He was considered a step above all other Jews and Judaism, because he was a Pharisee. In Galatians 1 14, Paul said, and profited in my in the Jewish religion above many my equals in my own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the tradition of my fathers. And then he talks about his record concerning zeal persecuting the church. And here we see that Paul was fanatical in his religion as a Pharisee. He was committed to persecuting the church and thinking that he was doing God a service. And a favor by persecuting uh Christianity and the church. By the way, the word persecute here is present tense. It was a lifestyle. Paul didn't just persecute someone one time. He was on an ongoing campaign. to persecute the church and to persecute the leaders and to throw them in jail. And so he had an intense zeal. a degree to which he was even willing to throw people in prison and do things that ultimately would lead to their death. Because again he thought he was doing a service to the Lord. And Acts 22, verse 4, it says this. Here's Paul talking. He says, And I persecuted this way unto death, binding and delivering into prison both men and women. As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders, for whom I also received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus to bring them that were there, bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished. And so Paul was he was on a campaign. He was the guy they would choose to go out and to bring in these Christians and put them in prison and so on. So much so that even after Paul's conversion, there were still some Christians that were afraid to get around them because they were wondering if it was really true. So Paul is saying to these Judaizers, look, if you want to compare records, you are proselytizing the church, but I've persecuted the church. You were zealous and sincere, but your zeal does not match the zeal that I had in that former life By the way, we know a lot of people today that are very religiously zealous for their cause. The only problem is it's not the gospel, it's not the truth. They're sincerely wrong. I mean the world is filled with fanatical Muslims killing Christians all the time, thinking they're doing a good service. And this world is filled with people who are sincere in their beliefs, they're thinking that killing uh Christians or others. They're actually doing a service. This is a zeal without knowledge. Religious zeal guarantees nothing. It guarantees nothing. But also we see his righteousness. Notice what he says again in verse 6. The righteousness which is of the law, blameless, touching the righteousness which is of the law. blameless. And here Paul is speaking of his outward conformity to the righteousness of the law. Paul uses the law in a broad sense in the Jewish tradition, not just the Old Testament. Paul says that anyone who observes my life from before, they will testify that I kept the law outwardly. By all outward appearances, Paul was the model Jewish man. He was so meticulous in everything he did in keeping the law And if anybody had a right to boast about outward conformity to the law, it certainly was the Apostle Paul. But here he's looking at the leisure sheet and all these religious deeds that he all he put all of these deeds, all of these works, he put them in the gain column. This is all his gain And again, there are some people that think like that today. Some people think that they've gained favor with God based on their past deeds. I uh had a man call me on the phone uh Friday, and uh he's a man that I've known for years, and uh He he's, you know, made a profession that knowing Jesus. But then he finally called me on the phone and he just says, Look, I've been following Catholicism and uh I'm not really sure that I'm going to heaven and I just I every day I just ask God for his mercy, but I I I just don't have any peace whatsoever. And he began to tell me all the religious things that he did. And yet there was no peace in his heart. that he had been saved and and I basically told him, I said, look, the reason for that is you don't understand the gospel. You don't understand the true message of the gospel. And I shared the gospel with him. and told him that all the religious works that he was doing, all of that counted for nothing. Silence on the end of the phone. What? It counts for nothing. It can't help you with God in any way. In fact, the Apostle Paul said it's manure. It's dung. It's no good. If you want to use that to get right with God, it's nothing but a loss. And uh and I shared with him the true gospel, the pure gospel. And he prayed with me. He said, I want to I want to trust Christ right now. So you need to put your faith in Christ and Christ alone, not Christ plus Mary or Christ plus the saints or Christ plus penance or any of those other things. It is Christ and Christ alone. Faith in Christ alone. And he he prayed and he prayed, put his faith in Jesus Christ alone. But there are a lot of people out there and their religious ledger books look pretty good to them. They look at the game column, all the things that they're doing, and they think that in some way that makes them a Christian. There are even people today that claim to be evangelical Christians. And if you ask them why you're a Christian, they'll say, well, I'm an American I was born in the Bible belt, in the buckle of the Bible belt. We went to church all the time. Uh I I won attendance awards, did you know that? They they could pull out the ribbons that they were given. Uh I won these certain Bible drills when I was a kid growing up. And I'll have you know that my grandfather's name is on the stained glass of that church. And he's buried out in the backyard of that church. I give my tithes, I support missions, I've been a member of my church for years, I've been baptized since I was a child. All that is in the gain column in their ledger book. But if that is what you're trusting in for salvation, then friend, it is all loss. Means nothing. Means nothing. That is when you put your faith in Christ. All human righteousness adds up to nothing in God's account. Nothing. Human righteousness falls short of the standard that God sets. If you want to go that route, you know God demands absolute total perfection. Matthew 5. 48. Be ye therefore perfect, even as your heavenly Father is perfect. Okay, can you claim that? None of us can, of course. Human righteousness, even at its best, is polluted by sin. The Bible says all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. And so when Paul met Jesus, he realized that all of his human works, all of his religious works, all of that amounted to nothing. Nothing, nothing, absolutely nothing. So we see the empty assets of a religious man, but then I want you to see number two what I call the enlightened assessment. of a repentant man. Again, verse seven, but what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. That word but there in verse seven is a that's a big word. Means a lot. That word marks Paul's experience on the road to Damascus. When Paul met Jesus, his whole perspective changed. When Paul first saw Jesus and learned what God's righteousness was and how it is attained, he saw that his righteousness was truly nothing. And three times he uses the word count. In verse seven it's used, and then in verse eight, the word count is used twice. Again, the word count here, hegomai, it's a mathematic term, which means to think about it and come to a conclusion. And again, he's doing a he's doing a uh figuring in his mind. He's factoring it all out in his mind. In the account book of Paul's life, his entries on the gain side were transferred to the loss. When I met Jesus, I realized that all these gains I had to transfer them over is loss. It's all a loss. But then he realized that God's righteousness Is not attained by works. It's attained by faith alone. And then He understood that when he put his faith in Christ, that the perfect righteousness of Christ, all of that was then put into his account. And so Paul looked at the entire list. From the gain column, he removed it. He put it into the loss column. He placed it there under liabilities. And notice the word loss is used again three times, verse seven, twice in verse eight. All of the religious and ritual gains he now counted as loss. And counted in verse 7 is perfect tense, which means that Paul made this whole accounting of at a point in the time in the past, and he still considered them a loss. In other words, it was a loss and it still is a loss. Anytime you try to use works to earn your favor with God in reference to salvation, that's always a loss. It's always a loss. We could paraphrase it like this. These things I have set down as loss and do so still. I still count them all as a loss. And the perfect tense here contrasts with his use of the perfect tense for the same verb in verse number eight. Yea, and doubtless I count all things, but look but But lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung that I might win Christ. He still counts every religious deed. in the past and in the future, used to gain favor as a loss compared to the surpassing knowledge of knowing Jesus Christ Look at verse 8 where he says, Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss. For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord. The word knowledge there is there's two words for knowledge. There's Oda, which is uh kind of abstract knowledge. We could call it uh education by books, theoretical knowledge, intellectual knowledge. The other word is ganosco, which is experiential experiential knowledge. That is the knowledge that Paul is talking about here. Personal knowledge. Knowing Jesus Christ. In a personal way. That's what he's talking about here. Warren Wordsby says this: knowing Christ means much more than knowledge about Christ because Paul had that kind of historical information before he was saved. To know Christ means to have a personal relationship with Him through faith, and it's this experience that Jesus mentions. And so It's knowing Jesus personally, not just knowing about Jesus, the facts about Jesus. There's a lot of people that can give some of the facts, even about the gospel. But they really don't know Jesus. They haven't put their faith in Jesus. They haven't had that experiential knowledge of Jesus. They haven't uh exchanged the assets, so to speak. They haven't counted all their religious works as lost For the excellency of knowing Jesus Christ in a personal way, by putting your faith in Christ and being given the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ into your account instead of depending upon your own righteousness. So let me warn you to be careful to make sure you understand this about the gospel, because I think we're living in a time when it's easy to lose this. It's easy to try to mix everybody together all in one big group and say, oh, we all believe the same gospel. And that's a dangerous thing. Let me tell you something. Beware of political movements that claim to be Christian. You need to be careful of that. You know why? Because in politics, politics is all about compromise. It's all about compromise. And guess what? We cannot compromise the gospel in any way. We don't compromise the gospel. So these were there's these political movements out there where everybody is all get it they they're all emotional and they get up in their emotions, oh we believe the same gospel, we believe the same Jesus, we believe the same really Is that do you really believe the same gospel? Because there's a lot that say they do and they don't. And by the way, God is not going to expand his kingdom through politics Jesus says, My kingdom is not of this world. His kingdom is a spiritual kingdom, and he'll come back and set up a literal kingdom. But the way that his kingdom advances is through the pure gospel of Jesus Christ. And the reason I say that is because Catholics want to get up and say, oh, we all believe the same gospel. No, we don't. You worship Mary. Jesus doesn't need any help from his mother when it comes to salvation. And she would admit that if she were here She she said that you know when when the virgin birth was announced to her, she said she rejoiced in God my Savior. Uh I was telling this Catholic man I was talking to him on the phone and when he was saying, Well, you know, I I do all these things, and I said, Well uh was hoping that all those religious works were pleasing to God, and I just told him, I said, look, there is nothing more offensive to God than what you're doing. He couldn't believe the offensive. Yeah, offensive. You're basically saying that God provided his son Jesus as the perfect righteousness for you. He lived a perfect life. He took all your sins upon himself. He died for your sin. And rather than you putting your full faith in Jesus, you're basically saying, Jesus, I appreciate what you did, but I know you need help from some others I know you need some help from your mother. I know you need some help from the other saints. So because your righteousness was good, but it was not enough, I'm gonna go around you and I'm gonna talk to Mary. Mary, are you there? That's idolatry That's blasphemy. Jesus doesn't need help from Mary. He doesn't need help from the saints. His righteousness is a perfect righteousness that's given to us when we put our faith in Christ. There's nothing more offensive to God than to uh than to say that Catholicism and that works system And that whole system of Jesus needing help with all the saints and all the rest, there's nothing more offensive to God than that. Because basically you're saying, God, I know that you're well pleased with Jesus, but we're not so much We're not so much. We we we need he needs some help. If Mary were here, she would say, look, I I need his help. I'm a sinner too. And he's my savior. So I told this guy, I said, you know, all of this thing that you're doing, all that's doing is offending God. It's offending God. What you have to do is to put your faith and what Jesus did for you on the cross and accept his perfect righteousness that will be transferred to your account the moment that you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And however, there's still all these movements out there that want to bring everybody together. And say, you know, we're all on the same team. That might be true from a political conservative perspective, but it's not true from a theological perspective. And it matters. It matters. We do not compromise the gospel. And when God brings revival, again, it's not going to be through some political movement. It'll be through the pure gospel of Jesus Christ, without compromise whatsoever. Whatsoever. So I love the song that we sing, Rock of Ages, Nothing in My Hand I Bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. So we have to lay aside all of our goodness, count it as loss, and trust in what Jesus did, him and him alone on the cross. And to have his righteousness transferred to our account. And again, I emphasize that because I think there are a lot of people that wear the title of Christian and call themselves religious, and they're trusting more in their religious works. And it it doesn't it hasn't really dawned on them that that is nothing. It is a loss with God. It's a loss. George Whitfield was one of the most effective preachers of the gospel that the this country has ever heard uh this was during the Great Great Awakening. He would preach uh to large crowds in America during the Great Awakening. But as a teenager, George Whitfield desired to live a a religious life, a serious life As a student at Oxford, he was part of what was called the Holy Club along with John Wesley. And this is what they did. The members of that club rose early every day for lengthy devotions. And they disciplined themselves so as not to waste a minute of the day. And they wrote a diary every night in which they examine and condemn themselves for any faults that they had done during that day. They fasted every Wednesday and Friday, and they set aside Saturday as a Sabbath to prepare for the Lord's day And they took communion every Sunday. They tried to persuade others to attend church and to refrain from evil. They visited people in prisons and they gave money to help the inmates and to provide an education for their children. and to help their family. In fact, all of that religious activity, George Whitfield would later say, it ruined it, it nearly ruined his health. Because he would go out in cold weather and do all these things. He would lie prostrate before God, praying in the cold for hours, trying to be delivered from his sins. For seven weeks he was sick in bed, and during that time he confessed his sins. He spent hours praying. He even learned Greek and started reading the New Testament in Greek. And yet, by his own admission, he was not saved. He was not saved. You know why? Because he was trusting in all of those things As his salvation. He was trusting in all of those things. Then one day, Charles Wesley gave Whitfield a copy of a book by Henry Skirgle called The Life of God in the Soul of Man. And when Whitfield read that book, he realized that he was not saved. And in one of his sermons, he recited what happened. He said this. He said, I must bear testimony to my old friend, Mr. Charles Wesley, he put a book into my hands whereby God showed me that I must be born again or be damned. I learned that a man may go to church, say his prayers, receive the sacrament, and yet not be a Christian. How did my heart rise and shudder like a poor man that is afraid to look into his let into the his ledger, lest he should find himself bankrupt? He went on to say, Should I burn this book? Should I throw it down? Or should I search it? I did search it. And holding the book in my hand, thus addressed the God of heaven and earth. Lord, if I am not a Christian, for Jesus' sake, show me what Christianity is, that I may not be damned at last. He said, I read a little further and discovered that They who know anything of religion know that it's a vital union with the Son of God, Christ formed in the heart. Oh, what a ray of divine light then did break upon my soul. And then he went on to talk about, he understood finally, that it was through faith in Christ. Faith in Christ, in Christ alone. And reading this, it reminds me of what Paul was do uh had had, this same kind of experience where it dawned on him finally that all of that religious works it was So we see the empty assets of a religious man. We see the enlightened assessment of a repentant man. But then here's number three, what I want to call the enriched account of a righteous man. And notice in verse number nine. And being found in him. I love that. You know what salvation is? Being found in him. In him. Not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. And so Paul now gives us the wonderful benefits of placing Christ alone in the game column or knowing Christ. And salvation and true salvation, a true knowledge of Jesus Christ by putting your faith in Him alone. And what do we get? The purity of Christ. All of His righteousness is placed on our account. When I was talking to this Catholic man on the phone, he said, Don't we have to be holy in order to get it to heaven? I said, Yes, absolutely. You have to be holy. In fact, you have to be perfect. Perfect. So guess what? You're in pretty bad shape. You're in pretty bad shape. Well how how how then can I get to heaven if I can't be holy. I said, that's right, you can't. You can't. And I can't either. There's only one righteousness that God will accept. That is the righteousness of His Son, Jesus Christ. That's the only righteousness that God accepts. But I said, here's the good news. When you put your faith in Christ, all of that righteousness is put on your account. count. It's given to you. That is a glory of the gospel. Again, and being found in him, not having mine own righteousness. Which is of the law, but that which is through faith, the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of the law, which is of God by faith. And I gave him this illustration. I said, let's just suppose that you were really, really poor. I mean, you were millions in debt. Millions in debt. You had no way of paying that debt back. And and uh you had no hope. But let's just say that there was a really rich man who came along. And he had pity on you. And he said, here's what I'm going to do for you. I'm going to wipe out all of your debt. I'm just going to completely wipe it out. It's all gone. And not only that, this rich man is so gracious and he's he has so many millions, he has limitless resources Not only will he wipe out all of your debt, but he's also going to add millions and millions more to your account on top of that. You see, by wiping out your debt, he's only bringing you back up to zero You're no longer in the red. But this man is so gracious and so kind. He's going to download into your account millions and millions more. Would you like to meet a person like that? He said, Yes. I said, good, because his name is Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ on the cross, he basically eliminated your debt when he took your sins on himself. On the cross. But that's not all. With all of his perfect righteousness, when he lived a perfect life Never sinned one time. Fulfilled all of the law. Please the Father. This is the one that God the Father said, this is my beloved Son in whom I'm well pleased. He fulfilled all of the righteousness of the law. And what he did was, when you put your faith in him, he will add all of his rich righteousness into your account so that when God looks upon you now, He doesn't see your sin debt, He sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ, His Son. Would you be interested in that? He said, Yeah, I would. I said, and what you've been doing is you've been insulting God by saying, you know, Jesus, I'm going to go to your mother. I'm going to go talk to your mother about helping me out. No, she needs help too. Jesus is the righteous one. And again, Catholicism is nothing but a merry cult that takes the focus of the gospel off of Jesus Christ. And it's a it's a damnable heresy that people are involved with. And by the way, any other religion that tries to add anything to the free gospel is a heresy. That's why Paul said in Galatians Chapter one. If anybody preach any other gospel than the gospel that I'm preaching unto you, let him be accursed. Let him be accursed. So what do we get? Well we get the purity of Christ. But then also, what do we get? We get the person of Christ. In verse number 10, Paul says that I might know him. That's another thing that we get, we add to the gain column. We get to know Jesus Christ, a true fellowship with Jesus Christ. That is the goal of the Christian life to know Christ more and more and to walk with him. We get to know Christ. We get then we get to know not only the the purity of Christ and the person of Christ, but the power of Christ in verse number 10, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. Paul came to know that power on the road to Damascus. He saw the resurrected Christ And he was literally resurrected spiritually in his own life. And Paul understood as well that we live by that power every day of our life. You try to live the Christian life in your own power, you're going to fail. But we live and walk and depend upon the resurrection power of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is necessary in order for us to walk in victory every day over our sin that we might know this great resource that God has given us And that's what Paul prayed for when he talked to the Ephesians. He said that you might understand the surpassing greatness of the power towards you that works, that you might understand this power. We get The purity of Christ added to our account. We get to know the person of Christ in fellowship. We get to live by that power, the power of Christ. And then, if need be, we we understand the persecution of Christ in verse ten, he said, and the fellowship of his suffering. I think this is knowing Christ in a deeper way. It is sharing in his suffering. If Christ could come back to the world today, they would continue to persecute him. They would crucify him again. But since Christ is not here, the world will persecute those who are like Christ. And if you get to the point where you're so Christ-like that the world comes at you, that is a joy. There's an intimacy in that. There's a closeness that you share with Jesus Christ in becoming part of the fellowship of his suffering. And then finally also there's the perfection of Christ. Look at verse eleven. If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead. This is kind of a unique phrase in the New Testament. It literally read reads like this. out resurrection from among the corpses. In other words, believers will attain to that resurrection when the Lord comes back again. And here Paul is talking about the completion of our salvation, that glorification that all of us will receive one day. So really Paul's referring to all three stages of salvation here. Justification, we're made righteous. We get the purity, the righteousness of Christ, sanctification. We live by his resurrection power. It gives us power over sin every day of our life. And ultimately we will experience his glorification. And that's what he's referring to here in verse number eleven. And so Paul, he understood. What a rich man he was now because of being in Christ. So my challenge to you today would be, what about you? Has there been a great transaction that took place in your life? You're absolutely certain about your own salvation? When we come to Christ, we exchange all that we are, sinners, unworthy, for all of what Christ is. That is a good deal. That is a great transaction. And we need to know this transaction, and we need to stand firmly upon the gospel of Jesus Christ and never, ever compromise it. Or allow it to be compromised, just as Paul's doing here in this passage of Scripture. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father Head, we thank you for the beautiful gospel. This incredible transaction that takes place the moment that we understand. That all of our works is nothing. That we are sinners. There's nothing that we could ever do that could ever attain salvation. That the only righteousness that, Father, you accept is the righteousness of God. And Father, that you would send Jesus to to live this in this world, to live out righteousness and to take our sins upon himself, and when we put our faith in him to give us his righteousness. So that we may be clothed in the righteousness of Christ. What an incredible gift. Lord, may we cherish this gift every day. May we thank you every day. May we live as the apostle Paul did to know Christ better, that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. Help us for it each day to value this precious gift, to stand firmly on it, to grow in this. For your honor and your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.