Now take your Bibles tonight, if you will, and open to the book of Galatians. I want you to look in Galatians chapter 6, and I want you to look down at verse number 14. Galatians 6. fourteen. The Apostle Paul writes in Galatians six fourteen, but God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy and upon the Israel of God. From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bury my body the marks of the Lord Jesus. It is said that when the knights of King Arthur's court returned from the field of battle, if they did not have any scars on their body, that the king would thrust them forth by command and say, Go get your scars. Go get your battle scars. If you have no scars, you have not yet shown the measure of your devotion. That was the idea behind that command. Now in this closing letter that Paul writes Galatians, the Apostle Paul basically refers to the scars. In fact, scars seems to be the major theme here. in these verses. And tonight I want to talk about the scars of the cross. But Paul, what he's going to do in this passage of scripture is he's going to, as it were, compare some scars. And Paul will even refer to his own scars. He says in verse 17 again, I bear in my body the marks, or we could say the scars of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul points to his own scars. as the measure of his sincerity and devotion to Christ his King. It proved that he was willing to suffer for the gospel and suffer for what he believed to be true and right. It said the great preacher John Rogers, before he was burned at the stake in Smithfield, was asked if he had any last words, and he said, This, What I've preached with my mouth, I now seal with my blood. In a sense, Paul's saying, the gospel that I have preached, the doctrine that I have given you, I now bear witness to the truth of that, because of my own scars, my own wounds. But more importantly, what Paul points to are the scars of the Lord Jesus Christ. And by implication, he's saying to the Judaizers, those who came behind him to preach a false gospel, they have no scars. Where are the scars that show their love and authenticity? Now why is Paul doing this? Why is he pointing to these things here in this last chapter. Well you might uh if you ever read the book of Galatians, you know that when Paul went to that region of Galatia, he preached the pure gospel. He preached the gospel of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing else. No works of ours. But along behind him came these Judaizers, these people who believed that the gospel was not enough. You needed more than just the gospel of the cross. You needed to add works You needed to add the law of Moses, you needed to add it, add excuse me, the ritual of circumcision, in order for you to truly be saved And so what these Judaizers had to do is they had to, in order to undermine or to replace the message of Paul, they had to undermine him. In order to attack the message, you had to attack the messenger And so they basically did that. They said Paul was not a true apostle. He was not one of the original twelve. He's not legit. He's not authentic. And so what that did was that forced the Apostle Paul to have to prove his own authenticity. And the way he does this is by pointing to his scars, and then he says to the Judaizers, Where are yours? My scars are here to show that I'm genuine. Where are yours? But more importantly, let me point you to the scars of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so what we see here in this passage are really three sets of scars We could say the scars of circumcision, or we could say the scars of man-made religion, and then the scars of the crucifixion, and then the scars of consecration. That's what I want to talk to you about tonight. Now look in verse 11. Notice what Paul says in chapter 6, verse 11. You see how large a letter I have written unto you in my own hand? Now why does Paul point that out? When Paul wrote this letter again, you have to remember he's he's angry when he writes the book of Galatians. You ever receive an angry letter in the mail? You can tell it's angry. I think that when the Galatians received this letter, they knew it was angry Because Paul says, look, you see how large a letter I have written with my own hand I wrote this. Normally when Paul wrote a letter, he would dictate it to a scribe or an amanuensis who would write it down for him, and when Paul was done dictating the letter, he would sign it with his own handwriting. For instance, we see this in 1 Corinthians 16, 21. He said, I Write the greeting with my own hand, Paul said. He would dictate the letter and then write the greeting or the uh salutation with his own hand. But not so here with the book of Galatians. Paul wrote the whole thing in his own hand. In fact, he says, I have written unto you, eris indicative active, something already done. I've written this letter with my own hand, he's saying That's not usual for me. And he's when he talks about large letter, he's talking about the actual letters that he wrote. He wrote and You know, in Greek there are two kinds of letters. There's the smaller letters, the minuscles are that are called. Then there are the until these are the large letter letters. We call these capitals. You ever get a letter with all capitals? What is that saying to you? They're yelling at you, right? You ever get an email like that? All large letters, that means they're yelling at you in email. And there's a sense in which Paul writes this Letter all with large letters. Why? Because he has great emotion. And why is his emotion so great when he writes this letter? Well, because the gospel was under attack. They were saying that it was more than just the cross. You needed to add circumcision or some religious ritual or man-made works to the pure message of the gospel. And Paul saw this as it was a perverted gospel, another gospel. That's why he writes in the very beginning of Galatians, If any man, or even an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel than the one that I preached unto you, let him be what? Let him be accursed. Let him be anathema. That's why he's filled with such emotion here. And so he writes to defend the true gospel. And he points to the Judaizers and he says to them, their gospel is a false gospel. And basically, they're forcing upon you scars rather than bearing their own scars of authenticity. They scar you through the ritual of circumcision. He in a later place he called them mutilators of the flesh. And why do they do this? To please men. Look in verse 12. As many as desire to make a fair show in the flesh. That is, they want to impress you with their outward religion. They were preaching this message of circumcision or outward rituals, doing religious things as a way of salvation, because they want to impress you with their on the outside. And by the way, that that's still around, isn't it? There's still religions that teach it's what you do, it's religious ritual, it's it's it's doing these outward things as a means of salvation, and that's a false gospel. And Paul says that's what they want to do. They want to give you a fair show, make a good showing. Their main goal is not to win people to Christ nor help them grow in grace. Their main goal is to win converts into their own doctrine of salvation, which was by works. Sad to say, again, that's still around. There's still this false gospel. And Paul says, look, I'm not out there to please men. That's what they're trying to do. That's not what I'm trying to do In chapter 1 verse 10, he said, Do I now seek to please men? The word now there is pretty key. There was a time in Paul's life when he was trying to please men, when everything was about outward religion, what you did on the outside With no cleansing or purification on the inside through salvation. There was a time when Paul was proud of his religion. He was like the rest of the Pharisees. He didn't just practice religion, he performed it before an audience To get a fair show of a f of the flesh, just like actors on a stage. The Pharisees would be in uh they would Tell everyone about their alms, how much they gave, they would do it before men, they would pray on the chief uh streets, a high traveled area. They just happened to pray right there in the middle where everyone can see. And when they were fasting you knew it. Because it was ri didn't all over their face. Their religion was all outward. There was a time when Paul was like that, but you know, all that changed when he met the Lord Jesus Christ. All that changed at that moment. Paul says, I'm not trying to please others. These guys are trying to please men. Also, they're trying to escape persecution. Look again in verse 12. It says, they constrain you to be circumcised. Only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ. They don't want to bear the reproach of the message of the gospel. They don't want to bear that persecution. You know, the first people that really persecuted the church were the Jews. According to the book of Acts, why? Because the the message of the cross excluded the works of the law And they felt excluded in Judaism and they didn't like that, so they attacked Christianity. And here these Judaizers, they're saying, you know what, we don't want to suffer that persecution. We don't want to suffer that attack. And so you know what they did? They watered down the gospel, they changed it. They added the works of the law, they added the ritual of circumcision because they wanted to avoid that persecution Do you know that there are preachers and even Christians out there today that change the gospel up? They tweak it a little bit, and you know why they do that? Because they don't want to bear the reproach of the gospel. They don't want to be persecuted by it. So therefore they change it. They make it a little bit more palatable. They make it easier, a kinder, gentler gospel. But I often say this, if when you preach the gospel, if I preach the gospel and people are not getting offended, I'm probably not preaching it right. Because the gospel is an offense to man. No one likes to be called a sinner. No one likes to be told there's nothing that you can bring for your own salvation. There's nothing you can do. You're wholly given over to sin. The only thing you can really do is turn from that. Cling to the cross. Like the song says, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. That's what the gospel says. And no one likes to be told that you have nothing to offer But the Bible says you come into the kingdom by being poor in spirit. And so, in order to avoid persecution of the gospel, they water it down, they dumb it down a little bit. Paul said that's the only reason they're preaching that message. But also, they want to brag to others. Look at verse 13. For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised. that they may glory in your flesh. They want to boast and brag about the converts they went over, but they don't even practice their own message. They're good at preaching it, they just don't practice it. They don't practice the law. They don't do those things, but they want to win you over because they want to brag to others. And that's the nature of man. Did you ever notice how people want to be able to brag and glory in something? You know, we like to do that, don't we? We like to glory in things. Some people glory in their riches. Some people glory in their religion, their their outward works Some people glory in their uh their titles and their accomplishments. It's kind of in the heart of man to try to boast or glory in something and these Judaizers are no different. They wanted to bat uh brag, they wanted to boast about their religion and about what they were able to do. But notice Paul's contrast, and here's the second set of scars that he will point to. We see the scars of circumcision or we could say man-made religion, but here's the scars of crucifixion. Look at verse 14. Notice what Paul says, but God forbid that I should glory. Paul said, I don't want to boast about any of those things. I don't want to boast about my religious tradition. God forbid that I should glory saved in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. I love that verse. Paul says, I don't want to glory or boast in anything except the cross. Because we have really nothing to boast about except the cross The cross and the cross alone. Look at the word glory there. Very deep word. There's no really precise English equivalent for this word. It does mean boasting. John Stott wrote this. It means to boast in, it means to glory in, to trust in, to rejoice in, to revel in, to live for. He said the object of our boast for our glory fills our horizons, engrosses our attention, absorbs our time and energy. And really, he said perhaps the best word that we could use as an equivalent for this Greek word is obsession, to be obsessed. Paul was obsessed with the cross. And we kind of see that obsession in his letters, don't we? Paul said, I've been crucified with Christ. Paul said Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified before you Paul said, we preach Christ crucified. Paul said, I determine to know nothing among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified He spoke the message of the cross. He was willing to receive the reproach of the cross. He spoke of the triumph of the cross, the wonder of the cross. Paul was always boasting. He was just boasting about the cross. That's it. That and nothing else. That's why Paul says, God forbid, strongest negative in the Greek. May it never be. May I never boast in anything else. Except the cross of Christ. Paul wanted the glory in that one thing and that one thing only. This was his only obsession. And you know why? Because he knew what the cross meant. He knew that the cross was the greatest demonstration to the world of God's love was the cross. It means that we have a redeemer. That Christ paid our sin debt. That the sins of the world were laid on Jesus, that the wrath of the Father was satisfied, so that salvation is now a gift, totally by the grace of God. With no boasting because of any man's works. No works are included in that. Philip Reichen wrote this: we can boast about Christ crucified. However, only if we renounce anything and everything we can do to save ourselves. When it comes right down to it, although there are many religions, there's only two religious options, glorying in ourselves or glorying in the cross. To glory in the cross is to stop trusting in our own merits, our church attendance, our worship style, our devotion habits, our social involvement, theological orthodoxy, or number of converts. And start trusting in the merits of Christ alone. Absolutely right. Paul never gloried in his own achievement after he met Christ. After he had gone to the cross. And how did he view his accomplish his accomplishments after the cross? Paul said this to the Philippians, though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any man think that he has whereof he might Trust in the flesh, or we could say glory in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day, the stock of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews, is touching the law of Pharisee concerning zeal persecuting the church Touching the righteousness which is of the law, blameless. He said, All those things that I once boasted, and all these things, whatsoever those things were gained to me, those now I count lost for Christ. Paul took them out of the uh out of the assets column and he put them in the liabilities column. He transferred them over. It was nothing. All those things are nothing compared to the cross of Christ, Paul said. And then he said this, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss, for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung. Scubula, waste that I may win Christ. When he talks about the excellency of knowledge, he refers to the incomparable worth. The incomparable value of knowing Christ canceled out everything that Paul had boasted about before means nothing. Paul says the cross of Christ and what Jesus did on the cross far outshines any accomplishment of any man. And so he says it's all nothing. And so he glories in the cross. He boasts about the cross. Why? Because it frees us from the bondage of the world. Look what he says in verse 14. By whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. And really Paul says there's three crucifixions here. There's Jesus who was crucified, but when we trust him, we also join him. And this is the doctrine that I call the mystical union of the believer. There's a sense in which when you trust Christ You were united to him, you're so united to him that in the mind of God you were there with him, you were crucified with him. So we were there, we were crucified with him, Paul said And then the world was crucified. So there's the crucifixion of Christ, and there's the crucifixion of the believer, and there's a crucifixion of the world, and the world here represents this godless System ruled by Satan that is apart from God that seeks its own but not the things of God And Paul said, before we were saved, the world and its fallenness had us in its bondage. The world had its way with us. The world and our sin and the flesh all had us under its control. But what happened when we got saved? The world became crucified unto me, and I under it. You know what that means? It means the world has no more claim on me. It means I'm no longer under the bondage of the world, whereas before I came to the cross, the world would lure me along and pull me along. But now that I'm saved, I was crucified with him. And the world was crucified unto me and me under it. And so I'm no longer in the bondage of that system. I've been freed by the cross. And that's why Paul says, I glory in that. I boast in that. That the world has been crucified. That the world has no longer any sway over me. During the Napoleonic Wars, there were men who were conscripted into the French army by a lottery system. But if your name was drawn, you had to go off to battle In rare cases, a person could actually stand in for you, take your place, and you were exempt. On one occasion, the authorities came to a certain man and told him that his name had been drawn, but he refused to go, saying, Look, I was killed two years ago. And at first they questioned his sanity. But he insisted, no, this is the case, this is the fact. And he claimed that in the records they would show that he had been inscripted to go into war two years previous, but he was killed in action. And I said, how can that be? You're alive. And he said, well when my name came up a close friend came to me and said, you know, you have a large family. I don't have any family. Let me go in your place. I'll take your name. I'll take your address. I'll take your place. And then that man was killed in battle. And the records upheld this man's claim. That case was referred to Napoleon himself, who when he looked at the at the case, said that the country had no claim on this man. Because another had died in his place. Friend, that's what happened at the cross. You know the world now has no claim on you It has no claim on me because Christ died on the cross in our place. We were crucified with him. So the we glory in the cross because it frees us from this evil world, from the bondage of this world. But also it can do what the flesh cannot do. Look at verse 15. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision but a new creature. And what Paul's basically saying there is he's saying man-made religion really can't do anything for you. Circumcision represented Judaism with all of its religious traditions and rituals. And Paul said, that can't avail you anything. And uncircumcision is any religion outside of Judaism, any of those religious systems. None of that can do anything for you. Man-made religion can't help you. It availeth nothing. It's all vain. It's useless. The flesh can do nothing to please God, Paul's saying. It's powerless to attain salvation. And actually, as we said already, there's really only two religions in the world: there's do religion and there's done religion. It's what man thinks he can do or putting your faith in what Jesus has already done. And do religion can do nothing for you. And so Paul says it availeth nothing. But look at the rest of verse 15. But a new creature. In other words, he's contrasting the reality of the cross. You know what the cross does? It totally transforms you. It makes you a new creature. It makes you a new creation. Something brand new. Religion can't do that. How many of you have seen the cross of Christ transform somebody's life? Just totally transformed. I saw it in the life of my father when he first came to grace, and Pastor Johnson preached the gospel, and he repented and received Christ. I saw an immediate transformation. I saw the power of the gospel in his life before I ever heard it. And I have seen the gospel transform people's lives. I haven't seen religion do that I haven't seen outward ritual do that, but I've seen the power of the gospel do that. And Paul says, that's why I glory in the cross. Paul was a A great case of that. When he was on the road to Damascus, he wasn't going to a revival meeting, beloved. He was going to persecute Christians. And he met Jesus and his life was totally transformed. So Paul says, I glory in the cross because it frees me from the bondage of the world. I glory in the cross because it can do what the flesh cannot do. It can transform a person. I glory in the cross because it saves all of those who come by faith. Look at verse 16. And as many as walk according to this rule Peace be on them and mercy upon the God of the Israel of God. And Paul's saying he's implying, even if the Judaizers recognize their need of a Savior and they turn from fleshly self-effort and human religion and embrace the cross. If they walk by this rule, you say, what's the rule? It's the word canon. You ever heard of the canon of scripture? A standard that you go by. There's the canon of salvation. Paul said there's this one standard that you have to go by. If you go by this, you'll have salvation. You say, what is it? It's very simple. You accept the fact that you're a sinner and Christ's sacrifice on the cross is the only way of salvation. That's the rule. It's like when a little boy that was trying to get into a church and the the elders of the church were questioning him, and they said, Tell us about your salvation. He said, Well I did my part and Jesus did his part. And they didn't really sound, I said, that didn't really sound right. Can you explain? He said, well, I did all the sending and Jesus did all the saving. That's the rule right there. You realize that we we did all the sinning. Jesus does all the saving. That's the standard. When we come humbly with nothing, like the parable that Jesus gave of the publican who's who wouldn't even go near the altar and he He smote his breast and he said, God be merciful to me, thee sinner, I have nothing to offer, but I'm a sinner. And the Bible says he went away justified. That's the standard. You come confessing your sin, utter desperation, totally Putting faith in nothing but what Christ did on the cross. And Paul says as a result of that, peace will be on them and mercy, and you'll be the Israel of God, you'll be the true. Israel of God when this happens. But let me give you the the last thing quickly and we'll be done. Paul speaks about the scars of circumcision and the emptiness of that, and the scars of crucifixion, and he says, I'm going to glory in nothing but the cross and what Christ did for me when he was crucified. But then also there's the scars of consecration. Look what Paul says finally in verse 17. From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks Now again, the Judaizers are saying Paul's not legit. But Paul says, yeah? Well look at my scars. And let me ask you, Judaizers, where are yours? You're just running from persecution. You're the ones that are not of God. But these scars, these marks, the Greek word stidmata. These marks show that I'm real. Back in ancient times when a servant wanted to bind himself to his master forever. He would go through a little ritual where uh he would press his ear against the doorpost and they would hammer a little mark on his ear, and that would show that uh he was bound to his master forever. It was given a little earring there, and that showed that he was a dulas, a servant, and that word was stigmata. And Paul says I also am a servant bound to my master, and my marks are the marks, the wounds that are on my body that show that I'm willing to suffer for the gospel. That's my marks Paul was whipped in Philippi. In Corinth, he received 40 stripes, save one, it says. He was beaten with rods three times. These were flexible sticks tied together. Paul said, once I was stoned, right there in the region of Galatia. Some of them Galatians probably saw Paul get stoned. I imagine you can't walk away from a stoning without a few marks, right? Paul said, these all show that I'm following in the footsteps of my master. And Paul says He's not showing his scars as if to say there's any merit in salvation. There's not. What it shows is that Paul, in gratitude for the salvation that Jesus provided for him, was willing himself to suffer for the gospel. and bear scars himself. And let me just say this, beloved, if you're going to stand for the gospel and you're not going to compromise the gospel, you're going to get some scars. The question is, are you willing to do that? Are you willing to be scarred for standing for the truth? If you're going to be a servant of God and walk with him, you will have scars. And let me close with Amy Carmichael, who wrote a beautiful poem about this. And she says in this poem, this question, Hast thou no scar? No hidden scar on foot or side or hand? I hear thee sung as mighty in the land. I hear them hail, thy bright ascended star. But hast thou no scar? Hast thou no wound? Yet Jesus says, I was wounded by the archers spent, leaned me against the tree to die, and rant. By ravening beasts that compassed me, I swooned. But hast thou no wound? No wound? No scar as the master, so shall the servant be. And pierced are the feet that follow me, but thine are whole Can thou follow Far, who has no wound or scar? That's a good question that she asked there at the end. Can you really follow Jesus Far without any wound yourself? or any scar. And Paul says, I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul stood for the pure gospel. He was willing to bear the marks of Christ He rejoiced, he boasted, he gloried in the cross. He refused to compromise anything about the cross and the gospel. I pray that will be our us. You know what, beloved, let me just tell you, I refuse to compromise anything about the gospel. I want to glory in the cross and the cross of Christ alone, no matter what the cost may be. We glory in the cross of Christ. What kind of scars are you willing to bear? Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And friend, I want to ask you if you're here tonight, do you know our Lord Jesus as your Savior? Do you know Him? Are you absolutely certain of your own salvation? Can you honestly say like the hymn, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross? I cling. I want to ask you tonight, are you clinging to the cross of Christ alone as your means of salvation? And friend, if you're not, If you're boasting in any other thing, your religious achievement, your own works, you can't boast in the cross and boast in yourself at the same time. It's the cross and the cross alone. So I want to ask you, friend, have you come to the cross as the only means of your salvation? And if you haven't, would you be willing right there where you are to pray right now? And say, yeah, that's what I want. Coming to the cross of Christ. Right now in my heart by faith, I'm kneeling at the cross, and I'm saying, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross. And I'm putting my faith in the finished work of Christ. Not what I do, but what He has done for me in paying my sin debt. I turn from my sin, I turn to Christ And I say, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. Friend, is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Say, yeah, that's me, preacher. Tonight I come to the cross. Can I pray for you? Are you here? I don't want to embarrass you, but friend, I do want to pray for you. Anyone here say, yeah, that's me. That's me. Coming to the cross. And so, Father, we thank you, we praise you for this service where we again look to the cross of our Savior. And we say like the Apostle Paul, God forbid that I should glory saved in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. May that be our Our prayer, our desire, the reality of our life. We boast in nothing but the cross. We thank you and we praise you for it. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.