I want you to look in Matthew chapter 17 tonight. And I want to deal with this wonderful passage here in Matthew 17, the Mount of Transfiguration. And we've been talking about the glory of God in the past few Sunday nights, and I want to talk about the glory of Christ. And uh I want to confess to failure before I begin to this sermon. No one can really adequately describe the magnificent glory of Christ. But we get a glimpse of it here in this narrative. This is really the apex of the Gospel of Matthew. Everything leads up to this point in Matthew, and everything flows down from it. Some have called this the most majestic and glorious passage in the New Testament. Just a wonderful scene here. Now none of the gospel writers go into elaborate detail to describe the glory revealed there But the the truth of the matter is what words can you use to describe it? I mean there's just really it's hard to find the right words. Matthew simply says he did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as light. How do you describe the indescribable the glory of Christ? I like what Mark said, the way Mark described it. He said in Mark 9 3, his garments became radiant and exceedingly white, as no launderer on earth can whiten them. He must have had a bad experience at the cleaners. But we see here Luke in his description in Luke 9, 29, it says, and he was praying, and the appearance of his face was altered, and his clothing became dazzling white. And then, of course, later Peter will describe this in 2 Peter, where he said, we are eyewitnesses of his majesty. And John would say, we beheld his glory. One commentator wrote this, so what can I add to this glorious event, which one describes as the most significant event between Christ's birth and his passion? Now, when I come to a passage of Scripture like this, the Mount of Transfiguration here in Matthew 17, verses 1 through 12, we'll be dealing with, the question I ask is why this? What's the bottom line? What was the intention of our Lord when he took the disciples there to that mountain and this glory was revealed? And why is it recorded here in the scripture? And why is it here for us? That's the question we have to ask ourselves. In order really to get an adequate answer to that, we have to go back just a little bit in Matthew 16 and kind of get the background and the setting of what happened just before this monumental revelation. In Matthew 16, you remember there was the great declaration of Peter where he said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. In fact, in Matthew 16, 17 When Jesus said, Who who do you say that I am? And in seven verse seventeen, Jesus answered and said to them, Blessed art thou, Simon for Jonah, for flesh and blood is not revealed unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And so Peter points out that Jesus is the Christ and and Jesus says you haven't gotten this from flesh and blood. God revealed this to you And so this is the first time in Matthew's gospel it was heard from human lips. That is, that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. Now, it was heard from the Father. in the baptismal narrative. Demons said that, but this is the first time that now a disciple said this and he is settling this forever. In fact all the disciples, Peter being the spokesman for the disciples, was settling this one issue that they had been wrestling about in their heart. Is Jesus truly the Christ? And they settle it there with that great confession. And from there Jesus gives his plan. Look at verse 21 of chapter 16. From that time forward began Jesus to show unto his disciples how he must go into Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. Now, here then, Jesus, based on that monumental confession, he goes into great detail about the plan. What's going to happen? He talks about his suffering, his death. Now, if you're one of the disciples, this news was probably crushing to them. This was not what they wanted. This was not what they expected. They thought Jesus was going to come and set up his kingdom, and that they were going to be part of that kingdom there on earth. They heard Jesus say, I'm going to build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And so and they also said, I will give them the keys to the kingdom. And so in their mind, they were ready for Jesus to usher in that kingdom right away. And Peter's rebuke kind of shows you their mindset, but look in verse twenty um two. But then Peter took him and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord This shall not be unto thee. Lord, no way. Now enough talk about the cross here. I'm not going to let you go. We're not going to do this now. And of course you know Jesus responds. But he turned and said unto Peter in verse 23, Get thee behind me, Satan, for thou art an offense unto me. And so this was something that the disciples were still trying to comprehend. This was the call then that Jesus gives. Look, if you want to follow me, you're going to have to pick up your cross too Verse 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, let him take up his cross and follow me. Me, for whosoever will save his life shall lose it, whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it. And so the way to glory and victory is through suffering. If you want to follow in my footsteps, you have to pick up your cross. Peter wanted exaltation. He didn't want the humiliation. And that's true of all of us. We want the crown, not the cross And this was difficult news then for them to bear. These were very strong realities for the disciples. And this was hard to swallow. And so you have to imagine at this point they're totally deflated. They're totally sad. They were troubled. They knew there was going to be dark days ahead, based on everything that Jesus had just told them. They see a future now filled with a lot of pain, a lot of grief, a lot of suffering, not much glory now on this side. It was going to be a difficult time. They see a cross ahead of them and no crown. And Jesus understands how they feel. And so he gives them a promise. Look in chapter 16, verse 27. He says this, for the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his Father. with his angels, and then he shall reward every man according to his works. And so Jesus gives them this magnificent vision to strengthen them from the dark days ahead. He's going to give them a promise As we see in verse 27, look, when the Son of Man comes, he's going to come in his glory. And all those will be rewarded. In other words, when I come in my glory, you're going to share in that glory. You're going to share in that. So he gives them this promise, but not only does he give them the promise of future glory, he's going to give them this vision This glimpse of glory that will await all of those who know the Lord. He'll give them a glimpse of his own glory, knowing that all of us are going to share one day in that glory. And so this was designed to strengthen them. For the days ahead. The future glory is something that they would look to, that would help them to sustain them through the difficulty that they were going to bear. And that's Basically, what we need to learn as Christians, we need to learn that we need to keep our eyes on our future glory. Sometimes people say, man, I just need to make it through the week, all right? Focus on your future glory. That will help you. And so, what is the purpose then of this whole Mount of Transfiguration? It is to prepare them for the future suffering. Many of them would be persecuted, many of them would be martyred, they would suffer greatly for Christ. And he's reminding them, look, you have a glory that awaits. You have to bear the cross now, but there will be a crown. You have to groan in the present time, but there will be glory ahead. But also, he wanted to give them a preview of the kingdom. Chapter 16, verse 28. Verily I say unto you, there shall there be some standing here which shall not taste of death till they see the Son of Man Coming in his kingdom. Now the word for kingdom here can be translated royal splendor. And I think he's referring here to the preview of the second coming. In other words, when you see there's going to be some here that's going to get a glimpse of this future kingdom, there's some right here that will get a glimpse of this future glory, this glory that is to come And so he will give them then a glimpse of it in chapter 17. And so the purpose of this is to give them a glimpse of that glory that they will share in and to affirm the truth that they had heard a week earlier about the death of Christ. and the glory that will follow him at his returning. And so he just wants to encourage them. He wants to encourage the disciples And so Jesus will manifest his glory to prepare them as they look forward to taking up the cross And following Christ, he wanted to let them know that you're gonna get uh you're gonna share in the future glory as you pick up the cross. J. C. Rao wrote this There can be little question that this was one main object of this wonderful vision. It was meant to encourage the disciples by giving them a glimpse of the good things yet to come. And so really, this is an illustration of the truth in Romans 8. 18, which where Paul wrote, remember in Romans 8, Paul is reminding us about the ministry of the Holy Spirit and what the Holy Spirit does for the believer. And what does he do? He frees us from sin and death. He helps us to fulfill God's law. He empowers us to live above sin, to get victory. He confirms our adoption. But one of the main ministries of the Holy Spirit is to remind us of our future glory. He's the one that points to that. Romans 8. 18. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And the word reckon here is to calculate. It's kind of an an accountant's term. It doesn't balance out. If you put present suffering on one side and you put future glory on the other, the glory far outweighs the present suffering. suffering. And so really this whole narrative here illustrates that one truth. Again, J. C. Rowell said, There is laid up for Jesus and all that believe in him such glory As the human heart never conceived. And that's true. There's a hymn that we don't sing much anymore where we hear the words, it will be worth it all. When we see Jesus. And so the whole purpose then is to communicate this very idea. God wants us to be faithful in the now. He wants us to run a good race now. And one of the ways that we do that is to see the glory of Christ. And to be reminded of that glory in which we will Share. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to see then just four ways we experience the glory of Christ uh in this passage here. Four things that we can apply. If you want to experience or see the glory of Christ, that's the question we ask ourselves How do we experience that? We can right now experience to some degree that glory. Here's the first thing. Write down number one, see him. Just see him. We have to see it. Look in chapter 17, look at verse 1. And after six days, Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John, his brother. And bringeth them into a high mountain apart. So it's after six days here. And I think Matthew is drawing a parallel to the Old Testament uh passage about Moses in Mo in Exodus 24, 15 and 16, Moses uh went up into the c into the mountain, into the glory cloud, but it was after six days. And here it's there's no Uh the reason for him mentioning six days, there's nothing in the Bible that's that's incidental. Uh it says in verse 1, after six days Jesus takes them up into the mountain. So I think that there's a purposeful parallel that Matthew is drawing here. Jesus is the new glorified Moses. Just as Moses was the administrator of the old covenant, even so Jesus is the administrator of the new covenant. But Jesus is superior to Moses because Moses entered into the glory after six days going into the mountain. However, after six days on the Mount of Transfiguration, Jesus is the glory. And so he's superior. And so he takes Peter, James, and John. Why these three? Again, I think there's a comparison to Moses. When Moses entered into the Holy Mount and the Old Testament, who did he take with him? Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu. He took three with him. When he went to that holy mount. And again, I think there's a parallel that Matthew is drawing here. Remember, he's writing to Jews, and he's trying to show that parallel. But another reason he took three was to be witnesses. He needed witnesses to his glory. The Bible says in Deuteronomy that anything is established by two or three witnesses. And the other thing was these were his inner disciples These were men who were going to be used greatly. And they would all play a prominent role in the church. And so Jesus takes these And notice where it says and he brings them into a high mountain. What mountain is this? Some say this was Mount Tabor, but Mount Tabor was only 1900 feet and it had a Roman garrison at the top. And so more likely this is Mount Hermon. Mount Hermon is 9,232 feet. It was in a region, that region there in Caesarea Philippi. And so they go into this high mountain Now another thing to point out here in the Gospel of Matthew is, you remember the last time Matthew said that Jesus went into a high mountain? That was in Matthew 4. And what happened there? That's when Satan took him to a high mountain, the tenthem, remember? Satan showed Jesus all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. What was the temptation that Satan was giving to Jesus? That you can choose glory without suffering. Don't go through the suffering, just take the path of glory, and Jesus rebukes Satan, because that's not the way And so I think, again, on purpose, Matthew is comparing here or making a contrast to the one time Jesus went into the high mountain and saw the glory of the kingdoms. And now he goes into a high mountain again And it's going to be much, much different here. And so when he goes there, just before the Mount of Transfiguration, just before the glory appears, the Bible says in Luke in the parallel narrative, the disciples They were soon sleeping. They went to sleep. Luke 9. 32. And while they were sleeping, Jesus was praying. And so we see this. Now, why were they asleep? Luke says that that was for sorrow. They were so filled with sorrow. That while Jesus began to pray, the disciples just went to sleep. You know, sometimes when people are filled with sorrow, and sometimes when they're depressed, the way they relieve that is sometimes just to sleep. And that's what the disciples were doing. But notice what happens. Look in verse number two. And was transfigured before them. And his face did shine as the sun. And his raiment was white as the light. Right there, Jesus transforms. Now the word trick transfigured or transform is metamorphosis is the word. We know that word very well. And then morphe to change the form. And so this was the changing of the outward form. Nothing on the inside of Jesus changed, but it was his outward form that changed. And so all the glory on the inside began to shine on the outside because he was the glory of God. And by the way, this is a passive verb where it says he was transfigured. That is, someone else is doing the action here. Jesus is not the one actively doing this. Someone else is doing the action here. And we ask, who can that be? It can only be one person and that's God the Father. God the Father is showing to the disciples the glory of his Son. God the Father says, let me just pull away the veil and let me show you disciples the glory of Christ. And notice where it says before them. In front of them. Right in front of their very eyes. Right in front of their very face. This was for them. Wow, what a wonderful thing that must have been. Right in front of their eyes, there is the glory of Christ. Now these are Jewish men, they knew about the Shekinah glory. They knew about God's presence being manifested with a beautiful light. They knew that in the Old Testament. They knew that Moses was uh lit up with the glory of God when he went into the holy mountain. And again, there's a comparison, I think, here to Moses, where it says Jesus, his face did shine as the sun. Remember when Moses went up into the mountain? He came down, his face was shining. with the glory of God. But again, we see the superiority of Christ because while Moses only reflected that glory, Jesus was the eminence of that glory. He's greater. And so it's a greater shining. And so, again, this is a foretaste to the glory that all will partake in. Who know the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible says in Matthew 13, 43, the righteous will shine like the sun. That's us Did you know that one day we're going to experience future glory? We're going to have a glory that we share in heaven? Did you know that there's something in man, this kind of innate desire to have some kind of glory? We want some kind of recognition. We have this inner desire for glory. That's not by accident. That's why we have all these people giving all of these awards to everyone. That's why tonight you'll go home and turn on the Academy Awards, watch a bunch of blasphemers. Let me get off that really quick here Give each other awards. Pat each other on the back. How many of these awards do they do? I mean they do a whole string of them. Do they ever get tired of it? Awarding one another. Because there is in man this desire for a glory. And that will be fulfilled. And this is what Jesus is showing the disciples. This is a foretaste of the glory that awaits those who believe. We'll all be a part of that. Did you know in 1 Corinthians the Bible says we will shine with the glory of God one day? We're all going to get a brand new glorified body. Aren't you glad for that? I mean all of us, this this body that I had here, this is not the body I'm going to have in heaven. I thank the Lord for that. One day when we are resurrected, we will receive a gl a brand new glorified body. And in 1 Corinthians 15 it says that we will shine with glory. And the Apostle Paul says, if you want to understand the resurrection, look up into the skies and look at the stars and see how there are some stars that shine brighter than others. That's the way it's going to be in the resurrection. Some people will have glory that'll be greater than the glory of others, but we're all going to have that glory And I have a theory that in the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve were there originally created by God, they were clothed with the glory of God. They wore that glory, and when they sinned, that glory was taken, and they knew that they were naked And one day when we get to heaven and all those pre uh uh false conditions are restored, we once again will be clothed with the glory of God, and some will shine brighter than others. You say, well what who will determine that? That will be God Our glory in heaven will be according to the suffering that we have here on earth. And the more faithful we are to persevere through that suffering, the greater the glory we're going to have. Remember the disciples, they were all arguing about who would be the greatest, who would have the greatest glory in the kingdom? They were constantly arguing about that. And then Peter, or excuse me, James and John got their mom to come to Jesus You remember that story and say, hey, mom, why don't you go tell Jesus we went to sit on the right hand and on the left hand? I mean the disciples really got mad about that. And remember, she went to Jesus and said, Lord, give me this one thing. What is that? Grant that my son, one son sit on the right hand, the other on the left. And the Bible says Jesus was amazed. It's hard to make Jesus amazed. But he was amazed by that. He said, You don't know what you're asking for. It's not really me that gives that. And then he said this, are you able to receive the baptism that I'm going to be baptized with. And when Jesus meant baptism there, he meant a baptism of suffering. You see, I'm going to have this glory in heaven because of the baptism of suffering I'm going to endure. And if you're asking for great glory in heaven, what you're really asking for is great suffering on earth. You don't know what you're asking. That's not for me to give. But here's the point: the greater the groans, the greater the glory. And I hope that's an encouragement to some believers here because I know some of you you've had painful things take place in your life. You've had difficulties happen. You've had to sigh, and you've hurt on the inside of things, and many of you have been quiet about it, and you wonder, man, is this going to be worth it? I want to assure you, according to the word of God, it will be worth it There will be a great glory, and we're going to partake in that glory one day. And so this is what Jesus is showing the disciples here. The glory of Christ. And we're going to be partakers of that. Now, when the disciples saw this, it changed them When they saw the glory of Christ, it just changed them. And you know what? When we see the glory of Christ, it changes us too. There's a change that takes place. The word metamorphosis that we saw here, it's used four times in the New Testament. It always means a radical transformation. It's used once here in verse 2 It's used in Romans 12, who where it says, as believers, we are transformed by what? The renewing of our mind How is our transformation taking place inwardly to us as we renew our mind in the scripture? There is a metamorphosis that takes place with us. You may say that in the scripture we see the glory of Christ and when that happens we are metamorphosized. We're changed. And then there's a passage we looked at last week, 2 Corinthians 3. 18, that great verse, that says that when we gaze into the glory of the Lord, we will be same word. Metamorphosized, transformed by looking at that glory And so we are changed when we see that glory. Let me let me say, well, how do we see it? Well, one more, just turn to another passage, one more passage here. Look in 2 Peter 1 real quick. Go to 2 Peter 1 and look at verse number 16. 2 Peter 1, 16. I think some of you probably know where I'm going with this. This is the great passage on the eyewitness of Peter when he's talking about uh seeing this Glory of Christ. He later will write about it. Actually, look in verse 12. Wherefore I would not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though you know them. Peter says, I don't mind reminding you of things you already know. That's what a pastor does or or preacher does is remind you of things. Look at verse 13. Yeah, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle that is my body, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance, knowing that surely I must put off this my tabernacle as the Lord Jesus Christ has showed me. Peter knew that his death was coming. Jesus had prophesied about that, and he knew the time was coming. And verse 15, moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my to cease to have these things always in remembrance. For we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his what Majesty. Now Peter is referring back to this transfiguration experience. And he says, I want you to know that when I'm teaching you truth, I'm not giving you fables. I'm not giving you stories made up. And I'm not, when I tell you about the future glory that we're going to have, I'm not making any of this up. We were eyewitnesses We saw that. And then in verse 17, for he received from God the Father honor and glory when there came such a voice to him. From the excellent glory. This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Verse 18, this voice which came from heaven we heard when we were with him in the Holy Mount. Peter said we heard that voice. The voice of God. You say, man, I wish I was there. What an experience that would have been. Man, if I just had that experience, man, that would be the greatest thing. Well, I got good news for you. You've got something better. You've got something better than that. You say, what is it? Look at verse 19. We have also a what? A more sure word of prophecy. Whereunto ye do well that ye take heed as unto a light that shineth in a dark place until the day dawn and the day star rise in your heart. Peter said, You know what? You've got something better than that experience. You have a more sure word of prophecy. You have the word of God. How do we see the glory of Christ? We see it in the scripture. We see it in the Word of God. This is not just a natural book. When you look into the scripture and you ask for illumination from the Holy Spirit, there is a wonderful transformation that takes place. And there is a wonderful exchange. Listen to me. There is a wonderful exchange. It takes place in the heart of the child of God when you look into this Word of God with the Spirit's illumination. There's a wonderful exchange that takes place that doesn't take place any other way. You see Christ You ever just study the Bible and say, man, it just jumped off the page of me? And sometimes I'll be studying and I'll be, man, it's just as if I were there. It's so real to me. And you've had that experience too. That is beholding the glory of Christ as we see it in the scripture. So we have to see him See him in the Word of God. But here's secondly, hear him. Hear him. Go back to Matthew 17 and look in verse number 3. And see what happens. And behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elijah talking with him. Now, this is an incredible mountaintop experience. They not only see the glory of Christ, but two unique guests. Verse 3, where it says, Behold, that's look, this is kind of an exclamation, a lot of emotion here. And here's Moses and Elijah, two of the greatest Old Testament prophets Moses, the great lawgiver, he's synonymous with the Old Testament, perhaps the greatest leader ever in the Old Testament, spoke to God face to face. Here's Elijah. guardian of the law. And as I preached about this morning, he was a man that really turned the nation back to God through his prayers. He had courage to speak boldly the word of God. And so we see Moses and Elijah. They represent the law and the prophets, which is the Old Testament. And I believe that these will be the two witnesses spoken of in Revelation 11, by the way. That's another subject. I think they also represent the two types of Christians that will be taken at the wrath. Remember, um Moses was died and was buried. And Elijah didn't die. He was taken to heaven. There will be two kinds of Christians when Jesus returns, those who have already died and those who will be taken up in a rapture. And so they represent the two types of Christians at the time when Jesus ushers in his kingdom. And so you say, man, I wish I knew what they were talking about. Well, I already do. You say, how do you know that? Luke 9. 31. It says, and when they appeared, they were speaking of his departure, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. So what was Jesus talking to Moses and Elijah about? His upcoming death. His death on the cross. All that would take place there in Jerusalem. They were talking about that because this was the monumental climax of God's redemptive plan And so they were confirming the testimony that Jesus just gave to his disciples in Matthew 16 that he must suffer and die. They were confirming that. That very plan. And so they were also showing that The suffering and death of Christ does not negate the glory. In fact, it's all part of God's plan. And so these representatives were affirming the testimony that Jesus gave to his disciples. Now look in verse 4. Peter just couldn't be quiet. Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. Now you would think that after being rebuked by Jesus in Matthew 16, That Peter would kind of be careful about speaking. But he's not. He's Peter. And he's always speaking here. And um And you'll notice that, you know, I think about this passage, it'll take a lot of boldness to speak there. I mean, here's Moses and Elijah, two great Old Testament prophets. Jesus is doing the speaking. And Peter comes up, you know, this is really really neat. This is really cool. And you'd have to have a lot of boldness to do that, if you ask me. And so he just interrupts. He just jumps right in in verse 4. It's really good for us to be here. This is wonderful. Now there's several problems with this. First of all, Peter doesn't at this point show due reverence. It's not that he was not reverent, it's just that he wasn't reverent enough. with what was going on here. Lord, it's good for us to be here. The word good, this is pleasant. This is really nice. That's really the idea there. One commentator says this, it fits more with a nice stroll in the park than a theophany You know, Peter really didn't understand what he was privileged to be a part of. This was incredible. This was monumental. In fact, Luke says in Luke 9, 33, not knowing what he said. In other words, he didn't really know what to say here. And I mean this is an incredible lifetime event here, and he really doesn't know what to say. And uh, you know, it's a good practice if you don't know what to say, probably not to say anything. Just don't say anything. And then he wanted to stay there. Look what he says in verse 4. Then answered Peter and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles, one for thee, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Let's just make three tabernacles here. Man, what a picture of the church. Peter wanted to build tabernacles. He wanted to build monuments of men. God the Father wanted them to listen to his son. Let me tell you what God wants today. He wants us to listen to his son. That's what he wants. So why did Peter say this again? He wasn't sure what to say. And by the way, the three tabernacles implied that Jesus and Moses and Elijah were peers. They all deserved their own shelter. And in a way, although Peter probably didn't mean to do this, he was placing Jesus on the same level as Moses and Elijah. But Jesus was superior to both of them. So this was inappropriate. James Montgomery boy said this: this was exactly the wrong thing to say. The point of what was happening was that Jesus was the unique Son of God, the King of glory. Moses and Elijah were there to honor him. But Peter's suggestion had the effect of putting Jesus, Moses, and Elijah on the same footing. And no doubt Peter was perhaps thinking of the feast of Tabernacle, you remember in the Old Testament, when people would build what they called the Shakot, the little booth, and they would stay in it for seven days. And it it represented the glory of God in the Old Testament during the Exodus And so the idea then was let's just stay here. Let's just take a few days and enjoy all this. Peter didn't want to go anywhere. Let's just build a booth and we'll stay there. Now, didn't Jesus say in Matthew 16 to Peter in a few days I gotta go to Jerusalem and suffer and die? Peter still hadn't accepted that He just wanted to stay there. He wanted to bask in this. He wanted to enjoy it all. Bring it in. You know, that's just like us. When we have a mountaintop experience, you know what? We just want to stay there. We don't want to leave. Let's just dwell there. It's wonderful to be on the mountaintop, but you know what? We've got to go back down into the valley to minister. There's a lot to do down there. And so, notice what God the Father says. Look at verse 5. And while he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. And behold, a voice out of the cloud which said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him. Now this bright cloud that surrounds them, who is this? This is the Shekinah glory of the Father. Now the Father comes. And out of this beautiful Shekinic glory, there's a voice that comes out of it. Now Peter had been rebuked by Jesus previously. Now he's going to be rebuked by the Father. And God the Father speaks, just like at Mount Sinai when Moses was there, God the Father spoke. Now he's speaking here, and he says, This is my beloved son, and whom I am well pleased Hear him. This is present imperative. Keep on hearing him. And if I were translating that last part of that verse, I would put all this in capital letters. And here's really the translation. Peter, shut up And hear him. Stop speaking. Listen to my son. Don't put him on the same level as the others Listen to him. J. C. Rowell says that voice was meant to teach Peter that there's one far greater than Moses and Elijah. And Peter gets it. He gets the instruction. And so he later on will write in 1 Peter 4. 11, if any man speak Let him speak the oracles of God. He's probably remembering back to this. If any man speaks, you better speak the words of God. Listen to my son. Now, here's the point. I would just propose that the message that the world needs to hear today are the words of Christ. The words of God's Son. That's why we preach the word here at this church. Based on the wonderful foundation given by our founding pastor for 43 years, preaching the Word of God, preaching Christ We continue to preach Christ because this is what the world needs to hear. This is the message that will change hearts. And this is the desire, frankly, of God the Father. God the Father says, Hear my son. Listen to him. By the way, that's why I believe in expositional preaching because when I preach you the Word of God, I'm not telling you what Jerry Harmon says, because what Jerry Harmon says, quite frankly, is not very important. I'm telling you what Jesus says. I'm called to let you know this is the words of Christ, and you better hear him. You better listen to what he has to say. Because that is the will of the Father. And again, that's the way we enter into and we receive the glory of Christ, so to speak. We see Him in Scripture, we hear Him. Through the words of Scripture. But then thirdly, write this down. We worship Him. We worship Him. Look in verse 6. And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face. That's the right response. And they were sore afraid. The Greek word carries the idea of absolute terror, but also a reverential worship. They immediately fell down with a great reverence. They were terrified And beloved, when I read this, I just sometimes get the idea that sometimes I think we are too frivolous when we come into the house of the Lord And we're too frivolous when we come to hear the word of God. They fell on their face and they trembled at the word of God here. And then in verse 7, and Jesus came and touched them and said, Arise and be not afraid. And so when they lifted up their eyes in verse 8, they saw no man but Jesus only. I love that where it says Jesus only. And that's really the testimony of our worship. Jesus only. They saw Jesus only. It's easy to get distracted with other things. in the church. It's easy to get distracted with all this going on. Paul said, you know, you can get all these religious things going on and you can forget Jesus, you know, the worship of angels, visions, self-abasement, all these other isms. And and you can get distracted from the main thing, which is Christ only. Focusing on Christ. We need to uh exalt him above all. We need to keep our eyes on him and him alone. And that's really how this scene ends with Jesus only. And so, friends, as we focus on him, we are changed into that wonderful glory of Christ. See him, hear him, worship him. That's how we behold that glory. And one day we will realize that when Christ comes back, we will enter into this glory with him. Now there's more that I can share here. I'm really halfway through. But we're we're out of time. So we're going to cut it off right there. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Father, what a wonderful passage of scripture. What a wonderful thing, Lord. And Lord, we take great encouragement by knowing that one day we're going to enter into the glory of Christ. We will share in that glory. One day, Lord, when we see our Savior, the Bible says we will be made like Him. And Lord, help us to keep our eyes on that. Help us to keep our focus on that And Lord, for those who are here that have gone through some difficulties, some trials, suffering, I pray, Lord, that they would be reminded daily. That the affliction that we suffer now is not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed. Lord, let this be our source of joy Our encouragement. May it help us to be patient in the times that we face here, now. And may we constantly focus on Christ and His glory. And may that, Lord, fill us with great joy. And Lord, as we're reminded once again that as we focus on Christ, that in return you give us joy. May that be the testimony of every child of God here today. Lord, bless these words. To the hearts of your people, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen