Would you take God's word tonight? Open please to 2 Timothy chapter 2, and we're going to look at verses 20 down to verse number 26 of 2 Timothy. And tonight I want to talk about the person that God uses. A man visit visited a tiny general store that he would like to go to in the country. The owner there had a clerk by the name of Jake, who seemed to be the laziest man in the world. Just just really just didn't wasn't quick to do anything. And one day the man noticed that Jake was gone. And he asked the owner, he said, Where's Jake? He said, Oh, he retired. He said, Retired Well, who you who are you gonna get to replace the vacancy? And the owner said Jake didn't leave no vacancy. That's the joke. That leads me to ask a question. What kind of vacancy would there be if you left this church? What kind of vacancy would there be? In the years that I've been pastor, and really even before that, we've seen many families come and go here at Grace. Of course, we hate to see anyone leave. We want everyone to come and stay. God sometimes moves people along with for his own purpose and reason and puts them in different places where he wants 'em. But uh, you know, I've noticed that some people that leave they really don't leave a a gaping hole behind when they leave. It's not to say again that we don't want them you know we don't want them to leave, but there's really not a big hole that's left. And then there are people that have left that were so useful in in the service of the Lord that um when they left they just left a huge hole Because they served and they were used by God so greatly. I think it's God's clear intention that every one of his people be used in serving the Lord Jesus Christ. He's given us gifts for that. Every person here has a gift, and we are to be good stewards of the gifts that God has given us. And yet, for all of that, it just seems like with some Christians their Christianity is more like Football on Sunday, an occasional spectator sport, and that's about it. They're not serving Christ day by day. They're not being used with the Lord in God's work. But if you truly know the Lord Jesus Christ, You can't be happy just sitting on the bench. You're going to be want to be in the game. You're going to be wanting to be used by the Lord. Now our passage here reveals the kind of person that God uses. You might think that the kind of person God uses has to have impressive abilities and gifts. Well spiritual gifts are certainly a part of it, and again, all of you have a spiritual gift, but While it plays a part, that's not the main feature for being used by God. Or you might think that God uses a person who has been to seminary, had a lot of training, and again, seminary is important. That's all good, especially if you're going to go into the ministry. But You know, I know people that have graduated from the seminary and they're not even in the stadium, let alone in the game. I know PhDs that are doing nothing. For the kingdom of God. Or you might think, you know, God uses a person who has a great knowledge of the Bible. And again, a knowledge of God's word is very important, but I know scholars that uh they're not a help to the kingdom of God. They're a detriment to the cause of Christ. The main idea of being used by God, I think it's found in our passage in verse number 21 of chapter 2 of 2 Timothy, if you look at that verse. If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use. That's the key verse here. That we be a vessel purged and sanctified, ready for the Lord to use. And what Paul does in this passage then is he gives qualities that of people that God uses. And I don't know about you, but I want to certainly be used by God. And I'm sure that you also would like that and want that. So let's look at these qualities here. First on the list is a person that God uses, first of all, has a clean heart. They have a clean heart Paul begins by emphasizing Timothy the importance of a pure heart before God. Now he had just mentioned the damage in the church, their false teachers do. He mentions in verses seventeen and eighteen two men by name. And then he reminds Timothy that true believers are to depart from iniquity. Verse number 19. The word depart, atastero, to walk away from. He's urging Timothy to have a clean heart and to flee from sin. And in order to really emphasize this idea, he uses the illustration of a big house. And in that Illustration, I think he's referring to the church. I think the reason for that is because that seems to be in view here. That seems to be the context in verse 19. Paul refers to the church and the earthly custodian of God's truth. And I think here, then, the context of this large house is the entire church that's composed of all true believers. Look at verse number twenty. But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth, some to honor and some to dishonor In a house such as this, a big house in that day, there would be all types of utensils, all types of wares. The word vessels here from the Greek word uh skeos It's a word that's used to speak about a large variety of domestic utensils. This could be buckets and jars and plates, cups and bowls and and and and so on. Paul divides these vessels or these utensils into two different groups. In verse 20, notice again: vessels of gold and silver, but also of wood and of earth, some to honor and some to dishonor. So they're vessels of honor. That's the first group. Paul calls them vessels of honor. These were obviously made of valuable material, gold and silver. And they would be used for special occasions. They would be used for dining or entertaining special guests as a gesture of honor and a gesture of respect. But then there are vessels of dishonor. These vessels were made of wood or of earthware, or we could say clay, and they were used for dishonorable purposes. This would include used to clean up in the kitchen carry out garbage, even use to dispose of human waste. These vessels are not valuable. They're not put on display. They're not used for guests. These were used for those duties that were never seen and were kept out of sight as much as possible to display these kind of vessels before guests. Well, that would be unspeakably dishonorable. Now the question comes to mind when you look at this verse is, who do these vessels of honor represent? And who do the vessels of dishonor represent? Well, commentators are divided on this. There are some who say that the vessels of honor represent those who are truly saved, and the vessels of dishonor represent those who are not saved, like the false teachers that Paul had been talking about Vessels of honor, those who are believers, vessels of dishonor, those who are profess to know Christ, but they're lost, they're unbelievers. After all, the church is made up of that mixture. As much as we hate to admit that, that on a Sunday morning, you know, there's such a mixture of people and people that join a church but never truly have been really saved. So there's another interpretation, however. Others say that the vessels of honor and dishonor both represent true believers. The honorable vessels represent believers who are faithful and useful to the Lord. The dishonorable vessels represent believers who are not faithful and who are not useful to God. And I think that this really is the right interpretation here. Why? Well, I c I think it's because it fits the context better. Again in verse 19, Paul is talking about the true church. The Lord knows those who are his. And also It keeps in flow with the whole thought of what Paul is trying to do with Timothy. What is that? To encourage him to be an excellent minister of Christ. He encourages him to be a useful minister of the Lord. So I think the true believers are in view here. True believers are those who name the name of Christ. They depart from iniquity. But on the other hand, the church is like a big house, and not every vessel in that house is honorable. Some are dishonorable or are not useful to God. Something that God would not use Now remember Paul has been exhorting Timothy to be a useful minister. Again, that's the whole context, right, of this letter to Timothy. Be a good soldier. The honorable vessels are good soldiers. They are the competitive athletes. They're the hardworking farmers Mentioned in verses 3 to 6, all the illustrations that Paul used to talk about being useful. By contrast, the dishonorable vessels are the cowardly soldiers. They're the lazy athletes. They're the slaughter farmers, defiled people fit for only the most menial or undistinguished purposes. Honorable and dishonorable therefore referred to the ways in which genuine believers are found to be useful to the Lord in fulfilling the work which God has called them to do. And in this sense, all believers should be But are not always honorable vessels. Not always. So what's required then to be an honorable vessel? Look in verse 21. If a man therefore purge himself from these He shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use. Notice what he has to do. He has to purge himself. He has to purge himself. The word purge, ek, cathero, where we get the word catharsis, and it has the idea of a thorough cleaning out, a complete cleansing. These refer to the things, these things, he has to purge himself from these things, where what Paul was talking about in the previous verse when he was talking about iniquity. You have to purge yourself from iniquity. You have to have a practical righteousness in your life. And you make the choice. Paul really is presenting us with a choice. You see, do you want to be a gold or silver vessel, an honorable vessel, used for a great purpose, or will you be a cheap clay pot used for that which is dishonorable? Do you want to be useful to God? That's the question. That ought to be the desire of every believer. Well, then you have to purge yourself. Cleansing is your responsibility. Again in verse 21, if a man therefore purge himself, It is the believer's responsibility to cleanse himself, to keep himself clean. Now we need to be clear here. When Paul says that a person needs to cleanse himself, he's not teaching that we uh by our own efforts we atone for sin. That's not what he's saying. If you could do anything in and of yourself to deal with your sin problem before God, then the death of Christ was pointless. But you can and must make yourself Or avail yourself of the means by which God uses for cleansing, the cleansing of that God has provided in the Lord Jesus Christ. That cleansing that he has made available, that is your responsibility to apply that to your life. If a person has been working out in the yard all day and then they they come in, And uh they need to be cleaned. You know, that's that's their responsibility, but they can't do it in and of themselves. There has to be something that they use, there has to be some means by which they cleanse themselves. And what is that? That's regular soap and water, right? You make those things available, those things that are there, those means, and you apply them yourself. Well, God in His grace has provided the means for us to be cleansed from our sins. God has provided that. He's provided the precious blood of Jesus Christ as the means of cleansing. And there is a sense in which we are completely clean the moment that we come to Jesus Christ as Savior. There's no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus, right? We're totally cleansed, we're justified by God. But we walk in a world that is very dirty. And while you can't lose your salvation, you can certainly get out of fellowship. And you can certainly become dirty through the defilement that is of this world. That's why we have to continually confess our sins to God. We apply the blood of Jesus Christ to the dirty sins of our life. The Bible says in first John one seven, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ what Cleanses us from all sin, continually cleansing us. Again, we're not getting cleansing because we need to be saved. We're already saved, but we need to be cleansed in order to have that fellowship with God. in order to be useful vessels to the Lord. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Cleanse people are sanctified and useful to the Master. Look again in verse 21. He shall be a vessel unto honor. If a man purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meet for the master's use. The word sanctified here means set apart unto God And it's you, you know, when we say sanctified in the New Testament, it's used normally three ways in the New Testament. There is positional sanctification. This happens the moment that you are saved. The moment that you're saved, you are declared righteous. That is your position before God. Amen. Thank God for that. Thank God that we get that imputed righteousness of Christ, we are legally declared righteous. That's your positionally being set apart, cleanse at salvation But there's also progressive sanctification. And that is, as we continue on in the Christian life, we grow to be more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. Conform to the image of Christ. That is a process that comes with spiritual growth. That comes with sanctification. It is making your practice commensurate with your position. God has declared you righteous. Now, practically we've got to live up to that We've got to be more like Christ. And then there's perfected sanctification. That happens, of course, when we see Jesus, we would be made just like him. Now in our text here, Paul is talking about the process of progressive sanctification. We should be growing in that process of being more like the Lord Jesus. And that kind of person who keeps their life clean will be someone that can be an honorable vessel. Sanctified, meet for the Master's use. You can't expect to live in sin and to or to not deal with sin in your life or not to try to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord and just expect for God to use you. This is something that you have to be diligent to do as a believer. The person God uses has a clean heart. But also, the person God uses has a righteous obsession Notice verse 22. Flee also useful lusts, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call upon the Lord out of a pure heart. Notice in verse 22, there are two commands in this verse, a command to flee and a command to follow. Flee. Fleego. That is where we get our word fugitive. It was used in extra biblical literature to talk about someone who runs from a poisonous snake, or someone who runs from an attacking enemy, or someone who runs from a dangerous plague. The verb is present tense imperative, a command from God. You keep on continually fleeing. You keep running from these things. In order to be a useful vessel, there are certain things you need to run from. Keep on fleeing. And what are we to run from in the verse? Youthful lusts. These are lusts and sins that are characteristic of youth. You don't have to be young to have them, but they're characteristic of youth. It just means that, you know, these are things that seem to be more prone to, the youth seem to be more prone to these kind of lusts and temptations. These lusts would include sexual desire, but it goes beyond that. This would be pride, craving for wealth, power, inordinate ambition, jealousy, envy. An argumentative, self-assertive spirit, and many other sinful lusts. The Bible says we're to flee from that. First Corinthians 6 18, flee immorality, it tells us. Don't flirt with it. Don't If you're in a situation that is tempting or you shouldn't be in, you know what the thing to do is. Don't stand there and pray about it. Don't reason in your mind about it. Run. Get out of there. Get away from it. That's the idea. Don't get near it. If it comes knocking at your door, run for your life. To win the battle against lust, you must win on the inside where nobody sees. Or I should say, on the inside where only you and God see. That's where you have to win the battle. Michelangelo, the famous artist, was once observed painting in a certain corner of the Sistine Chapel. He was very meticulous there. It was a secluded area, seemed to be out of touch with all the rest of the cathedral, and it seemed to observers to be an unnecessary task. And one person said, Why do you spend so many hours on an area that no one will see? And Michelangelo said, I'll see it. And that's reason enough. Our prayer should be that God will do his sanctifying work in those secluded areas of our life where only God sees and we see. That's where it has to start. Don't allow a sinful thought to stay in your mind for one second. Once it comes, put it to death immediately. Put it to death immediately. If you allow yourself to dwell on sinful ideas, it will not be long until you're going to want to carry them out. If it stays in your mind long enough, you're going to want to do it eventually. Behind every tragedy or moral failure, there's been a long process of evil thinking. before that person finally acted out. So taking control of your thought life is essential if you want to be clean. The heart we have to keep the Bible says with all diligence for out of it are the issues of life. So we have to keep the heart. Someone said every every sin we commit, we commit tw We commit twice, once in our thoughts, and then when we act upon it. And so it's easier to rid our lives of sin when we attack it at the thought level. Attack it there and don't let it get any farther when a thought comes into your mind. You kill it with the word of God. You say, how do you do that? Well let me give you illustration. You know, if you're in a pool and you have a beach ball and you're trying to push that ball down, what happens when you let off? It pops back up, right? Keep pushing it down, pops back up. If you want to really get rid of that beast ball, here's some advice. Just take a knife and just you know just deflate it. Deflate it. You know what? You won't have to mess with it anymore. You throw it out of the pool, it's gone. That's what you do with a thought. You can't just push it out of your mind. Because you know what? It'll keep coming back up, it'll keep coming back up. You know how you deflate that thought? You take the sword of the spirit and you apply it to that one idea. That's how you kill it. That's how you deflate it. You mortify it with the word of God. Apply scripture immediately. So we have to flee. But then also follow. That's the other verse, other thing given in this, where it says, follow righteousness, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace. The word follow, dioko, to pursue with intensity. It's the idea of diligently, relentlessly, running to capture something. And by the way, this is also a present tense imperative. Just like we are to constantly, continually be running from youthful lusts, we are to be running after these other things. We are pursuing these other things with a vengeance. What are they? And by the way, if all you do is run from sin, eventually sin will catch you You can't just run from sin. You have to run from sin and you have to run for righteousness. You have to fill the void with righteousness. We have to keep on continually pursuing. What do we pursue? Again, in verse 22, follow righteousness. We have to run after righteousness. Again, if you're not doing that, sin will take over. Both of these must be done, or you will ultimately fail. You have to run from sin, you have to run aggressively after righteousness. This takes effort, this takes determination, this takes discipline on our part. We can't just say, here I am, God, sanctify me. No, you got to do your part. You know, there's a term out there, let go and let God. Well, you've got to do a little more than that. Okay? You got to do your part. Yet there it takes effort. And remember remember the parable of the empty house I preached on a few weeks ago? When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, Jesus said it passes through the waterless places seeking rest, it can't find any, so you know what it does? It comes Back to his old house, finds it cleansed and swept and all garnished. And what happens? He just moves back in with seven other spirits. That's kind of an illustration where it's not enough just to sweep the house and get rid of sin. It has to be occupied by righteousness. You have to fill the vacuum with righteousness. We overcome evil by good and righteousness, the Bible says And so we pursue righteousness, we pursue faith. Verse 22. We could really render this faithfulness as it as it's rendered in Romans 3. 3 and talking about the fruit of the sphere, Galatians 5. 22, same word. We should be pursuing faithfulness, which again is all too rare. It means that you're trustworthy, that you're reliable. When you're given a job. You you know, someone can count upon you to do that. But then also love. We are to pursue love. Someone says, Well, I'm just naturally a loving person. Well, okay. But actually, no. We are all, let me start with me, we are all naturally selfish. That's why Paul commands us to pursue it. You've got to run after it. You've got to make a determination to do that. This requires getting your focus off of yourself, getting your focus onto others. It means giving your time to listen to someone who's hurting. It means befriending someone who is lonely. And so we're to pursue love, but then also peace. Again in verse 22, peace doesn't usually just happen. You have to pursue it diligently, with much effort, in this in this verse here. So it's debated whether the comma, the comma should be after peace. as we see here in verse number 22. With the comma, the sentence means that you should join with other believers in the comma and pursuit of peace. Without the comma the idea is that the peace that you should pursue should be with other believers But either way, you are to pursue it with those who call upon the Lord of a pure heart. Again, the word pure is related to the word cleanses. And thus it refers to a heart that's been cleansed from sin. And the implication of the command is that even though Christians All call upon the name of the Lord out of hearts that have been cleansed, they still have conflicts, they still have misunderstandings. It's possible for you believers to have misunderstandings among yourself. You don't need me to tell you that, right? But what are we to do? We're to pursue peace with one another. That's what we're to pursue. So the person God uses. Has a clean heart. The person God uses has a righteous obsession. But here's number three. The person God uses has a discerning mind. Look at verse twenty-three. But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender strife. And the server Lord must not strive but be gentle unto all men. So a vessel unto honor must develop a discerning mind. An unguarded mind, even of a believer, is subject to deceit, subject to misunderstanding, confusion. It can produce false doctrine, which produces sinful living It produces believers who are tossed here and there. They're carried about by every wind of doctrine that comes along. Paul says avoid these foolish and unlearned arguments. I think no doubt that in this context he's referring here to a lot of the things that the false teachers taught at Ephesus that Timothy was contending with. These false teachers and their followers. He called their teachings foolish, abo but foolish and unlearned questions. Foolish is Moras Mentally dull, stupid, where we get the word moron, unlurred, unlearned, ignorant or untrained. All these things just cause strife We're not to be engaged in strife for the sake of winning an argument or talking about things that are foolish or really we don't have shouldn't be spending time dealing with those issues. Some people just love controversy. They thrive on it. If they can't find any, they stir it up. They're not the kind that are useful to God. But here's where discernment comes in. There are times, however, when we have to stand for what is doctrinally right, correct? We have to stand for truth. We have to stand for what is important. Especially when it re is referring to the gospel. Paul's not advising it for all believers to avoid all controversies and discussion of faith Again, there are times when believers have to engage in defending the faith. But there are times when we have to engage in what we call apologetics And give an answer to those who ask us of the hope that is within us. In fact, Paul spent a lot of time engaging in these kind of issues when he shared the gospel wherever he traveled during his time. traveling through Gentile territory. But while we are to defend the Bible and defend sound doctrine, there's also a point in which we realize, and this is where discernment comes in, there are certain issues out there that are not worth debating. They're not worth you know getting involved in a controversy over. And and sometimes we want to do that just because of our own pride. We want to be right. Some people like to argue because it feeds their pride. And so on. But we have to ask ourselves if we are debating a person or if we're trying to correct a person on a issue. Is this person involved in a c in clear disobedience to God's word? Is that why you're trying to talk to them? Because there are times when we have to confront believers. Some things, however, fall into a gray zone. They may be inadvisable, but they're not clear sin. Use discernment. Is it a major doctrinal issue at stake? Again, we have to defend the faith. What's your goal in engaging in this issue? Is it you just want to argue to prove that you're right? Or are you trying to help your brother? Are you trying to win your brother? If you have to correct them, are you doing it in a gentle way? Sometimes correction has to be done. But the person God uses has a discerning mind. Here's number four. The person God uses has a clean heart, a righteous obsession, a discerning mind, but here's number four, a gentle spirit. A gentle spirit. Look at verse 24. And the servant of the Lord must not strive. Again, the word for strive here, you probably heard me talk about it before. One of my favorite Greek words. Macho my. Where we get the word macho. Macho man. You ever hear that song back in the 70s? Macho Macho Man. Everybody wants to be a macho man. Gotta get that out of my mind and right now and deflate it. Anyway, so now some of those songs pop up, right? What's a macho man? Someone always ready to fight. Always ready to throw down. Ready to get into an altercation, whether it's verbal or even physical. Again, this is the issue of pride and self-will. Selfish attitudes and manners are inconsistent with the nature of God. And they should be inconsistent with the nature of the followers of Jesus Christ This shouldn't be our attitude, especially for leaders. If you're going to lead the people of God, this kind of macho attitude should never characterize the servant of Christ. You can never argue anyone into the kingdom of God. You understand that? You can't argue someone into the kingdom. You can't beat them into the kingdom. Instead, look at verse 24 again. The server of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. This is the quality that characterizes Jesus during his earthly ministry. That was the life of Christ. Jesus said, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am gentle and humble in heart. And recording Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, Matthew quotes Zachariah, who said, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, gentle, and mounted on a donkey, even a colt, the full of a beast of burden. In 2 Corinthians, Paul reminded believers of the meekness and gentleness of Christ and how he wanted to pattern himself after that. So as much as we are to be bold in speaking truth for the Lord without compromise, we also have to do it in a spirit that is humble, that is meek, that is gentle. We're never to be harsh, abusive, overbearing, unkind, thoughtless, pugnacious. There's to be a softness in the authority of a Christian leader Just as there was in the life of Jesus and in the life of Paul. When Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, he said this, he said, But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children. Paul reminded them that he was as gentle among them as a nursing mother. But here's the final thought here. The person God uses has a clean heart, a righteous obsession, a discerning mind, a gentle spirit, finally a skillful tongue. Look again in verse number 24, where it says, Serve the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. Notice the next phrase apt to teach patience in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if God per adventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. After teach is one word in the Greek, Didosktikos, Didoktikos, which carries the idea of being highly skilled in teaching. This doesn't mean that you have to be really, really filled with all kind of knowledge, you know, you can't you know, all kind of academic knowledge. What it does mean Is that the knowledge that you do have of God's Word, that you're able to skillfully communicate it? You're able to teach others skillfully what God has taught you And you do it in a humble way. You do it in a skillful way. This is what God uses to grant repentance, the Bible says. If you're trying to win someone, again, you don't argue or beat them into the kingdom, you humbly, skillfully show them the word of God. Just give them the scripture in a humble, skillful way. You see, there's a difference between proof and persuasion. Proof is our job. It's our job to lay out the proof, to lay out what God's Word says. To do it in a humble and skillful way and say, hey, here's what the word says. But after I've done that, you know what? My job is over. My job is over. There's nothing more I can do. Because I don't have the power, neither do you, to cause that person to submit to the truth that they've heard. You know who does that? That's God. And God uses through the power of his Holy Spirit the word given in a humble, skillful way, and that person will, if they are persuaded by God, then they will bow to the evidences of God's word, and they will come to the Lord. Persuasion again is what God does. Look at verse 25, instructing those that oppose themselves, if per adventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. That is something that God does in us. It is something that He must give us. Repentance is both a duty, it's a command. Did you ever notice this in the New Testament? God commands all men everywhere to what? Repent. It's a command by God. It's a duty. But also, according to verse twenty-five, it is something that God grants. If God per venture will give them repentance. to the acknowledging of the truth. Some people say, well, which is it? Is it a duty of man or is it a gift from God? It's both. It's both. This is again one of those areas in theology where both things are true, concurrently true. God commands you to repent. You better repent. It's your duty to repent. If you don't repent, you'll be judged for that. But at the same time, we also have to recognize that the gift of repentance is something something that God gives to an individual. God gives it, and yet he also commands it. And both of these things are true. You said, I don't understand that. Well, I don't either. You know, it's one of those things, it's a mystery in theology where you see both the sovereignty of God at work. And the responsibility of man at work. And both of those things are true. And both of those things are revealed in Scripture. And uh that's again in an inscrutable thing. I can't figure it all out, but yet it is true. All I know is that God says you are to repent. That's a command, and you better do it, if you don't you're gonna be judged. And I also know that it's a gift that God grants. So our job is to gently, humbly lay out. The proof of God's word to say what Scripture says, to do it in a loving way in a gentle way Hoping, praying for God to grant repentance. Why? Verse 26, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. And that's what we want. We want people to repent. We want people to be snatched out of the snare of the devil, to be recovered out of the snare of the devil. Interesting how it says it, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil by repenting and acknowledging the truth. There's the responsibility part again. And yet we see God gives it. And so this is our heart's desire that God would use us to help other people in this way. So it's it's a great honor for an athlete to be put into the starting lineup of a big game. But it's even a greater honor of being used by God, where God will make you his starting lineup. And you don't have to have great talents, but you do have to have a clean heart. And you do have to have a righteous obsession, a desire to be like Christ, and a discerning mind. And a gentle spirit and a skillful tongue that's humble and just presents the word. And if those are qualities in your life, you know what? You can be a person who's used by God. And friend, that's what I want to be. And I know you do too. Let's pray together. Father, thank you again for your word. Lord, do please use us. May we be a church that's used greatly by you. People that I'm speaking to right now, Lord, use them in a great way for your kingdom's sake For your glory's sake. Help us to be all these things. Because Lord, you've given us the grace to do it, the ability to do it by your Spirit. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.