Would you take God's word this morning and I want you to open to the very first book of the Bible, the book of Genesis, chapter three, and uh we're going to look at verses uh actually one verse we're gonna key in on, but we'll read a few verses. We'll read Verse 14 and verse 15. Would you stand for the reading of God's word today? And the Lord God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field. Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and thus shalt thou eat all the days of thy life. And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed, and it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Heavenly Father, we thank you for the Word of God. And we thank you for the promises that are given to us through it. And Lord, as we begin to prepare our hearts to celebrate the first advent, the coming of Christ into this world to be our Savior, I pray, Lord, that you'll Teach us afresh and anew how great this blessing is, the unspeakable gift of Christ. Lord, may you teach us and instruct us, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I know we've been uh looking at First Thessalonians on Sunday morning and we will get back to that, but I think for the next few weeks as we uh we have the first advent we prepare for uh the uh celebration of of the incarnation of Christ coming into the world. I want to speak on some themes of from the Old Testament about the coming of Christ. And this is one passage I want us to look at. Did you ever wonder when the first gospel message was ever preached? If I was to ask you when was the first gospel message preached. Some of you might say, well that would be the book of Matthew, you know, the first New Testament book. Surely that would be the first gospel. But actually you would have to go back farther than that. You would have to go back to the Old Testament. And there may be some people here say, well, that would probably be Isaiah, Isaiah chapter fifty-three. That's a great messianic chapter. That wonderful verse where it says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity. of us all. Well that indeed is a great chapter. And it indeed has the gospel in it. But you have to go back farther than that. Maybe some would say, well Psalm twenty two, if you ever read Psalm twenty two, it's it's like you're standing in a in in front of the cross, the w uh the descriptions that it gives there, the words from Jesus from the cross is almost, you know, it's it's incredibly prophetic And the gospel is there in Psalm 22, but you'd have to go back farther than that. Some might say, well, Exodus chapter 12. Exodus 12 is the story of the Passover lamb. where uh an innocent uh male lamb has to be slain and the blood of the lamb put on the doorpost to cause the death angel to pass over. And again that is a beautiful, beautiful Old Testament story that points to Christ And certainly the gospel is in there. But beloved, you would have to go back farther even than the book of Exodus. And we we come really to the first message of the gospel here. in the book of Genesis. The first gospel sermon was preached in Genesis, and it's recorded in the same chapter where man had sinned and fallen here in Genesis chapter three. Right on the heels of Adam and Eve's fall into sin. As a result of Satan's temptation, we have an account of the first gospel message preached. Now who is the preacher? It is God the Father. Who's the audience? Well, all those that were in the garden, Adam and Eve and the serpent And God preached it to these three, and notice again in verse number fifteen, I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. These words spoken by God contain the first promise of the gospel of redemption. That's why Theologians call this the Proto-Evangelium or the First Gospel. Everything else in the Bible flows from this one verse right here. Someone wrote, as an acorn has in it a mighty oak, even so these words contain the entire plan of salvation The entire plan of redemption. The great English preacher Charles Simeon called this verse the sum and summary of the whole Bible. Again, Proto-Evangelium means the first gospel. And this is the promise, or we could call this the first promise of Christmas. To God's old covenant people, this verse was a beacon of hope. To Satan, this verse was a declaration of war and his ultimate condemnation. To Eve, this was the assurance that she was forgiven. And even as Satan through a woman brought the downfall of man, even so God through a woman would bring salvation and redemption to man. So this is the first promise of Christmas. And although you might not see it at first glance, this verse here, uh points to Christ. Christ is in this verse. He is the ultimate seed of the woman who would one day come to crush the serpent's ugly head. And in this process, his heel would be bruised on the cross. And so what I want us to do this morning as we uh think about the coming of Christ into this world is I want us to look at this verse very closely and I want us to see what I call three important elements to this promise uh that God gave the first promise of Christmas. Here's the first thing I want you to see. God promised, in this verse, God promised a vicious battle. Look at again in verse 15. I will put enmity between thee and the woman. The key word here is enmity. This is a word that means hostility, animosity. One translation reads like this, I will set a feud. Or another says this, there will be war This promise here tells us that there would be a great conflict that basically foreshadows a perpetual war and struggle between the serpent and And God and his people that will put into effect, God will use people to put into effect his plan of salvation, and he will do it through a woman. All of the kingdom of darkness, all of Satan's powers will try to prevent the seed of the woman But there will be a constant war and conflict between God's plan of this woman who will bring salvation, the seed of the woman, and between Satan's kingdom. And again, notice that he's talking to the serpent here. Who is the serpent in this verse? None other than Satan. Satan. And God is promising that through a woman he would send a Savior, a deliverer for mankind. And in so doing, the serpent would be punished through this coming Savior. And so the serpent would do everything he could to try to prevent the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ the seed of the woman. Now this warfare that's pr that's predicted here in this verse, we see it carried out throughout the pages of Scripture. How? Well, look in chapter 4 of Genesis, look in verse 1, in the story of Cain that killed Abel. Look in chapter 4, verse 1. And Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. Right after the promise of Christmas, we have the first murder in the world. You might say, what does this have to do with the promise? Well, through Eve's offspring a deliverer would come. And Eve thought that her first son would be the one through whom the serpent's head would be bruised. And so we see here in verse one, where it says that after she bore Cain, she said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. The Hebrew reads here, I have gotten a man even the Lord. The great Old Testament scholar Wal Kaiser interprets the verse this way, and he wrote that he thought that he wrote that Eve thought that Cain would be the one That was Cain would be the deliverer. Evidently Satan thought the same thing because what we see then is Satan corrupting Cain. He took hold of Cain. And you know the story how Cain slew Abel, and the Bible later says in 1 John 3. 12, not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. Satan again evidently felt that Cain would be that deliverer, and Satan did all he could to take hold of Cain and corrupt Cain. And the Bible later on says he was of that wicked one. Satan corrupted Cain thinking that perhaps he would be the deliverer, but that was not God's plan. And when Satan saw that that was not God's plan, then Satan did something else. He he sought to corrupt the whole human race. He wanted to corrupt the whole human race to the point to where God would destroy everything that he made. And it almost came to that. Flip over to Genesis chapter 6, and let me just show you this real quick. In Scripture. Genesis chapter 6, we have an interesting verse here. Look at verse 1. It came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth. And daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair, and they took them wives all of which they chose And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man for that he also is flesh, yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years. There were giants in the earth in those days. And also after that when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, they bare them children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old men of renown. This is a very interesting passage of Scripture where it talks about a cohabitation between the daughters of men and the sons of God. Who are the sons of God? Well, these are angels. Always in the Bible, when it uses the expression in the Hebrew, Bene Elohim, it's always referring to angels We see that expression in Job 1 when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, a Hebrew expression, Bene Elohim. We see it in Job 38, 7, when the morning stars sang together, all the sons of God shouted for joy. This is talking about at the dawn. When God created this world and all the universe, all the angels sang for joy when they saw that it calls them the Bene Elohim, the sons of God. What we have here in this chapter is this unholy, evil cohabitation between angels and women And they bore offspring that the Bible calls giants. There were giants in the land the Bible said, in the earth, verse number four, in those days, after when the sons of God came unto the daughters of men Now you say this is a a kind of a supernatural fantastic view. This view was held by Philo This view was held by Josephus, the Jewish historian, who wrote, Many angels accompanied with women and begat sons that proved unjust. And by the way, this was the common opinion in all of antiquity, according to Josephus. This was a view held by rabbinic writers, the oldest church fathers. Justin, Tertilian, Cyprin, and on we could go. The early church held this view. It was not until the fourth century that someone even proposed that perhaps there could be another interpretation of this. But when the 70 Jewish scholars translated the Bible from Hebrew to Greek and they came to this portion of scripture and they took the phrase Bene Elohim, they translated it as angels. So they believe that this was angels. You say, why did Satan do this? Why would would fallen angels cohabitate with women here in Genesis 6? Why would he do this? This was to corrupt the race, to prevent the seed from coming. This was Satan's attempt to pervert the human race and to prevent the possibility of the Messiah. Again, when this happened, look at Genesis 6 verse 5, and God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, that every imagination or the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at it at his heart. God decided to judge the whole earth with a flood, and God destroyed the world, with the exception of one man and his family And of course we know that story. That was Noah. And so God, by bringing the flood, think about it this way, was actually protecting the line of the Messiah in a way he was actually saving the world When he judged the world. And don't misunderstand me, it was a real judgment for sin, but at the same time, it was an act of grace by preserving the seed of the woman And defeating Satan's attempts at perversion. God kept open the way for the Redeemer of mankind to come. And so God's promise of Christmas was preserved through Noah and his family. Well then what did Satan do after that? Well Later on, God promised Abraham, through your seed will all the earth be blessed. And of course that was messianic. That was a prophecy about Jesus Christ. Coming through Abraham's seed, the people of Israel. And so you know what Satan did? Satan set out to destroy the whole nation of Israel. We see this in the book of Esther. The Bible says there was a wicked man by the name of Haman who convinced King Ahashuaras to sign a decree that on a certain day all Jewish people would be exterminated in the kingdom. All Jewish people would die We see this in Esther chapter 3, verse number 13, where it talks about the letters were sent by posts to all the king's providences to kill And the cause to perish all Jews. And you know that story. God used a young Jewish woman by the name of Esther to preserve the people. In that story, Esther asks for an audience with the king, and she reveals the plot of this wicked man named Haman. And when the king finds out about it, Haman is hung on the gallows that he had actually built for a Jew by the name of Mordecai, and the nation of Israel is saved. You see, beloved, before there was Hamas, there was Haman trying to stamp out Israel. But God preserved the promise of Christmas through Esther Well then what did Satan do after that? Well God came to David and God said to David, David, through your son, you're going to have a son one day in the future. He will reign as the king. He'll sit on your throne. He will be the Messiah. And you know what Satan did? Satan then turned to try to stamp out all of the line of David. And again, I don't have time to show you all this in the Old Testament. We could go to many places where we see an attack against the line of David where Satan was trying to stamp out. The line of David. There's this one story recorded in 2 Kings chapter 11, verse 1. And it says this When Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal. Think about that. Her son was the king. When he died, here's the mother of this king saying, you know what, I want to be the first queen in Israel. In order to assure herself of that, she had all of her grandchildren killed Wow, what a grandmother. She was a wicked, evil woman. In fact, she was a daughter of a woman by the name of Jezebel Like her mother, she was wicked. She was a Baal worshipper, that is to say, she worshipped the devil, and the devil evidently got a hold of her soul and gave her this idea that she would reign as a queen, and she slaughtered all the line of David. At least she thought she did. There was one little child that was left. She didn't know about him. Had she known about him, she would have no doubt killed him But another woman by the name of Jehoshaba took him and hid little Joash in the temple in one of the side rooms and he stayed there. For a time in redemptive history, the promise of Christmas hung by one little child. Had that child died, there would be no more Davidic line God's promises would not be true. There would be no m Messiah to come. But my friend, let me tell you something about God. When He makes a promise, He keeps that promise. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but not God's word. God's word will not pass away. And through that woman, Jehoshaphat, she hid Joash. And on an appropriate day she revealed him to be a son of David, and the wicked Athaliah then was killed, and Joash was put in the proper place. What is all of this? This is the enity between the serpent and the seed of the woman. This is what God prophesied, the warfare that was constantly going on. And then we come to the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. Even after the Messiah was born, Satan tried to slaughter him. You know the story in Matthew chapter 2. When Herod saw the wise men that came to worship the boy king, you remember what he said? When you find him, let me know, because I want to go and worship him. You can almost hear the hiss of the serpent in those words. He didn't want to worship him. He wanted to kill him. Herod wanted to kill all rivals. He was a very paranoid man. He killed even family members that he thought was a rival to his kingdom. And when the wise men did not go back to report to Herod because God came to them and said, Go out another way, go back to your country another way. And then God came to Joseph and warned him, take the child and his mother, go into the land of Egypt, stay there, and I'll tell you when to come back when Herod is dead. New Testament scholars call this the flight to Egypt. One Sunday school teacher said to the children in her Sunday school class, I want you to draw a picture about Christmas. One little boy drew an airplane with three passengers and a pilot. And the teacher said, What is this? He said, That's the flight to Egypt. And that's Mary, Joseph, and Jesus there. And the teacher said, Who's this guy in the front with the captain's hat on? He said, That's Pontius the Pilate. Bad joke, I'm sorry, but regardless, you get the story. God protected Jesus because Herod wanted to slaughter him. And this again is God protecting his son from the wrath of the serpent. And of course, you know the story, Herod went on to slaughter all. of the children in Bethlehem and the regions about that were two years old and under uh excuse me and un under. This is the enmity between the serpent And the woman. Even today, Satan is angry and he wants to kill every seed of women. We see this every day. Our our hearts are burdened when we hear of things going on over in Israel, of evil men killing even children. But beloved, that goes on here in America. It's called abortion. That's that's the work of Satan. Wanting to kill the seed of the woman. But then even in the temptation of Christ, Satan tried to tempt Christ to bypass the cross in Matthew chapter 4. But of course we know Jesus who said, you know, thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God, and he set his face, the Bible says, like a flint, to go to the cross. of Calvary. Why did Satan try to do that? He didn't want Jesus to go through the cross because he understood that the cross would be the place where he would be defeated. And so we see the promise of a vicious battle. But here's the second thing I want you to see in this promise in Genesis 3. 15. But there's the promise of a virgin birth. Again, look at verse 15. I will put enmity between thee and the woman. And between thy seed and her seed. Notice the expression her seed here, the seed of the woman. The way this is expressed hints to us of a virgin birth. The old rabbis used to read this and scratch their heads because this was an unusual verse when they would read the seed of a woman. If you know anything about the language of the Bible, you know the Bible always speaks about the seed of the man. You know, the seed for procreation is in the man. The egg for fertilization is in the woman. So when the Bible speaks of the seed of the men, uh it Uses that expression over and over again. It's used over 100 times in the Bible, but in this one place, and in this one place only, it speaks about the seed of the woman. What is this talking about? Well, over in the dawn of human history, God and this first promise pointed to the virgin birth of the Savior. There would be One coming who would be the seed of the woman. And of course this was later fulfilled. Isaiah would also say in Isaiah 7, 14, Behold, a virgin shall conceive and shall Um be with child and sh and shall bring forth a child and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which interpreted is God with us. Again, through a woman, Satan brought the downfall of the human race. Through a woman, God will bring the savior of the human race. The Jews knew two things about the Messiah. First, they knew that he would be a son of David, and they knew that a virgin would bear him. Just write down Jeremiah 31, verse 22. Says this, for the Lord shall create a new thing in the earth, a woman shall compass a man. In other words, a woman on her own shall develop a man You might say, are you sure that's a messianic prophecy? Well, this passage in Jeremiah is stated by the rabbis to be messianic. They believed this to be a reference to the Messiah. And it was the virgin birth that would make possible the uniting together of deity and humanity both coming together concurrently in one person, Jesus Christ. Of course, truly God and truly man. The babe in the manger was God and man. Now someone might say, how can that be? How could God, who is without limits, shrink himself to become a microscopic speck inside of Mary's womb? And the answer to that question is, I don't know. It's a mystery. It's a mystery. It's a miracle, you know, beyond miracles, how that this could all take place. The Apostle Paul said, Great is the mystery of godliness God was manifest in the flesh. But beloved, I believe it to be true because the Bible says that it is true. Christ came born of the virgin. And so God promised a vicious battle. God promised a virgin birth. But here's a third element of this first promise of Christmas. God promised a victorious bruising. Notice again Genesis 3. 15. Notice the last part of the verse where it says. And it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Now the word for bruise here means crush. Crush on the cross. I think this is a reference to the cross, prophetically speaking of the cross of Calvary, on the cross, the head of the serpent would be crushed. But in doing so, the heel of the Savior would be crushed. That is to say that the Savior would be wounded and crushing the head of this serpent. And really the imagery here is like stepping on the head of a snake. You ever s step on a snake? I hope it never happens to you. When my six-year-old grandson Theo was here visiting from London, he was doing some of his homeschool work and uh he was watching this nature show, part of his schooling, he said, Paul Paul, I want you to watch this show with me. And the show was about the most poisonous snakes in the world. And it went it ranked them from tenth to the first. Uh and what was interesting is that you know it talked about how people die of a snake bite. Did you know according to the World Health Organization Each year, between 81,000 and 138,000 people die of a snake bite every year. And many of those people step on these snakes. They don't even realize it out in the wild. And they're and they're bitten here. But the documentary is very interesting because it went through ranking the most poisonous snakes in the world. But you know what? It left off one serpent. The most poisonous serpent, Satan. And his bite not only sends you to the grave, but it sent mankind to hell. And Jesus came to this world to crush the head of the most dangerous serpent in the world. And that's what happened on the cross, figuratively speaking. The first promise of Christmas not only prophesied the birth of the Messiah, but it prophesied his death and the manner in which he would die. But it would be, even though he was bruised, it would be victorious And crushing the head of the serpent, Satan. Listen to what the Bible says in Isaiah fifty-three, verse five He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes. We are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord had laid on him the iniquity of us all. Why was Jesus bruised on the cross? Why did he die on the cross? Because on the cross Jesus took all of our sins upon himself All those sins were laid upon Christ, and he died to pay the penalty for our sins. But in that death, what he did was he also crushed. the head of the serpent. And so, beloved, while we worship the incarnation of Christ, let's not forget the purpose of his coming. He came to die for sin. He came to crush the head of the serpent. First John 3 8. He that committed sin is of the devil, for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. The word destroy means to annihilate, to render ineffective And that's what Jesus did. Did you know that when a person was crucified in Roman times, do you know how they crucified them? Of course, they would put nails into their hands. But do you know how that they nailed their feet to the cross? We know now because of archaeology that what they would do is they would take the person, they would turn their feet a bit sideways, and they would drive a nail through the heel of that person through the heel bone. We know this because of archaeological discoveries. Skeletal evidence of crucifixion was found on how this was done. They found a bone When they were excavating a cemetery just outside of Jerusalem, they found a heel bone with a nail still piercing in it. And they believe this now to be the way that the Romans would crucify their victims. Interesting that all the way back in the book of Genesis, the Bible talks about the bruised heel of the Messiah. On the cross, the nail was driven through his heel, and yet It was that heel that crushed the head of the serpent. You say, What does all this mean to me? It means everything. Because Christ defeated Satan on the cross, he made salvation available to all. And The victory of Christ is also your victory. Did you know in Christ you too crushed the serpent's head? You have victory in the Lord Jesus Christ? Write down Romans 6. 20, and the peace of God shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all, Paul said. Paul is writing here to Christians. Satan was given a death blow on the cross, but let me tell you something, friend. Satan was rendered ineffective, but you know what? He's still slithering around. But if you're a child of God, he has no authority over you. He can keep you ignorant. He wants to keep you in bondage. He doesn't want you to know this. He has no authority over you. He doesn't want you to know that because he wants you to live in fear. But what did Paul say in Christ? You will be able to bruise the head of the serpent. That's another way of saying that the victory of Christ was also your victory. It was your victory. Um you remember the story in the book of Joshua, chapter 10, when Joshua was conquering the land of promise. There were five kings that came together and decided to attack Gibeon, a ally of Israel. And they called and said, Come and help us. And Joshua got his army and they went all night and they came to the place to fight the Gibeonites, and they're recorded as one of the great miracles of the Bible where the sun stood still, and it's recorded there in Joshua chapter ten. These five kings hid in a cave while Joshua and Israel defeated their armies. And when Joshua heard that they were hid in a cave, he had a stone rolled up against the mouth of that cave. And when the victory was over They went to the cave, they they rolled the stone away, and the five kings came out, and Joshua had them lay down on the ground, and he had his generals put their foot on their necks. And then he had all the soldiers of Israel come by and put their foot down on the necks of those kings. Why did Joshua do that? That was a dramatic illustration of saying, look, my victory is your victory. When Jesus put crushed the head of the serpent, when he put his foot down on the head of the serpent, you know what he said? Jerry, come here and put your foot on this serpent's head. Share in this victory. Satan has no authority over you. You have victory in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of Christ, the serpent's head has been crushed. And so there are three elements here to this promise. God promised a vicious battle We've seen that acted out throughout redemptive history. God promised a virgin birth. God promised a victorious bruising. That was the first gospel, the first promise of Christmas. When Charles Wesley wrote the hymn that we sing nowadays around Christmas, Hark the Herald Angels Sing, there's one verse that refers to this. It goes like this, when he says, Come, desire of nations, come fix in us thy humble home, rise the woman's conquering seed, bruise in us the serpent's head. And that's what Christ did. And so let's remember that Christ came in fulfillment of a promise that God made right on the heels of Adam's sin. God made this first promise of Christmas. And so there's Adam and Eve. They're hiding there in the garden, hiding from God. And the Bible says God came looking for Adam. And Adam said, I heard thy voice in the garden. I was afraid. Because I was naked and I hid myself. Reminds me of the pastor that was out visiting his church member. Went to his door, knocked on the door. He could hear someone inside, but they weren't answering the door. And so he took a card and he wrote on it, Dear Member Revelation 3 20, behold I stand at the door and knock. If any man will open the door, I will come in and suck with him and he with me. And then the next Sunday he got that card back in the offering plate. On the other side, the person wrote, Dear Pastor I heard thy voice in the garden, I was afraid because I was naked and I hid thyself. But you know that's what mankind is doing. They're hiding from God. Hiding. That's what mankind is doing. Adam and Eve could have rightly expected God to condemn them to hell for their sin. But God in his grace made this promise. This is amazing grace. This promise of a savior. Now you can keep trying to hide from God if you want to. Or you can claim this promise for yourself. Do you know Jesus Christ? Is he your Savior and your Lord? Let's bow for prayer together And I would just want you to examine your heart, friend, with your heads bowed and eyes closed. Have you trusted Christ in Christ alone as your only way of salvation? That's why he came, he came to die for sin. And you can either continue to hide from God and hide in your sins. Or you can come repentant over your sin. Ask Jesus Christ to come into your heart, to be your Savior, to be your Lord. Again, friend, that's why he came. Maybe you're trying to cover your sin with the fig leaves of your own good works. And it might be your guilt that makes you think that God is after you to punish you. But the Bible says God is after you to save you from judgment. That the judgment that your sin deserves. And friend, if you'll come to him and confess your sins. He will deliver you from Satan's domain of darkness. And he will transfer you into the kingdom of his dear Son. It's in Christ and Christ alone that we have redemption. It's in Christ that we have the forgiveness of our sins. Would you right there where we are, would you reach out if you haven't done this already and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please, Lord Jesus, save me. I turn from my sin right now. I'm asking you to come into my heart and save me. Thank you for coming into this world and dying for my sins. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, we want to encourage you in your Christian faith. Could I pray for you? Anyone here? Say, yes, preacher, that's my prayer. Could I pray for you? Anyone here? Say yes, that's me. I want to trust Christ. Father, thank you for this wonderful promise. Thank you for Christ, the greatest gift. And Lord, during this time as we prepare our hearts to celebrate the greatest miracle, Lord, may our hearts be drawn in with a greater wonder and love of Christ than we've ever had. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.