Would you take God's word, please, open to the Gospel of Matthew? The Gospel of Matthew. And I want you to look in chapter 27 and Look in verse number 57. Now, if you've been with us on Sunday morning, you know that we have been uh actually on Sunday morning and Sunday nights, we've been dealing with the issue of the Passion Week. And we've just been going through Matthew's gospel and we've been looking at the events of the Passion Week of Christ. And of course, what took place today is the culmination. This is the most important of the events. There's no way to overemphasize the importance of the resurrection of Christ. But what I want to do is just kind of review with you about what led us up to this point and then just tell you what Matthew says about the resurrection. In Matthew chapter 27 and chapter 28. Looking down verse number 57 of Matthew chapter 27. Notice what it says. When the evening was come, there came a rich man of Aermathea named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple. And he went to Pilate and he begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered. So let me just again review with you where we are. On Palm Sunday, Jesus went into Jerusalem and he presented himself as the Messiah, the King. On that following Monday he went to cleanse the temple. He overturned the tables of the money changers and cleansed out the temple. He on Tuesday he curses the fig tree. The fig tree is a symbol of Israel. It had a lot of leaves that had no fruit on it which symbolize of Israel being religious with no real spirituality. And so Jesus, like an Old Testament prophet, curses a tree And then he goes into the temple in Jerusalem on Tuesday and he begins to teach. And while he's there, the religious leaders challenge his authority. By what th authority do you do these things? And Jesus gives three parables all demonstrating his authority. It then also uh condemns Pronounces judgment upon the Pharisees, and then he preaches his famous Mount Olivet sermon about his second coming. On Wednesday, Jesus stays at Bethany. He's been going back and forth from Bethany to Jerusalem, just a few miles outside of Jerusalem. But on Wednesday of Passion Week, he stays in Bethany. And while he's there, however, the religious leaders begin to assemble together at the house of Caiaphas because they want Jesus to be killed. They want him out of the way. While in Bethany, Jesus goes to the home of a man by the name of Simon the Leap the leper. Jesus had healed him of his leprosy, and as a reward as a gift to Jesus as a thank you. He has Jesus over at his house to eat. While Jesus is there, a woman by the name of Mary takes an expensive vial. or a bottle we could say of perfume. She breaks it open. She anoints Jesus with this expensive perfume. And this was in lieu of his really a prophetic act in light of the fact that he's going to die and be buried and rise again. On Thursday, Jesus eats the Passover meal with his disciples. Jesus before he institutes the Lord's Supper, basically tells Judas, what you're going to do, go do quickly. And Judas goes out to betray Jesus. Jesus institutes the Lord's Supper. And then they leave the upper room. They go to the Mount of Olives. And uh when they get to the Mount of Olives, on the way there, actually, Jesus stops at a place called the Garden of Gethsemane. And uh he prays. There he prays, as the Bible says, as it were, great drops of blood. And when he's finished praying. Judas with a band of soldiers soldiers come and meet Jesus there at the Garden of Gethsemane. And they basically arrest Jesus and they take him to the home of Caiaphas. Caiaphas was the high priest. And this is, by this time, it's about Friday, early Friday morning, about 1 o'clock in the morning or 1. 30. So that Jesus goes to trial. Think about going to trial at 1 or 1. 30 in the morning. This isn't going to be a just trial. This is uh in secret. The Sanhedrin is there at the home of Caiaphas. They already determined to put Jesus to death. They're just trying to find a reason to do it. They want him gone And so at the Jewish trial, they ask Jesus, Are you the Son of God? Jesus says, I am. They say, That's blasphemy. You deserve to die. Then in the early morning hours, they take him to uh Up here before Pilate. You see, even though the Jewish Sanhedrin sentenced Jesus to death, they couldn't execute anyone until they had permission from Rome, and so they had to take Jesus to Pilate. doing this, I can deliver to you Barabbas and the crowd there says, No, uh we would rather that Jesus be crucified. You deliver us. Uh we can we can you know we'll we'll take Barabbas rather. We want Jesus to be crucified. Crucify him. And so that takes place there on Friday in the morning. And so Jesus is led away to be crucified. And that he's on the cross for six hours from nine o'clock until twelve o'clock. Uh and that's the first three hours I should say, and then from twel twelve o'clock to three o'clock, that's the next three hours. From nine o'clock to twelve o'clock There are three things that Jesus says. He says, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. He says to the thief, today you're going to be with me in paradise. He says, basically, to John, take care of my mother. And then at 12 o'clock, the Bible says everything gets pitch black dark. And then from 12 o'clock to 3 o'clock, it's total darkness. Absolute darkness. Talk about a miracle. You want evidence that Jesus is the Son of God? There it is. And there's other miracles that took place on the cross. The veil, the temple was rent from top to bottom. There was a great earthquake precisely at the time that Jesus died. The Bible says many bodies of the Old Testament saints resurrected and they walked around in Jerusalem. And then it also says that the soldiers at the foot of the cross feared greatly and they said, Truly, this is the Son of God. All those things gave evidence that Jesus truly was the Son of God, and he did die for sin. But let me just say that all these things that I just mentioned, they really uh would have no value unless Jesus came out of that grave. The resurrection is the most important of all these events. Even though Jesus died, he suffered in agony and died on the cross, a cruel death. He atoned for our sin. In fact, when Jesus on the cross said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That was the very moment that God the Father laid the sins of the world on Jesus Christ. People say, why did Jesus have to suffer so much? Because God's holiness demanded that sin be punished. And God's love didn't want to punish you. So God took the sins of the world. He took all of your sins and he laid them on Christ. And when at that moment when God the Father turned his back on Jesus, Jesus became sin. He was bearing sin, the sins of the world. Our sins were laid upon him, and Jesus paid our sin debt on the cross. But now here's the point. How do we know that God the Father accepted the sacrifice of Christ? How do we know that the sin debt that was paid was pleasing to the Father? There's only one way that we know that God the Father accepted the sacrifice of Christ to pay for our sins. And you know what it is? It's the resurrection from the dead. The resurrection is God the Father's proof that he accepted the sacrifice of his son, Jesus Christ, on That's why it's so very important for us to understand that. You know, when you go to the store and you buy something, you pay for something, you normally get a receipt, and the receipt basically says that the price has been satisfied, the price has been paid. The resurrection is the receipt that the price for sin truly was paid for by the death of Jesus Christ. But the question is, did Jesus come out of that grave? That's why this is so important. That's why, by the way, you have all these liberals out there and modernists that want to try to explain away the resurrection of Christ, because they know that this is the focal point of Christianity. This is the foundation upon which Christianity rests. So this is the big question. Did Christ come out of that grave? Paul said it like this, 1 Corinthians 15, 17. And if Jesus be not raised, your faith is vain, and you are yet in your sins. If Jesus didn't come out of that grave, you're still in your sins. Your sins haven't been forgiven. That's why this is monumental. This is the most important part of our redemption. The whole plan of redemption. This is the issue. Now if you ask the religious leaders in Jesus Day, did Jesus come out of that grave, you know what they would have said? They would have said, Oh no, absolutely not. He didn't come out of that grave. Well, really, what happened? They would say that the disciples stole the body of Jesus away. That's their explanation of it. This was the story that they spread abroad. In fact, we know that this was common because in the first century one of the early church fathers, Justin Martyr, referred to it. He said this, quote You Jews selected men sent them into all the world proclaiming that a certain atheistic and lawless sect had arisen from one Jesus, a Galilean deceiver whom we crucified But his disciples stole him at night from the tomb and deceived men by saying he has risen from the dead and ascended into heaven. Even Justin Martyr said, This is the lie, this is the story that you spread And there are a lot of people that embrace that lie. This lie became so popular, it became known as the Toledoth Yeshua. And there are still people that embrace it today. Saying, oh no, he didn't come out of the grave. His disciples stole the body the body. That's what took place. So the the question is, do you want to really know what happened? Do you want to know the true account? Yes? Good. Because Matthew is going to tell us the true account of what happened. And there are three facts that he really is riveted upon. I think he's particularly concerned about dispelling This lie that the disciples stole his body away. So there are three basic things that he really focuses on when he's telling the story of the resurrection of Christ. Here's the first one. The burial was granted. There was a burial. Look in verse 57. And when the evening was come, there came a rich man of Arimathea named Joseph. who also himself was Jesus' disciple. How do we know that the disciples didn't steal away the body? Because it was the disciples that buried him. And if you were going to steal away the body, that would have been the time to do it. But they didn't steal away the body, they buried him. And the Bible introduces us to a person by the name of Joseph of Arimathea He was a rich man. By the way, that fact that he was rich is significant because it fulfilled Old Testament prophecy, Isaiah 53, 9, where it says his grave was assigned with wicked men. He died with thieves Yet he was with a rich man in his death. And now here's a rich man who's going to let Jesus use his tomb. That's okay. Jesus won't need it long. But here's a rich man who steps forward. This obscure prophecy would have been impossible to comprehend until now when Joseph, this rich man, uh Steps forward. He was obviously a man of prominence. The Bible says in verse number 57 that the evening was come. That was it was close to dark. And uh to try to get an audience with uh with the governing authorities would have been difficult unless you were a man of prominence, you were a man of some standing, and the Bible also says he was a disciple. He was a disciple. Look at verse 58. And he went to Pilate and he begged the body of Jesus. He requested to have the body of Jesus released to his care. The Gospel of Mark tells us that Pilate was surprised that Jesus was already dead. But after making sure of the fact that Jesus was dead, he releases the body to Joseph. And then notice in verse fifty nine, and when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, and he laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewed out in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and departed. And so he got the body ready. The Bible tells us that Nicodemus also, the one who came to Jesus by night, he also was there to help. Joseph do this. Now when Jews would not embalm bodies, what they would do is they would take strips of linen cloth, they would dip it in this ointment, and they would wrap the body, and sometimes they would pour the ointment over it when they were done Sometimes a body would have about a hundred pounds of ointment poured on it. And that was obviously to keep the down the stench of decay. And uh that was normally what would take place. And then after a while, after the body was in the grave for about 90 days, they would come back and they would they would take the bones that were left and put it into an ossuary called a bone box and inscribe the name of the person on the side. That was a normal custom with the Jews. And so here they're getting the they're preparing the body of Jesus in verse 6 verse 60. And they laid it in his own tomb And which he had hewed out of the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre and departed. So to bury someone in one's own family tomb was an act of deep reverence and affection. And he rolled to this the stone to the door and they left. Jesus was buried. It's important. You say, why? Well theologically it's important. The gospel is how the Christ died, was buried, and rose again. And there's all these false ideas out there that, oh, you know, Jesus never really did die. The reason he came out of the grave is because he wasn't in the grave in the first place. Really? Well the Bible makes pretty clear he was. It's proof that he died. It fulfills the prophecy, as Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. But notice in verse 61, and there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. Matthew mentions there were two witnesses to the burial of Jesus, the two Marys They never left Jesus. They were by his side the whole time. They followed Jesus to the tomb. They were eyewitnesses of the burial. They knew the exact tomb and the location. Again, this is important because there are others who said, well The reason the tomb was empty was because the disciples went into the wrong tomb. No, they know exactly where the tomb was. These two Marys were right there. They saw exactly where he was laid. They knew the location So the burial was granted. But here's number two. The body was guarded. Look at verse 62. Now the next day that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate. Verse 63, saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said that while he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead, so the last error shall be worse than the first So Matthew here records a very important fact in this whole story. The tomb was guarded. We see here the worry of the Pharisees. They come to Pilate. And by the way, they came on a Sabbath, on a Passover Sabbath. They normally wouldn't go to a place of uh a Praetorium uh where the Gentiles were in govern governing control because that would div considered to be defiling on the Sabbath, especially a Passover Sabbath, but they ignored that. What was so important that they had to see Pilate. Well they came to Pilate because they said, you know what, we remember that while he was alive, he said that after three days he was going to come out of the grave. So we would like for you to put a a a guard to the tomb, and that way the disciples can't steal away the body. And say he rose again from the dead. And that that way, you know, the last error will be worse than the first. Well we'll be in big trouble if if that happens. So they wanted the tomb to be guarded so that the very thing that they said happened wouldn't happen. That the disciples steal the body away. They remembered the words of Jesus. So, what does Pilate do? Well, he he gives them what they asked for. Look at verse 65. And Pilate said unto them, You have a watch. Go your way. Make it as sure as you can. What's a watch? You have a watch. Well, a watch of soldiers normally was about 16 soldiers. I think sixteen could guard a tomb. Sixteen Roman soldiers. Anywhere from four to sixteen. But he said you have a watch. That would be sixteen. Four on the east side, four on the west, four on the north, four on the south. I mean this tomb is really well guarded. And Matthew says they sealed the tomb. What is a seal? A seal would be a cord stretched across the stone with a wax seal in the middle was the it was the seal of the government of Rome. You didn't break that seal because to do that would risk death. It was kind of a psychological barrier No one would dare break that seal and move the stone. So you have the you have the seal on the tomb, you have the Roman soldiers that are guarding it. I would say that that tomb was pretty secure. So, in order to believe that the disciples stole away the body, you would have to believe that somehow they were able to sneak past 16 Roman soldiers. And then break the seal, move the stone, and get the body of Jesus out. That's what you would have to believe. So what happened? Let me give you the third part. We saw the burial was granted, the body was guarded, the bribe was given. What happens, Matthew records what records for us what really happened on that first resurrection morning. Look in verse 1 of chapter 28. And in the end of the Sabbath As it began to be dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake, for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. And his countenance was like lightning and his raiment white as snow. And for fear of him did the keepers shake, and became as dead men. And the angel answered, and said unto the women, Fear not ye, for I know ye seek Jesus which was crucified. He is not here, for he has risen. As he said, Come and see where the Lord lay. So the two Marys come to the tomb on Sunday morning at the break of dawn. Luke tells us that they were bringing spices, more spices to the tomb. There's an earthquake, a great earthquake. We notice that at the at the death of Christ there was an earthquake, and now at the resurrection of Christ there's another earthquake This should have been evidence to the Jews of divine work, the that God was doing this. And then there was an angel. An angel comes from heaven, rolls back the stone. The Bible tells us in the Gospel of Mark as the two Mary were on their way to the tomb, they were talking about, you know, here they had these spices and they were thinking, how are we going to get that stone away from the the tomb? I mean it took several burly men to move that thing And these women are asking, how are we going to do it? But when they got there, guess what they found out? An angel had rolled the this the stone back. And by the way, the angel didn't roll away the stone so Jesus could get out. The angel rolled back the stone to show everyone that Jesus wasn't there. He wasn't home. And so When the two Mary saw this, they were just filled with shock and amazement. And they returned to the disciples and they told the disciples what had happened. And the Bible tells us in Luke that the disciples didn't believe the women. They said, you know, you're telling us idle tales, you're telling us stories. And so Peter and John go to the tomb themselves. They both run to the tomb. John tells us in John's Gospels that I I beat Peter in the race. I got there first. You know. And John gets to the tomb and he just looks in. But when Peter gets there, he bursts in. And they see inside the tomb, and what they see is amazing. They see the grave clothes of Jesus neatly folded there. Which is evidence of what? Non-theft. I mean if you're going to steal away the body, why bother to fold neatly the grave clothes? I mean Jesus made his bed that morning. How did you leave your bed this morning? And they see the grave clothes there, and they're amazed at what they see. And so Christ came out of that grave. So what's the reaction what what's the reaction of the witnesses? We'll look in verse four again, and for fear of him the the keepers did shake. And became a dead man. These were the Roman soldiers, these strong, courageous Roman soldiers. The Bible says they shook, and the word here is sesmas. It's the word used for earthquake. I mean these guys were so afraid. They became like dead men. They were traumatized by what they saw with the angel. And then there was also joy from the ladies, the women were filled with joy when they saw that Jesus was not there. And then also there was a reaction of worship. Look in verse number nine. And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail, and they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. And so there's worship. What an incredible thing. They get to see the risen Lord. Now Well then what happened after that? What did their soldiers do after that? Look at verse eleven, Matthew tells us. Now when some when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priest all the things that were done. First, these Roman soldiers, after they gather themselves together, get their composure, the Bible says they go into the city, they report to the chief priests. Why did the Rom Roman soldiers report to the the the Sanhedrin? I mean they were Roman soldiers, well because the Sanhedrin was in control of all of it. They were the ones that were really in charge And they showed them all the things that were done. You know what they did? They told them exactly what happened. Guys, why are you here? What's going on? Well, here's what happened. We were there. This shiny being appeared, rolled the stone away, Jesus was gone. We think it was an angel from heaven. And, you know, this is what happened. Can you imagine the religious leaders being told this story by the Roman soldiers? What was their response? Surely at that point they said, oh man, we must be wrong about Jesus. Man, he must be the Messiah. He must be the son of David. He's got to be the son of God. I mean, after this, I mean the angel rolls the stone away and he's gone. He did come out of that grave. Is that the response? No. That's not the response. So what does the Bible say? Look in verse number 12. And when they were assembled with the elders. That is, they call a meeting. They got we got a problem. They call the meeting together And this is the when it says when they were assembled with the elders, this phrase is used frequently in Matthew to talk about an official meeting, an official meeting of the Sanhedrin. They all come together, and notice it says, and they take counsel That is, they had taken counsel. This is they make a formal resolution. They're talking about what happened. They're talking about what the Roman soldier said. They had this meeting and they say, you know what, here's the resolution to this whole problem. Here's what we're going to do. Look down in verse number twelve again, which says, and they gave large money unto the soldiers. Verse 13, saying, say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Bribery. Large money, agura. Large silver. They give him a lot of money. I mean after all they they bought Judas for thirty pieces of silver. But here they have 16 Roman soldiers. They had to give them large money to report a lie that we're going to see what they taught them to say. The deception, they bribe him. Look in verse 13, saying, say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Well, if you're asleep, how do you know the disciples stole them? This doesn't even make sense. But here's the here's the here's the money. And if someone asks you what happened, just say, well, we fell asleep and the disciples came and they stole the body away. That's the lie. This is incredible. Why does Matthew record this? He's showing the hardness of the heart of these religious leaders. They just refuse to believe. They would not believe. They had to know that Jesus really did come out of that grave. You say, what's the proof? The lie is the proof of the truth. You only tell a lie to cover up the truth. And that's what they do. They give a lie and they bribe the soldiers, and this is the lie that proves the resurrection to be true. And notice in verse number fourteen what it says. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. That is, they said to the soldiers, Look, if this gets back to Pilate that you guys fell asleep and And someone stole the body weight, don't worry about it. We can take care of Pilate. We we know how to deal with him. You don't worry about that. And so this was the beginning of the lie. And notice in verse 15 where it says, so they took the money. And did as they were taught. That's what I want you to see. We're taught, Didasco, instructed. Think about this. Hear these religious leaders saying to these Roman soldiers, let us teach you how to lie. This is how you do it. Here's how you tell this lie. And they taught them how to lie, and that's how this whole lie started to happen. And again, this was This was the prevailing theory that was being passed around that Jesus' disciples stole the body away. And Matthew records this to show us that the apostasy of these religious leaders in Israel was final. They refused to believe the truth. And Matthew, who writes this gospel about 63 A. D. , that's 30 years after the event, is particularly concerned about dispelling this lie, and he tells us how this all started. This is how it all started. But again, it is the lie that proves the resurrection to be true You see, really, there are two evidences in the Bible, two lines of evidence about the resurrection of Christ. First of all, there's the testimony of his friends. Jesus was seen by eyewitnesses, he was seen by Mary Magdalene, he was seen by other women, he was seen by Peter, he was seen by the ten disciples, he was seen by five hundred at once, Paul tells us, by the disciples on the road to Emmaus. There's the testimony of his friends, but then there's also the testimony of his enemies. It's hard to believe that the Roman soldiers slept, knowing they would get the death penalty. That the scared disciples mustered up enough courage to go and steal the body of the Lord away. But the question is, which which what are you going to believe? You have to choose whether or not you believe that Jesus came out of that grave or that his disciples stole the body away. And this is essentially what Matthew is doing here in this gospel. He's saying, what do you think? You have to choose. But I will tell you this, friend, if you believe that Jesus came out of that grave like I do, every fiber of my being believes that Jesus came out of that grave. He is alive, he is risen. And let me tell you something, dear friend. There's only one proper response. If you believe that the resurrection is true, the only right response to that, therefore, is to call him Lord is to repent of your sins and to turn to Him in true faith. Because the only hope we have in this life is the resurrection of Christ. And when you put your faith in Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, you know what that gives you? That gives you forgiveness of sin, and it gives you eternal life, and it guarantees that one day you're going to have a resurrection. That we're going to have a a a future where there is no death. Because Jesus abolished death with his own resurrection. That's the holy that's the whole point. The Bible says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. So the question is, do you believe? Do you believe that? And have you put your full faith in Jesus Christ? That's the point. That's why Jesus came to this earth. That's why he died. That's why he came out of that grave. So that you would have salvation. So that you could have eternal life. That's what he wants for you. That's what my heart's desire is for you. If you haven't put your faith in Jesus Christ, I plead with you today. Put your faith in the risen Christ as your only means of salvation. Let's bow for prayer together. So With heads bowed and eyes closed, I don't want to embarrass you, but I do want to give you an invitation. I want to invite you right now, right where you are. God can hear your prayers right where you're seated. He can hear your thoughts. Would you be willing if you're not absolutely certain that you've already done this, then I would encourage you right now, get it settled. The Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And friend, I want you to be saved. I want you to call upon the Lord. I want you to ask Him to forgive you for all of your sins. Turn from sin and turn to Christ and say, Lord Jesus, forgive me, cleanse me, save me. I believe that you died for my sins, you were buried, and you rose again, proving that God the Father was satisfied with your death. Your sacrifice on the cross for my sin. So I'm turning to you, Lord Jesus, save me. And friend, if you pray that and mean it, he will save your soul You can be a a child of God. You can have eternal life when you do that. Does anyone here say, that's me? I want you to pray for me. Pastor, that's my heart's desire. Would you pray for me And friend, if you've prayed that prayer, let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, again, thank you for the beautiful message of the gospel. Lord, thank you for this account given to us by Matthew that gives us the truth about what happened on that first resurrection morning. Lord, may we believe with all our heart. May we confess Jesus Christ as Lord. And we pray in His precious name. Amen.