Well done. Would you take uh God's word tonight and open please to the book of First Timothy? And we are looking in chapter two tonight for of First Timothy. First Timothy chapter two. And we are going to be dealing with this issue tonight of the power of a praying church. First Timothy chapter two, as we continue our study in First Timothy Chapter two, look at verse number one. I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, Intercession and giving of thanks be made for all men, for kings and for all that are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. And so Paul is going to speak about again things that he expects of Timothy in the church. And remember the whole theme of our series is guarding the truth, and one of the best ways to guard the truth is become is to become a church of prayer. I was reading about the life years ago of Jay Wilbur Chapman. He took a trip one time to London because he had just been called as pastor of the church. in Philadelphia, the Beth Bethany Presbyterian Church. And he felt that he was inexperienced and he and it and he felt that this was an overwhelming task that he was inadequate for it. He was hoping to get inspiration from the great Baptist preacher Charles Spurgeon. And indeed he attended the service and God blessed them. And he kind of left there a new person and went back to Philadelphia and preached and God used him in a great way. And as a result, a great revival broke out in that church in Philadelphia and it affected the lives of many people. And later Chapman was talking about what happened, and he said that when he was in London at Spurgeon's church at the end of the service, he went up to Mr. Spurge and he said, Listen, I'm going to thank you so much for The way you've helped me and the I just sense the power of God in this service here. And Spurgeon said, that's not because of me. That's because all over this church people pray. He said, if you want to have a ministry that has an impact, teach your church to pray. And Chapman never forgot that. And indeed he went back to Philadelphia and he taught his church to pray. And as a result, God did a wonderful thing there in that church. It was a result of God's people coming together to pray. And so here's the lesson. It's very simple. There's power in a praying church. It was a master stroke of the devil to get the church and the ministry to lay aside the mighty weapon of prayer. Andrew Murray said this in relation to his people, God works only in answer to their prayers. It is in prayer that we exchange our natural strength for the supernatural strength of God. AC Dixon said this when we depend upon organization, we get what organization can do. When we depend upon education, we get what education can do, but when we depend upon prayer, we get what God can do. So Paul's advice to Timothy is very simple. The same advice that Spurgeon gave Chapman is the advice that Paul gives to Timothy here in 1 Timothy 2. And remember, this is Paul's letter to Timothy. This is a pastorial epistle. There are three pastoral letters in the New Testament, 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Titus. And they're unique in that they're very personal as they're as Paul is giving instructions to young ministers, ministers like Timothy and Titus. And what we see in this letter is Paul's heart that really flows out of this epistle. more so than perhaps some of the other letters that he wrote. And remember the instructions in chapter 1, verse 3, he said to Timothy, Stay it at Ephesus and teach others that they or tell or charge others, I should say, that they teach no other doctrine. Because there was false teaching that was beginning to spread in that church. And Paul was depending upon Timothy to stay behind there at Ephesus and to take care of that. And this wasn't a easy thing for him to do. This would be a challenge, and people in the church were giving him trouble, and Timothy was a bit younger. Perhaps they didn't respect his authority. And Timothy was also a very timid young man. He was reluctant sometimes to exercise his pastoral authority. And so Paul writes to encourage him. And we saw in last week in chapter 1, verse 18, he says, War a good warfare, Timothy. And so Paul also in this letter just gives them basic instructions for how to lead, how to run a church. We saw that one of the key Expressions or verses is in chapter three, verse fifteen, but if I tarry long that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and the ground of truth. So Paul instructs Timothy on public worship. He instructs him on how to select leaders for the church, qualified leaders, he instructs him on how to confront sin. in the church. She instructs him on the role of men and the care of widows in the church and all these other things. But of all the things that Paul talks about in this letter, this instruction that he's going to give here is, I think, the most important. And in chapter 2, verse 1, he basically says, Timothy, I want that church to learn to pray. I want it to be a praying church. As I said before, the church marches forward on its knees. It's the only army that marches on its knees. So I want you to see three Important truths that Paul gives to Timothy about prayer. And here's the first one. Number one, the priority of prayer. If you're taking notes, just write down the priority of prayer. Again in verse 1. I exhort therefore that first of all Notice first of all, it's not the last resort. Prayer is to be the first resort. It's not if everything else fails, then we'll pray. It's like one man said to his pastor, when the pastor said, look, we need to come together and we need to pray. And the man said, Oh pastor, has it gotten to that already? Are we that desperate now that we have to pray? And unfortunately some churches are like that. It's lost its importance in uh church life. One pastor was kind of uh basically um lamenting the fact that when he calls for a prayer meeting to come together he can't hardly get anyone to show up. If he calls for a banquet or a fellowship With potluck and people come out of the woodworks, but if he calls for a prayer meeting, he s he says, I'm lucky if I get the ushers to show up. The church needs to live in the atmosphere of prayer. And so that's why Paul says to Timothy, I exhort. Look at that expression in verse 1. I exhort. Pericoleo. It's where we get the idea of a comforter. The Holy Spirit is the paraclete, the one who comes alongside and comforts us. And Paul is saying here to Timothy, I Pericaleo, I exhort, I beg you, I'm I'm coming alongside of you, and I am I am asking you, I'm pleading with you, that first of all, supplications and prayers and intercession be made for all men. Paul is trying to impress upon the heart of Timothy the importance of Pray people and a church that prays together. Prayer should not be the last resort. Prayer should be the first resort and the last resort and everything in between. Prayer should be the breath of our breathing one person. It should be the thought of our thinking. It should be the soul of our feeling, the life of our living, the sound of our hearing, and the growth of our growing. Jesus spoke about this. Jesus said, my house shall be called a house of what? Prayer. When God's people come together, it is a house. of prayer. In Matthew chapter 18 he said this again I say unto you that if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything, that they shall ask it, it shall be done of them of my Father which is in heaven For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them. And I love the word here agree. It's the Greek word symphoneo. It's where we get the word symphony And it's translated as music in other places in the New Testament. And so God loves to hear the symphony of prayers. When we come together on Wednesday night and we pray together as a church and people are silently praying there where you are and you're lifting your hearts and your prayers to God, it's like a symphony in the ears of Almighty God. It's music to God's ears. And so we are to make it a priority. The Bible says in Acts chapter 1, verse 4, and when and being assembled together with them, Jesus commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father Which saith he, ye have heard of me. He said, John truly baptized with weather, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. Jesus said to the to the disciples, Look, don't just go out. Come together, pray together, and wait for the promise of the Father. In Acts chapter 2, verse 1, it says, And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all in one accord. in one place, and the Bible says, And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were s sitting, and there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as a fire, and it sat upon each of them. And their God did a mighty work in that church, and the Holy Spirit came upon them, of course you know, and that was in response to them praying and waiting upon the Lord. And I still believe that when the church comes together and seeks the face of God, that God will bless that church. When we come together in one accord and earnestly seek the face of God, we will get the blessing of God. And so there's power in prayer. Now what does it do? We need to make it a priority, first of all, under that, just the right to promote commitment. Notice again in verse number one where it says, I exhort therefore. When you see that word, you have to back up a few verses. That's a transitional word, and you have to look back at what he had just said. Back up to verses eighteen and nineteen. We looked at these, but Look again of chapter one, verses eighteen and nineteen. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went on before thee, that thou by them mightest war good warfare Now in these verses, Paul gives Timothy a charge. That word charge there, as we saw, means a military order passed down. And the order is not from Paul, the order is from the captain of our salvation. And then this word commit, this charge I commit. This is a banking term. It refers to a deposit. that someone has been entrusted that it's been entrusted to someone. Something very valuable has been entrusted. What was entrusted to Timothy? Well it was the care of the church. It was to defend the faith. It was to stand strong in the Word of God. You know, we have many so-called leaders today that are compromising the Word of God and are not standing strong. And the word prophecies that we see here is referring to the testimony of believers who saw Timothy and predicted that he would be a force for God. that he would be greatly used. And so Paul is reminding Timothy of this. You know, Timothy was probably discouraged. He was probably doubting his calling. He was doubting his usefulness. There's a lot of pressure on preachers today. I was just reading this week an article that basically said 60% of pastors today feel like they're failing. Sixty percent. The article said that pastors are quitting ministry, they're dropping out, they're doing other things. And it's hard to find young ministers that come up and and replace them. And part of that is because of the COVID that came. And when COVID came, it kind of emptied out churches and trying to get people back into church and back into being faithful and serving the Lord and there are a lot of pastors just that just feel like that, you know, they're useless and they feel uh not successful in ministry. And so a lot of them are dropping out, uh a lot of them are becoming half-hearted and cynical about ministry because of the response of those that are called themselves believers. And I think Timothy's in a situation where he's he's discouraged at what's going on at the church at Ephesus. This was a difficult situation. And Paul had to remind him to be faithful. Look in chapter four, look in verse number eleven. Where Paul said, These things command and teach, let no man despise thy youth, but be an example of the believers in word and conversation and charity and spirit and faith and purity. Till I come give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the Presbytery And so Paul was reminding Timothy, don't neglect your ministerial responsibility. Again, nobody's under fire like pastors. There needs to be prayers You need to pray for ministers. I'm not ashamed to ask you to pray for me because I need your prayers. Timothy needed the prayers of God's people because he was going through a very difficult task there And notice the variety of prayers that Paul mentions. Look in chapter 2, verse 1. I exhort that, first of all, supplication. And then he also mentions prayers and intercessions and giving of thanks. There are seven different Greek words used in the New Testament that talk about prayer. Four of them are used right here in this one verse. Supplications, that's the idea of offering a request for a felt knee. It has the idea of having an audience with a king to make a request. for a very special need. And then the word prayers, this is the common term used, but it also has the idea of the sacredness of prayer. And it carries with it the idea of worship. When we pray, we are It's an act of worship. But then the word intercessions, this is um this is prayer on the behalf of another person. This is when we intercede for other people. Perhaps they're not on spiritual ground. Perhaps they are not praying themselves. Perhaps there's something in their life where they just need God to work on their behalf. And so we intercede on their behalf. We bring this person or we bring bring these people to the Lord in prayer. And then there's thanksgiving, which is a form of prayer. Thanksgiving should be in all of our prayers. It should be in the beginning, in the middle, and the end. We should be thankful as we come into the presence of God. These are all different types of prayers. And this is what we need to do, to get engaged in. And again, we pray because we want to promote commitment There seems to be a lack of commitment among people sometimes in the church. And so we pray to promote that. Martin Luther, you probably heard of the of the uh a time when he stood And he made those famous uh words, here I stand, when he spoke before the Catholic authorities who asked him to recant what he had written. And you know, we hear about him making that bold stand, but did you know that the first day that he stood before that council, that he was vacillating? And that he was very fearful. And he asked them, he s when they said, We want you to recant, he said, I I need some time to think and pray about it And so they said, we'll give you one day. And Martin Luther went and he prayed many, many hours. And as a result of his prayer, the next day when he came back, there was no vacillation in Martin Luther whatsoever. He was absolutely committed to standing firm on the Word of God. What was the difference? It was prayer. Prayer helps to promote commitment, but here's the second thing, to prevent casualties. Again, look in chapter 1, look in verse 19, holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I've delivered on the Satan that they may learn not to blaspheme. And so here Paul names two men who were professed Christians in the church, yet they made shipwreck of their faith. Like one country preacher said, they wrecked their fellowship, their worship, their discipleship, and their stewardship. They made shipwreck of their faith And Paul doesn't tell us exactly what the problem was, but he did say this, that they may learn not to blaspheme something they said or did was blaspheming the name of God. And as a result, they were severely disciplined. And we looked at this where Paul said, I've delivered them over unto Satan. And this was this was church discipline Where they had to be excommunicated from the church because they were not standing on the true word of God. And so there were sort of casualties in the church. These men were cast out. There are a lot of people that are out there that are um that that can be easily deceived in false doctrine. And you know what prayer does? Prayer helps to prevent casualties. I don't know about you, but I hate to hear of anybody falling away from the faith. I hate to hear about ministers that fail. I hate to hear about Christians that backslide and walk away from God and they're no longer in church. They're no longer serving the Lord. Listen, don't criticize them. Pray for them. Bring them to the Lord in prayer and ask God to recover them, to bring them back to the Lord. And so we pray, we make it a priority to promote commitment, to prevent casualties, and also to preesee change. Look in chapter two now and drop down the verse two where Paul says, Pray for all men, for kings, for all that are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. And what Paul is saying here is that prayer can change your circumstance. Paul said that you can lead a quiet and peaceable life. Now, when Paul wrote this, Things were not quiet and peaceable. Because when Paul wrote this, it was open season on Christians. Because the man who was on uh the throne at in Rome, who was the Roman Emperor at that time, was a man by the name of Nero. And Nero had a vicious persecution against believers. And so Paul is basically saying, look, we need to pray for all those that are in authority. Look again, for kings, for all that are in authority. And so I can just imagine believers reading this and them saying, you know, you mean you want us to pray for Nero, Paul? For all that are in authority. And what that tells me is that Paul knew that prayer could change things. Nero was a cruel tyrant Uh he persecuted Christians, and I could just you know talk a lot about what he did. The cruelty that he displayed towards believers was just unprecedented. And here Paul is saying, look, pray for these men that are in authority. This tells me that Paul believed in the power of prayer. that God could save the lost. Nobody is outside the bounds of God's grace. So pray for all that are in authority. That we might lead a quiet That word quiet means external circumstances around us. Things can be quiet around us. And peaceable peace refers to inward attitudes. Prayer will keep the church from outward dangers and inward distractions so that we can go about the business of the kingdom. Someone says, I don't like what's going on in Washington. Well then the answer is pray. The problem is not Washington. You know what the real problem is? The real problem is sin in this world of ours. And the answer is salvation through Jesus Christ. Washington can't bring revival, and Washington can't hinder revival when God wants to send it. The problem is not what goes on in Washington. The problem is what goes on in our own church. Are we praying to see God do mighty things? Prayer and God's people coming together to pray can do more than any social reform. It can do more than bringing any kind of economic prosperity stimulus package. It can do more than whatever those uh politicians are doing down in Washington to bring prosperity to our land. Prayer changes things. Now maybe Paul's thinking about his own life. Again, look in chapter one, look at verse number twelve. And I thank God, or Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful, putting me in the ministry, who was before a blasphemer. and a persecutor, and we could say a bully, but I obtained mercy because I did it ignorantly and unbelief. Paul remembers when he was like Nero. Paul remembers when he was persecuting the church. And what did God do? God did something mighty in Paul's life. And Paul believed that God could do that for anyone. So we pray to promote commitment, to prevent casualties, to preesee change, but also to please Christ. Look at verse 3. For this is good. And acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior. When we pray, it is pleasing to our Savior. Paul said it's good. It's acceptable. The word good, kalos, it's beautiful. Acceptable. This is really a word that was used about an offering that was given a sacrificial offering and how uh on an o I should say uh uh a offer a sacrifice on the altar that was well pleasing. It put off a beautiful aroma. Your prayer is like a sweet aroma to the Lord Jesus. Remember the incense, altar of incense by the holy place? Right before that veil that divided the Holy of Holies from the Holy Place, there was an altar of incense. And there was a certain mixture of incense that was poured out on that altar, and it caused an aroma to constantly rise. Smoke was constantly coming up. Off the altar of incense. And what was that a symbol of? It was a symbol of the prayers of the people of God. That we let we are to pray without ceasing. And that our prayers are like a sweet aroma It's a God. And so why do we pray? We pray because it pleases the Lord Jesus when we pray. Every once in a while I'll meet a Christian and they'll say something like this, I'm just not sure that my prayer really does anything. Or they'll say, I don't see my prayers having a big impact or changing things. Well, first of all, you can't always know what your prayers are accomplishing I believe that there are some prayers that we pray, we won't really see what those prayers did until we get to heaven one day. And then we'll know. But the other thing is, even if your prayers don't do much, You should still pray because it pleases God. It pleases God when we get on our knees and when we go to Him. And That should be the motive of our prayers because we want to please our Lord Jesus Christ. Sometimes people will pray very selfishly without the idea of glorifying God or pleasing the Lord Jesus Christ. But we pray because our prayers are pleasing to the Lord. But here's another reason to produce conversions. Look in verse number four. Who will have all men to be saved and to come unto a knowledge of the truth? It's the desire of God that all men be saved and come to salvation. Now, this is another reason why we pray. We pray for the lost. This is evangelistic praying, and I think that we don't do it enough. A lot of times when we come together to pray, we pray more for six saints. Than for sin-sick sinners. We're more interested in keeping saints out of heaven than sinners out of hell. And the first thing that we should be praying for is for God to save the lost. Now there's nothing wrong with praying for saints that have illnesses. We need to continue to do that. But along with that, we need to pray for lost souls. God honors us when we pray for him to save others. And this is what Paul's talking about here to pray. Now in Acts chapter 2, the Bible says they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and breaking of bread and prayers. And then it goes on to say, and the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved. If we pray for the lost, I believe God will add to the church. Those that are lost, those that need salvation. It's as simple as that. A J. Hudson Taylor tells a story of a young man that came to join him on the mission field And uh when he came to Hudson Taylor, he said, you know, I don't see how God can use me. I don't really have any special talent. And Hudson Taylor said, you know, God wants people in the mission field that know how to pray. He said, We got a lot of people that can preach. We need some people that know how to pray. And Hudson Taylor said, then this young man took that seriously. So he began to get up early in the morning and pray for lost souls. And he said, you know, it's interesting. I he said I watched that and what I saw was that God just seemed to bring lost souls to him. And he began to share the gospel, and people got saved. And he just continued to pray for the lost, and God would bring people to him, and people would come to know Christ. And God used him in a mighty way because he became serious about praying for lost souls. Now we have heard of, I mentioned this Wednesday night, the prayer of Jabez. We probably heard about that thad that years ago people said you should try. But have you ever heard of the prayer for Jabez? There's a story that is written about uh the s one of the sons of William Carey. William Carey was a great missionary. He went to India in 1792, and when he went there Two of his sons were believers, but he had one son that was not a believer. And his name was Jabez. And he was a pain. He was a burden. He was a pain to the heart of William Carey. And uh he prayed, he wanted his son to come to know the Lord. And so he asked for the people back home to especially pray for his son. And on one occasion, During a missionary association meeting, one preacher got up and he gave the request. He said there were 2,000 people there in that church. And he gave the request, a special request from William Carey, that that group of people pray for his son to come to know Jesus Christ. And John Ryland tells a story. He says, when that prayer request was given, people silently bowed their head. 2,000 people. They didn't pray out loud, but they prayed silently to themselves. And John Riley said, you know, you can just sense the Holy Spirit coming across that that group. And they left it with the Lord. The next letter they got from William Carey said that Jabez had trusted Jesus Christ as his Savior. He had gotten saved. As a result of the prayers of the people of God. I believe that when we pray sincerely fervently, passionately for the loss, God will begin to save souls. And so we make it a priority For these reasons, to promote commitment, to prevent casualties, to preesee change, to please Christ, to produce conversions. Now let me give you point number two. We talk about the priority of prayer, but number two, write down the possibility of prayer. The possibility. Look at verse number five. For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus. And verse 6, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. Now, prayer is such an unspeakable privilege, and the reason we're even able to pray is because of Jesus Christ. We don't go to God on our own merit. We're able to approach God, the Father, because of what Christ has done. And we need to remember that. And here, Paul Mentions two specific ministries of Jesus that help us in this matter of prayer. We can pray because Christ is our mediator Again in verse 5, there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. You know, it's wonderful to know that when we pray, we have a mediator between us and the Father And that mediator is the Lord Jesus Christ. What a blessing. Remember Job in the Old Testament? Job was going through some difficult trials. And one of his complaints was this. He said in Job 9. 33, Neither is there any daisem between us. That might lay his hand upon both of us. Job said, you know, when he was going through that trial, he said, I wish that there was a mediator between me and God who could lay one hand on God the Father and one hand on me. I wish I had a mediator between me and God. Now Job didn't have that privilege, but I want to tell you here in the new covenant, we have that privilege. We have a mediator between us. And God the Father. And you know, when we take our prayers to God, thank God Jesus is there, and He puts one hand on us and He puts one hand on the Father. And he helps us in our prayers. You ever feel like you're weak in prayer? You ever feel like you need someone to help you along? Well, friend, Jesus Christ is that mediator between God and man. And that's why we can go to the Lord. That's why we can pray. But also there's another thing here, and that is because Christ is our Savior. Look in verse number 6, who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. In his perfect life and his substitutionary death, he met the just demands of God's holy law. He was the ransom for all. His death was for us. He paid that ransom, the Bible says that ransom for all. And it was through the death of Christ that we are even able to approach God the Father. It was through what Jesus Christ did. You remember in the Old Testament, on the Day of Atonement, when the high priest went into the presence of God, he did it one day. a year, and he did it very fearfully, because as you know and you've been taught this, that if a priest went into the presence of God unprepared, if he went in carelessly or if he went in with sin in his life, he could die at that that very moment. And so it was a very fearful thing. When you went into the if you were a high priest and went into the Holy of Holies, you didn't burst in boldly. You went in very fearfully because you're coming into the presence of a holy God. And for sinful man to come into the presence of a holy God, it was a fearful prospect. But you know what? Because of Jesus right Jesus Christ and his sacrifice, you know what? We can now come boldly. We don't have to be afraid. That's what the cross did for us. And so we're able to pray because of what Jesus Christ did. That's the possibility of prayer. And so there's the priority of prayer. There's the possibility of prayer, but then let me give you the final point tonight. There is the purity of prayer. Look in verse number. I will therefore that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. And Paul here now is basically referring to the posture of Jews when they prayed. When they prayed, they would extend their arms and they would extend their hands up to heaven. You know, we you know we all have a different posture. You know, we can bow our heads, we can close our eyes, you know. Actually there are many Prayer postures in the Bible. For example, there is standing with outstretched hands. We find this in 1 Kings, you know, kind of the idea of lifting your hands, your outstretched hands. There is kneeling. Daniel knelt in prayer. There is standing. Sometimes you stand and you look up to heaven. Sometimes there's just sitting, bowing your head, Genesis 24, lifting up your eyes. Sometimes that was a posture, falling on the ground. These are all different postures. The Bible doesn't really make a requirement of any one of these. I think the most important thing is not the posture of your body, but the posture of your heart. And Paul gives three essentials here when we go to God. First of all, holy hands. Holy hands. This means a holy life. And basically what it's saying is that when you lift up your hands to God in prayer, you're basically showing, God, I'm holding on to nothing. There's no sin in my life. There's nothing I'm holding on to. And it's also a sign of submission. How dare us go to God in prayer, asking him to do things for us if we're holding on to sin in our life The Bible says God will not hear us if we're knowingly holding on to sinful things in our life and asking God to move on our behalf. It's sin that keeps us from getting our prayers answered. That's why we spend time confessing. That's why we spend time asking God to cleanse us of our daily sins. So we come with holy hands. God, I'm not holding on to any sin, but also it's a posture of absolute total surrender. You hold up your hands You know, it's like um you ever you ever get robbed at gunpoint? I hope that never happens to you, but what do they say? They stick 'em up. And the first thing that happens is your hands go up. That happened to me one time, by the way. Um a guy, you know, he only got eleven cents because that's all I had on me. You know. I just held up my hands. He said, How much money you got? Well, I got eleven cents here And you know, that guy was so desperate that he took it. Now if I was gonna rob a guy and he only had eleven cents, I would just say, look, keep the eleven cents. You need it more than me. But he didn't feel that way. He took the 11 cents. I was basically saying, look, whatever I have, it's yours. Hands are up. You can take whatever you want. There's a sense in which when we lift our hands up to God, we're saying, God, all I have is yours. I'm absolutely surrendered. All 11 cents of me is surrendered to you. I'm giving you everything I'm absolutely submitted to you. And that's the attitude. We're not holding on to any sin. We're absolutely surrendered and submitted to God. We're holding up holy hands. And notice it says without wrath in verse 8. This simply means that we're on good terms with one another. We could say without anger If you're angry at your brother, you need to forgive him. What did Jesus say? Look, if you bring your gift to the altar and you remember your brother has ought against you, what do you do? You leave your gift and you go and you be reconciled to your brother. And so you need to come to God with nothing in your heart towards another without wrath, without doubting. It says in verse number eight, doubting suggests that we must pray in faith, but really the word here actually means disputing. When we have anger in our heart again, when we have disagreements, you know, it it hinders prayer. We should, the Bible says, do all things without murmuring and disputing. And so we go to God. With nothing in our heart towards anyone else. What did Jesus say? We pray that God would forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. There's nothing that I'm holding on to. There's no bitterness in my heart. I'm coming with holy hands. I'm coming without wrath. I'm coming without disputation in my heart. I'm coming to God. seeking his face for his blessing. That's the attitude that Paul gives. And so Paul says to Timothy, look, I beg you, I beg you, teach the church to pray Pray prayers of supplication, pray prayers of intercession, pray prayers of thanks. I plead with you to become a praying church. Now, This is the challenge that I I want to give us here. I I pray, I really do, that that we become more purposeful as a praying church. And this is I wish We had a bigger Wednesday night service, I'll be honest with you. I wish that more people would come and pray together. Pray for your family, pray for your children, pray for your lost friends, pray for your lost neighbors. Come to God and seek his face. I believe that it's still possible to have revival in this day. Now, our country might be too far gone, but it's still possible that we could have revival. And you know what? God can even bring revival to America. I tell you, I look at our country now and I see how bad things are. I'm talking about moral. We are on a moral decline in this country. But I you know what? I believe that God can still do mighty things. If the church would just come together and if the church would pray I believe that God is judging our country right now. I believe we're under the judgment of God. If you don't believe that we're under the judgment of God, just take a look at whoever's in the White House. And that should settle that dispute right there. He's a man who does not fear God. He's a man who is immoral. He is a man who does who is for abortion, killing children. Friend, that's a judgment from God When we have people like that. And he's not the only one. And I'm talking I'm not talking about political lines. We have people that are that don't fear God on all different types of political parties. We need to have leaders that fear the Lord. We need to have leaders that will obey the laws of God. That's what we need. But I'll be honest with you. God doesn't need them to bring revival. We don't need, it doesn't come through an election. It comes when the church gets serious and the church prays together. And seeks the face of Almighty God. That's when God will do great and mighty things. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, as we come before you Lord, we ask that you give us an earnestness of seeking your face, that we would take to heart The words that Paul gave to Timothy so many years ago, and yet, Lord, are so relevant for us today that we become a people of prayer. Lord, to seek your face And see you do great and mighty things. Lord, that you would save souls. That you would, Lord, turn back the clock. In our nation, Lord, I'm speaking in a spiritual sense, Lord, than when there were days when there was revival When people felt that God's house was important and that seeking you was great. Lord, we look in the past and we've seen revivals in the past, not only in this country, but in other countries. of the world. Lord, you did great things. And Father, we believe you can do that again. And Lord, we ask you for that. We we desire that from you, Lord, that we see true revival. In our land, in our country, a revival, Lord, a sweeping revival that brings back the fear of God where people will honor the Lord. And Father, put you first. Lord, our hearts are so broken. Over some of the things that we see in our world. Oh, how we desire, Lord, for you to move in a mighty way. So, Lord, help us to be a praying people. Help us to be serious. about seeking your faith. Not only in a church setting when we come together, but Lord, in it even in our personal life. That Lord, our life would be filled with Unceasing prayers all during the day. We're seeking your face. We're asking for your blessing. We're asking for your help. We're praying for people Make us a praying people. Lord, help us to obey the words of our Savior who said, My house shall be called a house of prayer. Father, make that so in our own life. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.