Would you take God's word please open to the book of Ephesians chapter six this morning, Ephesians chapter six. And would you look at verse number one? And let's all stand together, can we, for the reading of God's word? I want to read just a few verses. before you're seated. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment, with promise, that it may be well with thee and thou mayest live long on the earth. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Which pray with me. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Thank you, Lord, for the instruction that we receive from it for our soul. Lord, give us ears to hear today. and help us to apply truth to life. Make us more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And if there's someone here today that doesn't know him as Savior, Holy Spirit, draw them unto yourself Save souls. Strengthen the church for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been in the book of Ephesians and we've been talking about this idea of relationships. and how that we need the Holy Spirit to help us in relationships. And today I want to talk in that same vein and talk about spirit-filled families. A mother of a rather precocious 14-year-old daughter called to tell the pastor that her daughter was giving her fits about coming to church And the the father was not involved, but the mother was very concerned because this girl was going to a church that the mother did not approve of. And so the mom said to the pastor, what do I do? And the pastor said, well now let me just ask a few questions here. First of all, let me just ask, let me see, she's 14, right? And the pastor said yes. That means she's not driving, right? Uh the pastor or the woman, excuse me, the mother said yes, she's not driving. And the pastor said, Well, uh then how is she getting to church? And the mother said, Well, I'm driving her there. And the pastor said, Okay, well here's an idea about how you can get her not to go to that church. Why don't you just not drive her there And the mother's response was, I can do that. The pastor said, Yes. You see, the biblical command is not, parents obey your children. The biblical command is children obey your parents. You are the parent. And so It would seem as if we've been influenced today by worldly psychology that tells parents that they ought to cater to every desire that their children have. We don't want to do anything, after all they say, to warp your child's self-esteem or warp their fragile personality, right? I want to tell you growing up I had my personality warped many times by my father The Duke of Windsor once said this. He said, the thing that impresses me most about America is the way parents obey their children. And there's a lot of truth to that. So, what we're going to look at here today is very simple. In Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 to 4, the Apostle Paul is laying down some guidelines on a spirit-filled home. And as we've seen in Ephesians chapter 5, starting at verse 18 and on down, it's all about the relationships that we have in life. And it's all built on the one command that we saw in Ephesians chapter 5, verse number 18, if you'll just go back and look at that, Ephesians 5. 18, where it says, And be not drunk with wine, where in exact in his excess, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. And then it shows the results of being filled with the Holy Spirit. First of all, it tells us we need to be filled with the Holy Spirit, but what are the results if you're going to be filled with the Holy Spirit? Well He tells us what those results are. The final result is that we will be in subject one to another in the fear of the Lord. And then Paul shows us how this has worked out in family life. Wives will be in subjection to their husbands. Husbands will love their wives as Christ loved the church. And then what we see here is an extension of that. It now applies to children and parents. Children will obey their parents and parents will nurture their children in the admonition of the Lord. And so that's what we're seeing here in these these verses. So I want to get just talk about then the relationship. We've already talked about the relationship of the wife to the husband and the husband to the wife. And now I want to talk about the relationship of children to their parents and then parents to children. We're only going to get to one part of that, and that is children obeying their parents, as we see the command in verse number one that we j where we just read. Children, obey your parents. So I want you to see first of all the requirements of obedience. The word obey. It's a very simple word. Literally in the in the in the Greek It's hoop acuo. Akuo where we get the word hear, hoop under. Literally it means to hear under. So it's the idea of listening to someone being under their authority. It means to listen with attentiveness, to respond positively to what you hear. And obey is also a present tense, which means keep on continuing to obey your parents. Now, when Paul writes to children here in verse number one, who is he writing to? Well, the Greek word really is very broad. It can mean a very young child or an older child. Obviously it's children that can understand what Paul's saying because this command is to children, so they have to be able to understand this. So it's a child young enough to understand what it is to be obedient, but also I think it could include adult children. I would just say this, as long as a child is single and dependent on uh his or her parents for financial support, then they should they are obligated to obey them. Unless of course the parents are commanding that child to do something that is contrary to God, disobeying God. But even as adults, we should respect our parents. We should respect their counsel and we should be careful about going against their counsel. Only after prayer should we uh maybe disagree. But the command here is to honor our parents, and it's a lifelong command. And so our text applies to all of us. All of us who have had parents that are still living. We are to obey, we are to honor our parents. But then the reasons for obedience. He talks about the reasons for it. In verse number one down to verse number three. Here's the first reason, because it honors the Lord. Again, look at verse one. Children obey your parents in the Lord. And the Lord refers to the sphere of pleasing the Lord. Children, you're to obey your parents as reflective of obeying the Lord. You do it unto the Lord because it honors Him. Parents represent God's authority in your life, and so by obeying them, you are actually doing it unto the Lord, you're doing it in the Lord with respect to God's authority. But also another reason is because it is right. Again, look at verse 1. Children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. This is the basic reason why children are to obey their parents. You say why? Well, because it's right You say, well who says it's right? God says it's right. And when God says it's right, guess what? It's right. It's the right thing to do. The rightness is not based on a psychological case study or any other kind of human evidence, but it's based on God's standard of right. This is God's order. This is the way God created things. It is ordained of God, and that is the rightness of the action. Since parents brought their children into the world, since they have more knowledge and wisdom than the child, then children are to obey their parents. I think of the illustration that Dr. Adrian Rogers used to give of a a gold miner out west back in the days when gold mining was big. There was this gold miner that had a gold mine and He was very successful and he sent his his son to Eastern Universities to learn about the business, to learn metal allergy and engineering and all those things that come with it. And when his son graduated, he came back, he said, Now son, I want you to work down in the bottom of the business, work your way up And then, you know, maybe one day you'll be in charge and the son said to the father, Father, with all due respect, I have a degree now and I know more about all of this than you do. He said, just give me your best mind and just do what I say and we'll be alright. And the father against his better judgment said, Okay He gave his son his best mine, and everything was fine for a few weeks, but one day he got a wire from his son that said, Dad, the mine you gave me is backed up against the lake. We got water seeping in. What do I do? And the father didn't respond. And the son wired back, Dad, uh, again, we're trying to plug this hole. We're about to lose this mind. I need you, I need some advice. What should I do? And again there was no w wire. And finally the son wired a third time, very desperate, and said, If you don't tell me what to do, we're going to lose this mind. And the father finally wired back and said, stick your diploma in the hole You know what, you never get too smart to listen to your parents. They have a wisdom from God. We honor our parents, we obey them because it is right. Because it honors the Lord, because it is right. But then here's the third reason: because it is commanded in verse 2. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise. Now Paul is quoting from the Ten Commandments here. God's command to honor our parents. And the word honor here is from a word which means uh a word which means heaviness or weight. It's the same word used to translate the glory of God, referencing the glory of the Lord. The glory is, in other words, we attach weight or significance to the Lord. And so this is the idea here. To honor is to give weight or significance or respect We could say, an attitude of reverence. It's assigning a high value to something. And this is the idea. We give high value to our parents. It's an attitude of respect. It is an attitude of courteous behavior towards them. The opposite of honoring your parents would be to show contempt for them, or to despise them in your heart, or to be rude to them, or to be ungrateful for them. It's your heart attitude that matters. And so here God is very serious about this. He commands us to honor our Parents. Respect for parents was so important that God said this to Moses: he who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. Either to physically or verbally abuse a parent was a capital offense in Israel. That's how serious God was about all of this. Did you know that in the United States at least 8 million serious assaults are made by children against their parents every year? And some children even uh try to kill their parents or or or hire someone to have them murdered just because uh the parents are trying to control them or to discipline them, which is just unthinkable All human relationships grow out of this relationship between child and parent. And that's where children learn to show respect and show authority. If they do it with the parent, then they'll do it in every other aspect of society. That's why this relationship is so important. A generation of undisciplined, disobedient children will produce a society that is chaotic and destructive. And so we honor our parents because it honors the Lord, because it is right, because God commands it. But also, fourthly, because obedience brings blessings. Look again in verse number three. that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. What does it mean when it says this is the first commandment with a promise? Well on the list of all of the ten commandments This is the first commandment that God gives that includes a promise of blessing if you obey it. This is a positive incentive for children to obey their parents. Why should you obey? Well because God says if you do, there's a promise attached to it that God will bless you. He will bless you. Now in verse 3 it says that it might be well with thee that thou mayest live long on the earth. This promise was originally applied to the Jews. It was originally said that you may live long in the land. It was really talking about the promised land. But Paul, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, extends this promise not to just Jewish children, but to children of believers. And when he sa extends the word to earth, it just means that you'll live long on the earth rather than the the promised land And so this is a promise of blessing. This is a promise of a good quality life That God says will be to those whose uh who those children who obey their parents And and you know what this doesn't mean is that it doesn't mean that everyone who dishonors their parents will die young, or if you obey your your your parents, I guarantees you'll never die young, because obviously that has happened. But what it is is it's a general principle That when children obey their parents, they will escape a good deal of sin. They'll escape a lot of danger and thus avoid things that could threaten or shorten their lives. We all could know stories of where a rebellious child sadly had their life taken from them because they simply did not obey. They simply did not do what their parents asked them to do. And so God promises to enrich the life of children that obey and honor their parents. And then let me so we talked about the requirement for obedience. We talked about the reasons for obedience. Let me talk to you about the roots of obedience Because let me just say this, and you know this already. Children are are not born ready to obey. You understand that? Your children don't come and say, here I am, I'm ready to do whatever you wish. That's just not the way it happens. They're born with a sin nature. They're born with rebellion in their hearts. The Bible says in Proverbs 22:15, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. And so children have to be trained to obey their parents and to honor them. We have a book in the Bible, the book of Proverbs, that is full of truths to guide parents in the training of their children. and to guide children in the obeying of their parents. The theme is Proverbs 1. 8, hear, my son, your father's instruction, and do not forsake your mother's teaching. Now, parents are not infallible, but they are God's primary given authority for the source of training for children. And so we have to understand that. Proverbs three, one, my son, do not forsake my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. And Russell write down Proverbs chapter 4, verses 1 to 4. Hear ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know my understanding. For I give you good doctrine. Forsake ye not my law. For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother. He taught me also and said unto me, Let my heart retain Let thine heart retain my words Keep my commandments and live. And so the father taught his son what his father had taught him. God plans for believers to pass on instruction from one generation to the other. So it's our responsibility as parents to teach our children, to train them to obey. They have to be taught to respect authority. And again, parents, we are responsible to do this. You say, how do we do it? Well, let me give you a few suggestions. First of all, discipline. Discipline. Clear lines need to be made. Parents, you need to be clear about what your children can do and cannot do. Draw those lines clearly when that child oversteps that line and they will do it You need to discipline them. Again, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. And the word rod here, as you uh you heard me say before, is a word that means a a twig or a switch. A switch. Um your grandparents who use the switch You thought that you thought that they were being abusive, didn't you? No, they were obeying the Bible. The switch will drive it far from him. It's a magic wand. Years ago a visitor to America said everything in an American home is controlled by switches except children It's sad when parents refuse to discipline their children. And uh the Bible says this in Proverbs 13, 24. Who whoever spares the rod hates his son. I had a father tell me one time, I don't spank my child because I love him too much. Really. Well the Bible says the opposite. If you spare the rod, you hate your son. You discipline him because you love him, but listen to the rest of it. But he who loves him is diligent to discipline him We love our children, therefore we discipline them because we want their character to develop. We want them to do what is right. The Bible says in Proverbs 19, 18, Chase in thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying. You know, children are natural actors. They can scream as if they're being murdered. And you know what? It's really not that bad. I mean they're good at making it sound like it's it's it's abuse. This is so practical. Let not by soul spare for his crying. Don't worry about his crime, just get the job done. Alright Proverbs twenty-three thirteen. I know by the way some people think I'm I'm I'm being abusive when I say this. Society Day in general, when you spank your children, thinks that you're abusing your child. And by the way, I'm not talking about child abuse I think that anyone that would abuse a child should suffer serious consequences for that, obviously. I'm talking about a loving parent disciplining a child with proper measures and proper strokes, not over-disciplining, but disciplining a child. According to what the Bible says, the Bible says in Proverbs 23, 13, withhold not correction from the child, for if thou beatest him with a rod, he shall not die. He's not going to die. Thou shalt beat him with a rod and shall deliver his soul from hell. And all those of you that are watching by way of live stream, or this goes on TV later, save your letters. I'm not talking about child abuse. I'm talking again about loving discipline. I'm talking about a parent placing the rod on that part of the body where no bones can be broken, the place that God has naturally designed. For discipline. So listen to this. Thou shalt beat him with a rod, listen, and thou shalt deliver his soul from hell. You know what the point is? The point is if you if you discipline a child the right way, they're going to respect authority, and if they learn to respect authority, they're going to one day bow to the ultimate authority, which is what? The Lordship of Jesus Christ. And they will get saved. That's what we want, right? We want our children to know Jesus Christ as Savior. We want him to to be Lord of their life. And so we have to break their will, not their spirit. We don't break their spirit, but we have to break their will. We have to teach them to submit to authority. And again, we we want our children to listen the first time they're told without being told fifty times. It always bothers me when a parent says, All right, I'm going to count down from ten. No. You do it immediately. You do it without excuse. You break their will again without breaking their spirit. The Bible says in Proverbs 29, 15, the rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. And that is true. When we leave our children to themselves, ultimately it will it's going to bring shame. Because again, rebellion and sin is in the heart of every child. They have to be taught to be disciplined and to respect authority. In Hebrews, the writer teaches that God, who is the perfect heavenly Father, guess what he does to us? He disciplines us. He chastens us. And he does it so that we would walk in holiness. And if we're without chastisement, what does that mean? That means that we don't have a Father. The whole point is the absence of discipline means fatherhood is not being practiced. So we need to teach them by way of discipline. But also here's the second thing. A second thing is that is teach them the Bible. Teach your children what God expects of them. Show them the commands of the Bible. Read it to them. Tell them this is what God requires of you. In Deuteronomy 21, verse 18, if a man have a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother. And though they discipline him, will not listen to them, then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him to the elders of the city at the gate of the place where he lives. And they shall say to the elders of this city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious. He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard. Then all the men of the city shall stone him to death with stones So ye shall purge the evil from your midst, and all Israel shall hear and shall fear. You don't think it was a serious issue with God? In Israel, the civil law in Israel at that time was to take a son that was absolutely rebellious and to stone him. If they followed the letter of the law, that's what would happen to children back then. That shows you how serious this is with God. Leviticus 19:3. Every one of you shall reverence his mother and his father. And so when children hear that this is God's serious about this, if they just hear what the Bible says about this, it should provoke in them a holy fear. That this is how God feels about obeying and honoring your parents. But here's the third thing. Not only discipline them and teach them the Bible, teach them what God says about it, but also, number three, be an example. Proverbs 23, 26. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. You have to get their heart and then you say just watch me. If you want to know what submission to authority is like, just watch my life. I'll be an example of this You want to teach your children to respect authority by respecting authority yourself. By doing it yourself. Some parents actually can't figure out why their children are so rebellious. Well, they they see you disrespecting authority, they're gonna follow your example. If you don't respect the police officer If you don't respect uh the government officials, if you cheat on your income taxes, if when the teacher tries to correct your child you rail on the teacher in front of the child. You do all these things that show you have no respect for authority. Guess what? They're not going to have any respect for authority. You have to be an example yourself of all of this. The problem, you see w my child has a problem. No, the problem is you, the problem is you're a rebel. And they need to see submission and obedience out of you. If they don't, it'll come back to haunt you. Let me just show you how important this matter is. I want you to go to 1 Samuel chapter 2. I want you to show you something here in the Old Testament. 1 Samuel chapter 2. And this is a story that shows how serious God is about disciplining children and teaching them to obey. 1 Samuel chapter 2, and we're going to start at verse number 12. Eli is the high priest. And what we're going to see here is a story where Eli fails to honor God with his family, and it brought down the judgment of God on his family. First Samuel chapter 2, look at verse number 12. Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial, and they knew not the Lord. And the priest's custom with the people was that when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came while the flesh was in seething with the flesh hook and three teeth in his hand. Now these are Eli's sons. The Bible calls them sons of Belial. That's not a good thing. It's a term of disdain. We would say it like this. They were good for nothing. They were sons of the devil. You see, they were under their father Eli, they were priests, and when the people brought their offering to the tabernacle, this was back when the tabernacle was at Shiloh. The people would bring their offering to the tabernacle at Shiloh, and the priest's custom was is they would take they would they would take the animal, the meat, they would divide it up, they would put it into a big pot where it was boiling, and they would take like a three-pronged hook dip it into the pot, pull up the meat, whatever was on the was on the hook, they got to keep for themselves the rest of the meat they would sacrifice. That was the custom And that was a way where the priests could actually feed their own families and themselves, and they would also, you know, sacrifice the animals to the Lord. But the sons of Eli said, we're not going to do it that way. Here's what we're going to do. You bring your meat, we're going to take the best cuts for ourselves. And then whatever's left over, we'll sacrifice. And so what they were doing was they were they were making money off of the Lord's worship. They disdained the worship of the Lord. And so the people, if they refused to do it that way, the sons of Eli said, No, this is what you're going to do. They would force them to do it. They would get violent with them. And so they were robbing people at the expense of worship. They were supposed to be an example of how to worship God and reverence God. And here they were, despising the sacrifice, taking it for themselves, making a prophet for themselves, and this is a tr terrible sin in the sight of God. How did Eli the Father respond to this? Look in 1 Samuel chapter 2, look at verse 22. Now Eli was very old and heard that all the sons did unto all Israel, how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. And in addition to the other sins, Eli's sons were committing adultery with the women at the door of the tabernacle. Terrible evil. What did he do? He said, Surely he threw them out of the ministry. Surely he restrained them. Surely he had them put taken away in chains. Look at verse 23 of 1 Samuel 2. And he said unto them, Why do ye such evil things, or do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings by all this people, nay, my sons. For there's no good report that I hear. You make the Lord's people to transgress. He he complained, but he didn't discipline them He didn't restrain them. He just complained about it, like some parents do. They complain about their children, but they don't do anything to discipline them. That have no measure, no restraints, no plan to to to deal with them. They should have been expelled from the tabernacle. Qualified priests should have been placed in their stead, but There was no real punishment here. And Beli's response is very passive. It's very inappropriate. He failed to really supervise all that was going on. When he heard of their sin, he basically warned them and then he shrugged his shoulders and said, Oh well And so the Bible tells us that when we fail to restrain our children We bring ruin to their souls. So what does God do? Well, God sends a man of God to Eli to pronounce judgment on his house. Look at 1 Samuel chapter 2, look at verse 27. And there came a man of God unto Eli and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Did I plainly appear into the house of thy father when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house? And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest and to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an Ephah before me? And did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire, the children of Israel? Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine altering, which I commanded in my habitation. And listen to this next phrase, and honorest thy sons above me. What did he say? Eli, you put your children ahead of me. You honored your children above me. How did Eli put his children ahead of God? Well, in 1 Samuel chapter 3 verse 13, it tells us his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. When we fail to correct or discipline our children, when we fail to restrain them, we put our children ahead of God. Why? Well, because God has given us the responsibility to discipline them. And according to the Bible, when we don't do what God says, when we do what our children do over what our ch what our children want over what God wants When we hold their comfort and pleasure above what God commands, we're honoring our children ahead of God. We're putting our children ahead of the Lord. And this was a serious issue with God. And so because Eli failed to honor God and his family by disciplining his children, And teaching them to obey, God pronounces judgment on Eli's house. And there's some severe consequences. Look in chapter two, look at verse number thirty. Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith I said that indeed thy house and the house of thy father should walk before me forever. But now, saith the Lord, be it far from me, for them that honor me I will honor, and them that despise me shall be lightly esteemed. means service. They were the priests of Eli's family were in the tabernacle walking before the the Ark of the Covenant, walking before the the the table of showbread and the and the and the candle sticks uh uh uh the the uh the the manure that was there. They were in God's presence, walking before the Lord, doing special service, and God said, You know, I had your family earmarked to do this for a long time, but you know what? Not anymore. If you don't honor me, guess what? I'm not going to honor you. And then look in verse 31. Behold, the days come that I will cut off thine arm. in the arm of thy father's house, and there shall not be an old man in thy house. Wow, this is a serious judgment. You have reduced the life expectancy of your children and your grandchildren. When you don't honor the Lord first, when you put your children ahead of God, God says, you know what? You endanger their lives. You reduce their life expectancy. And then he said this in verse 32, and thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation and all the wealth. Which God shall give Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thine house forever. Again he says the same thing in verse thirty-three. And the man of thine whom I shall not cut off from mine altar shall be to consume thine eyes God says, Of all your descendants, most of them are going to die young, most of them are going to die in the flower of their age, and the ones that don't die, the ones that do live on, are only going to grieve your heart They're only going to bring sorrow upon you. And not only that, but the enemy is going to win In verse number 32, and thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, and all the wealth which God shall give Israel, and there shall not be an old man in thine house forever. That is, you guaranteed them defeat at the hand of the enemy, and in this case the enemy was the Philistines who did come in and they did overrun the tabernacle there in Shiloh and take the riches of the tabernacle God took away the hedge and they were open to all that the enemy had. You know what? Children that don't learn to respect authority and obey their parents cause a nation to be weak and exposed to their enemies. And this is what God is saying here. It's going to bring sorrow to your family. It's going to bring ruin to your family. It's going to guarantee their defeat. It's going to bring sorrow to you. It's going to cut off their life expectancy. It's a serious, serious judgment. And those that are left, God says are going to be beggars in verse number 36. And it shall come to pass that every one that is left in thine house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priest's offices, that I may eat a piece of bread. Those left in your house will be beggars, Eli. This is a serious judgment from God. Show you how serious God is. And by the way, this all came to pass. We don't have time to look at it, but If you go to 1 Samuel 2, verse number 18, what you find is that all of the children and grandchildren of Eli are all serving together at a place called Nob. And King Saul is hunting for David, and he comes to this place, and he finds out that the priest there kind of housed David for a few days and fed him and then sent him away. And Saul's angry with them, and he tells a man who is with them, a man by the name of Doag, who is an Edomite, an evil man, he says, I want you to judge all of these priests here. And the Bible says in one day eighty-five descendants of Eli were killed. Eighty-five. Children and grandchildren were put to the sword as a judgment from Saul, but what he probably he Couldn't possibly know is that this was the fulfillment of a prophecy that God made against the house of Eli. This was a judgment from God. Why? Because Eli put his children ahead of God Serious judgment from God. This is an Old Testament illustration of the New Testament truth of what Paul said That when you honor your parents, you obey your parents, that it might be well with thee. And that thou mayest live long on the earth And when that's not the case, when you don't honor, you don't obey, uh the opposite can be true. It's not going to be well with you, and you're not going to live long on the earth. And so this is a serious thing. As parents, we need to teach our children to obey and to honor. And children, you need to obey and honor your parents. This is God's order in a spirit-filled home. Let me just close with this. When the mass of Hurricane Charlie slammed onto the shores of Florida in 2005. They uh they were recorded to have uh this hurricane recorded to have 145 mile per hour winds. It destroyed more than 12,000 homes. But a study was made by an insurance company and they found out that the homes that were built before 2001 were the ones destroyed. The homes built after 2001. survived the hurricane. You say, what was the difference? Well in 2001, they came in they came they came up with some uh building codes that they wanted to enforce that were able to withstand hurricane storms. And all of the builders who followed the code and built houses after 2001 following this code. Guess what? When the storm came, all those houses survived because they followed the code. You want to know what the code is? It's right here in God's Word. If you want to have a home that survives the storms of life, you better follow the code that God has laid down in Scripture, all of us. Let's bow for prayer together today. Father, as we come before you today, we desire Your hand of blessing be upon all the families and the homes that are under the sound of my voice, Lord, that we would indeed be spirit-filled homes, following what your word teaches us. Help us, Lord, give us wisdom and grace to teach our children to be obedient. Help us, Lord, to exemplify that obedience and that submission in our own life. And Lord, again, we know that we can only do this through the power of your Spirit. So, Holy Spirit, move in our hearts, fill us, direct us in all of our relationships. May we have wives who submit to their husbands and husbands who love their wives the way Christ loved the church And children who obey their parents in the Lord because it's right. And it's your commandment that you gave with a promise that it might be well with them, and that they might live long on the earth. Lord, help us in all of this. We need your grace. We need your help. Bless our homes that they might be homes that magnify the Lord, that honor Jesus Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just say, dear mom or dad, you're not going to be able to do any of this unless, first of all, you know Jesus as your Savior. Unless you trust Christ as your Savior. Call upon Him and ask Him to forgive you for your sins. You see, Jesus came to this earth, lived a perfect life, born of the Virgin Mary. Took all the sins of the world upon him. He paid your sin debt with his death on the cross. Salvation is now a gift. It was paid for by the blood of Christ on the cross. And he offers it to you right now if you'll reach out in faith and say, Yes, Jesus, save me Save me. Friend, that's where it starts. If you want a godly home, it starts by making Christ Lord. Starts in your heart. Would you come and say, Jesus, I want you to be my Savior and my Lord. And would you pray? Just pray right there where you are. The Lord will hear your prayer. Just say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. I want you to come into my heart, and I want you to come into my home and transform us through your power. And friend, I've seen God do that in so many lives. And He'll do it for you if you ask Him. Father, bless your word, hearts today. Today, may we have spirit filled homes that honor you, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen