Down in verse 13. And uh follow along as I read verse 13. And Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship. into a desert place apart. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. And Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion towards them, as he healed their sick. Now, if you're a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, then you're called to minister to a broken and a hurting world. All of us are to have a part in reaching people. And as we look around, it doesn't take much to see that there are so many needs around us. And in our own city, with so many people, so many needs that people have. Sometimes when I travel on missions trips and I see in other countries the tremendous needs that people have there, it's just overwhelming when you think about all the needs and how people need the Lord. It's such an overwhelming thing. And again, when we look around our own city and we see all the needs, spiritual needs that people have, sometimes, you know, I I feel overwhelmed. I don't know about you. I feel overwhelmed serving the Lord in a ministry where I feel so inadequate. uh to meet the needs of people. I think even the Apostle Paul exclaimed, who is sufficient for these things? And of course the answer is none of us. We're not sufficient in and of ourself, we are inadequate. That's why this passage here is so very important. If you want to be used of God to meet people's needs, I think you have to understand the lesson of What we're going to see here in this passage here in Matthew 14. This is a great miracle. It's something that we know very well. The feeding of the 5,000. I think it's the most significant and incredible miracle in the Gospels. In fact, this is the only miracle that's recorded in all four Gospels, of course, with the exception of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Other than that, this is the only miracle that's recorded in all of them And I think this lesson that he's going that Jesus is going to teach his disciples is really the capstone, so to speak, of their ministry training. Remember at this point in Matthew, Jesus is training, he's preparing his disciples for the time when he won't be there with them. And I think this is the the climax of the lessons that he wants them to learn. And this to me is the most important ministry lesson that any of us could ever learn from the Lord Jesus Christ. And again I want you to stop and think for a moment that all of us here we're to be ministers to to the Lord. You don't have to be ordained and officially called into full-time ministry to be a minister. All of us are to be involved in ministering and reaching people. And this is a lesson that all of us need to learn. Now, the miracle itself here in Matthew 14 uh is is uh well it's i it's the it's really phenomenal as we know it's an incredible miracle this is not really the focus of the passage The focus of the passage is not on the spectacular nature of this miracle. The lesson really is on serving others in ministry. And how we do that, how we're able to do that. And so I think in this miracle, Jesus is teaching the greatest ministry lesson that we could ever learn. Now there are three things that stand out in the story. First the needy multitude and then the inadequate disciples And then the adequate savior. So around those three ideas, I want us to look tonight. First of all, as you're taking notes, write down the multitudes. We'll look at the multitudes first. And next to that, write down people have great needs. People have great needs. Look in verse 13. And when Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. Now let's give the context of what's going on here in Matthew 14. The passage opens with a change of scenery. Jesus had just heard some news in verse 13. When Jesus heard of it, what did he hear of? Jesus heard that King Herod had murdered John the Baptist, the great prophet, the great forerunner of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then when Jesus hears of this He probably also knows that Herod is hearing of the fame of the Lord Jesus too. But when Jesus hears of this, he separates himself from his foes. And from the growing opposition against Jesus, is what we're seeing here in Matthew is hostility is beginning to mount against Jesus. And that's shown partly in the death of John the Baptist. You remember, uh if if we don't need to turn there, we don't have time, but in Matthew 11, uh the Jesus rebukes the Jewish cities centered around the Sea of Galilee, the the Jewish villages, because they did not repent. They failed to repent when John called them to repent, they failed to repent when Jesus called them to repent. In Matthew 11, he compared them to spoiled children playing in the market. Back in that day, Jewish children would play funeral uh or play wedding. They would pretend to be in a funeral and then pretend to be in a wedding. And Jesus said, you're like these spoiled children in the market. Some of them sometimes would refuse to play You ever see children that just refuse to play and cooperate? Jesus said, that's what this generation is like. When John came and told you to mourn over your sins You refuse to play funeral. When when I came and told and went and realized that the Messiah is here, you didn't rejoice over my coming. You're like spoiled children that refuse to cooperate. In Matthew 12, they accuse Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. In Matthew 13, Jesus begins to speak in parables. So he can hide the truth from those who have rejected the truth and yet still reveal it to those who were open and hungry to receive truth. Later in Matthew 13, Jesus gives the parables of the kingdom And he's explaining to his disciples what's going on, how come there are not more that are following? And Jesus talks about how the kingdom is going to spread little by little, the seed, nothing wrong with the seed, nothing wrong with the sower, but it's the soil. And then to give them an illustration of what he talked about, he takes them to his hometown in Nazareth, and he shows them how the seed sometimes can be snatched away. When Jesus went there and he began to speak, the people were all of his wisdom But soon they began to criticize and they rejected him and he couldn't do any miracles there. The seed had been snatched away. Finally, when you get to Matthew fourteen, Herod murders John the Baptist And the whole tone of Jesus' ministry changes from that point on. Now he knows that his death is imminent. He's on a divine timetable. If they kill the forerunner, what are they going to do to the king? And so Jesus then begins to take his disciples aside, and he's now really teaching them ministry lessons. He wants them to really learn. He's been training them for over a year. And now he's going to teach them some valuable things. And so he withdraws. It says in verse 13 that he departed when Jesus heard of it. the death of John the Baptist. He departed thence by ship into a desert place. It was a solitary place in the wilderness. Luke 9. 10 says the place was Besseida. That's on the northeast part of the lake of Galilee there. The word apart there has the idea that Jesus wanted to spend time alone just with his disciples. Just them. He wants to explain to them what's happening, the significance of John the Baptist's death, what it really meant. How it foreshadows his own death. And he wants to focus on training the disciples. Kind of to use an analogy of child growth. The disciples were in the stages of adolescence But they weren't fully mature just yet. And so Jesus is kind of uh helping them to grow into greater maturity to prepare them for what was to come. He knew his time with them was going to be somewhat short And so, however, when Jesus withdraws into the wilderness, the crowds learn about this and they follow him. Look in verse 13. And when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities. And so they saw him enter the boat and they followed him on foot. You say, how could they do that? If he's in a boat, how could they follow him on foot? Well, the Sea of Galilee is kind of like uh it's a modest lake that rests at the bottom of a bowl. There's kind of hills all around it. And I've been there. It's helpful to be there to see this because you could stand Kind of on a hill right there on the Sea of Galilee, and you can look out and see the whole thing, and you can look and see a ship, and you can pretty much predict where that ship is going to land on the other side by just by looking So here's the crowd. They're looking out. They know Jesus is in the boat. They can see where the boat is going. They know where he's going to land. So you know what they do? They walk around Now what is she why is he there? He wants to get away. But when he gets out of the boat, guess who's there? All the people. They got there before he did. They anticipated where he would land. They were already there. So when he got off the boat, there's a huge crowd waiting for him there. Now The question is, if the majority rejected his message, why are they still fascinated by him? Why are they still following him? Well, they loved his miracles. They loved his healings There were some things that he could do for them. Few came to do or came to him just for what he could do for them spiritually. One person writes, the majority of the multitudes were thrill seekers whose ranks at this time were probably swelled by Jews passing through Galilee on their way to the Passover. Their perspective was basically self-centered and self-indulgent. Nevertheless, there's the multitude. They're there. Jesus sees them. And the Bible says in verse 14, look at it. And Jesus went forth, and he saw a great multitude, and he was moved with what? Compass towards them, and he healed their sick. Now, most of us would be annoyed by this. Trying to get away from the crowd and there they are, not giving them a break, but not Jesus. He has the same compassion on them that we've seen all through the Gospels. He's a compassionate Savior. Mark's account in Mark 6. 31 tells us that another purpose for the getting away was just simply rest. He needed rest. His disciples needed the rest. There were so many coming and going, so much that Jesus was doing that the disciples didn't even have time to eat They were so busy with people. And so that's why they got in the boat and they started off on the other side of the lake. They needed the rest, but the people were there waiting when he got there. And again, others would have said, Look, I don't have time for you right now But not Jesus. He's compassionate. He never turns anyone away. In fact, the word compassion here is an intense word, the Greek word visceral or visceral Where we get the idea of a strong emotion from the inward part of our stomach, a visceral feeling, a deep compassion, strong emotions. When Jesus saw these people, he had strong compassion on them because they loved him, because he's a compassionate Nine times in the New Testament we read where Jesus had compassion. And the fact that so many people were there. That took the effort to get there to meet Jesus tells us how needy they were. People are just so needy. Most of them thought they needed physical healing But their need was much deeper than that. Their greatest need was spiritual. And Luke's account of this in Luke 9. 11 It says, and the people, when they knew it, they followed him, and he received them and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing. Jesus knew that their deeper need was spiritual, and so he spake again to them of the kingdom of God. Now of course he did heal them physically, and again, because he's a wonderful, compassionate Savior. But and let me just tell you, as far as the loss, we need to do all we can to help meet physical needs, but the greatest need is always spiritual. And so he has deep compassion. If you look in church history, anyone that God has used greatly has been people who have had compassion. They have a compassionate heart. They love souls. And we see this modeled by our Lord Jesus. So we see the multitudes, and what do we learn from that? People have great needs. Write down number two. The disciples. We're going to look at them. What do we learn from them? We are inadequate to meet those needs. Look in verse 15. And when it was evening, his disciples came to him saying, This is a desert place. And the time is now past. Send the multitude away that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victuals. Now Jesus ministers to these people all through the midday into the evening. Now Jews had two periods of evening. One was from three to six, and the other was from six to nine. This was the first part of the evening, so this is prior to sunset, probably somewhere around four o'clock And the disciples come to Jesus and they have some advice that they want to give them. Aren't you glad when the disciples are always ready to advise Jesus on what he should do? Here's the sheep telling the shepherd what they should do. And so they voiced their concerns. Look what they said again in verse 15. This is a desert place. Jesus, we're in the middle of the desert. This is a wilderness. It's miles to surrounding villages. They were concerned about the location. They were concerned about the time. The time has now passed, they said They knew that the sun was going to be setting in just a little while. And how are these people going to be able to find their way home in the evening time? And so what do they say to Jesus? They say, send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages and buy themselves victuals. Lord, it's time to send them away. And in essence, what they were saying is, Lord, enough is enough. Let's send these people away. We've had enough. It's getting dark. We're in the middle of a desert. These people need to be dismissed. so they can get to the villages before dark, so they can get themselves something to eat before they retire for the evening. And Lord, you've shown them enough compassion for one day. Let's get them out of here Let's get them gone. Let's dismiss them. The disciples they wanted a break. That was their idea. And but by the way, they probably thought they were being compassionate in this idea. Oh Lord, these poor people, get them out of here. They need to go home. They need to go to bed. Let them go. You know, in this culture normally the disciples would give their teachers something. Uh and so really the appropriate thing would have been for the five thousand men to give an offering to Jesus and the disciples, that probably would have been a good offering. But here Jesus turns the tables. The teacher assumes the role of the host and the provider. And he's not about to send these people away hungry. So, notice the answer of Jesus. Look in verse 16. But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart. Give ye them to eat. Now, these next words, give ye them to eat, probably, I would venture to say, startled the disciples. Jesus says, look, they don't need to leave you, you talking to all the disciples. This is for you as plural in the Greek. All of you disciples. Give them something to eat. In fact, it's emphatic in the Greek. The you is twice. You, you guys. You give them something to eat. And it's not a suggestion, it's a command. Now, can you imagine what the disciples are thinking? What? Excuse me, Lord? You said you want us to do what? You want us to feed this multitude? Now remember, when the Bible uses the number 5,000 Probably that doesn't include the women and the children. It's just the men. So if you add the wives and the children, you get closer to 15,000 or 20,000. Now I don't know about you, but I'm not just ready at the moment's notice to feed 15,000 people. And here the disciples, they're probably thinking this whole command that Jesus is giving us is irrational. It's ridiculous. What is Jesus thinking here? You want us to feed these people? Now, in John 6. 6, when it gives this story, it says Jesus tells them that to what? To test them. to see what they would do. He already knew what he was going to do. He's again remember he's teaching them a lesson here. He wanted to see what they would do. He wants to give them something that they needed to learn. He's not being cruel here when he does this. This is something very necessary. When faced with an impossible task, when you know that you have inadequate resources, what do you do? That's the test here. You hear you have an impossible task in front of you. You know that you don't have the resources to do this. So what's your plan? What are you going to do here? Notice the anxiety of the disciples. I think they they despair. They don't know what to do here at this point. In John 6. 7, the parallel account, it says that the response is, this would take 200 denarii. So first they think about money. In Mark 6. 37, it says the disciples, when they responded, they said, that would take eight months of a wage. Are we to go and spend that much on bread and give them to eat? Lord, are you serious? You know how much it's going to cost to feed all of these people? Arkent Hughes says this. He said, quote, their tone was disrespectful. This was a little too much, even if he was the master. This was a real problem. First, they didn't have any money to buy bread. Second, even if they did have the money to buy the bread, where are they going to buy it? They're in the middle of a desert. There's no Walmarts close by. No stance club. Where are you going to go to get the food for this? Okay? And then third, even if they could go and find someone that's selling bread, who's going to sell that much bread? Who has that much bread that late in the evening? You ever go to the supermarket late at night and everything's gone? Especially before a snowfall, right? I mean this is late in the evening Even if they find someplace where that sells bread, they're not going to have this much bread. And even if they find some place that will sell that much bread, how are they going to transport it back to the people? You're going to need a tractor trailer I mean this this whole thing just seems impossible. So first of all, they're kind of despairing. We don't have the money. There's no place to buy bread. How are we going to do this? Secondly, their second response, of course the first response we know is wrong, right? But the second response is determination. So they think, okay, let's get let's let's gather ourselves together here, let's think of something. Their second response shows again how inadequate they are to meet this need because what was their solution? They would just kind of go through the crowd to see who had food That was their response. And what were they able to get together as a result? The Bible tells us in verse 17, they said unto him, We have here five loaves and two fishes. That's a little boy's lunch. That's not going to do it. Now the loaves were not like big loaves, so when you think of loaves, don't think of a big loaf coming out of the oven or anything like that. The loaves here were actually more like small dinner rolls And the fish were small fish, dried fish. Remember, this is a lunch intended for a little boy. Alright? So it isn't much. Totally inadequate to meet the need. Now again, what's the lesson here that Jesus is teaching? First, the disciples learn that there are people that have great needs. There are huge needs. And the second lesson they have to learn is that they are inadequate to meet those needs. This is what I must learn. This is what you must learn. If we're going to be used of God to help people, we have to learn that we are inadequate to meet any of those needs. And that we have to confess our inadequacy to the Lord Jesus. That's what we have to learn. It's important for us to understand this of ourselves. Because if we understand that we're inadequate, we will stop depending upon our own strength to do anything Because it's useless. Okay? God has to bring us to the end of ourselves. He has to bring us to the end of our resources. To the point to where we're saying Lord I'm just holy inadequate and that's when God will begin to work. This is the third response. We see despair, then we see determination, but here's the third one, dependence. And again, this is the right response They bring their inadequacy to the Lord Jesus. Now, how did Jesus do this miracle? He could have performed it any way he wanted to. He could have fed them by himself. He didn't really need the disciples to do this He could have done it himself. He could have called down manna from heaven, just like Moses did in the Old Testament. In fact, if you read commentators, they point out that this miracle took place in the wilderness. The 5,000 were seated in companies, the Bible says in other parallel accounts. And this kind of recalls how Israel was seated around the tabernacle in companies in the wilderness under Moses. And so calling down manna from heaven, that would have been a very fitting thing for Jesus to do and kind of replicate the miracle that Moses did in the wilderness Would have been a whole lot easier than having the the twelve disciples um you know hand out loaves. But that's not the way he did it. He could have just spoken the word. And the loaves and the fishes could have appeared in the baskets and in the hands of the people. Everyone would have been in awe of Jesus at that point. They would see his power. That again would have been much more efficient, a very quick way to get all this done, and then let them eat and then dismiss this long crowd instead of taking a long time to hand out loaves and fishes. He could have used angels. He could have called angels down to have the angels take loaves from his hand and then hand them to the people. Those people would have never forgotten that. They would have been amazed. That would have been something they would remember the rest of their lives. But Jesus didn't choose to do any of these things. How did Jesus do it? He used the disciples to distribute the fish and the loaves to the people. Now I want to point out one thing here. This is the only miracle in the New Testament that Jesus performs where the disciples are directly involved in it. Every other miracle that Jesus did, it was just he But here he's involving the disciples. And they take part in this miracle at every level, at the beginning, at the middle, at the end. And the Lord did the miracle to teach the disciples that his method For meeting the needs of a lost world is through people. That's what the Lord chooses to do. Christ meets the needs of people through people. That means this, if the Lord is going to meet the needs of people around us, he's going to use people to do it. He's going to use you to do it. He's going to use people like me, like you to do this whole thing. But note carefully the kind of people. that he uses. He uses inadequate people. You ever feel inadequate? Anybody? Good. That's just what the Lord is looking for. Inadequate people. Well you say, what do you mean? He uses tired people. Yeah. You say, good, because you all look tired tonight. The disciples had just returned from their first preaching tour. Jesus knew they were tired. He knew that they needed rest. But their only rest had been a short trip across the lake in the boat, and that was it. They were tired. There's a tombstone in London that reads this. Here lies a minister who was always tired. He served in a church where too much was required. And that's a lot of times true. So much is required. He uses busy people. The disciples, they didn't have time to eat. You talk about a busy, hectic schedule. That's nothing new. The disciples were like that. They had the same kind of thing there. Jesus uses people who lack resources. So far, are we all on the same page here? I mean, I I'm tired and I'm busy and I I don't have a whole lot of resources. I think all of us could say the same thing. This is what Jesus is using here. They didn't have the cash. To do anything. They didn't have the energy to get bread. They didn't have the time to do it. It was too late in the evening. Some people say, I'll serve Jesus someday, but I'm just too busy right now. I'm just stressed out. And when the right time comes along, I'll serve Jesus. You'll never serve him. Because there's never the ideal time. Or I'll give generously to the Lord's work, but I don't have it right now. When I get my finances in better shape And I have more resources than I'll give. But again, you're making a mistake. The Lord wants what you have, not what you don't have. And that's the whole point here. Jesus doesn't work through people who choose to serve Him when they feel they have the adequate time and energy to do these things and say, I'll wait to serve you. Jesus uses people who are inadequate. And yet they're willing to serve. Servants serve because they feel a compulsion to serve their master. Even though they don't have all the resources, even though they don't have all the time, even though they don't have all of perhaps the the necessary things that they think they need. So we see the multitudes. People have great needs. We see the disciples and we see that we are inadequate to meet those needs But here's the third lesson, the Savior. Give your inadequacy to Jesus. That's the point. Look in verse 18. And he said, Bring them hither to me That's what Jesus wants us to really see. We have to bring our inadequacy to him. So he commands them: bring them to me. Put them in my hands. Yield what you do have, not what you don't have. God's not asking for what you don't have. God's asking for what you do have. And again, people are often making excuses about why I don't have the gift of evangelism, I can't really be used. You don't need to have the gift of evangelism to be a witness for Jesus. Use what you do have Jesus didn't use the bread from the surrounding villages in Bethsaida. He used the five loaves and the two fishes that they did have. It's like a country preacher that went to a farmer in his church and he said, Farmer, if you had two brown uh two farms, would you give uh would be willing to give one to the Lord? And the farmer said, Oh absolutely. If I had two farms, I'd give one to the Lord He said, if you had twenty thousand dollars, would you give ten thousand to the Lord? He said, Absolutely. Oh, I wish I had twenty thousand dollars. If I had twenty, I'd give ten thousand to the church. He said, if you had two pigs, would you give one pig to the church? He said, that's not fair, preacher. You know I've got two pigs. He really wasn't willing to give what he had. And all the Lord wants is what you have, not what you don't have. Just give him what you have. Yield what you do have, not what you don't have. And then secondly, obey what he says. Just simply obey Look in verse number 19. And he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass and took the five loaves and the two fishes. So he just commands them to sit down. Now I love this because in Mark 6. 39, it says that Jesus commanded them to sit down in groups. The word sit here is the Greek word anakolino. Where we get the word recline. And so he's telling them to recline on the elbow. Now, back in this day when they would eat, they would normally recline on the elbow. They would lay down and recline. on their elbow. And so in essence, Jesus is telling them, okay, everybody get ready to eat. Everyone recline. Everyone get i if to put it in our vernacular today, everybody go to the table and get your fork ready. And that's a sense what Jesus is saying here. Obey what he commands. Here's the third thing. Trust Jesus to meet needs through us. Trust that Jesus will meet needs through us. Notice the verbs here. He blessed. Look in verse 19 and he commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass, and he took the five loaves and the two fishes, looking up to heaven, he blessed. Let me tell you something, friend. Without his blessing, we're wasting our time. We're wasting our time if we don't have God's blessing. The Bible says, unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Do you covet God's blessing in your life and on your labors? The problem is so many times that perhaps churches and people get along without the blessing of God. We've learned to do it without that. In Watchman Nee's book, Expecting the Lord's Blessing, he basically argues that everything in God's work depends upon his blessing, even if there's an insufficient amount. If God blesses it, it's sufficient. If it's lacking the greatest resources and efforts in the world, when God blesses it, It'll be enough. But if God doesn't bless it, you can have all the resources you want to. It's not going to work. It has to have the blessing of God. So often we're just like the disciples, we see the need and start calculating what we don't have. You know, sometimes we think, well, you know, if I had if I had Bill Gates in my congregation tithing, man, I could we could really do well. You know, but watchman knee points out, if we have to accumulate sufficient wages to buy bread for the needy multitudes, years and years will elapse before their need is met. We must expect God to work beyond all that man can conceive. Without the Lord's blessing, the loaves and the fishes were woefully inadequate. With the Lord's blessing, they were more than enough. More than enough. So he blesses. Notice the next verb. He breaks. In verse 18, and he blessed and break You know, blessing and brokenness go together. You won't find blessing apart from God's breaking. And as you go through the Bible, you're going to see that in the lives of people in the Bible. Abraham and Sarah. They had to be broken before they could have a child. Jacob had to be crippled before he could prevail with God. Moses had to fail in his own strength before God. could use hem and on we could go. Vance Habner said this, God uses broken things. It takes broken soil to produce a crop, broken clouds to give rain, broken grain to give bread, broken bread to give strength. It is the broken alabaster box that brings perfume. It is Peter weeping bitterly who returns to greater power than ever before. Brokenness. Most of us aren't too weak to serve the Lord. We're too strong, or at least we think we are. And the Lord wants us to realize our own inadequacy, and sometimes we have to realize God has to break us to see that inadequacy. But God puts his treasure in earthen vessels. His power in earthen vessels. So that the power is clearly from him and not from us or any man. His strength is made perfect in weakness. Notice he blesses, he breaks, and then he gave. Again in verse 19, he blessed, he break, and he gave. the loaves to his disciples. And the disciples then to the multitudes. Notice the change. Jesus blesses, he breaks, and then he gives to the disciples, and the disciples give to the people. That's the way God does. We get it from the Lord, and then we give it to others. You see? That's exactly it. Now, when it says he gave, what's interesting is this is an imperfect indicative, which means he kept giving to the disciples. One commentator wrote this, the bread multiplied in Jesus' hands as he broke it. That's incredible. So think about it. With just here's Jesus and right there, he's just creating loaves and fishes. He's breaking the bread and he just keeps giving. I just wonder if the disciples look back and go, where is all of this coming from? He just keeps breaking and b and giving, and he keeps giving, and he keeps giving, and he's just creating this, this is an incredible miracle. This is one of the most incredible miracles in the Bible. R. Ken Hughes again writes, think about it. Jesus with the word multiplied the molecular structure of those humble barley cakes and pickled fish It is creation power that he brings to our lives. And so he just keeps giving and giving, and the disciples keep giving. Until when? Look at verse 20. And they all, and they did all eat, and here's the next part I really like, and were filled. Who ate? Everybody. How much? Until they were filled. I mean it was like they were coming home from a Baptist potluck dinner. They were just filled. They couldn't eat any more. The word filled here, the Greek word stuffed, they were stuffed. They were eat and they were satisfied. And then beyond that, they gather up the fragments. Verse 20. And they did eat, all eat, and were filled, and they took up the fragments That remain twelve baskets full. How many think that's an accident that there were 12 baskets? Twelve disciples, twelve baskets. And so, and by the way the word basket here, this was the word here, this is a small wicker basket. Normally this is the basket that was used for traveling. If you were going to travel and go somewhere a long distance, you would take this basket. Today what do we take? We take backpacks. But there they took these baskets. They were, you know, kind of sizable. And there was a basketful for each disciple. And so, you know, sometimes we think, you know, if I serve the Lord, if I give my time and my energy and my money, what's in it for me? Let me tell you something, friend, you're going to get more than you bargain for when you serve the Lord. And so, when you lose your life in service for Jesus, he will make sure that you get your basket full as you serve him. And so this bread, the bread is uh is symbolic of Christ Jesus said, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me shall not hunger. He who believes in me shall never thirst. And so the Lord is teaching us that if we surrender ourselves to Him to use us as he pleases in meeting the needs of other people, then he will satisfy us with a full measure, listen, of himself. He will give us Himself, which is of course is the greatest. And so in the multitudes we learn that people have great needs In the disciples we learn that we are inadequate to meet those needs. From the Savior, we learn we need to give our inadequacy to Jesus, and He will bless it, and He will use it, and through us This is the incredible thing. Through us, people's needs will be met because of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, I feel so inadequate. Good. Because that's exactly what the Lord is looking for. D. L. Moody was a man God used greatly. Others have said that he lifted two continents closer to God, England and America. And yet he was a very inadequate man. He was one of nine children in a family. His father died when he was four. He had little formal education. His grammar was atrocious all of his life. And he got very little religious education. What little bit he got was in a Unitarian church. When he was 17, he left home to work in a shoe store in Boston. And there was a Sunday school teacher, and you know the story, went there, shared the gospel with them, and he trusted Christ there in the back of that shoe store. He applied to join the church, but they turned him down because he knew so little of the Bible. They kept putting him off. They waited ten months. And so he moved to Chicago, and after work, he would go out into the slums, and he would gather poor children together and bring them to Sunday school. A businessman who knew Moody before he became famous talks about the first time he ever saw D. L. Moody, and this is what he said. He said Moody had gotten permission to hold a meeting in a little shanty that a saloon keeper had abandoned. And the businessman came in to see him. He was there a little late. And when he walked in, he saw this. He saw a heavy-set man holding a small black boy in his arms. And in the l- with the light of a candle, he was trying to read to him the story of the prodigal son. But he couldn't make out some of the words. And so he would skip some of the words in the story. And the businessman thought, if the Lord can use such an instrument as that for his honor and glory, it will certainly astonish me. And after the meeting was over, Moody told the man, he said, I have only one talent, and I have no education, but I love the Lord Jesus. And later on, of course, you know that Moody heard Henry Varley say that the world still has yet to see what God will do with a man wholly yielded to him. And Moody thought, I'm going to be that man. You know what D. L. Moody did? He gave his inadequacy to Jesus. And you know what God did in return? He used that man. probably one of one of the greatest servants of the Lord in the 19th century. And God used him in a great way. His impact is still being felt today. An inadequate man that gave his inadequacy to the Lord Jesus Christ. And he wants to use you He wants to use you to meet the needs of other people. And so the question is, are you willing to give that an adequacy to the Lord and say, Lord, here I am. Use me to meet other people's needs. We are here. To be a blessing to others, as we sang tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for this wonderful story, how it speaks to our hearts, lessons that we need to learn. And Lord, tonight we confess that there are so many needs, great needs, all around us. Open our eyes to see them. May we have compassion the way our Lord Your son had compassion. And Lord, yet we also have to know that we are wholly inadequate to meet those needs. May we stop striving in our own strength. May we humble ourselves and realize, Lord, we just don't have it. And may we from our understanding of our own inadequacy, yield all of that to you. Give it to you. Give to you what we do have. So that Lord, you will bless us. If necessary, you will break us. And then through us, Lord, you will give and bless others May that be our testimony. How many will say that's my testimony tonight? I'm yielding myself, my inadequacy to the Lord to be used. Is that your prayer tonight? Would you lift your hand and say, as a testimony to God, I want to be used to bless others. And I'm yielding my inadequacy to the Lord tonight. So Lord, you see the hands of your servants that we give ourselves to you tonight. Use us, Lord, to bless others. We pray all this in Jesus' precious name, Amen