This morning open to first Samuel chapter eighteen first samuel chapter eighteen and verses one through three. We'll start off reading there. And it came to pass that when he had made an end of speaking, this is 1 Samuel chapter 1, speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would let him no more go home to his father's house, then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. Napoleon once looked at a map of the world with all his generals standing around. And it is said that he lamented, all the world would be mine if it were not for that one red spot. And of course the red spot he was talking about was Waterloo, the place where Napoleon met his defeat Someone has fancy Satan is standing before a map of the world and said, all the world would be mine if it were not for that one red spot. And of course Satan was referring to Calvary, the place where Jesus shed his blood in the place where Satan met his fatal defeat. Someone has said there are three cords that run through the Bible. There is the golden cord of Christ's second coming There is the black cord of satanic deception, and there is the scarlet cord of blood redemption. We thank God for the blood of Jesus Christ. And you know, surprising as it may sound, there are some people out there today in the religious circles trying to remove songs about the blood from the hymn book. They say we don't want to talk about that bloody religion. It's such a gory subject. Well, the blood of Christ is not a gory story. It is a glory story. All the blessings we have today are because of the blood of Christ. And so today I want to talk about the concept, the idea of the blood covenant. And there are four thoughts that I want to give you today. First of all, number one, I want to talk about the importance of the blood covenant. And then number two, I want to talk about the incidentals of the blood covenant. And then number three, I want to talk about the illustration of the blood covenant. And then number four, I want to talk about the implications of the blood covenant. Now before we get into it, however, I I I forgot to do the Bible pledge. And I know you all are going to tell on pat tell me on uh tell on me, the pastor, if I don't do the pledge, Pastor he didn't do the Bible pledge So we're going to do that. I hold in my hand the divinely inspired word of God. I'm going to hide God's word in my heart that I might not sin against him. In Christ's name. All right. Now we can move on, can't we? Notice number one today the importance of the blood covenant. I want to talk about the importance of the blood covenant. First of all, it's the subject of the Bible. The word covenant is actually a word that we could also call testament. And so your Bible is divided into two covenants, the old covenant. And the new covenant. It is a major theme throughout all of the Bible. You can start from Genesis and you can go all the way through Revelation and you can see the concept of the blood Covenant. You can start in the Garden of Eden and see God shedding the skin or skin shedding the blood of animals to provide coverings for Adam and Eve. uh skins of covering for them. You can go to the story of Abraham and see God made a covenant with Abraham. And that included the shedding of the blood of an animal. And you remember that story in Genesis 15 where an animal is dismembered and the Shekinah glory kind of walks through the parts. That was a cultural phenomena back then. That's what would happen when two people would make a covenant. There was the shedding of blood. You could go to the book of Exodus and see the Passover lamb. The lamb that was whose blood was placed on the doorpost And then you can go to Leviticus and read of the systems of sacrifice. You can go to the book of Joshua and see the scarlet cord representing the blood. And on you can go all through the Bible until you get to the book of Revelation where it says And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and the Word of His testimony. So it's the subject of the Bible. But secondly, it is the source of blessing. You realize all the blessings we have today are because we are under the blood of Christ. Because of what Jesus did. He shed blood on the cross. Did you know that salvation is a covenant relationship? And with that come so many blessings. I don't have time to name them all. If you ever want to get a list, just go through the book of Ephesians. and see all the blessings one after another that you have because you are part of that covenant. But also it's the secret of boldness. You know, the Bible says that we can enter into the presence of God because of the blood of Christ has provided a new and living way. The Bible says we can come boldly to the throne of Christ. You remember when Jesus died on the cross, the Bible says Matthew records miracles that happened at the cross, and the Bible says that the temple veil was rent from top to bottom. What did that signify? A new and a living way. The Bible said, let us come boldly to the throne of grace. And so that's what we get from it. It's the subject of the Bible. It is the source of blessing. It is the secret of boldness. That's the importance of the blood covenant. But number two, I want to talk about the incidentals of the blood covenant. The incidentals. I'm indebted to H. Clay Trumbull and his book called the Blood Covenant, where he wrote of a lot of things that took place. in the ancient days regarding a blood covenant that was made by two people. For example, did you know that in the Old Testament when two people wanted to enter into a covenant relationship, there were certain rituals that they would do? Let me tell you what would happen. And by the way, a covenant relationship was binding. It was immutable. First of all, there was the sharing of persons. The first thing they would do is they would make an incision in their right wrist. Here's two people, and they wanted to make a covenant together. Each would make an incision in their right wrist. And the blood would flow from that incision. And then they would clasp those incisions together. They would hold their hands together. And the blood would mingle together. And they were then called blood brothers. You ever see that on a cowboy and Indian movie? You know? Remember watching that growing up. You know, here's a cowboy and an Indian, and they make an agreement, and they they have a they become blood brothers And they would hold their hands up and they would make promises to each other. Well, that ritual goes all the way back in days of antiquity. That is all the way in the Old Testament. And you know what else they would do? They would drink a cup of wine together. And they would seal the covenant. So there was the cut. You could say there was the clasp together and then there was the cup. And they were literally saying when they were drinking that cup together, they were saying that symbolically this is each other's blood. I'm drinking to you, and um this is my blood and this is your blood and so on. Do you remember what Jesus said at the Lord's Supper? He said, this is the cup of the of my blood of a new covenant which is shed for you. And then the next thing they would do is they would make a scar. They would make the scar intentional. So what they would do is they would take some black soot. And they would rub it into that wound. Why? Because they wanted it to leave a mark. And that mark would stay with them all their days. And when they would look at that mark, they would know that they had made a covenant together. And it would make them remember that covenant, the mark that was on the either their hand or on their wrist. You know, remember what God said? God said, behold, I have engraven thee upon the palms of my hand. God is referring to that covenant ritual there. And did you know that one day when we get to heaven, we will see the scars on the hands of Jesus? The only man-made thing in heaven. are the scars on the hands of our Lord Jesus. So there was the sharing of persons. Their blood would mingle together. And then there was the sharing of possessions. When two people wanted to make a covenant together, they would uh take one would take off their coat and give it to the other, the other would take off his outer coat, give it to his friend And that signified this. If you ever need anything, then I'm going to give it to you. I'll be there to give it to you. And likewise, if I need anything, you'll be there for me. There was the sharing of possessions. They were saying, all that I have is yours. And likewise. And so there was the sharing of possession. But then there was also the sharing of protection. When two people wanted to make a covenant together, there would be an exchange of weapons. If I wanted to make a covenant with a person, I would give them my sword, or give them my spear, or perhaps give them my bow. One of those things. And they would give me their weapon. And what was that saying? That was saying, you have my protection If you ever need me, or if I need you, you'll be there for me. And so these things were the things that would take place when a covenant was made by two people. And by the way, there was a new word for this relationship when people entered into this covenant relationship together, the word was friends. You know, we pass that word around so easily So flippantly in our day, but in the days of antiquity, in the days of the Old Testament, when you called a person your friend, what that meant was that you made a covenant with this person And it was a very serious friendship. The Bible says in Proverbs, there is a friend that sticks closer than a brother. This shows the intimacy of that relationship. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 10, Thine own friend and thy father's friend forsake not for And you remember that the Bible calls Abraham what? The friend of God. Why? Because God and Abraham made a covenant together. And you know what Jesus called his disciples? He said, You're my friends if you do the things that I command you. So we see then the incidentals. of the blood covenant. Not only the importance of the blood covenant, but the incidentals of the blood covenant. Now let me give you the third thing today. I want you to see the illustration. of the blood covenant. Go back to 1 Samuel chapter 18. Look at verse 1. It came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul That the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. The word soul here simply means life. And look at verse 3. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved him as his own soul. Now again the word for covenant is the Hebrew word berit, and it simply means to cut. To cut. Because every covenant involved cutting And so here we see the exchange of persons. Jonathan and David made a covenant together. So when I read that, I just picture in my mind the incision that David makes on his wrist and the incision that Jonathan makes on his wrist. And they hold those incisions together and they become friends Because they made a covenant together because Jonathan loved them as his own soul. And notice what else it says in verse 4. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him. And gave it to David and his garments. There's the sharing of possessions. And notice the rest of it. And even to his sword and to his bow. And with his girdle, there is the sharing of protection there. So we see in this all the elements. of a blood covenant that Jonathan and David make together. Now this is not the end of the story Because if you ever read the life of David, you know that Saul, who was the king, got very jealous of David. David who went out and slew Goliath. By the way, Saul should have done that. He was the tallest man in Israel. He was the king. He should have gone against the enemy, the Philistine, but he didn't, but David did. David cared about God and cared about his name. And so the Bible says that they begin to sing about David. Look at verse 18, or verse 7 of chapter 18. The woman answered one another as they played and said, Saul has slain his thousands, David is ten thousands. I mean they were singing songs about David. It was number one on the pop charts there in Israel. David has slain ten thousands. And so Saul didn't like that. In verse 8, and Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, but to me they have ascribed but thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom? In verse 9, and Saul eyed David from that day forward. That is, the green-eyed monster of jealousy ate away at Saul. And we don't have time to go through all the story, but Saul's goal became to kill David. He was a rival. Get rid of David. Kill David. That becomes his goal. And you know the story, David has to run for his life He has to flee from cave to cave. He dwells in a place called Engedi, out in the wilderness, to hide from Saul. And because of Saul's jealousy, Jonathan and David basically separ have to separate. Jonathan did the best he could to protect his friend David, but he was very afraid for David's life. And so they separate. And basically, Jonathan and David never see each other again. Now pick up the story. Go to 2 Samuel chapter 4. Let me just tell you how this story unfolds because David does become the king. But first we see the death of Jonathan and Saul. Look in verse number four. And Jonathan, Saul's son, had a so uh a s A son that was lame with his feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel. to flee that he fell and became lame, and his name was Mephiboshev. Now, what happens here when the news of the death of Saul and Jonathan come? A nurse who was watching over Jonathan's son named Mephiboshev, who was just a little toddler at that time, a little boy. She picks up Mephiboshev in her arms and she begins to run. Why would she do that? Because in these days when a new king took over, What would he do to the old king's dynasty? He would begin to kill out all of the old king's family, especially the sons. who would later become rivals to his throne. To establish his dynasty, he would kill the family members of the king. And so this woman was afraid of that very thing And so when she hears about the death of Saul and Jonathan, she picks up Mephibosheth. Why? Because he would be the one in line to reign, and she begins to run. And tragically she trips and she falls. And she falls on him. And he his legs become broken and crippled. And the Bible says he became lame. He was a cripple the rest of his life. And so there were the rest of his days. He must drag those dead limbs behind him. And think about his life. All his life now he's afraid of David. He fears David. He thinks that one day David's going to find him. One day David is going to kill him. And so he hides in fear. And the Bible says he dwells in a place called Lodibar. Place of no word. It's kind of a depressing place you get the idea from the title. He lives there fearing David, hating David, thinking this is all David's fault, the reason I've got to hide The reason I lost my dominion, my kingdom, future kingdom, it's all because of David. It's his fault. Now, pick up the story. Go to chapter 9 of 2 Samuel. We're kind of fast-forwarding here in the story. Now this is years have gone by. David is on his throne. His kingdom is established. God has defeated all his enemies. He makes Jerusalem his capital city. He brings the ark into Jerusalem, making it also the spiritual capital. In fact, when you read 2 Samuel, what you see is one blessing after another after another that God gives to his king David. Just incredible blessings. And the Bible says that he's thinking in verse 1. I think with I think it's like this. I think one day he's just sitting there on his throne. I think he's reflecting back at the goodness of God, reflecting back the things that have happened in his life. And maybe, just maybe, the Bible doesn't say specifically. But I kind of like to use my imagination here, if you'll let me. I think he looks down at his wrist and he sees an incision. He sees a scar. And he remembers the friendship of Jonathan and the covenant that he made with Jonathan. So look in verse one. And David said Is there any yet, or yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness For Jonathan's sake. Now the word kindness is a covenant word. It's the Hebrew word kessed. Whenever One was describing the actions between friends, this word was used, which translated many times in the Old Testament, loving kindness. And sometimes it's translated grace. By the way, that's exactly the actions that God has towards us. His loving kindness, the psalmist said, is better than life. His grace, his kesson. And so here's David and he's sitting on his throne, and I think he sees that mark of the covenant and he says, Is there any left? of Jonathan or the house of Saul that I can show him tested, that I can show him loving kindness for Jonathan's sake. Look at verse 2. And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba, and When they had called him unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Zion? He said, Thy servant is he? And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul that I may show the kindness of God unto him And Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame on his feet. And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machar, the son of Amiel in Lodibar. Where is this son of Jonathan? But I can show him kindness. Well He's hiding out. And David sends for him, the Bible says in verse 5. Now put yourself in Methuveshev's shoes. Here he is hiding out, and all of a sudden one day the king's chariots pull up in front of his house. The king's soldiers come and get him. I think perhaps his heart was filled with terror. I think he's thinking, finally David found me. Finally, he's going to kill me. They get Mephiboshef, they take him back to the king, and the Bible says in verse 5, then King David sent and fetched him out of the house of Meshar. the son of Amiel from Lodibar. Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face. And did reverence. I can just picture him as they bring him into the throne room. There he is, the king on his throne. And here's Mephibosheth. And the Bible says he falls down on his face. I think he's trembling. I think he's afraid. I think he's waiting for the axe to fall. Or he's waiting for the command to take them to the gallows. Get rid of them. But instead something happens that's not bad at all. Look what happens in verse 7. And David said unto him, Fear not, for I will surely show thee kindness. There's that word again, kessid. Loving kindness, grace. For Jonathan, thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father, and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually. Wow, can you imagine Not only does David not hurt him, David says, I want to be kind to you. I'm going to give you back everything that you lost. I'm going to restore it all. And you're going to eat bread at my table. I'm going to treat you like you were one of the king's sons. Can you imagine how shocked Mathibishev was? You're going to do what? Why would you do that? Why would you give me all these blessings? Look what he says in verse 8. And he bowed himself and said, What is thy servant? That thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am. Why would you do this for me? And the answer comes back for Jonathan's sake You see, this is all because of the covenant. All because of the blood covenant that was made. These are the blessings. of that covenant that David is giving him. Now let me give you the last point today. The implications Of the blood covenant. Because what I want you to see here today is that all of this is a picture of our Lord Jesus Christ and the covenant that He made on our behalf. When he went to the cross. Don't you remember in the New Testament, Luke 22, 20, it says, likewise also the cup after the supper, Jesus said This cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. You see, what happened on the cross is that Jesus made a covenant with God the Father. You realize on the cross that the God's blood and man's blood mingle together there on the cross? And Jesus made a covenant. You say, how can God's blood and man's blood mingle together? Well Jesus was the God-man. He was 100% God as if he were never man, 100% man as if he were never God, and those two natures dwelt concurrently together in that one person. And when Jesus shed his blood on the cross, it was the blood of God and man mingled together. And Jesus made a covenant with us. You know who the Mephiboshef of this story is? It's me. It's you. We were the ones that were crippled. We were the ones dwelling in Lodibar And Jesus made that covenant for us. Go back to chapter 9. I want you to see how this pictures us. You see, first of all, what do we know about Mephibosheth? Well, the Bible says he was a cripple. And that's the first thing. He was deformed. You know what? He was crippled by a fall. You know what, beloved? I was crippled by a fall. And you were crippled by a fall. You say whose fall? The fall of Adam in the Garden of Eden. When he fell, I fell. When he fell, you fell. The Bible says that all of us were in Adam, and when Adam fell, he crippled the entire human race with his fall. We were deformed because we are children of Adam. The Bible says, wherefore by his one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. When Adam sinned, I sinned. When Adam sinned, you sinned. Like the New England primer says, in Adam's fall we sinned all. We were deformed. You know another thing about Mephiboshev, he was dethroned. Mephibosheth was a prince. He was meant to reign as a king. Did you know that we were created with that same intention? The Bible says that God gave Adam dominion. But when Adam fell, he lost that dominion. And we are the ones who suffered the loss. of dominion. We were intended to reign as kings, but we lost all of that. Mephibosheth lost his throne But also not only was he deformed and dethroned, he was dead. He had the sentence of death on him. He was living like a dead man. And I want to tell you something. Anyone who doesn't know the Lord Jesus, the Bible says they are dead in trespasses and sin. Oh, they're alive physically, but they're dead spiritually. They're dead and away from God, the Bible says in Ephesians. But also he was deceived. Mephibosheth lived all his life hating David, thinking David was against him. You know, I think there are people out there in this world today that have those same hostile thoughts against God. They hate God, they think God is against them. When in fact God wants to bless. God wants to offer loving kindness. And so many people are deceived, and that's the way I was before I came to Christ. Deceived. I was deformed. I was dethroned. I was dead. I was deceived. That's just like Mephiboshev. Now think about this. When David calls Mephibosheth in, and he says that I'm going to restore everything that you lost, and you're going to come and eat bread at my table as one of my sons, at that moment Mephiboshev had a decision to make He could go back to Lodibar and say, thank you, David, but I think I'll just go back to Lodibar. Or he could enter into the covenant. He had a decision to make at that moment. Now, friend, only a fool would go back to Lodibar. Only a fool would re reject the blessings. What is he going to gain? Well, he'll get the king's forgiveness. Look again in verse number 7 of chapter 9. And David said to him, Fear not, I will surely show thee kindness For Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore to thee all the land of Saul thy father. That is, all past grievances against the house of Saul will be forgiven. Everything will be restored. You get the king's full forgiveness. Do you understand what happens when you come to Jesus Christ? Do you understand that God forgives you for all of your sins? There's complete, total forgiveness. When you come to Jesus. You don't need to carry around the guilt of sin of things that you've done in the past because all of those things are placed under the blood. And there's forgiveness. Total, complete forgiveness. But then he gets the king's fellowship. Look in verse number ten. Thou therefore and thy sons and thy servants shall till the land for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits that thy master's son may have f fruit to food to eat, but Mephibosheth, thy master's son, shall eat always at my table. Look again in verse number eleven, the latter phrase where it says As for Mephiboshev said the king, he shall eat at my table as one of the king's sons. And verse thirteen, so Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem, for he did eat continually at the king's table. and was lame on both his feet. He got to fellowship with the king. Can you imagine? Every day, three times a day, he got to sit at the table with the king. And fellowship with the King. You know one of the greatest blessings of salvation is you get the fellowship with the King. You get the fellowship with Jesus. That's part of the blessing. He got the king's forgiveness. He got the king's fellowship. He got the king's fortune. And verse 9, he says, I've given unto thy master's son all that pertains. to Saul and his house. All the wealth and the treasures will be restored. He'll live like a king again. All the fortune Will be restored. But then another thing he got was he got to be part of the king's family. And you will eat bread at my table continually. Wow. Now I just picture in my mind Masibishef wakes up in the morning, he wakes up in a king-sized bed now. Satin sheets. Servant comes in, what can I do for my Lord Mephiboshev today? I mean he's he just can't believe it. He's got to pinch himself, man. And then the servant says, the king is waiting for you at breakfast. So Mephibus comes down at the breakfast table. He's put in a chair, they scoot him in. The tablecloth, that linen tablecloth, covers his crippled legs, so he looks just like all the other king's sons sitting at that table. He's covered. And they begin to talk in fellowship and they begin to pass the food around and he is so stunned and overwhelmed of what's going on. Finally he says, uh, pass the biscuits, please, David. Pass the jelly, please. And David reaches out and Mephiboshev notices a scar on his right wrist. And the Fibishef says, wow, that's a nasty scar. Where did you get that scar? Well, many, many years ago, when before you were born. I made a covenant with your father Jonathan. And the reason that you're here today and you have all these blessings is because of the blood covenant that was made. And friend, I just apply that to you and I apply that to me because you realize that one day we're going to go to heaven. You know what the Bible says about heaven? We're going to fellowship in heaven. Someone says, are we going to eat in heaven? Listen, there's going to be a marriage supper in heaven. I mean, the Bible says we're going to sit down at the table with our Lord Jesus. I imagine that one day when we wake up in heaven, we're going to be so overwhelmed. We're going to look around and say, man, I can't believe this. I can't believe all these things that are real. And then I'm going to go to the table and fellowship. I'm going to sit down by Jesus at the table. I'm going to be overwhelmed. And finally I'm going to say, pass the biscuits, Jesus. And he will reach out and you know what I'm gonna see? I'm gonna see the nail scar in his hand. And I'm gonna remember that the reason I'm here And the reason I have all the blessings that I have is because of the covenant that Jesus made. Now, friend, you have a decision to make here today. You can either enter into that covenant relationship with Christ and enjoy all the blessings of salvation, or you can walk away. You can go back to Lodibar. But I'll tell you this, you're a fool if you go back to Lodibar. You need to come to Christ and realize what He did for you. Let me just say it like this. You'll either walk under the blood or you'll walk over it. and passed it. One or the other. But that's your choice. I heard of a nightclub in Chicago named The Gates of Hell. It's on Michigan Avenue It's not far from a church called Calvary Church. And one time a visitor came to the city and was looking for this famous nightclub, and he saw a policeman, and he decided to ask the policeman, he said, Sir, how can I get to the gates of hell? And the policeman said, Well, you have to go down here, but you have to walk past Calvary to get to the gates of hell. And I want to tell you something, folks. If you want to get to the gates of hell, that's fine. But you're going to have to walk past the blood of Christ. You're going to have to walk past Calvary or walk over it. But the best thing for you today is to walk under it and come to Christ and plead the blood of Jesus Christ over your sins. Let me close with this illustration. Many years ago, my father, who's a deacon here, when we first started coming to Grace and weren't saved very long and I was learning how to witness and my father one day said Jerry I want you to go with me to visit my uncle. My dad had an uncle he was very close to named Levi. And we went to a hospital in Annapolis, and his uncle was there in that hospital room, and he was dying. He had cancer. He was so very weak, he could hardly talk. And I began to share the gospel with him. And I remember there was one verse that I was learning at that time that I really wanted to To really teach him and get him to understand. And it was a verse that we read this morning. 1 Peter 18. For as much as you know you're not redeemed with corruptible things, like silver or gold Or from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish and without spot. And I remember saying to him there on his hospital bed, I said, Uncle Levi, you have to plead the blood of Jesus over your sins. And I'll never forget that he he spoke, although it was very hard, and just above a whisper, he said, I plead the blood of Jesus. Over my sins. And then he said it again, I plead the blood of Jesus over my sins. And then after that, not much later, he passed away. But you know what? I expect to see Uncle Levi in heaven. I expect to meet him there. Because friend, that's the way you get to heaven. It's through the blood covenant that was made by Jesus on the cross. And so you have a decision to make. You can either stay in Lodibar or you can come to the king's palace. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord help us to see these things in Scripture. Lord, help us to see how important this decision is. I pray that no one leaves here today without knowing, with absolute certainty. That they're under the blood. That they're recipients of the blessings that come with the blood covenant. Speak to hearts today, I pray in Jesus' name, with heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want to ask this morning, do you know for certain today that if you died you would go to heaven? Because Jesus is your Lord and Savior. And you have pleaded the blood of Christ over your sins. Is that your testimony? Can you raise your hand today? Can I see it? That's my testimony. I know that I know that I'm saved. The blood of Christ has covered my sins. You may put your hands down. Maybe you were here this morning and you couldn't raise your hand with absolute certainty. Right now the Lord is calling out to you You know he's saying, Come unto me. Come unto me. I want to show you loving kindness. I want to show you, I want to be kind to you. I want to show you grace. He's pointing to you, sir. He's pointing to you, ma'am. And he's saying, come unto me. And if you would, would you just pray this prayer right there where you are when you say, Lord Jesus I realize that on the cross you died for me. You made that covenant with God the Father on my behalf. And so today I ask you. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart and have fellowship with me. Be my Lord and my Savior and my God. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, Jesus will save you today. And you can have all the blessings of the covenant. If you'll be come to him today. Is that your prayer? Would you say that and mean it? Now friend, if you prayed that prayer, I want you after the service to come up to one of the pastors here. Come up to Brother Earl, Brother John, Dr. Peterkin. one of us and let us know. I've prayed I've made that decision because we want to encourage you in your Christian faith. Father, thank you again for your word Use these things to encourage the hearts of your people. Help us to realize all that we have in Christ. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.