It's good to see you here today in the Lord's house. I invite you to take your Bibles and open to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. Let me tell you how to get there. Go to Malachi, the last book of the Old Testament. Make a left. And the Sebuok right before Malachi, Zechariah, and then Malachi. And then we're in chapter 9 And I want you to look in verse number nine. If you'll stand together for the reading of God's word, Zechariah 9, verse number 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just having salvation, lowly and riding upon an ass, and upon the colt or foal of an ass. Verse 10, and I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off. And he shall speak peace unto the heathen, and his dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's inspired word. May God help us to listen and to learn and to apply truth to life. Let's Pray with me today. Father, thank you for this beautiful, beautiful passage of Scripture which speaks prophetically to us of This important day that we celebrate today. Father, give us understanding, and Lord, I pray that this would cause us to strengthen our faith and uh And the Word of God and your plan of salvation. I pray that as a result of this, you'll save souls, strengthen the body of Christ as we have understanding in this. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well today is a special day. Um it's one of the most important days in redemptive history. This is a day when Christians around the world celebrate a monumental event in the life of our Lord Jesus Christ. This is what we call Palm Sunday. It was on this day over 2,000 years ago that Jesus rode into Jerusalem and presented himself officially as the Messiah. as the king of Israel to the people that were there. And you know the story if you've read the Gospels how that when Jesus wrote in on that Sunday, initially the people cried out, Hosanna But then later on they would cry out a few days later, crucify him. Because Israel had rejected their Messiah. They nailed him to a cross. It was his death that paid for our salvation. The rejection of Jesus Christ was not a shock. It was not a surprise to God the Father. The Messiah's rejection and crucifixion was part of God's eternal plan of redemption It was settled long ago in eternity past. The Bible says that Christ was the Lamb that was foreordained before the foundation of The Bible says in Revelation 13, 8 that Jesus was the Lamb slain before the foundation of the world. All these events were prophesied in the Old Testament. In fact, This very day, Palm Sunday, was prophesied in the passage that we just read here, Zechariah 9. 9. 500 years before Christ was ever born. The prophet Zechariah foretold on this day when Jesus would come, the Messiah would present himself in Jerusalem. Not only does Zechariah predict with accuracy events about the first coming of Christ, the first advent, but he also predicts events regarding the second coming of Christ. And that way Zechariah is a very unique prophet in the Old Testament. And the the pro the Verse that we just read here, these two verses, is really an amazing prophecy about Palm Sunday. And that's what I was going to speak to you today on, the prophecy of Palm Sunday. And you say, why is this important for us to understand? Well, so that you can comprehend all that God did to purchase your salvation. And so that you understand that salvation is all of God. Salvation was not your idea, my friend. It was God's idea. It was not man's idea. It was God's idea. Jesus' rejection and death on the cross was not a failed mission, as some people try to teach. It was the greatest triumph in all of history. And so we see this here in Zechariah, this amazing verse. And there are three aspects to this prophecy that I want you to see here today. First of all, if you're taking notice right now, the coming of our King. Zechariah 9. 9 speaks about the coming of our King. Now, before you can fully appreciate this prophecy, you have to see it in its full context here in chapter 9. Who is Zachariah? And what is the context of this prophecy? Zachariah was a prophet that preached in the 6th century B. C. This was right around the time when uh Exiles were returning home from Babylon. You remember that the the Babylonian exile when Israel, Judah and Israel was carried away into captivity? And they stayed there for seventy years. It was a result of their sins against God that God punished them. After seventy years, they were allowed to come back into Jerusalem. But when they came back to Jerusalem, Jerusalem was a ruined city. However, they had the responsibility to rebuild Jerusalem, to rebuild the temple that was there. They began to do that project. But like many projects, it gets old after a while. And in the middle of it, they quit. They stopped. And God stirred up two prophets to encourage the people to continue on the work. One prophet was a man by the name of Haggai. And the other is Zachariah. And these two prophets together began to encourage the people to rebuild Jerusalem or rebuild the temple. They got a bit discouraged. And the reason for that is because when they looked out, these exiles, they saw a city that was in ruins. But Zachariah the prophet, when he looked at Jerusalem, he had a different look. He looked through the telescope of time, and he didn't see the Jerusalem that was there at that time. He looked down through the future and he saw a rebuilt city. He saw a glorious future for the city of Jerusalem, and he saw a monumental event that would take place in that city. He saw the coming of Israel's king. into that city of Jerusalem. And this is what he shares with the people. The future of Jerusalem The Messiah that was going to come. Forty-one times in the book of Zechariah, the city of Jerusalem is mentioned. But again, the key event is this that he saw The coming Messiah. He saw Jesus coming. In fact, he saw his first coming, and he saw also his second coming. Now, the first part of this I would call the preparation for his coming. Because this is the first part of chapter 9. Now, I'm not going to read all of chapter 9 to you, but from verses 1 to 8, Zechariah actually is prophesying about the conquest of another king, not Jesus, but another king. And this is a remarkable prophecy. The first eight verses of Zechariah chapter nine gives this prophecy about an earthly king who went about systematically conquering city after city. And the name of this first king, you might have heard the name, Alexander the Great. Alexander the Great, in about 334 BC, he was 21 years old, he set out with an army of 35,000 soldiers, and he conquered the Persians in the Battle of Issus. And then he went on to conquer more cities. In fact, the book of Daniel also prophesies about Alexander the Great. Uh he's compared to a winged leopard in Daniel 7. 6 because of how swiftly Alexander the Great would conquer the then known world. He's also compared to a fighting he-goat in Daniel chapter 8. Someone said prophecy is history pre-written. And and and Daniel does some of that, pre-writes history, but also Zechariah does the same right here. Look at verse number one of chapter 9. The burden of the Lord The word of the Lord in the land of Hadrach and Damascus shall be the rest thereof, when the eyes of men, as all the tribes of Israel, shall be toward the north. Hadrach was a region far north of Palestine, if you can picture in your mind the land of Israel, picture the Dead Sea and then the Jordan River and then the Sea of Galilee, and then you go all the way up north, farther north, and that's the land of Hadrach. And Alexander the Great conquered that region. He also conquered Damascus, which was the capital of Syria And then he began his march southward down the coast, along the Mediterranean coast, the Phoenician coastline, and one city after another, he began to conquer In fact, look in verse number three. And Tyrus did build herself a stronghold, a heap of dust, a heap of silver as dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets. Alexander defeated the proud city of Tyre. Verse number three is actually kind of a Hebrew pun. Tyrus did build herself a stronghold. The Hebrew word for tire is Zor. Fortress is matzor. We say it like this. Zor built a matzor. I guess the kind of a tongue-in-cheek reference, we could say it like this, Tyre thinks she's tough. You know, Tyre built a tower. almost sarcastically. Oh, you think you can keep out the enemy by building this strong tower? Tyre was a city that was so proud, so arrogant. In fact, right o off the coast of the Med of of the Mediterranean Sea Seven hundred yards off the coast, there was an island. The old city of Tyre was destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar. They built a new city on this island. They had Two walls that were 150 feet high. They were very thick. And when Alexander the Great came by, they thought there's no way he'll ever destroy us. But Alexander the Great took the ruins of the old city of Tyre, he took the stones and the timbers, and he threw it in the sea, and he built a causeway all the way out to the island. And he destroyed the new tire as well. By the way, that fulfilled a prophecy in Ezekiel chapter 26, where God says the tires, stones, and timbers would be cast into the sea. It had happened exactly the way God said it. And here he is, he conquers this city of Tyre, he conquers uh Sidon, and then he just continues on On down, he goes to the Philistine cities and he conquers them. In verse 6 of chapter 9, the latter part of verse 6 it says, I will cut off the pride of the Philistines. This is God saying, I'm going to cut off their pride too. And indeed God did. He basically conquered all of those Philistine cities. That expression in verse number one, back up to verse one where it says, the eyes of man, as all the tribes of Israel, shall be toward the Lord. Many believe that to mean that as Alexander the Great is conquering these cities, men are looking to God for help. Who's going to help us from this guy that's going around conquering Merle Unger suggested it was actually people watching Alexander, and as they were watching Alexander, they were actually watching God work because history is his story. It is God working. Two months after he conquered Gaza, that Philistine city, Alexander the Great comes into Jerusalem, and here's the thing I want you to see He comes down to Jerusalem. Actually, he's moving upward because he came down south. And now he goes over into Jerusalem. And the people there are afraid. What's he going to do? And Josephus, the historian, tells us that he asked the people to make sacrifices to God and to pray. And God in a dream told the priest to open the city gates. He said to dress all of your fellow priests in white. This is according to Josephus. Put on white robes. Put on your priestly garments, and march out to meet Alexander. And that's what they did. And the mighty general Alexander the Great, who bowed to no one, bowed to the high priest and went into the city and he offered a sacrifice to the Lord. The high priest also, it is said, showed to Alexander the Great, the book of Daniel, and showed how that he was prophesied in the book of Daniel. Can you imagine that? Here's Alexander the Great. Looking into the Old Testament book of Daniel, guided by the high priest, and the high priest saying, this is you. You are the one that is fulfilling the word of God. Alexander's men were astonished at how he acted before the priests. And they later asked him, they said, Look, you bow before no one. Why did you bow before the high priest there in Jerusalem? And Alexander the Great responded by saying, I did not bow to the priest, I bowed to that priest God, the God who made him the high priest. And he said, I had in a dream back in Macedonia, I saw this vision of this high priest in white. And in that dream I was told that I would conquer the Persians. Now we don't know whether the story of Josephus is legend or if it's real history, but we do know this that Alexander the Great Left Jerusalem alone. He went on, but he allowed Jerusalem to stay as it is, fulfilling the prophecy in verse number eight of chapter nine. Look at verse eight. I will encamp about mine house Because of the army, because of him that passes by, and because of him that returneth, and no oppressor shall pass through them any more, for now have I seen with mine eyes. And so here is the Lord saying that I will encamp around Jerusalem. It will not be harmed. Now, I know that some of you are sitting there and you're asking right now, what is all this about Alexander the Great? What does this have to do with Palm Sunday? What does this have to do with Jesus? Well, I'm glad you asked. It was the conquest of Alexander the Great that prepared the way for the greater king, the greatest king, the King of Kings, Jesus Christ. You see, it was Alexander the Great, his conquering cities, spreading Greek culture, encouraging his soldiers to marry the women of the conquered lands. And spreading Greek uh the the Greek language, the Greek culture, and unifying that then divided world, he unified them all together. And when the Romans finally took over, they really found an empire already prepared for them. Greek was the language of the day. It was a language of literature. Our New Testament is lit as written in Koine Greek, common Greek language. You see, it was Alexander the Great's conquest and the Roman government that prepared the way for the coming of Jesus Christ. And when the gospel came, the early church was ready to spread the gospel in a united world. It made easier for the spread of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the King of Kings. And it's no accident that right after Zechariah, looking through his telescope of time, sees Alexander the Great making these conquests That right after that, he mentions another king. Alexander the Great left Jerusalem alone because another king came into Jerusalem. And that's in verse number nine that we see right here. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just having salvation. Thank God. That he came having salvation. So Zechariah again picks up the telescope. He looks. He doesn't just see Alexander the Great. He sees the Messiah, Jesus Christ, coming, riding into Jerusalem on a donkey, a beast of burden Five hundred years before the time he sees this. And this very verse was fulfilled In Matthew 21. So I want you to hold your place here in Zechariah 9. Turn to Matthew 21, will you please? I want you to see the fulfillment of this incredible prophecy of Zechariah. Matthew chapter 21 and look down in verse number one. This is what I call the presentation. We saw the preparation of the coming of the king. Now here's the presentation. He's coming. Look at Matthew 21 Verse 1. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were coming to Bethage, unto the house, unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus to disciples. Saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied and a colt with her, loose them, and bring them unto me. And if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say the Lord hath need of them And straightway he will send them. And notice what Matthew says. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet What prophet Zechariah that was spoken by the prophet saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and the colt, the foal of an ass. Matthew is very faithful in his gospel to point back to Old Testament prophecies that were fulfilled by Jesus Christ the Messiah. In fact, there are 129 allusions in the Gospel of Matthew to Old Testament prophecies that were fulfilled. Think about that. All those things. Matthew often says this was done that it might be fulfilled by the prophet, and then he would give the verse. Now why did he do that? Because remember in the book of Matthew, He's writing primarily to the Jews, and he's presenting Jesus Christ as the Messiah, their rightful king. So it's no accident that he goes back and shows these verses from the Old Testament that fulfill This call this position that Jesus Christ is indeed the King, the Messiah It is worth noting that this is the only time in Jesus' earthly ministry that he allowed a public demonstration on his behalf. You remember after Jesus would do a miracle, a jaw-dropping miracle, and people would run and tell everyone, and he would say, look, don't tell anyone. Don't say anything. Uh he would then say, because my time has not yet come. It's not my time yet. I don't want this to be public. I don't want this to be front page news. Just calm down. Because my time is not yet. But then, as Jesus was drawing nigh and getting ready to go in Jerusalem, John 12 says this, and Jesus answered them saying, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. Jesus spoke those words on Palm Sunday right before he rode into Jerusalem. He planned this public demonstration because it was time for him to present himself as Israel's king. And he knew that this would be the fulfillment of prophecy. And notice the response of the people. Look in chapter 21. Look down at verse number 8. Notice what it says. It says it says, and the very great multitudes spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches from the trees And strolled them in the way, and the multitudes that went before and that followed Christ, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest And this was a custom, an ancient custom, when you would kind of bow before a king, and if you didn't bow, you would throw your garments before A king and the cutting down of palm branches, that kind of is an allusion to the Old Testament uh feast called Sakut Which had the idea of glory, you know, the palm branches and all spoke of God's covering of glory. But all of this is symbolic. And here's Jesus marching into Jerusalem. marching on a colt and presenting himself as Israel's Messiah, and they all began to praise the Lord in verse number nine. It says they cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord. And here they're quoting from Psalm 118. This was the beatitude of that psalm. And so this was this was the day when With that was when prophecy was fulfilled, many, many prophecies were fulfilled. Not only this prophecy that we see here from Zechariah, but Daniel also speaks about this very day. Daniel 9. 26, after three score and two weeks shall the Messiah be cut off. And friend, if you do the math, you can find that when Daniel made that prophecy and talked about this very day, uh, he decreed that the Messiah, the time of the Messiah would be four hundred and eighty-three years from the time that our exercises decreed that uh the the people could go and and rebuild and go back to Jerusalem. If you count out the days, you come to March 6, A. D. 32. This is the very day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem. This very day was put in God's prophetic calendar. Do you think that that happened just by coincidence? Peter Stoner, a mathematician, in his book, Science Speaks, did all the math on this. I don't want to bore you with numbers because I'm not a really a numbers guy, but He estimated that that the prophecies that were fulfilled on this day, of those happening by chance would be one in ten to the seventeenth power. I don't know how to pronounce that number. It's too many zeros. It would be like this. He said, if you could take the state of Texas and cover it with silver dollars, it would it would take two feet high of silver dollars. That's the number. That is given here. And if you took one of those silver dollars and you put an X on it, threw it into the state of Texas, then put a blindfold on a person, mixed up all the dollars, told them to walk out wherever you want to in the state of Texas and pick up the first silver dollar. The odds of that person picking up the silver dollar with the X marks on it would be one in ten to the seventeenth hour That's the odds of this, all these prophecies happening just by coincidence. No, what is God showing? He is sovereign over history And this is all part of God's redemptive plan that Jesus come in on that very day and present himself as the King. Now let me give you number two. We see the coming of the king in this prophecy, but within we see the character of the king, because again in Zechariah 9:9, it tells us what this king will be like And what he's doing here is Zachariah by putting this prophecy of Jesus right after the prophecy of Alexander the Great, he is inviting us as readers to give a contrast to these two kings. Alexander the Great died when he was thirty-three. Jesus died when he was thirty-three. Alexander the Great lived for self-glory. Jesus, when he came, gave up the glory of heaven. Alexander the Great lived and died for himself. Jesus lived and died for you and me. Alexander the Great died on a throne. Jesus died on a cross that one day we might have thrones. in heaven. Alexander the Great built his kingdom on the blood of others. Jesus Christ built his kingdom on his own shed blood. The blood of the cross. Alexander the Great tried to make himself a God. Jesus was God, the Son of God. Alexander the Great tried to make all men slaves. Jesus seeks to make all men free, to set us free in salvation. Alexander exalted himself. Jesus humbled himself. And this is what Zechariah is showing us. Notice how the character of our king, notice how he comes into Jerusalem. He says that he is uh He's just and having salvation lowly riding upon an ass in the culpa fall of an ass. That is when he comes into Jerusalem, uh Zechariah looked through the telescope of time and he saw this wonderful king, the king of kings, not exalting himself, but coming in humility, riding upon a donkey, a beast of burden. Conquering kings don't ride donkeys, let alone the foal of a donkey. They ride horses, magnificent white horses. But it was fitting that this king would come riding a beast of burden because it symbolized the fact that he would be the one that would carry our burdens. He would be the burdenbearer. He comes in lowly. He comes in humility. Because again, he humbled himself when he came to this earth. All of this prophecy looks upon Jesus as our sin bearer, the one who would take our sins. Notice what it says here. He will be a righteous king in verse 9. He is just, it says. He is just, meaning righteous. Our king is not corrupt like the kings of this world, like Alexander the Great, who lived a corrupt life Our King, the King of Kings, is sinless. He's righteous. We could talk about All over the world there are leaders who have great power who are corrupt, and because of that, people suffer. Our King is righteous. He is just. He is Jesus the Messiah. He is the sinless one He fulfilled all righteousness and he did it on our behalf. Because when we put our faith in him, he gives us his righteousness. He did all that for us. John calls him Jesus Christ the righteous. He will be a redemptive king. Look again in verse 9 where it says having salvation, or we could say endowed or clothed with salvation, this king will be our Savior. What the nation of Israel failed to realize is when he went in that day as the king, he would not be a political king and with an army that would throw off the shackles of Rome. That's what they were hoping for The first thing he would have to do is bring salvation, not politically, not physically, but spiritually. That he would be the king who would bear our sins, who would bring salvation to us. And that's what Jesus did. You see, God is holy And he demands that all sin be judged. If he allowed any sin to go unpunished, he would not be just. He would not be holy. And so God has declared that the penalty of sin is death, not only physical death, but spiritual death, eternal separation from God. And Jesus on the cross paid that sin death. That's why he's the burden bearer. He bore on the cross the burden of all of our sins. And with his death, he paid the price for sin. He satisfied the holy wrath of God the Father. That's why he came bringing salvation. He was the only one qualified to bring salvation. He was the only one that could bear our sin debt. Now some people think God is too loving to send people to hell. But, friend, again, God is holy, and God cannot allow sin to go unpunished. People who think like that don't understand how heinous sin is. They don't see sin from God's perspective. No, God is too holy not to punish sin. But, friend, here's the thing: God punished all of our sins on Jesus Christ. Jesus was our substitute. On the cross, when God looked at Jesus, he saw me. He saw my sins, and therefore he was punished. Now when God looks at me, he sees Jesus. Because when I put my faith in Christ, he gave me his righteousness. Jesus was my righteousness substitute. He was the burden bearer for our sins. That's the character of our King. We see the coming of our King. We see the character of our King. But let me give you number three quickly. The conquest of our King Because in Zechariah chapter 9, verse number 10, what he gives us here is the second coming of Christ. You know, between verse 9 and verse 10 is the church age, you could say, the history of the church. Chapter 10 is when Jesus will come back the second time, and he will come bringing peace to the world. The first time Jesus came as Savior, the next time he will come as the sovereign, as the judge. The first time he came, he came riding a humble donkey. The next time he comes, he'll be riding a white horse. And he will conquer. The first time Jesus came, he came to redeem. The next time he comes, he'll come to reign. The first time he came as the meek servant. The next time he comes, he'll be the mighty sovereign and king. And verse 10 says, and he shall speak peace unto the heathen, that is the nations. He will proclaim peace. And how will he bring about peace? He will defeat all the enemies that rise up against him. And what Zachariah sees, and we don't have time to look at it all because we're already out of time. But he gives you the whole scenario of the second coming. He talks about Armageddon. He talks about Israel looking upon the one that they pierced. And being filled with repentance, recognizing finally Jesus their Messiah. But let me just say this, dear friend. Zechariah is filled with prophecies about the first coming of Christ, and is filled with prophecies about the second coming of Christ. Right? Let me ask you a question. The prophecies about the first coming of Christ, were they literally fulfilled? Did he literally come in on a donkey? Did he literally present himself as the Messiah, did the people rejoice? Like Zachariah said, oh yes, it all happens literally. Then why on earth would you think that the prophecies about the second advent of Christ would not be literally fulfilled, but would be fulfilled figuratively? Or spiritually, like some say. No, the same Jesus that came literally the first time, he's going to come literally the second time. And the Bible says that when he comes, he will set up his kingdom. I'll show you one more verse. Look in Zechariah chapter 14, verse 14. Notice what it says. And Judah shall, or verse 4, I should say, Sachariah 14, verse 4. And his feet shall stand in that day upon the Mount of Olives. Which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof towards the uh east and towards the west, and there shall be a very great valley, and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it shall remove toward the south. This same Jesus that came into Jerusalem. Remember how he came in? Started at Mount of Olives. He rode down through the valley of Kedron across the brook. into the eastern gate as he presented himself as Messiah on that day. He started at the Mount of Olives. Guess what? Jesus is coming to the Mount of Olives again. And the Bible says when he comes, that mount will split in two. When he comes again, he will come again to defeat his enemies. Bring peace, set up his kingdom on earth. The question is: do you believe that? Are you ready for his coming? There's two ways that you could be ready for the coming of Jesus Christ. First of all, recognize him. You know, when Jesus wrote in that day, Matthew tells us that people began to ask the question, who is this? Who is this? Sadly, they didn't recognize their king. Friend, you need to recognize who Jesus is, and number two, you need to receive him. Put your faith in him. Bow to him as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. That's how you can be ready when Jesus comes again, again, just as surely as he came the first time. He's coming again. And we need to be ready. We need to put all of our faith in him. He comes bringing salvation. And friend, he's bringing salvation to you today. If you've never trusted him, now is the day of salvation. He comes to you today offering salvation. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I'd ask you to examine your heart, my dear friends. To make sure that you know Jesus Christ as your Savior, as your Lord. Have you trusted Him? Do you know Him? If not, would you right now, this very moment, pray to him, reach out in faith and say, Lord Jesus, I believe you are the King, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And I believe that you did bear my burden of sin on the cross. And now, Lord, I put all of my faith in what you did for me. Not in my own works, not in my own righteousness. No, I I I come to you, I ask you to save me. I put my faith in your finished work. It's your work on the cross that paid for my salvation. I'm asking you to save me, Lord. I put my faith in you. God, be merciful to me a sinner. Pray that. Just tell the Lord Run to him in salvation and friend, he will save you. The Bible says, him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out Would you go to Jesus, friend? Would you receive him as Savior and Lord? And if you've done that, would you let us know? We'll have some staff members here in the front after the service. Come and let us know. We want to help you. We want to pray with you. We want you to grow in your faith. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today for your honor and for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen