Take your Bibles open this morning to the book of James, please. The book of James, chapter number four. Aaron's going to take that slide chair down because those guys behind me are a lot better looking than I am. You'll pay attention to them and not me. James chapter four. And I just want to take a few minutes this morning. And give a message I think that a hope is appropriate for today. But while you're finding James in April of 1863 in Columbus, Mississippi, A mother was decorating the grave of her two sons who died during the Civil War. And when she finished decorating the graves of her son, she went to two other graves and she began to decorate those graves as well. And someone who was there said, What are you doing? Those are the graves of Union soldiers. Why are you decorating those graves? And the woman said, because somewhere in the north there are two mothers who are grieving. over these boys. And that one kind, loving act set in motion a celebration that has be become what we now know as Memorial Day. This is a day when we honor Every year, the sacrifice of those who have served our country, who have given their lives so that we might be free. So that we might have a measure of peace here in this world. And this is a good thing that we do. And so today we honor their memory. Today we give thanks to God for them and people like them who have served us. But I want to deal with the issue. I want to deal with a theological issue here this morning. I want to talk about the theology of war. The theology of war. You see that might that sound kind of like a different kind of Title is There a Theology Behind War? What does the Bible say about that? Because sometimes there are Christians who wrestle over the question of war. And sometimes there are people who ask this question, why does God allow war? Why is that part of God's plan? And should Christians participate? And basically since the beginning of Christianity there have been really three foundational positions and view of war. And let me just give you these three positions. First of all, there's the position of pacifism. We could call this represented by the dove A pacifist is someone who says all wars are wrong and all people's involvement in war is wrong. And so the pacifist view would restrict Christians from participating in any kind of war. Now, those who take this position will use certain verses in the Bible to try to support that position And I believe that uh they mistranslate or misunderstand many of these passages in Scripture. I think pacifism is a godly mistake That fails to take into accountability several things that we want to look at here this morning. Certainly we have sympathy with that position. Would to God we would never ever have to go to war Would to God we would never have to see that. Then there's a second position, and that's called the activists or activism. And this could be symbolized by the Hulk And really this is the opposite of the dove, which is I think an extreme. Here's the other extreme, and that is the Hulk. This is the person who is always looking for a fight who always is looking for controversy, who wants to use force, wants to get his way. Now while we can s sympathize with the godly mistake of the dove, the pacifist, there is little sympathy we have for the person who loves violence. No Christian should ever love violence. The Bible says the Lord hates those who love wickedness and those who love violence Human anger does not produce the righteousness of God. The Bible says, nowhere in the Bible do those who love violence get God's approval. And so those who are pleased or thrilled or excited about war should look to themselves, should look to their heart and repent. That is never the desire of a child of God. But then there's a third position, and this is called selectivism. This could be symbolized by the owl. And this view maintains that involvement in war is sometimes just And it is sometimes necessary. And it takes wisdom and discernment to know when there is a time of war and when it is necessary. There are many unacceptable reasons for war. Imperialism, financial gain, religion family feuds, racial arrogance, and there are also many unacceptable motives for war. But there are times Unfortunately, when war is necessary. It's just necessary. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 3, to everything there is a season, a time to every purpose under heaven. And then he goes on to list a lot of these and at the end of verse 8 he says a time of war. There is a time when unfortunately, again, war is necessary while Christians should seek peace. There are times in this fallen world where the only means to peace is to defeat an aggressive enemy That's the only way to peace. And so what I want to do here this morning, and again, I don't want to take a lot of your time. We're almost really got 15 minutes according to the clock, but put your clocks away I'll be about that long maybe. But I want to just give you three theological reasons that we get from the Bible. why it is necessary sometimes, unfortunately, to go to war. And here's the first one. Just write down, number one, the condition of human sinfulness That's one theological reason. We just live in a sinful fallen world. When World War I broke out, the war minister of London dispatched a coded message to one of the British outposts in an area of Africa. And the message read this, War is declared. Arrest all enemy aliens in your district. And then the minister received this reply. Have arrested four Germans, six Belgians, four Frenchmen, two Italians, three Australians. And two Americans. Please advise immediately who are we at war with? That's a good question. Who are we at war with? Well the Bible tells us where does war come from? Look at James chapter 4 and look at verse number 1. From whence come wars? And fightings among you, come they not hence, even of your lusts that were in your members. They come from the sinful heart of man. That's where it comes. Now there are the doves, the pacifists who are opposed to all war and all violence, and again we have sympathy with that position But the argument they use is like this. They say, well, the biblical image of heaven is of heaven after all, and heaven is a place of peace and harmony where people will beat their swords into plasters and their spears into pruning hooks And the Bible says that nation will not take up sword against nation, neither will they train for war anymore. And they say, well, the Prince of Peace will usher in a time when the wolf will lie down with the lamb. And all that is true But that, however, is exactly why I believe the pacifist position is wrong. It's wrong timing. We're not in the Garden of Eden, friends. And we're not in the kingdom right now. We're not there yet. We would love to have world peace. But friend, peace will not come to this world until Jesus Christ the Prince of Peace comes. And when he comes, he will bring peace with them. And by the way, how will he do that? He will fight a great war. And he will kill all of the enemies of God. We know that passage in Revelation where it speaks about uh Armageddon, the plains of Megiddo, there where all a contingent of all the armies of the earth will gather together to make war against the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ, and Jesus will defeat all of those enemies. And after there is the defeat of evil and sin and enemies, then the Prince of Peace will give us peace But that is not that time right now. Right now, we are in a fallen world. We're in a world where evil people do dastardly things. And I think pacifism is a godly mistake in that it fails to take seriously the sinfulness of the human heart. We live in a world where wicked men test poison gas and chemical weapons on their own people. This is a world that has Hitlers That has Stalins, that has Mussolinis, Saddam, Saddam Hussein's, Osama bin Ladens. We live in a world where there are terrorists all around that want to kill people. We live in a world where men have a very selfish, evil heart, and they want to place others in servitude and bondage. Jesus made this very clear. What time do we live in? Listen to what Jesus said in Matthew 24. He said, Ye shall hear wars and rumors of wars, see that you be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet For nations shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilence and earthquakes and so on. Jesus also said in John 16, 3, in the world ye shall have tribulation. Paul said to Timothy, this know also that in the last days perilous times shall come, dangerous times, dangerous days. Well some will argue and say, well Jesus didn't he teach us to turn the other cheek? Let me tell you something, friend, that command to turn the other cheek refers to a personal insult, not to bodily harm. Later on in Luke twenty-two, this is what Jesus said to his disciples. And in the context of this, Jesus is has been rejected. And he tells his disciples you're going forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, and he said unto them, Therefore, but now he that hath a purse, let him take it and likewise his script, and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment and buy one What's Jesus saying there? He's allowing for a legitimate use of the sword for self-defense. That's what he's saying there. And by the way, in the Old Testament, the Old Testament law gives allowances for self-defense. The Bible teaches that very clearly. The exhortation to love our enemies did not preclude the use of force in restraining them from killing us. And so the Bible is clear about that. So man is capable of doing real harm to others because his heart is needful, and there is the need to restrain that evil. Which leads to the second theological reason. Number one, the condition of human sinfulness. But I want you to write down number two the purpose of human government. The purpose of human government, I want you to go to Romans thirteen with me this morning. Look in Romans chapter thirteen I want you to see a an important section that Paul gives us here, and he is answering a fundamental question. What is the role of government? And what is the believer's responsibility to that? That's the issue that Paul deals with in Romans 13, verses 1 to 7. And Paul is very straightforward in verse 1. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God, the powers that be are ordained of God. And when Paul says, let every soul be subject, he's just saying Be submissive. That's the principle. It's unqualified. It's unlimited. It's unconditional. It's every soul, every person. Be subject. And then he gives us the reasons For there is no power but of God. Because government is ordained by God. That's what Paul says. It's ordained by the Lord. But for what? I want you to drop down to verse number three, because this is really the key of what I want to say here in Romans 13, 3. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power, do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. Why do we submit because government has been given by God. Human government has been given as an instrument to restrain evil in the world. That's the whole point. Rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. And so government is designed to put fear in the hearts of men that want to do evil to others. That want to kill others. In fact, there are four things that God has given sinful man to restrain the evil in his heart. One is conscience, right? Right after Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, God gave man a c a conscience, and that conscience is that inward kind of law that tells us what's right and what's wrong. And that conscience restrains evil. In man, but sometimes man ignores his conscience. God gave another element or another institution to help restrain evil. You know what it is? It's a family God gave to the world the family so that fathers and mothers can teach children right from wrong and teach them to do what is right and be submissive to authority. But then there's number three, there's government. God gave to the world government to restrain evil. And Paul's speaking about this very thing here. So that men will fear Look at verse number four. For he is a minister of God to thee for good. Look at the word minister there. Dikanos. It's where we get the word deacon. And it just simply means a servant. Those who serve in this capacity are servants of God. They serve the Lord. Ministers of God. We don't think of it that way, but it's true. Those who occupy government positions From the presidents to the senators to the justices, all the way down to other positions, those that are in the army, from the highest general to the lowest private, all of them are servants of God They serve the Lord. I was talking to our founding pastor one time and the pastor was telling me about his service in the Army in the Korean War. He served as a medic in a mass unit. And um I just remember saying to Pastor one time, you know, Pastor, you never really have gotten out of the army. You just switch branches. You serve the Lord. Different branch, same service. He served the Lord faithfully when he was A soldier, and now he serves the Lord faithfully as a minister of God, as a pastor, and that's the same of every soldier. They are ministers of the Lord. Again, we don't have the tendency to think that way, but this is what the Bible says. They may not know it's some soldiers, but every soldier in military service, man or woman, is serving God. And notice again in verse 4, he's a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he beareth not the sword in vain. For he is the minister of God. Listen to this: a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. And so the purpose of government is to restrain evil in a certain sense, and this is really talking about capital punishment here. If necessary, the government has the authority from God to kill in order to save lives. Those who would want to kill have to be dealt with. And in a certain sense, war is capital punishment on a grand scale. So we can honestly say that war is a tool of God to punish wickedness, to rid the world of wickedness. When calling the Israelites into battle, Moses Carefully instructed them. Listen to what he said. He said, After the Lord your God has done this for you, don't say to yourselves, the Lord has given us this land because we are so righteous. No It is because of the wickedness of other nations that he is doing it. God said, when you go in and you conquer those nations in that land, don't pat yourself on the back and say, oh, God's doing this because we're so righteous We need to be guarded against that as Americans. Thank God for his blessing on America. But God doesn't give us victories because we are so righteous. He gives victories because he wants to punish wickedness. He wants to punish evil. Can people grow so wicked, so pagan, so vile, that God justifiably destroys them? Can leaders be so evil and cruel that God, knowing the hardness of their hearts, righteously removes them from the earth? Absolutely. The righteous God does that. He did, we see it in the Bible many times over and over again. And there were even times when God used war to punish his own people because they had strayed from the Lord. So war is divinely delegated to government in order to restrain that evil. Someone once asked Jean-Paul Sarder, the French philosopher, they asked him this question, where was God when the Nazis were about to overrun Europe? You know what his response was? Sorta replied, Where was man? And he seemed to have been implying there, or asking, why did we delay? What took us so long? And once we did react, was the attack was it not justified? Was it not right to overthrow Hitler's attempt at genocide? Of course it was. It was just Was justice not served in the liberation of slaves? Absolutely it was justice was served. Would we be better off if we had ignored the tactics of Mussolini and dismissed the attack of Japan in nineteen forty one? All of what I think our country has done in these things were just and right. Acting as God's servants. Listen, unpunished evil is itself evil. Unpunished evil is itself evil. And that is the basis of the concept of what we now call a just war. The whole concept of a just war, by the way, came out of principles of Scripture. Did you know that? The whole concept of a just war came from the fifth century church father Augustine, who studied the scripture, and he laid down some basic principles from the scripture about what constitutes a just war. And by the way, these same principles have been codified and used internationally as the principles of a just war. And the just war position argues that war must be fought Only for a just cause. Not for glory, not for vengeance, but for a just cause And war must be declared by a legitimate authority. It must result in good outweighing the evil of warfare. War must be a last resort after all other approaches have failed. Then there's no choice. And by the way, when you fight this war, according to these principles, civilian populations must not be deliberately attacked. And every effort must be made to minimize casualties in the fighting of this just war. But the overruling principle is this: this is the purpose of human government. This is the purpose of armies, to restrain the ungodliness and the evil that is in this world. And again, I say those who have served in our military Those who have given their life for our freedom and peace, these are servants of God. They are worthy of our honor. Worthy of our respect because they do the work of God. They bring peace. to this world. They bring a measure of peace and freedom. The very fact that we can worship here today in this church. With the freedom that we have has been paid for by those who have served our country And we're grateful to God for them, for their service to God and to us. Let me give you the last reason, and I need to go through this quickly because our time is gone. Number three would be the sanctity of human life. Why? What's the theological reasons for war? The condition of human sinfulness, the purpose of human government, and number three is the sanctity of human life. Let me show you one more verse before we go. Look at Genesis chapter 9 real quick. Genesis chapter 9. Look at verse number 6. This is right after the flood. God had destroyed the world with a flood. And right off he establishes an important principle. You remember that right after the fall of man in the garden, man's sinfulness caused him to begin to devalue human life. Right on the heels of the sin in the garden, Cain what? He slew Abel. We find murder. It is innate in the sinful heart of man to devalue human life. Heart of man's sinfulness. Lamach had killed a young man and he bragged about it. And then there was the flood where God punished the earth and many died. And God wanted to show that human life was sacred. And so he established this principle. Look in Genesis 9. 6. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, this is the evil person that we want to kill. What does God say? By man shall his blood be shed. Whoever out there wants to devalue human life And shed man's blood. His blood shall be shed. Why? For in the image of God made he man. God exalts the sanctity of human life. And when anyone attacks an individual, a person, you are attacking God because man was created in the image of God. And God said for the evil person who wants to take human life, who wants to shed blood, his blood shall be shed, God says. And that's to protect The sanctity of human life. God establishes this principle. Dr. Clay, when he was up here, he mentioned several heroes. And when I think about this principle here, I actually think about the story of one of the men that he mentioned, Sergeant York. We all know that story, right? If you haven't read it in history, pretty much you saw the movie with Gary Cooper, right? Sergeant York. Sergeant York is a a man who lived in Tennessee. He was born in 1887. He came from a large family. His father was a blacksmith but was killed doing his job. And Alvin had to take care of his family, but he got sidetracked and he began to hang with the wrong crowd and drink and his mother prayed for his salvation and sure enough he got saved. He came to know the Lord Jesus Christ But this was back when World War I was just starting and Woodrow Wilson declared war on Germany and he was drafted into the army, but he went in as a conscientious objector because he didn't believe in killing. However, he went into the army. He was known as a great sharkshooter. He learned that back in the hills of Tennessee. And he had a commander over him, the company commander, who was also a Christian. And Alan York would share his heart about filling and his company commander would sit down with him with the Bible when they talked about these things. And he gave them uh a leave to go home and pray about it and he went out on a on a hill and prayed and he got peace from God to go ahead and serve in the army and I think you know the rest of the story. In the Argonne Forest in France on October 8, 1918, York's company was assigned to take a hill. Hill 223. And as they tried to do it, they were under fire by these German machine guns, and many in his company were killed. They were slaughtered by those guns. Many sergeants were killed or wounded, and they gave York. leadership or command right there at that moment. He was able to outflank those uh German machine guns and he began to kill those who were using those guns and he killed 25 Germans before they all surrendered. And he took 132 prisoners single-handedly. He became the most decorated soldier in American history. He won the Congressional Medal of honor. But later he was quizzed about what he did. And one person asked him, I thought you were a pacifist. I thought you were against killing and yet you killed these 25 Germans. Do you know what his answer was? He said, when we were there and I saw those guns killing all the people around me, I knew only one thing. Those guns had to be stopped. He said, I did what I did to save human life, not to kill, but to save life And by saying that, he's articulating this very principle here in Genesis 9, 6. God instituted this in order to save life. And war is sometimes necessary because of the sanctity of life. Because we love life. We love people. We want to save people from the evil that is In it. And so today we remember those who served our country, who served God, who give us the peace that we have today And we thank God for their memory. And one more thing before we're done. Let their sacrifice remind us of the ultimate sacrifice of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Who gave his life for us on the cross so that we can have salvation. Remember, he is our divine warrior who fought the ultimate battle. Paying the ultimate price and giving us the ultimate gift, eternal life in heaven. And friend, if you're not here today and you don't know Jesus, I encourage you to come to him today. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you for what it teaches us. Thank you for our Savior, Jesus Christ. Who fought the greatest war ever fought on Calvary to free us from sin and Satan and death, to give us salvation paid for by his own precious blood. Father, we thank you for Jesus. And Lord, we are grateful for the men and women That you have raised up to serve you and our country. And this morning we think about families who may be grieving over the loss of a loved one who gave their life and service to our country. We pray for extra grace and blessing to those family members. Shall grant them that today. And Lord, may we never forget the sacrifice of these heroes, Lord. May we never forget. Lord, we pray if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, that today they would say yes to Jesus. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask you. Do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? You know everything that was been done, the freedom that we've been given, it's all in vain if you don't know the Lord Jesus. God gave us a country where he can be worshipped freely. And right now you have the freedom to make a choice. And this is the greatest choice ever. It's the choice to trust Jesus as your Lord and Savior. Because it's true, all of us, we're sinners. And God must punish sin, but friend, He loves you. He didn't want to punish you. So he sent His Son Jesus. And all of your sins and my sins were laid on Him, and God's wrath fell on Him when it should have fallen on us. And he paid the debt of our sin. He gave his life so that we might have eternal life. It's a gift. It's like our founding pastor when he prayed, he led us in prayer. He said, it's available to anyone who will send or receive it by faith. So very true. Would you be willing to reach out in faith this very moment and receive Jesus into your heart, into your life? Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that he will save you. And would you do me a favor if you prayed that prayer? Would you just lift your hand and say, Yes, that's my prayer today. That's my prayer today. Anyone here? Anyone here? All right. Let's all stand together. It's been a good service in God's house this morning. Reverend John Gordon, you come and close us in our closing hymn. Bo and we're in the change