Take God's word this morning, open to the book of Luke chapter nineteen, the Gospel of Luke chapter nineteen, and we are looking at parables of our Lord Jesus, and this morning I want to look at yet another parable here in Luke chapter nineteen. And uh would you stand one more time for the reading? I won't make you stand any more after this. Unless of course you want to go home after the service, but Verse eleven of chapter nineteen of Luke. And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. He said, therefore, a certain noble one went into a far country and to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy until I come. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your word. And Lord, we We know that uh this is our instruction, this is our guide for life, it is your inspired word. And yet, Lord, we need your help to understand it. So Lord Help us to be attentive. And Lord, help me to make God's word clear. This wonderful story that Jesus taught, Lord. May we grasp the meaning of it and apply it to our own life for blessing. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I heard about a preacher who died and went to heaven, and he noticed that a New York cab driver had been given a higher place in heaven than he than he had. And he kind of complained to St. Peter, he said, I don't understand it, you know, I've been faithful in the congregation all these years and this cab driver has a higher place. And Peter said, Well our policy here in heaven is to reward according to results. He said, Now Reverend, what happened while you preach? And the pastor admitted, Well, I admit that while I preached some people went asleep. He said, that's right. And when people rode in this man's cab, they did not go to sleep. Not only did they not sleep, but they prayed a lot when they were in his cab. He got better results than you got. Thank God that eternal life is all by grace, right? It's not by works. It's by putting our faith in Jesus Christ. However, rewards are according to the works that we do here on earth. And Jesus makes this very clear in the parable that he gives right here. He has expectations for those who call themselves servants of God or children of God. The main idea of this parable is in verse number 13 where we read, where it says, occupy till I come. The word occupy here means do business or we could say get get to work, get busy. It's really from the Greek word pragma. And we get our word, English word, pragmatic, from this Greek word here. And so it's really do something productive. And he's referring to kingdom work, not just any business, not your own business. But he's concerned about the business of the kingdom, that every one of us should occupy until the Lord comes, that we should be busy doing the Lord's work. Now Jesus gives this parable as he's making his final journey to Jerusalem. So think about it, in just a few days he'll die on the cross and then resurrect. And then of course after 40 days he'll ascend to heaven. So this is a parable that is given. He's in the city of Jericho, and he's going to make the ascent up into Jerusalem. That was about a 17-mile walk going upward into the city of Jerusalem. And as he's walking, there's a crowd of people that are with him, a parade of people that are following. In that crowd are some of the people that he healed. He had just healed two blind men in Jericho. He had just given Zacchaeus, the tax collector, salvation. You remember salvation climbed up Or not salvation, but Zacchaeus climbed up a sycamore tree and uh he he was a small guy and wanted to see Jesus and then of course uh Zacchaeus repented and showed the fruit of true repentance and Jesus said, Today salvation has come to your house. As he's going to uh Jerusalem, the people in that crowd are expecting something from Jesus. Why does he give this parable? Well, look in verse 11 because it answers that question. As he heard these things, He added and spake a parable because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear. This is the reason Jesus gives the parable Because the people in that crowd were thinking that Jesus the Messiah would go to Jerusalem and he would as the Messiah would set up his kingdom, he would reign from the throne of David, he would put down the uh the oppression of Rome, throw off the shackles of Rome, bring in social justice and order, and that he would take up his place as the Messiah. This was popular Jewish eschatology again in verse 11 that he immediately would immediately appear. That is the kingdom would immediately come. The word appear here is from a Greek word that has the idea of of it's kind of a nautical term of something appearing visible on the horizon. So as these people were getting closer and closer to Jerusalem, their expectations were increasing because they thought That when they finally got to Jerusalem, they would be there in the kingdom and Jesus would be the king at that time. After all, he was the son of David. He was the Messiah, right? Isn't this what the Old Testament prophets had prophesied that the Messiah would do? But they did not realize something. They did not realize that the earthly kingdom that was prophesied in the Old Testament would be delayed That it would not happen immediately at the first coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. They did not realize that he would suffer and die and rise again and that he would then go to heaven and be in heaven for many, many years. And then come again, and when he came again, he would set up his literal earthly millennial kingdom. So to correct these erroneous notions that they had. Jesus gives this parable, and in the parable he illustrates several things. He illustrates the delay of the kingdom as they thought about it. And he also illustrates the duty that he leaves to his people while he goes to prepare this king or get this kingdom. Jesus wanted to let his hearers know what they were supposed to be doing in his absence. What were they supposed to do while he was gone? Now, again, so to illustrate this, Jesus uses the parable of the pounds. This is also called the parable of the minas. um which a mina was basically um uh uh a measurement of money that the Greeks used. Um we it's translated here the Greek word is mina it's translated into English My King James says pounds. You might have English translations that read something different, but it's a measurement of money. So a lot of people call this the parable of the minus or the parable of the pounds Um this again is going to illustrate a very important principle that Jesus wants to teach. Now a minor was about three months salary based on a denarius a day, which would be a an average worker's income in that time. So if you add up three months of your salary, you kind of get the value of what a minor would be. Now I want you to see four vital truths that Jesus teaches in this parable. Number one, the delay of the kingdom. The delay of the kingdom. And we're going to make reference to what these things stand for as we go through the parable. First of all, there's a nobleman in verse eleven. He said that there was a nobleman, or uh excuse me, verse 12, and a certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return. Who does a nobleman represent in this parable? Well the nobleman represents of course the Lord Jesus Christ. The Greek word here, anthropas, anthropos, birth, eugenos, or high birth, we could say. Of high birth, so it really at l we get to read it man of high birth. No one had a higher birth than Jesus He was born of the Virgin. He came from heaven. So this nobleman represents the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who came from heaven. And this nobleman goes into a far country to receive a kingdom for himself. This represents the fact that Jesus would ascend to heaven, he would be in heaven, he would get a kingdom. From the Father for Himself, and He would come back. You remember Jesus during his earthly ministry was basically rejected by the nation of Israel. So he returns to his father. To get that kingdom, the Father will grant that because he was he found the sacrifice of his son acceptable And he will give to Jesus the kingdom. In fact, you might want to write in your margin. Psalm 110, verse 1 and 2. These are the words that the Father spake to Jesus when he came back. The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at thy right at my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. The Lord shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion, rule thou in the midst of thine enemies. And so Jesus will receive from the Father a kingdom, and he will come back and reign. from the throne of David. But again, Jesus is correcting the faulty view that they had There's a sense in which the kingdom of God was already among them because Jesus said that the kingdom of God is in the midst of you, but the kingdom in which it appeared in the first Coming of Jesus was more of a spiritual kingdom because Jesus came the first time to forgive people for their sins, to bring salvation In fact, Jesus just said that in Luke chapter 19. Back up to verse number 10, and notice what it says in verse 10: For the Son of Man has come to what? To seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus came the first time to seek and to save the lost, to bring salvation. So there's a spiritual aspect to this kingdom. And that was at that first coming, but when he comes back again, he'll set up his literal kingdom. Now the disciples struggled to understand this. They didn't really get it. They'll get it later on. But even at the ascension of Jesus in Acts 1 6, they'll say, Lord, they said, Lord, will you at this time establish the kingdom in Israel? Again, they still didn't get it. That when Jesus came the second time, that's when he would establish his literal millennial kingdom. But again, they'll get that later. But Jesus wanted them to understand the delay, the purpose for his first coming, and the purpose for his second coming. So there's number one the delay of the kingdom, and then write down number two, the delegation of the master. And look in verse number thirteen. And he called his ten servants. And said unto them, occupy till I come. Now the ten servants in this parable represent us. It represents all who profess to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. And profess to serve him. The ten pounds or the ten minus represent the resource that God has given to all of us. He's left all of us the same resource. Now, we have to be sure not to confuse this parable with the parable that Jesus gave in Matthew 25 about the parable of the talents. Because a lot of times people confuse these two parables. They try to bring them together as one parable, but they're not the same. And the parable of the talents He basically gave different amounts of talents to different servants, which really uh represents spiritual gifts and giftedness. But here in this parable it's different. Jesus gave that parable to uh to people in Jerusalem. Here, Jesus is giving this parable to people on a journey from Jericho towards Jerusalem. It's a different, totally different setting, totally different parable. And he gives the ten servants the same amount. He gives them this uh minor or this pound here. So what the question is, what does the minor or the pound represent? Because he entrusts it to all of us equally, and it represents the Word of God. Specifically, the central message of the Word of God, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. If you're here today and you're saved, God has entrusted to you the gospel of Jesus Christ. Not just in a general way. But in a personal way, have you personally put your faith in Jesus Christ and Him alone as your only means of salvation? That's the minor that's been entrusted to you. When one day when I stand before God, Jesus says, Jerry, why should I let you into heaven? What will my answer be? It won't be, well, because I did good works or I tried to do this or be good. None of those things But only this, my only hope is Jesus Christ and what he did for me on the cross. My faith is in the finished work of Christ. I've personally received Jesus Christ as my Savior and as my Lord. All of us have been entrusted then with this gospel. So I want you to see the third thing. The delay of the kingdom, the delegation of the master, but then look at number three, the duty of the servants. Because again in verse 13 we see the expression, occupy till I come. This is the responsibility, this is the instruction that he gives to all of us. We all have been entrusted with the gospel. We all need to get busy then in this kingdom work with the gospel, uh doing his business, doing something productive. While we wait, we're not supposed to just Cross our arms and do nothing when it in reference to the kingdom of God we have to be in business for the gospel because look down in verse number fourteen, but his citizens hated him, that is this nobleman. And sent a message after him saying, We will not have this man to reign over us. Now the citizens in this parable, did not want this nobleman to be their king. And by the way, what does that tell us? If if we are the servants and we're ministering in this environment where the people don't want this nobleman to be the king, that means that we are Ministering in what? A hostile environment. And beloved, we need to realize that. God has entrusted to us the gospel of the kingdom. We are to be busy with the gospel, but we have to realize it's not going to be easy. Because we live in an environment of a group of people that do not want Jesus to reign over them. They do not want Jesus to be their king So that means at times there will be a risk. If you want to live for Jesus Christ, just recognize that. If you want to share the gospel of Jesus Christ, go ahead and do it. But recognize there'll be a risk for that. The worst thing we can do, however, would be to do nothing. The best thing is to accept the risk, whatever risk there may be, and be busy for the kingdom. The worst thing we can do is like one of the servants. That we're going to see who took the the minna and he wrapped it up in a handkerchief and he just kind of stuffed it away and did nothing with it uh because that would be a bad thing to do as we're going to see. Now let me just also say that when Jesus gives this parable, you need to understand this, that there was a something that took place that recently took place in history at that time. that all the people listening to this parable would recognize quickly. And that was, this when Jesus is giving this parable, there was a story that took place that was a parallel of what this parable is talking about. Herod was the ruler of Judea. He got the right to rule from Rome. Remember Rome was in charge of the world at that time. Any king who wanted to rule in a local area had to get permission from Rome to rule in a kingdom. When Herod died, well actually before he died, he he delegated part of his kingdom would be ruled over by one of his sons, a man by the name of Archelaus. And Archelaus, who wanted to rule as king over Judea, took a long journey, journey into a far country, just like in this parable, the no man goes into a far country. Archelaus took a journey to Rome Why did he go to Rome? Because he he needed to get permission from Caesar to be king in that region. And uh when uh the people with the Jewish people heard that Archelaus took that long journey to Rome so he could be king over them, they rebelled. They did not want Archelaus to be their king So they sent a delegation of Jewish men to talk to Caesar and say, We will not have this man reign over us. We don't want him reigning over them. You see, the Jewish people had a reason. to hate Archelaus because he was a tyrant, he was a murderous leader. At one point after at us after the Passover, he he slaughtered 3,000 Jewish people. He was just a a just a incredibly cruel tyrant. And the Jewish people hated him. They didn't want Archelaus to reign over him. So they presented their case to Caesar. And Caesar Said to Archelaus, I will not make you king. You can still be Tetriarch. That is kind of a lower title. You need to earn the right to be king. Now, Jesus, by referring to this whole story here, It's kind of making a connection in the in the uh ears of the audience. By the way, Archelaus, when he was denied to be king, went back to Judea. He built a winter palace in Jericho. And that's where he ruled from, this winter palace, a beautiful winter palace. By the way, when Jesus gives this parable, where is he? He's in Jericho. And he's making the journey up to Jerusalem. So I like to think in my mind they maybe had just passed by that palace That Archelaus had built, and Jesus gives this story. Here's a nobleman who goes into a far country to receive a kingdom. And he's going to come back. By the way, the citizens of that kingdom would not have him to reign over them. And Jesus by giving this parallel is implying that many of the Jewish people are going to make the mistake spiritually that Some of them did when with Archelaus. They rejected the reign of Archelaus, and many of the Jewish people are going to make that mistake spiritually with Jesus. They rejected his kingship over them in their life. Jesus will go to Jerusalem, but he'll be rejected. This would be a terrible mistake that the Jewish people would make. Now, the Jewish people had a right to hate Archelaus, but there was no reason to hate Jesus. Jesus killed no one. In fact, he resurrected people from the dead. He healed people from their sickness. He was a loving and compassionate king. He was the perfect king. And so to reject him would be a serious mistake. They were about to reject their rifle Messiah and King. And so Jesus makes this connection with them. But the point for us is, even though we minister in a time when we were in a world where people do not want to hear about Christ and the gospel, we should still be busy about the master's business. In fact, if you're a believer and God has entrusted you the gospel, our whole life ought to be centered around the gospel of Jesus Christ. Are we getting it out? Are we involved in telling others? Are we supporting missionary endeavors, trying to get the gospel of the kingdom out? Are we investing the gospel of The kingdom that God has given to us, this pound that God has placed in our charge. What are we doing with that? Consider the words of the Apostle Paul when he said, I do all things for the sake of the gospel. Everything I do is for the sake of the gospel. Now let me give you the fourth and final point. We talk about the delay of the kingdom. The delegation of the master, the duty of the servants, but number four, the deliberation of the rewards. Because look at verse 15. And it came to pass when he was returned, having received the kingdom. So what happens here? The master returns And that again speaks to us about the Lord Jesus. One day Jesus will return. He's going to come back. And when he does. We all will have to give an account for how we have invested what he has entrusted to us. Paul said in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That every one may receive the things done in his body according to that which he hath done, whether it be good or bad. We all have to one day appear before the bhima seat, the word is the Greek word. It literally means lifted up place or exalted place where the judge would sit and he would look out over the field as athletes were competing in a contest and if you competed uh lawfully And one, you will receive your reward. This is the word used here. All of us one day will appear before the Lord Jesus Christ and will be given rewards according to our service, or we'll lose rewards. according to our lack of service. Now, so we see in the final part of this parable three groups. Notice the faithful servants will be rewarded. Look in verse 16 where it says Well actually let me start again in verse 15. It came to pass that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these servants to be called unto him to whom he had given the money. that he might know how every how much every man had gained by trading. Verse sixteen, then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. I love the way he answers his Lord there. So the first servant is judged He invested the pound and it brought back a tenfold profit. That's a pretty good investment And I love the way he says it. He didn't talk about himself. He didn't say, Lord, well I was really wise and I invested this. And look what I did. That's not what he says, is it? He said, Lord. The money you gave me, the pound that you gave me, he said, look what thy pound hath gained. Look what your pound did. This is what you did, Lord. This is your work. This is your money. You not only gave me what to invest, but you even created the circumstances where this would bring back an investment. He's not taking any credit for himself. He's saying, Lord, you did it all. And so it is with the gospel. God's entrusted us with the gospel. And when we invest it, guess what? The gospel will do its work. The gospel will do the work. We just sit back and watch what the Lord does. We invest what he's given us. And then in verse 17, notice where the master says, and he said unto him, Well Or we could say, Well done, thou good servant, because thou hast been faithful and very little, have thou authority over ten cities Now, because this man was faithful over little, God was going to give him authority over a lot. And again, this is talking about during that time of the kingdom, the millennial kingdom. That again, he represents us. If we're faithful and doing the little that God gives us now, we will have positions of authority in that time. It's like I told the 945 hour, if your concept of heaven is floating around on a cloud, plucking a harp If that whole concept bores you about, you know, heaven, you're going to be doing that through eternity, I got good news for you. That's not what the Bible says. That's not heaven. We will have positions of authority. We'll have things that we do, responsibilities, just like we do here on earth. Only it will be so much better, so much more wonderful working in the places that Jesus appoints us. And if we're faithful here, he's going to reward us with much there. That's what Jesus says here. And then also he calls in the other servant. Look at verse 18 in the same thing. And he and the second came saying, Lord Thy pound had gained five pounds. And he said, likewise to him, be thou also over five cities. So we see here some wonderful uh truths about what will take place, about rewards. The rewards will be proportional to our service. Again, while salvation is free by grace, rewards will be according to the service that we render here. Rewards exceed the services. That's another thing that we learn. We do a little bit here, and guess what? The reward is so far greater than the little that we do. That's how gracious God is. If I'm faithful over a little here. Then I will rule over much there. The reward is so much greater than the little bit that we do here. It's overwhelming when you think about that. The rewards in that sense express God's graciousness, but also present service is a test for future reward. God will entrust to us things here. It might not be big. But we're not responsible for the for the size of the responsibility that God has entrusted to us, just with whatever duty, whatever mina he's put in our hands. We're just to use that. All the rest is up to God. You say, I don't really have a huge ministry here now that doesn't really matter. Wherever God's placed you, just take the money that He's given you, invest it, and God will do the rest of it. That's not up to you or me. But our faithfulness here and now will determine future service there. The Bible says we will reign with him. We will have positions of authority. But notice the next thing here. The faithful servants will be rewarded, but the unfaithful servants will be stripped. Look at verse 20. And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin or a handkerchief here. The third servant, when he appears before the Lord, simply takes out the minor that he gave him, carefully wrapped up into a handkerchief, and just gives it back to him. Say, Lord, here's the pound that you gave me. I'm just giving it back to you. Now this guy didn't do anything with it. He didn't invest it. Maybe he was a little bit afraid. In fact, he does confess to being a little bit afraid. As we're going to see, his excuse was fear. Look at verse 21, where he says, For I feared thee because thou art an austere man. Thou takest up that thou layest not down, and reapest that thou dost not so that's not a good answer. First of all, you know, I was afraid, oh you know, I know what how harsh you are. Well, in fact, uh the master was really gracious in giving this. But he accuses him of being a thief when you think about it. You take up where you did not lay down. What? You're reaping where you did not sow, or you steal other people's crops. Uh uh that's not a good thing to say. What is he doing here? He's trying to find excuses for why he didn't invest what God entrusted to him. The truth of the matter is when the Lord gave him that That pound, he simply wrapped it up into a handkerchief, put it in his pocket, or he laid it away somewhere, and he had no other thought about it. He had no concern of doing the business of the kingdom. He had no concern about the things that the master was concerned about. He was only concerned about doing his own thing. He had no concern about the things of God or the gospel And again, he's using excuses, even accusing the master of being, you know, hostile and a thief. And so he's judged severely. Now, a a question that commentators ask when they come to this is this. Is this servant, is this person represent a believer or an unbeliever? And I noticed in studying this, there's different opinions on this. But let me give you my humble. I'm just kidding when I say that. You understand that, right? I had a professor that would always say that in my theology class. He would always say, Let me give you my humble and yet most accurate opinion. So I use Dr. Milliken's expression sometimes But anyway, here's what I think this this servant, I do not believe this servant represents a true believer. This is someone who may have been associated with the gospel. He may have been in a community of people that are associated with the gospel, but he doesn't really reveal that his He has the concern about the gospel and the kingdom. Plus, the thing that really settled it for me is the word another. And in verse number 20. Look at verse 20. And another came saying, Lord. The word another here, there's two Greek words for another. One is the word alas, which means another of the same kind. Another Greek word is heteros, which means another of a different kind. And that's the Greek word here. So when it says another servant came, this is another of a different kind. He's not like the faithful servants who invested the pound and re and reaped uh reward. Here's a man who's totally different. He is another Darrell Bach also says The third servant represents people who are related to the king and that they are associated with the community and have responsibility in it. Nevertheless, their attitude shows that they do not see God as gracious. And that they have not really trusted him. Such people are left with nothing at the judgment. They are sent to outer darkness because they never really trusted or knew God. J. C. Ryle, the great J. C. Ryle, said, hard thoughts of God are a common mark of unconverted people. And that's so true. This third third servant then represents those in the church who know the gospel and should believe it. But they are indifferent, they're unconcerned about the master's purpose in the kingdom, and the results are they're not using the opportunities that are laid out before them. that has been given to them to further the kingdom of God and to occupy until the master comes. And so to me this is like the parable of the of the of the The ten versions, remember, five were wise, five were foolish, five trimmed their lamps and had oil. Five of the foolish ones ran out of oil. And that is the idea they they they they just ran out of works. They were not doing the work of God. They weren't prepared because they didn't have real, true salvation. But notice the king's response in verse 22. And he said unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. That's another thing. Does the Lord ever really call those who are his wicked? Wicked servant? The Lord never says that about his own children. Thou wicked servant. I'm going to judge you with your own words. You've judged me. With what you said about me, so I'm going to use that to judge you. Continue his rebuke in verse 23. Wherefore then gave thou not thou my money into the bank? That at my coming I might have required my own money with usury. That is, you could have at least invested the pound into a bank and got an interest But you didn't do that. And then he pronounced his judgment in verse twenty four. And he said unto him that stood by, Take from him the pound and give it to him that had ten pounds. And they said unto him, Lord, he had ten pounds. Well, he already knows that, guys. Verse twenty-six For I say unto you, that unto every one which hath shall be given, and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him. He was stripped of every pretense he was stripped of every opportunity and privilege and position which he might have aspired. This again I think again this worthless servant represents the people who claim to be followers. of Jesus Christ. They're involved in perhaps the church, surrounded by privilege and truth of the gospel. They may even make a profession of faith, yet in reality they serve For really their own selfish purpose. Their purpose is not the kingdom of God and the gospel. It's all about their kingdom. Despite their claims, they will hear, I think the Lord say, Depart from me, I never knew you. I never knew you But let me give you the third group. There's the faithful servants will be rewarded, the unfaithful servants will be stripped, the rebellious will be punished. Finally, look in verse 27. But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring them hither and slay them before me. Again, this simply represents people in this world who oppose Christ, who oppose the gospel. But notice that in this parable, the opposition of the people did not prevent The king from reigning. It didn't happen with Archelaus. Archelaus went back and he still built his palace and he still had his position. It certainly won't happen with the Lord Jesus. Let me tell you something. This world can oppose Christ all they want to. But every knee will bow, and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. And then there's the penalty, which he says, take them out and slay them before me. The parable, the penalty is execution here in the parable. That's mild in comparison to what the Bible speaks about with reference to eternal judgment in a place called hell. Yeah, I believe in hell. You know why? Because the Bible teaches it. I I hope that no one goes there. I hope that no one here will ever go there. Such a horrible place, unspeakably horrible. An eternal judgment in hell. But this is what would take place with those who do not want Christ, who do not want him to reign over him, who do not want him as king. That will be the penalty for that. So the lesson of the parable is clear. There will be rewards for Christ's faithful followers. There will be rejection for the false Followers, there will be retribution for the enemies. And each one of us here is in one of those three groups. We're in one of those three groups. I hope that you're a faithful follower of Christ. That you occupy until he comes, that you're doing the business of the kingdom of God, that the gospel of Jesus Christ is the center of your life. That you live for the gospel. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these other things will be added unto you. God will take care of all these other earthly matters. While we take care of focusing on his eternal matters, the king's business, so are you faithful? If you are, you can expect a rich reward when Jesus comes again. Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And let me just ask you again Friend, are you trusting in Christ in Christ alone? Every Sunday I seems like I plead with you to uh evaluate your spiritual walk, evaluate your where you are spiritually. And this is good because the Bible says, examine yourself, make sure you're in the faith. Are you a faithful servant? Are you occupying, are you doing business for the kingdom of God? Not talking about doing your own business. Really, the gospel should be such the center of our life that even the things that we do all do nothing but enhance And point to the gospel and the kingdom of God. That's all that it does. Our whole life is all about the kingdom and the gospel. Because Christ is our Lord, Christ is our Savior. We put our faith in Christ and Christ alone. Him and nothing else. And if you're not sure of that, friend, I would ask you right now, please talk to Christ right where you are. You can be saved right where you are, seated in that seat. Because it's salvation comes by faith. Putting your full faith in what Christ did. And praying the prayer I preached last time about the publican and the sinner, and the publican said, God be merciful to me as sinner. Save me for Christ's sake. That prayer right there is an expression of faith. It acknowledges that we're sinners. There's nothing that we can do in and of ourselves It's only Christ. Putting your faith in Him. Have you done that? Would you pray? Lord Jesus, save me. And if you're a believer, get busy for the kingdom. Get busy for the kingdom. Stop making your your world The priority, it should be his kingdom first. His kingdom. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.