Well, let me invite you to take your Bibles tonight. Open please to the book of 1 Corinthians chapter 9. As you know, we're studying this letter on Sunday night, and we're coming here to 1 Corinthians chapter 9. While you find that, tell you a story I read in in July of 2005, the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Rothesberger was asked by ESPN ESPN reporter to explain his decision to ride his motorcycle without a helmet. And Rosselsberger his response was, I don't wear a helmet because I don't have to. He said it's not the law. If it was the law, I would wear it, but it's not the law, so I don't have to wear it. That was his reason. And he said, you know, I just feel more free without my helmet. I feel like uh I don't have to do it. I have the liberty not to wear it, so I don't Well, unfortunately, Rosselsberger was involved in a motorcycle accident about a year later. A sixty-two-year-old woman failed to yield at a intersection and the quarterback Rosselsberger was thrown onto the windshield of her Chrysler town and country. The book the bike was totally uh destroyed. An emergency surgeon spent about seven hours repairing his broken jaw, fractured skull, missing teeth. and other facial injuries. After being released from the hospital, the interviewer came and said, What do you think now? He said, in the past few days I've gained a new perspective. On wearing a helmet and life in general. He said, by the grace of God, I'm fortunate to be alive. He said, if I ever ride a motorcycle again, I'll definitely have my helmet on. So I think he learned a lesson there. He had the liberty not to wear one. It wasn't the law. He chose not to limit his liberty there. And by choosing not to limit limit his liberty, it potentially could have disqualified him for ever really competing anymore in football And I use that illustration to say this is really the sum of Paul's argument that he's giving us here in chapter 9. Paul saying, look, I limit my liberty, and the reason I do that is because I don't want to be disqualified from the race of life. I don't want to be a castaway from life. In fact, look in chapter 9 and look down at verse number 27. He said, I keep under my body and bring it into subjection, lest that by any means when I have preached to others, I myself should be a documus, a castaway, disqualified It's the idea documus just needs to be tested to meet the test. You put the alpha negative in front of that in the Greek. Ah documus failing to meet the test Failing to meet the standard. This word is used to describe soil that doesn't do the work. It doesn't work anymore. The soil doesn't produce. It's used to describe something that is worthless. something that is spurious, something that is corrupted or not approved. It was commonly used to speak of metals that were rejected because of their impurities They were tested and found to be odd documus, worthless and useless. Now Paul is using an athletic metaphor at the end of this chapter, and it could mean it means here to be disqualified You can be disqualified in the race of life if you don't learn to limit your liberty. That's the message that he's giving here. Now, why does Paul hammer this? If you were here with us last week, you know that Paul talked about liberty. In fact, he's going to talk about this limiting your liberty, having liberty as a Christian, but learning to limit those liberties. He's going to talk about it in chapter 9 and 10. Talked about it already in chapter 8. And if you were here last week, you remember that he was referring to the libertine Christians in Corinth that were always giving their slogans and telling everyone they had liberty. All things are lawful And uh, you know, meats for the belly and the belly for meat. And we have knowledge that we're giving out these slogans as a way to say we have the liberty to do what we want to do as Christians. And they refuse to give up their liberty on the behalf of others. And so Paul writes to talk about this very issue. In chapter 8, the main message was love is better than knowledge. You might have knowledge, and that knowledge gives you the liberty to do the things that you do, but knowledge puffs up, and charity does what? It edifies, it builds up. And you should choose love. Love trumps liberty. Love should cause you to limit your liberty And Paul said at the end of chapter 8, and you remember the issue was what? It was eating meat sacrificed to idols, right? There were some Christians that believed they had the liberty to eat that meat, and others believed it was wrong. And so some of the Christians who believed they had that liberty, they chose not to limit that liberty on the behalf of others. And Paul said, you know, eating meat like that and not caring for your other brother and what they think about could destroy them. And you should choose therefore to limit your liberty. Look in chapter 8, look in verse 13, Paul sums up his argument. He said, Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth lest I make my brother to offend. Paul said, if eating this meat causes my brother to stumble or be offended in any way, then I won't eat the meat. I'll be a vegetarian, if that's required I'm going to limit my liberty. Now, in chapter 9, what Paul is going to do is he's going to hold himself up as an example of someone Who chose to limit a lot of liberties in his life. In fact, he uses himself as an example, as a model. He doesn't want the Corinthians thinking he's preaching to them one thing and living another. And so when Paul says to them, you ought to limit your liberties out of love for others, Paul's going to say, I want to use myself as an example of this very principle. And so he practiced self-denial. He practiced limiting his liberty for the good of others all the time. And that's the point that he's going to make. So in chapter 9, he's going to give two arguments. And we won't get through chapter nine, I'll just tell you that ahead of time. We'll try to do half of it tonight and the other half next week. But I want you to just see two arguments. First of all, he expounds his right to receive support. He's going to talk about that. And then secondly, he is going to explain his reason for refusing support. So first he's going to talk about this issue of being supported. And so Paul illustrates this principle of limiting your liberty out of love. In this area of ministerial support, or to be more specifically, financial support. Look at verse number three. He says, Mine answer to them that examine me is this. Look at the word answer there. It's the Greek word apologia, meaning a defense. The word examine anacrino is kind of a legal term used for an investigation or an inquiry made before reaching a decision. It was a word used by a lawyer arguing a case in court. And so Paul kind of pictures himself here as a lawyer, and he's going to argue his case in the court of law to receive, not not really the court of law, but in the court of the Corinthians mind, to receive financial support As an authentic minister of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he's going to lay his arguments out carefully. And by the time he's done, there will be no doubt that he's absolutely right When he argues this point. And what he's going to give us here in the first part of chapter 9 are six reasons why he had the liberty and he had the right to receive financial support from the Corinthians. Six reasons. Now again, he's talking about a liberty that he has. But we're going to see that Paul limits this liberty. He doesn't take it. But first of all, he's going to argue that he has it And so notice the first reason. I call this the proof of an apostle. In verse number one. Am I not an apostle? Now this verse is composed of four questions. all of which are rhetorical, which assume a positive answer. And notice he says, am I not free? Again, this is the first question in the Greek text, so I'm going to deal with that first. And so in the letter that the Libertine Christian or Corinthians sent to Paul, they made much of their freedom. They like to say, you know, we're free We're free to do whatever we want to do. As long as it's not outside the bounds or the commands of God's law, we're free to do whatever we want. And Paul asked this question at the very beginning: Am I not free? You know, you you talk about your freedom, you talk about your liberty, but I'm free, Paul says. I have liberty. And then he says, am I not an apostle? Again, this assumes the positive answer. Yes. Paul is an apostle. The only person who would have any greater freedom than the average Christian is who? An apostle. It's almost like Paul saying, you think you have freedom? I'm an apostle. I have more authority. Therefore freedom Then you would have. He was the Lord's chosen apostle, called and sent by God to take the gospel to the Gentiles. And you remember the story of Paul on the road to Damascus? He was there to persecute Christians, on his way to persecute Christians when the Lord Jesus met him and saved him. And then he gives some evidences of his divine commission. Look again in verse 1. He said, Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord. Now, an apostle had to be an eyewitness of the risen Christ, right? The Bible makes that very clear. In order to be an apostle, you had to be an eyewitness of his resurrection, and you had to be divinely sent by the Lord And Paul says, Haven't I seen the Lord? Wasn't I an eyewitness of his resurrection? Now Paul was not among the original twelve But he seen the risen word on the road to Damascus, and the fact that Paul was not among one of the original twelve may have caused People in Corinth and other places to begin to question his credentials as an apostle. But Paul says, look, I've seen the risen word. And here's another evidence. Look at the end of verse 1. Are not ye mine work in the Lord, the word work ergon, the result of someone's activity? And here's the point. The fact that this church was in existence And that many of the Corinthians were one to Christ by Paul was proof of his divine commission. Paul said the very fact that you're in the Lord The very fact that you're a church that was established by me is an evidence of my divine calling. The fruit of his life was an unmistakable evidence that he was sent by the Lord. Later in 2 Corinthians, when the false teachers entered into the congregation and they caused uh people to doubt Paul's apostleship. Paul will say this in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. He said, are we beginning to commend ourselves again? Do we need to write letters of recommendation to you or from you? You yourselves are our epistles, our letters of recommendation, we could say. You see, back in that day A traveling missionary would bring with them letters of recommendation from other authoritative people to show the people that they were sent by God And Paul said, do I need to get letters to show that I'm authentic? Paul said, look, you are my letters of recommendation. The very fact that you are in the Lord. The Corinthians should be the last to doubt Paul's apostleship because he was their spiritual father. You remember that Paul spoke about that. Go back to chapter four real quick and look in verse number fourteen. Chapter four, verse fourteen. Paul says I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you, for though you have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Paul said, I'm your spiritual father. They should be the last ones doubting his apostleship. And again, look what Paul says in verse number 12. If I be not an apostle and others, yet doubtless I am to you. For the seal of mine apostleship are ye are in the Lord. Paul said, if anyone should believe it, it should be you. Others might doubt my apostleship, but you shouldn't What is the seal of mine apostleship, Paul says? The fact that you are in the Lord. The word seal here is referring to in ancient times when they would send letters, they normally had a seal on the letter And that seal was a mark of uh authenticity, it was a mark of authority. Whatever was being sent had a seal on it to show that it was real, that it had authority behind it. And Paul said You are the seal of my apostleship. You are the proof of my genuineness in the Lord. And so Paul says, mine answer to them that do examine me is this. Paul continues to give a defense of his rights to receive support by asking more questions. Look at verse 4. Have we not power to eat and to drink? Here's another question. Have we not power to eat and drink? And Paul is saying, as a minister, an apostle, don't I have the right to at least expect food and drink will be provided for me? I mean shouldn't I at least get a meal out of this thing? You know, the fact that I'm preaching to you back in this day, missionaries traveled, preachers traveled, and they were dependent upon the hospitality of churches and Christians because there weren't There were inns, but they were very corrupt, wicked places, and they would not stay there. And so it was the obligation of other believers to take care of these that were God's servants. And they normally would give them a meal. They normally would give them drink. They normally would give them a place to sleep for the night. That's why the New Testament says so much about hospitality of believers. And Paul's saying, look, shouldn't I at least expect that? Expect that To get just a meal as a servant of the Lord? Look at the next question in verse 5. Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas And again, the word power there is exusia used six times in this chapter, and it refers to the right of authority. And Paul says, don't I have the authority and the power to take with me a believing wife? Paul said, I have a right to marry a woman. And I have her minister with me wherever I go. The other apostles' full names here, including Peter, all had wives That they brought around with them. He talks about the brothers of our Lord, referring to the sons born naturally to Joseph and Mary after Jesus. Paul himself was probably a widower, and he had the freedom and the right to marry a believer. But you remember that we looked in chapter 7 that he chose a status of singleness, although he had every right to marry, he chose to be single. But he said, look, I have this right To have a wife. The word sister there means just a believing woman. Or to have a wife, a sister, as well as the others. To take along the Greek word para ego, to carry about in one's company. It would have been helpful It was helpful to many of the servants of the Lord back then to have a godly wife that came along and helped them serve in the things of God. And of course, the same is true today. Ministers of the gospel should have wives that are right there with them in the work of the Lord right by their side. And I I don't want to embarrass Pastor and Mrs. Johnson, but in my opinion, they're the great motto of this one thing right here. It's a tremendous model of that all of their lifelong. And so ministry is a partnership between husband and wife. Many good ministers are hindered by the fact that their wives don't share in the gospel. And and Paul said, you look, we have we have the right to do this, to bring a wife if we want to. Look at verse 6. Or am I only and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working? In other words, don't Barnabas and I have the right and the liberty to refrain from work? To refrain from labor. The other apostles did not work to support themselves because they gave themselves completely to the ministry of the word, but that wasn't true with Paul and Barnabas. Paul and Barnabas worked with their hands to support not only themselves, but also the men who labored with them. And Paul, I think. Ask this question sarcastically. Is Barnabas and I the only ones that don't have the right to receive financial support by the church? We're the ones out there, we're laboring with our hands. All the others are receiving that financial support. Are we the only ones that don't have that liberty? And of course the answer is obvious. They had as much a right as anyone else to get their livelihood from the ministry. They had that right. And so Paul gives the proof of an apostle. But here's the second line of argument. The privilege of the workmen. Not only the proof of the apostle, but the privilege of the workmen. Look at verse 7. Who goeth a warfare at any time at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock? And eateth not the milk of the flock. And so in verse 7, Paul basically gives three illustrations to show that it's common for a person to get his or her living from their what? From their work. They get their living from their work. Common sense reveals that a working man gets his reward. From his own labors. It's first he talks about a soldier who goeth to warfare at any time at his own charges. If a man is drafted to be a soldier, the gu who pays for his expenses? The government does, right? They take care of him. They pay his wages. They provide all of his supplies. They give him what he needs. He's not warring at his own cost. Soldiers don't fight during the day and then work as a civilian at night to provide for themselves. No, they are supported by the work that they do. They're provided everything so that they can fight effectively. That's the idea there. What about a farmer? Who planteth a vineyard and eat not the fruit thereof? Does a former plant a crop and then go for work for someone else in order to eat and make a living? We could probably say that today in the US, maybe. But back then it was not so. He eats from the produce he cultivated and lives off the money he received from selling a share of production the crop. He lives from his own labor in his own field. He eats from his own farmer farm, the shear of crops. And then what about a shepherd? Who feedeth the flock and eateth not the milk of the flock? Shepherds don't work for free either. They expect at least some of the milk of the flock in payment. And so all three types of workers are paid for their work. It's a privilege of the worker to benefit from the labor. That's the point that he's making. It was customary. It was right. By the way, it's interesting that all three metaphor metaphors that are used here are used heavily in scripture to talk about God's people and the work of the Lord. God's servants are soldiers. God's servants are farmers. God's servants are shepherds. And it's right for them to be paid from the work. So there's the proof of an apostle There is the privilege of the workman, another argument he uses. Here's the third argument: the principle of the law. The principle of the law. Look at verse 8. Say I these things as a man. Or saith not the law the same also? Paul saying, do you think that this principle is according to my own human judgment? You think I'm using my own human reasoning to argue this point? Think about the law. And then what does Paul do? Paul proves that God's law teaches the same thing. And then he quotes from Deuteronomy chapter 25, verse number 4. Look at verse 9. For it is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox. that treadeth out the corn. That was a law. You couldn't muzzle the ox. It was wrong for several reasons. And I think I've explained this principle to you before not to belabor it, but it was not treating your neighbor with love. If you had an ox back then or you didn't have one and you wanted to borrow your neighbor's ox, And you wanted the ox to tread out the corn, and basically what they would do in those times is they would take the ox and he would trample over the corn and and he would shake the grain loose. from its husk and then they would come along and toss it in the air and the and the chaff would blow away in the wind and the solid grain would fall down on the threshing floor. The ox would just keep going around and around, treading out the corn, but you didn't muzzle the ox because he would eat as he went. Now if you borrowed your neighbor's ox and you muzzled them, it's because you didn't want that ox eating up the prophets. And so you would send your n your neighbor's ox back with hungry and starving, having worked all day. And again, I think I told you before, that's like borrowing someone's vehicle, they lend it to you with a full tank, and you give it back to them on empty. And that's what's basically going on here. You don't do that. You don't muzzle the ox. But in general, you don't muzzle the ox. If you own your ox and he was doing your work, you didn't muzzle your ox Because again that was not right for the ox, he was doing the labor, you didn't muzzle him. And so The unmuzzled ox, Paul said, was used here to teach a principle. This is what he's saying here. Look at the end of verse 9. Does God take care for oxen? Is this really the major concern that God has here? Paul, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, reveals that this law was made to teach us a principle. That's the point he's making here. Although all the laws of God he gave to Israel, not all of them apply to us today, but there are principles that we can extract from those laws that do apply. And that's what we do when we go to the Old Testament, when we go to the Old Testament law, we identify that law, we identify what it meant to the original audience. We determine the difference between the original audience and us today, and then we develop a universal principle from that law. We filter that principle through the New Testament and we apply that principle to today. That's exactly what Paul's doing here He filters it through and he applies it and he extracts a principle that we use today. In the Old Testament, the oxen were allowed to eat as they worked. That was their payment. Paul said, is God really concerned for oxen? Or does he say this for our sake? Look at verse number 10. Or saith he it altogether for our sakes? Is this law just for oxen or is he giving it to us? To teach us something? Of course, the answer is yes and no. God is concerned about animals. Some of you animal lovers out there, okay? Just let's Let me put you at rest. God does love animals. He prepares the raven its nourishment, the Bible says. He gives the beast its food. Jesus said God feeds the birds of the air, so God is concerned. However, the major concern here, the ultimate concern is not for animals But for people, for the service of the Lord. If God wants to be certain that oxen are paid for their work, how much more Does he want to be certain that servants of the Lord are paid for their work? That's the principle there The principle that God wanted to establish from this law is that human workers should be paid for their work. Paul's saying God was speaking this for our sakes. And by the way, later on, Paul will quote this same thing in 1 Timothy. He's saying that pastors and ministers should be paid In first Timothy five seventeen he said, Let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. Listen, for the scripture says, You shall not muzzle the ox when it treads out the corn. Uses the same verse there. So in verse 10, he says this, no doubt, this was written And that he that ploweth should plow in hope, and that he that threshes in hope should be partakers of this same hope. The plowman and the thresher should be able to work in hope of what? Sharing in the harvest. Sharing in the prophet. Paul had every right to apply this principle to himself as well. Look at verse 11. If we have shown unto you spiritual things, Is it a great thing if we reap your carnal things? Again, Paul's applying it to himself. He uses the pronoun we here, talking about himself and all of his co-laborers And he's saying, look, if we sow spiritual things to you, is it really a big deal that we reap back material things? That's what he means by carnal things. If we give you spiritual truth, if we give you the Word of God, it's really not a big deal that in return we reap back some material things out of that. It's not really a big deal. And so they sowed spiritual things to the Corinthians. Paul and Barnabas had every right to receive back, to reap back material. things and any called servant of God who works hard to sow spiritual things in the church has the right to reap the same, Paul says. And so um So he uses this argument regarding the uh the principle of the law. Now let me give you the next argument: the precedent of the past. Like they done the precedent of the past. Look at verse 12. If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather in other words, you have done this in the past for others, why not us? I mean you've already done it for other pastors. Now in the past, Corinth had other pastors that they had supported financially. In fact, they had always supported their pastors. Those that had supported the past, no doubt included Peter, who was there for time. Apollos, who was there And Paul said, if he did it for them, don't I have the right to receive it as well? And I think Paul all the more had the right to receive those blessings because he was the one God uses to found that church As the founding apostle or pastor, he had a greater right to receive those blessings than others. He had at least an equal right. to receive those things. And so there's the precedent of the past. But also write down the pattern of the priesthood. Here's another argument. Look at verse 13. Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar? Now, if anyone should know this, it certainly should be the Corinthians. They should have known that even workers in pagan temples in Corinth ate from the sacrifices that people brought. When a person brought their sacrifice, they would always take a portion of that for themselves, and so they ate of the sacrifices And that's true also in the Old Testament. When Old Testament worshippers brought their gifts, the priests would receive some of that for themselves. They would receive parts of the offering. They would receive the first fruits of the harvest. They would receive the meal of the firstborn animals. Tithes and offerings of the Israelites were also given to the priests in their temple. And so Paul uses that principle. He uses the argument, the proof of an apostle. the privilege of the workmen, the principle of the law, the precedent of the past, the pattern of the priesthood. But here's another argument. The proclamation of the Lord. Look at verse 14. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. That is, even Jesus himself ordained this principle. God's law and God's son agree and teach the same thing. Jesus affirms this from the Old Testament. Remember in Matthew chapter 10 when Jesus would send out his disciples on short-term mission trips, he would teach them, and then he would send them out, and they would all go out and they would Report back to Jesus. They would go out on a short-term trip, come back, and he they would they would report and then they would rest and they would evaluate and they would go out again. Paul kept sending them out. And he was preparing them what? For what? The time when he would leave and they would be by themselves doing the work. But Jesus gave them instruction. Luke chapter 10, verse 7. He said this and remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Jesus said, when you go out and you're ministering and you're serving, just stay in the house they provide for you And because you're worthy of the wages, do not go from house to house. In other words, what was he saying? Don't go from house to house draining people of their resources. Just stay in the same place, accept what you are given, because the laborer is worthy of his wages. And so Jesus establishes this principle at the onset of the ministry of the disciples. So Paul uses all these arguments, the proof of an apostle, the privilege of a workman, the principle of the law, the precedent of the past, the pattern of the priesthood, and the proclamation of the Lord. Like a lawyer, he compile he compiles compiles all of these arguments, and then there's a sense in which he rests his case. Any questions? So by the time you're done with this, when Paul says, Don't I have the right to receive financial support? Absolutely. You have that right. You have that liberty. This is an airtight case. But he doesn't take it. He doesn't receive it. And so in the second part of chapter 9, remember the first part, he expounds his right to receive support. And in the second part of chapter 9, he explains his reasons for refusing support. Although this was all within his right. He refuses to receive the support of the church at Corinth. Why? He limits his liberty? Why? Why do you do that, Paul? And by the way, this wasn't the first time that Paul limited his liberty by working with his own hands. If you read in the book Book of Thessalonians, 1 Thessalonians, Paul said the same thing. He said, You remember, brothers, our labor and toil, we work night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. While we proclaim the gospel of God. And you are witnesses, and God also, how holy and righteous and blameless we were in our conduct. He said in 2 Thessalonians 3. 8, Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. The support he received from the Macedonians was for work done elsewhere. In 2 Corinthians 11, Paul said, I robbed It's a church, a word used for a plundering temple. He said, I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you. But Paul didn't take money from the church at Corinth. He refused. He didn't want any kind of ongoing salary. At one point he was even criticized for this. In fact, in 2 Corinthians, he defends himself because they were saying, oh, he's too uppity to take our money That was one of the criticisms that the false teachers leveled against Paul. So why does he limit his liberty? Why does he refuse to take the support? Well go back to verse 12. Notice what it says there. If others be partakers of this power over you or not, we rather, notice the next part of the verse. Nevertheless, We have not used this power, or we could say liberty, or a right. We haven't used this right, but suffer all things. Why, Paul? Lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. He didn't want to hinder the gospel. That was the reason. Paul felt that if he did In a m in a way it could, in that setting at Corinth, he could hinder the gospel. And Paul said, I don't want to hinder the gospel. The word hinder there is a word that literally means cutting into it was used of breaking up a road to prevent an enemy advance. And it came to mean to put a roadblock in the way, to put an obstacle in the way Paul said, I don't want to put a roadblock or an obstacle in the way of the gospel advancing. I don't want to do that. He could receive support for the gospel. But he he thought that if he did at that point it would be an obstacle. You say, how so? Why would that be true? Because you have to remember again the context of what was going on at the city of Corinth. Remember there were all kind of itinerant teachers of wisdom going around and they were trying to garner pupils and disciples for themselves and they were giving out Greek rhetoric and man's wisdom and they were all doing it for what? They were doing it for money. They were doing it for a handout. And really it was all about money. They ran these expensive schools, they tutored uh uh children and made them their disciples This was all going on, and Paul said, you know what, I don't want people in the city of Corinth to think that I'm just another teacher of wisdom, that I'm out there peddling man's wisdom for money. I don't want people to think that about the gospel When he went into the city of Corinth, he wanted to be very different from them on purpose. Remember, I showed you this, but go back to chapter 1. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Look at verse number 17. Again, he talks about coming to the city. He said, For Christ sent me not to baptize, 1 Corinthians 1:17, but to preach the gospel, not with what? Wisdom of words. I don't want you to confuse me with these teachers of wisdom. Because why? The cross of Christ should be made of none effect. Remember I told you that you can preach the gospel in a way that robs the cross of its power If you do it in a way where people are swayed by your oratory and rhetoric, people walk away thinking, oh, that's how it gets done, that's how the church is built, that's how the gospel advances. We have to have people that silver-tongued orators to share the gospel. Paul said, no. Sometimes that gets in the way of the message of the gospel. Look in chapter 2, verse 1. And brethren, when I came to you, I came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified, and I was with you in weakness and in fear and much trembling. And my speech and preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom But a demonstration of the spirit and of power, that your fauld stand in the wisdom of men, but in the what? In the power of God. Paul said, look, when I came to you I was, I came with weakness and fear. I didn't use great oratory or eloquence. I just simply preached the cross. I preached Jesus Christ. I wanted you to know about Jesus Christ and Him crucified, and that's all. I wanted your faith to rest in the power of the cross, the power of the message, not in the wisdom of the orator. But in the actual power of the message itself, this same principle translates to receiving financial support. Paul said, I don't want your money. I don't want you to think that I'm just another one of those guys out there peddling doctrine and wisdom for what I can get out of it. I want you to know that the gospel is different from that. And so he didn't want people to think the gospel was just another philosophy. And so he did things intentionally to contrast himself against those men who were there. He limited his liberty so the gospel would be distinct and exalted when compared to all of those other messages that were inferior. The wisdom of man. And again, this is not the first time Paul has done something like that. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Just turn there with me for a minute. Look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Look down at verse number 3. Paul talks about coming among them. And he said, look, for our exhortation was not of the sea. We weren't deceptive in our message Nor of uncleanness, nor in guile. We didn't have some kind of hidden motive. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God. Which tryeth our hearts. For neither at any time use we flattering words, as you know, or nor a cloak of covetousness, God has witness, nor men sought we glory, neither you nor yet of others When we might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ. But he says this, but we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children. So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls Because you were dear unto us. Look at verse 9. For you remember, brethren, our labor and travail, laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you. We preach unto you the gospel. We didn't want you to think that the gospel came with a charge So we labored with our own hands, and we gave you the gospel freely, and we treated you like children. We were gentle among you. And so Paul when he went to Corinth, he didn't want to come there with his handout. As if he was looking for financial support He didn't want to hinder the advance of the gospel. And so Paul says, even though I have the right to receive this, I limit my liberty here. I choose not to receive it. Let me give you another reason and we'll be done and we're almost uh well time's up. You give me five more minutes, all right? We'll finish this up next week. But look at verse 15, go back to chapter 9. Let me give you a second reason. He didn't want the people to think he was motivated by money. Look in verse fifteen. But I have used none of these things, Paul said. None of these things, neither have I written these things that it should be done so for me. Paul says, Look I I I didn't use any of this. I chose to limit my liberty. And he says, I'm not writing and telling you this deceptively, hoping that it would be reverse psychology and you would feel sorry for me and you would start to give to me. Paul said, I'm not doing that. I'm not using subterfuge. I'm not doing that so that you would do something for me. He says this, for it were better for me to die. than that any man should make my glorying void. Paul was saying he's not interested in money He said, it was better for me to die than anyone make my boast an empty boast. He would rather have been dead than have anyone think that he preached and taught for money. And so his refusal to accept those wages came from a deep conviction. And he said, my glorying My boasting, my joy is that I can do this without receiving money. This was the joy that he had. Paul was so grateful for the gospel. He was so thankful for the grace that God invested in him that his joy was to be able to share the gospel and support himself. And do it without that financial support. That in a way was a reward for him. And he would rather die than have anyone think that he was in this to pat his pocket. Or to get money. So Paul limited his liberty there. Now in the rest of chapter 9, he's going to give a bunch more reasons why he did it. And so you need to come back next Sunday night to get the rest of that. All right. I'll spare you. I'm going to limit my liberty. To go on and we'll do it next week. Say what do we draw from this? You know what? Again, Paul's teaching us a principle, even though we have great liberty as Christians, if we don't learn to limit our liberties, we're not going to be effective as a servant. That's the thing that we take from this. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, help us, Lord, as I read about Paul and I read about his heart. His zeal for the gospel. So many times where I get convicted. So many times where I think about some of the selfish reasons I've done, the things that I've done. And Lord, I pray that you'll give me the spirit that this great apostle had. That, Lord, that love for the Word of God, that love for the gospel, that love for the grace that was invested in him. And his love for the people of God motivated him to continually limit his liberties on the behalf of others for the sake of the gospel. Lord, help us as a church to have the same burden to get the gospel out. Lord, all around us are people that need Christ. And so many times, Lord, we're so consumed with our own things. We're so filled with our own life and trying to make ends meet that we forget about the real purpose why we're here. To share Christ, that Christ would be known, that people would come to know the Lord. And so I pray, Lord, that you'll place a great burden of evangelism and outreach and gospel in our heart, that all of us would do our part. And if you call upon us, Lord, to limit our liberties at any time, we're perfectly willing to make any sacrifice. To make any limit in our life, to place any restraints upon us, so that the gospel will advance. May that be our heart. May that be our spirit. Use these words in our heart tonight, Father. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say that's my heart's desire? That God would use me as a messenger. Keep your hands up to get the gospel out. To be passionate about sharing the Word of God with others. And if that calls upon me to be sacrificial in my living, I'm willing to do it. I'm willing to do it. Father, bless these hands. Bless us together as a church as we seek to advance in the gospel, Lord, for your glory, not for the glory of anyone else, but for the glory of our Savior. As we said this morning, Lord, we boast in the cross. We glory in the cross, in the message of the cross. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.