Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Psalms, chapter 39, verse number nine, and we're going to consider just one verse this morning. And I would ask you just please to stand for the reading of Scripture. You won't be standing long. It's just one verse. Look at verse number nine of Psalm 39. The psalmist writes, this is David, who said, I was dumb, I opened not my mouth, because thou didst it. Pray with me. You may be seated. And and pray pray with me. Father, thank you for the joy of worship, for what we've already heard. Now, Lord, would you help me to make the truth of your word clear? that it might be edifying to all of these that you love so very much. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm doing a series on Sunday night called Echoes uh from Puritan pulpits where I'm just dealing with different Puritans that I have read. I'm a I'm one of those history nerds that reads a lot of old history. And Puritan writers are men that I have found have an incredible spiritual depth about them, Puritan pastors, and I feel like the modern church has kind of lost some of that. And so you know I've got a stack of Puritan books that I've been through again and again. And I want to share with you some of the rich spiritual truth that I have learned and am learning, I should say, as I'm reading through the Puritans and and uh I wanna I know I'm uh series is on Sunday night. I reserve the right to bring a Sunday morning sermon from that series every once in a while. Is that okay? Because I think some of the truth is so good I would want the whole wider church to hear it because uh s we don't have as many on Sunday night. But so I want to just speak to you about the sermon, The Mute Christian under the Smarting Rod. Now the Puritans, uh, these were voices that spoke 400 years ago. Uh they were spiritual giants. J. I. Packer said, if you want to understand what God-centered Christianity looks like. And in practice, then you go to the Puritans. One scholar said that when I read the Puritans, I feel like a pygmy standing at the feet of giants Another said that Puritans make you search your heart and lift your eyes. They teach you how to walk with God in public and in private, in joy and in suffering. The Puritans lived in a very difficult era of church history, and they lived through plague, they lived through persecution and pain. But they teach believers how to persevere through suffering, how to endure the trials that we all will face from time to time. Thomas Brook Brooks was one such Puritan. He was a London pastor. He preached in the seventeenth century. He was born around 1608. That was a turbulent time in England. He lived through the Civil War, which basically tore that country apart. And he knew personal sorrow like few people knew. Thomas Brooks tragically buried his young wife, who was the love of his life, and he never remarried after that. He lost several of his children in death. He watched the church he loved be torn apart by persecution, and then in 1665 the great plague swept through London, taking the lives of more than 100,000 people at that time. Um that was one out of every five Londoners died during that plague. Most people fled the city, but Thomas Brooks stayed and he walked those plague-ridden streets with a Bible in one hand and eternity in the other. And he said that a dying city should not be left without a living gospel. He visited the sick, he comforted the dying, and he buried the dead. And when the plague finally lifted, Brooks was a man physically weakened. He was a man that was broken by grief. He was crushed by unimaginable sorrow that he had seen, but he wasn't bitter. In fact, that only served to make him even more tender, and he became known as the tender shepherd who was able to help other people in their suffering And out of that crucible of suffering came the book, The Mute Christian Under the Smarting Rod. And this was a book that was based on a sermon that he preached that was based on one verse of scripture. And it's the verse that we just read, Psalm 39, verse 9. Look at it again. I was dumb, I opened not my mouth because thou diddest it In the midst of his sufferings and his sorrows, Thomas Brooks took this one verse of scripture in this in the Psalms and he began to meditate on it, and that meditation became the really the sermon that he preached and it brought comfort to multitudes of people that were going through very, very difficult suffering. It ministered to widows and orphans and other people that made it through the plague. It became a healing bomb to them. And this book that he wrote became really one of the the most famous and widely read, reprinted Puritan works of all time. Thomas Brooks died in 1680, but the words that he spoke through this sermon, through the book, really never died. That book has been reprinted over and over and over again. Charles Spurgeon said he listed it among the golden books of the Puritan era, and he said that basically Brooks scatters pearls and diamonds with both hands. Now, why does this sermon and the book just continue to minister to people? I want us to kind of look a little closer to at this and find out why. First of all, I want us to consider the title of the sermon. That's a unique title of our sermon, right? The mute Christian under the smarting rod, we forces us to ask two questions. First question is, what does he mean by smarting rod? He calls suffering and affliction the smarting rod. Smart is the Old English word meaning hurt or stinging. Or painful, it's to feel a sharp pain. It's the pain that you felt when your mother broke off a switch and be and used it on you. We can all relate to that, right? That staying, that that's the word smart in Old English. Now when my mother used this which on me, I didn't say, dear mother, that's smart, you know. I said ouch. You know And of course that's what that's what it means, however. Brooks' smarting rod is God's rod of affliction, fatherly discipline that hurts us, and then ultimately, however, it'll heal us It isn't the image of a punishing, angry judge, but the process of spiritual growth and sanctification that a wise and loving father will apply. to all of his children. Thomas Brooks wrote, Afflictions are but God's school, wherein his children learn to read their father's heart. And he calls it this morning, Rod, because sometimes the the trials and the afflictions and uh difficult providences that we all have to endure, they hurt, right? They're painful. We don't really like it, but we know ultimately it's for our good. When my mother took the switch to me, I knew down deep in my heart that it was for my good. I didn't like it But it was necessary. And so what does he mean by mute Christian? That's the next question. The word mute simply means to be silent, and it comes from the word here in The verse that we read, verse 9, I was dumb. And it doesn't mean to be intellectually dumb here. It just seems to be means quiet. The rest of the verse helps us understand, I was dumb, I opened not my mouth. And it just means that we are silent. When affliction comes, we are silent. And by silent, Brooke, it doesn't mean literally speechless. That's not the idea here. It means that we are submissive. to the rod when we have to uh endure it. It means that we do not complain, we do not grumble, we don't stubbornly react in anger to the smarting rod when it comes Our muteness or silence is an expression of our faith and our trust in God. So we're silent when it comes. Now David wasn't literally speechless when the the rod came to him, but he was spiritually still. He refused to murmur. He refused to complain. Brooks writes this: the mute Christian is one that seeth the hand of God in his affliction and lays his hand upon his mouth. So again, youth here doesn't mean to be silent, but rather submissive, a sweet submission. That's the silence that he's talking about. Quiet, not quarrelsome. It's not a stoic apathy, but it's a humble resignation to the will of God. in this affliction that may be on you. It's captured in the verse in Psalm 46, verse 10, when it says, Be still and know that I am God, right? That's the idea here. Brooks taught that a silent Christian is not one who feels nothing, but one who refuses to murmur, who can bow beneath the rod and still bless the hand that wields it. And we see this illustrated in the life of Job, do we not? When Job went through the trial and lost his wealth, he lost his health, he lost his children, all taken in one day. What does the Bible say? It says that Job fell upon the ground and worshiped. And he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord And then the next verse where it says, And all this Job sin not, nor charge God foolishly. In another place, Job said this, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I trust him. That is the mute Christian under the smarting rod. And again, Brooks wrote, when the hand of God is upon your back Let your hand be upon your mouth. This silence is the ultimate expression of faith and worship In fact, Brooks teaches that the holiest posture under the rod is a silence that is born of trust in God. He wrote this There's no greater proof of grace than to be dumb when God smites So if we want to we wanted to give this a more of a modern title to the sermon, we could probably say the silent Christian under the painful affliction. We could say it like that. Now another question we have to ask is, will all Christians have to experience this rod of God? And the answer is yes. We're all going to go through this from t at some time in our life. David is the writer of this psalm. David was the man after God's own heart, and David certainly experienced God's rod, the smarting rod in his life. If you look throughout Scripture, you'll find that all of God's people had to feel the rod at some point. And you look throughout history, you'll find the godliest saints are those who learn to be silent under the smarting rod. Now the question is why this silence, and I can't give you Brooks' whole book, but I want to give you just I want to draw from it some reasons why we are to be silent under the smarting rod. Here's reason number one. Because God is the author of the affliction. Because God is the author of it. Again, we see this in verse 9. Because thou didst it. And if you look at verse number 10, David talks about thy stroke and the blow of thine hand. David seemed to find comfort in knowing that God was sovereign or he governed over his affliction. If he was ignorant of the cause, that would be too hard to bear, not knowing where the cause was. But knowing that it was in the hand of God brought a measure of comfort to David, knowing that it is a wise and loving father that holds the rod. So we can draw comfort knowing that it's directly from God's hands. Thomas Brooks said the greatest relief and affliction was not found in understanding why it happened, but in knowing who allowed it. And this begs another question, how does knowing that God uh does it, how does that bring comfort to a Christian And the answer to that question is there is comfort in knowing that the affliction that we go through is not because of blind faith. It's because of a loving father, a wise father. It's not, we're not victims to chance. We're not victims to blind fate. If pain came by chance, or from the malice of men, or from blind faith, then the Christian would have every reason to despair. But because we know that the suffering comes from God, we know it has a purpose. If it came from blind faith, there would be no meaning for it There would be no cause for it. But knowing that our wise father brought it to us, then we can know that there's a purpose in this. There's a wise purpose behind it. It's not something that is done without significance or without meaning. And therefore we can submit to it. We can even rest in it knowing that it comes from God, knowing that he authored this whole trial. Remember when David was uh being punished because he numbered the people and God said, I'll give you three choices. You remember David's response to that? Uh this is recorded in 2 Samuel uh 24. David said, Let me fall now into the hand of the Lord, for his mercies are great. David said, I would rather this be in your hand, God. If this affliction must come, I want to know that I am in the hand of God. And in that there is a comfort to know that. There's a comfort in knowing that God's character governs the pain that we experience in this life. But here's reason number two, because the rod comes from love. This goes along with the first one. Naturally, out of that we know that since God is a loving God, that whatever stroke that he gives us from the rod, it comes in love. Revelation 3. 19, as many as I love, I rebuke and chasten. Thomas Brooks said that the rod in his hand is dipped in love before it's laid upon our backs. Well we remember that every smarting rod that God lays upon us has a loving purpose behind it, then we're able to be silent. Again, it's an expression of our faith. We see this in the life of Joseph, right? He understood at the end, he could look back and say, you may have meant it evil, but God meant it for good. He saw the loving hand of God. And in the betrayal and the slavery he was forced to face and the imprisonment and the false accusation and the years of delay and the deep sorrow he was able to say God meant it all for good But here's the third reason. We can be silent under the smarting rod because God measures every stroke, every affliction. And the classic verse on this is 1 Corinthians 10. 13. God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation make a way of escape that you might be able to what? Might be able to bear it. And the key point in all of this is that God sets boundaries on trials. He provides strength also to endure them. Every trial that you go through, God's put a limit on it. He's put boundaries on it, and he'll give you grace in the midst of it. That's what Paul remembers, remembering 2 Corinthians when Paul wrote he said, We're uh I wouldn't have you to be ignorant, brethren, of our trouble which came to us insomuch that we were pressed out of measure, above strength, even so much that we despaired of life You ever been through a trial that brings you to the very edge? This is where Paul was. And Paul said we had the sentence of death upon ourselves, but then later he says in the next verse. that but but God brought this upon us so that we wouldn't trust in ourselves, but in God which raised the dead. In other words, the God who raises the dead is the one who gives us strength even in the midst of that trial. The God who measures the affliction. He measures the grace as well. He will not send a burden without giving you the strength enough to carry that burden. There's limits. We see this again in the life of Job, right? Before Satan could get permission, God said, You can do this, but you cannot do this. He gave them limits. In Psalm 103, verse 13, 14, it says this: He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. God knows the breaking point of all of his children, and he knows that what ple pressure he can apply and every stroke from the rod of God is not meant to destroy us, but to help us ultimately, he will not give us more than we can bear. Isaiah twenty seven verse eight, it says, In measure when he shooteth forth Thou wilt debate with it. Debate is the idea of just sending affliction. Measure means to measure it out in exact calculation. So we could translate it like this. By exact measure and moderation, O Lord, you allow affliction on your people. And so God will measure it. He will know exactly how to administer the rod. He will tailor it to us just like a tailor will measure out the cloth to fit you. God will fit the stroke and the and the rod for each of his children. But here's reason number four. Why should we be silent under the rod? Because afflictions are the way to holiness. Afflictions are the way to holiness. Again, we saw in Isaiah 27, 8, where God calculates, he measures each stroke. Why? It tells us in the very next verse in Isaiah 27, verse 9. By this shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged. In other words, affliction is God's furnace where he burns away all of the dross. It's his medicine that cures us of spiritual disease. Thomas Brooks wrote, the rod in his hand is a refining fire, not a consuming fire. And we see this again in Psalm 39. If you look down at it again in verse number eleven, look what David says in verse eleven. When thou with rebukes dost correct men for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth Surely every man is vanity. And we see here again, it's directly from God when thou corrects. It's has a purpose for iniquity. God is targeting something in David's heart. That's why he gave him the rod of of affliction. And then this correction removes what is superficial. Look at the line. Thou makest his beauty to consume like a moth. God uses the smarting rod to strip away the superficial outer part of us. So that he might do a deeper work inside of us. God may remove temporary beauty the beauty of pride that sometimes we have. of comfort, of worldly security, so he can restore it with true beauty, an inward beauty, a beauty that is born of true holiness and purity in Christ likeness. Prosperity often hides sin, affliction exposes it. But the rod will remove all those idols of our heart and it will replace it with holiness. That's the highest goal. So we're silent under this morning rod because God is the author of the affliction, because the rod comes of love, because God measures out every affliction But and because afflictions are the way to holiness, but here's number five. Because affliction, afflictions prevent greater evils They prevent greater evils. And Brooks teaches that God's lesser pain often rescues us from a greater pain or a greater affliction. And so God's rod is preventative. Affliction stops sin before sin destroys us. And this is one I think the most pastoral and practical points that Brooks makes in the point in his book. And by the way, Scripture is overflowing with examples of this one thing, that the affliction prevents us from something worse. Remember the story of Jacob wrestling with God in Genesis chapter 32. God comes and wrestles with Jacob and God cripples Jacob's hip. And Jacob has to limp for the rest of his life. At the end of his life, just before he died, when he called his sons in to bless them on his deathbed, the Bible says this in Hebrews 11, 21. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph and worshipped Leaning upon the top of his staff. I love that. The writer made sure to remind us that Jacob limped all of his life. All of his life he had that staff. Leaning upon that staff, he worshipped God. The leaning on the staff was a symbol of leaning on God. Why did God cripple him to prevent Jacob from living his life in self-sufficiency and deceit? Before that, he was constantly lying. He was a deceitful person. God had to dislocate something in order to get him to teach him, to be a man of integrity and to to trust in God. It's better to worship God as a cripple. and have a close, intimate walk with God than to have a whole body and walk away from God. God gave Miriam in Numbers chapter twelve leprosy. Why? Her temporary affliction protected her from a permanent posture of rebellion. And God will sometimes have to do that with us. God took the prodigal son and had him go down to the pigsty, but it was the pigsty that delivered him from the cemetery. And Paul experienced the smarting rod all the time in his life. He had shipwrecks, he had a thorn in the flesh, he was stoned, he was whipped, he was literally beaten with rods. He had imprisonments. Why? All of that. Paul recognized that all of that was sent from God. Why? To keep him from being lifted up in pride. He understood that. Brooks said that God's rod is the schoolmaster to help us from greater mischiefs. But then here's reason number six, trying to get to seven. If you guys Be with listen well. I'll get seven. Number six. Because murmuring is a greater evil than suffering. Why should we be silent under the rod? Because complaining, murmuring is a greater evil than the suffering itself. And Brooks doesn't just encourage silence, he warns against sinful speech and suffering. Let's face it, we all we all like to complain at times. We've all been guilty of that. We seem to forget all the gracious gifts that God gives us every day. He loads us with benefits. He's constantly giving to us. And when we enter into a trial or affliction, it's very easy for us to start to complain We're kind of like the psalmist in Psalm 73. Remember, if you read that Psalm where he starts out really complaining the whole first half of the psalm, you know, God's good to Israel, but he's not good to me. Um, you know, he starts saying, It's you know, it's why why why live a righteous life? Look at the ungodly, they seem to have it better than I do. Why should I cleanse my hands? Why should I live a holy life And then in the middle of the Psalm, he kind of catches himself. He says in verse 15, If I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the children of thy generation. What he means is, if I said everything that I was thinking out loud, it would really offend a lot of people Which is a l lesson, don't say everything that you think. Especially when you're going through a trial. Don't complain out loud. He said if I did that I would offend people. But then you know what? He goes to the house of God and he realizes how wrong he has been to complain, because whom have I in heaven but thee? And there's none upon the earth that I desire besides thee. And he stopped his complaining. Thomas Brooke wrote, murmuring is the devil's music. God hates complaining. And we certainly see this in Scripture, do we not, when God delivered the children of Israel from Pharaoh? They murmured in the wilderness. They turned the miracle into a funeral. And God brought judgment. They complained about the manna. They complained about the water. They complained about the leadership. They complained about timing. They complained about hardship. God said, how long do I have to endure with this ungrateful congregation that murmur against me and their murmuring, not their suffering, is what that's what caused them to prom caused them to promised land. It was their murmuring. Murmering made a short victory march, it turned it into a death march. Because for forty years they had to Wander in the wilderness. God hates murmuring because it challenges his sovereignty, it questions his wisdom, it insults, insults his goodness, mocks his timing, it accuses his motives. Complaining is listed among one of the worst sins in the New Testament. Coupled with false teachers is complaining in God's estimation. And and Brooks, I don't have time to unpack it all, but he gives many arguments why you should not murmur when you go through a the rod, the smarting rod. Murmuring is rebellion against God, murmuring accuses God of wrongdoing, he says. Murmuring prolongs affliction. Silence shortens it. Murmuring prolongs it. Brooke said a murmuring spirit makes the rod heavier. And murmuring chokes praise and quenches prayer. You cannot murmur and worship. You cannot murmur and trust. You cannot murmur and give thanks to God at the same time. A murmuring heart is the grave of praise. And so let me give you the last one quickly here. We should be silent under the rod, and this is the best of all reasons. Number seven, because Christ was silent under his suffering. And all the sufferings of Christ, he was silent. And Brooke says, Christ our head was silent under the greatest suffering. Shall his members, the members, be mutinous? When the Christian suffers, he's walking the same path that Christ walked. And Christ did not murmur. He did not protest. He didn't resist. He submitted. He was silent. Not because he was powerless, but because he was obedient. He was trusting. He was loving. He trusted his father. And so he was therefore silent under God's rod. Scripture emphasizes this silence. I think if you look at the sufferings of Christ in Scripture, this one thing is emphasized more than all the other sufferings. that he was silent. He was silent. Isaiah 53 verse 7. He was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shear is his thumb, so he opened not his mouth. Isaiah's point is that it was not the lack of pain, it was the lack of protests that is why he was silent. Christ was silent in the Gospels in Matthew 26, verse 63, it says Christ held his peace. In Matthew 27, when he was standing before Pilate, he answered nothing. He answered him never a word. And Pilate marveled. Why did he marvel? Well, because men scream under injustice. They normally scream when they feel like they're being treated unjustly. But Christ was silent under the unspeakable justice In 1 Peter 2, verse 23, it says, When he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him who judges righteously. Christ didn't murmur, he trusted. He didn't complain because he was surrendered, absolutely surrendered to the Father's will. Absolutely. He didn't resist because he intended to save. And Christ's silence is our greatest example. And why is that? Well, because when he was silent under suffering, his suffering was infinitely greater than any we could ever bear. His pain was physical, it was emotional, it was spiritual, judicial. What God lays upon us is a light affliction. The Bible tells us us that is 2 Corinthians, right? These light afflictions. But what Christ bore was the weight of the world's sin. It was a heavy affliction. And he was silent under a suffering that he did not deserve. We deserve our rods. We deserve what God gives us, but Christ bore a rod he never earned. And another reason is that because his silence accomplished our salvation. By his silence, he secured our acceptance His wounds brought our healing. By his submission we are justified. And Brooke says that Christ's silence is the sanctifier of ours. He says, quote, Christ's silence under suffering sweetens our silence. So when we are silent under the rod, we are acting like Christ. In fact, you're never more like Christ than when you are silent under the smarting rod, when you accept it. That's not weakness. That's Christ's likeness. God's rod is a pencil to draw Christ's image more lively upon the soul. And that's what he teaches us here in this. So we kind of walked through seven reasons. I kind of went through them quick, but Let me just re review because why should we be silent under the rod? Well, because God is the author of affliction, because the rod comes from love, because God measures every affliction, because afflictions are the way to holiness Because afflictions prevent greater evils, because murmuring is worse than suffering, and because Christ Himself was silent under his sufferings. And by the way, Brooks gives a whole lot more reasons I just don't have time to give all of them to you. Just try to summarize some of this. As Brooks lay dying in 1680, friends gathered around his bed They wanted to know how a man who had buried his wife, lost children, endured a plague and persecution. and endured years of sorrow, how he could speak so tenderly of the goodness of God. And Brooks answered, he answered just above a whisper. He whispered only one sentence. And yet in this one sentence it kind of summed up everything he had preached under that one sermon that became so famous, The Mute Christian Under the Smarting Rod. He said this. Quote, a weak faith may swim in deep waters if it keeps its face upward. And then he added this softly, and these were the last words he ever spoke. He said, I'm leaving the smarting rod for the embracing arms. And that was it. That was it. No bitterness, no complaint, no murmuring, but just simple trust And Thomas Brooks died the way he lived, quietly submitted to the hand of his father, a mute Christian under the final stroke of affliction And by the way, that's what God is calling us to here in Psalm 39, verse 9. Not to understand every rod that we may receive, or not to enjoy it, but to trust in the hand that holds it. So today, whatever smarting rod that rests on your shoulders, lift your face upward. Just say like David, I open not my mouth, because thou didst it. God, you did it. And I know that if you're doing it, that it's wise, that it's right, and that this rod will not last forever. One day the silence of our submission will give way to the songs of glory when we enter into the presence of the Lord. And the hand that wounded us in love, the rod that wounded us The hand that held it will welcome us home in that time. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the comfort of your word. Thank you for those believers that have gone on before us. That have learned such rich truths that they pass them down, Lord, for us to embrace as well. All of us will experience the smarting rod in our life. There may be some right here now that are still feeling the sting of it. Lord, I pray that you'll teach them, me, all of us, by faith to be silent. A silence born of submission. A silence born of trust. A silence that is an expression of our worship to you, our trust that you are the wise, sovereign Father, and that you love us more than we could ever really express. And that every stroke, every measured stroke that you lay upon us has a divine purpose. Help us to be like our Savior, to be quiet. To be silent, to be submissive. Because in that is our growth. In that is where sanctification and peace and strength all take place. And Father, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. May they realize that Jesus wore those stripes Because of them. He bore the rod, not because of any sin that he had done, because he is the sinless Savior. It was our sins. That was laid upon him. That's the rod he wore. That we might have salvation for those who put their full faith and trust in Christ and Christ alone. Father, if there's someone here today that hasn't done that, may today be the day of salvation. With heads bowed and eyes closed, would you be willing to reach out in prayer and say, Today, Jesus, I trust you Trust you. Today I'm asking you to save me. I realize that you bore the rod for my sins. Those stripes were cut because of me. Please, Lord, forgive me. I turn to you in full faith. I ask you for salvation. Be merciful to me a sinner and save me. Friend, if you pray that he will receive you. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. faith in Christ. Let's all stand together. We're going to have a moment of invitation. Have some ministers down here. If you prayed that prayer, you want to make a public profession of your faith, just grab a minister's hand up here. If you need something to pray about, we're here to help you They'll take you aside into a room and help you whatever your need may be as we sing this invitation song together.