Take God's word tonight now, and I want you to open to the book of Revelation. Uh we are coming to the end of this uh this wonderful book and we're in chapter twenty-one tonight. I want you to look at that with me. Revelation chapter twenty-one And I want to talk tonight about the heavenly city. This is the theme of the chapter here that we're dealing with. You ever wonder about the place you're going to spend eternity in? You ever wonder what it's like? We should think about that since we're going to spend so much time there. And uh the place where we get our information is I told you before, I think it was maybe last Sunday night, was it, that we don't get it from man's speculations, we don't get it from Hollywood, some of those sentimental pictures about what's what it'll be like life after death. That's not the best place to get our information. The Bible says, I have not seen, neither ear heard, neither has entered to the heart of man. In other words, you don't you won't learn about heaven by man's experience or by man's fantasy or intuition. We don't need that because we have the revelation of Scripture. And God has given us some glimpses of what eternity in heaven will be like in the Word of God. And that's what we're going to look at tonight. That's why this chapter is an exciting chapter because we look into the new heaven and the new earth. And what it will be like here, and what the Bible calls the the uh New Jerusalem or the city there in heaven, a city that is unlike any other city. And so human history begins in a garden and it ends in a city. Uh mankind loses the paradise called Eden, but in the end, God grace reclaims the paradise called the New Jerusalem. And so when you read the book of Revelation, one of the things you should do is kind of contrast um and compare uh the first book of the Bible with the last book of the Bible. We see in Genesis the first man reigned on earth We see in Revelation, the last man reigns in heaven. We see in Genesis darkness and seas. We see in Revelation no more darkness and no more seas. In Genesis, a bride is presented to Adam. And in Revelation here, a bride will be presented to Christ. In Genesis, there is a tree of life in the garden. And in Revelation we'll see a tree of life in the new creation. And Genesis is the the beginning of sin and the curse. In Revelation, thank God it'll be the end of sin. and the curse. In Genesis, we see Satan who appears for the first time. And again, thank God in Revelation we'll see him appear for the last time. And when he's cast into the lake of fire. In Genesis, paradise was lost. In Revelation, paradise is regained. In Genesis, man founds his own city. But in Revelation we see a city not made with hands. Now in fact in Revelation Babylon is presented or a representative, we could say, of the city made by man. It is human in origin. It is a city of rebellion, but the New Jerusalem is the city that is made by God. Remember in Revelation, we saw this already that God calls Babylon the great harlot. In Revelation, God calls the new Jerusalem a bride, as we will see here. And so in Revelation, Babylon went up in smoke, and what we'll see here is in Revelation, Jerusalem will descend down in glory. Now with all that in mind, I want us to kind of take a tour of this heavenly city here in Revelation chapter 21. Jesus, remember he said, I go to prepare a place for you? I want us to kind of look at what he has in store, some of what the scripture tells us about that place. So here's number one, if you're taking notes, just write down the Presentation of the city. The presentation of it. Look in verse one. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth. And so here is this vision of the new Jerusalem. John sees this city descending downward out of heaven. And a few things about it. Notice the construction of it, I call it in verse number one, of that verse makes clear that God is going to create this new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the new earth will be, verse one, passed away. It says, So, beloved, don't get too tied to the things of this earth here. This earth is in the process of passing away, and one day it's all going to go up in smoke. Jesus himself said The present heaven and earth shall pass away. He said in Luke 21, heaven and earth shall pass away. And when that happens, God is going to create a new heaven and a new earth. And this event is called in the Bible the regeneration of the earth. God is going to take the elements of the old creation and he's going to He's going to melt it down and he's going to use those elements to make a new creation. This will be man's permanent home. God's first creation was scarred by man's sin, but the new creation will be pure It'll be without corruption, without sin, and that's the thing to look forward to. God will remake it. In Revelation 20, all sinners will be judged and finally dealt with. It'll be over. If you'll notice Revelation chapter 20, verse number 10, Satan, the beast, and the false prophet will be cast into the lake of fire. In verses eleven to fifteen, a very sad portion of Scripture, all unrepentant sinners and those not found written in the Lamb's book of life, what does the Bible say they're cast into the lake of fire? That's their eternal destiny. I can't think of anything more horrible than a person dying without Jesus Christ. That's why we need to share the gospel with everyone that we can and plead and beg and pray. for people to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. But I think it's no accident that right after all sin and sinners are dealt with in Revelation chapter 20, that you come to chapter 21 where God creates the new heaven and the new earth. Because again, the present heaven and earth is not pure in God's sight. It says that in Job fifteen, fifteen In Isaiah 24, verse 5, the earth also is polluted by its inhabitants, for they transgress laws, violate statutes, broke the everlasting covenant And so this sin-tainted creation now will be totally renewed where there'll be no more sin at all. A key verse, write down Psalm 102, verse 25. And verse twenty-six where God says, God says, you will change them like a garment. And so John will see the new heaven and the new earth And I think this is going to be a physical place. The one thing I want to point out is that this is a real city that God is talking about there. It'll be physical, just as Uh things are physical now. Some think in terms of it being kind of a ethereal entity, but it will be a physical earth with all the components that we see and we feel now, physical heaven and earth. just like we have right now. Randy Acorn writes this. He said, everyone knows what a city is, a place with buildings and streets and residence residences occupied by people and subject to a common government Cities have inhabitants, visitors, bustling activity, cultural events, and he goes on to name a bunch of other things, and then he finally says this. If the capital city does not have these defining characteristics of a city, he said it would seem misleading for Scripture to repeatedly call it a city. And that's a good point. That makes sense. You and I, in that time, we'll have a new physical body, a glorified body. How many will say amen to that? And so with this new physical body, we as real people with real bodies will live in a real city forever and ever, the new Jerusalem. Now John says there's one difference here, and that is there'll be no more sea during that time. And so this will be a wonderful place. This will be a new place because again the word new is used. Look again in verse 1, I saw a new heaven and a new earth Now the word for new here is canos. It's the word, it's not the word for chronology, not new in time, but it'll be new in quality or new in freshness is the idea there. Um now again there's this debate whether the earth will be renewed or will it be completely destroyed and recreated. And I think that um Uh uh Peter describes uh the recreation, we could say. So in 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 10 to 13, let me just read this to you. Or you can turn there, but the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in the which the heaven shall pass away with great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat Nevertheless, we according to his promise look for a new heaven and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. So that passage there indicates to me that God will basically take the old earth, the material of the old earth, it'll be melted down, and God will use those elements to make a new creation. You know, I I kind of liken it to uh These uh these um um uh businesses that basically take and they go in and they take the old metal out of a building And they will take that metal and they will melt it down and they'll make big beams out of it, or they'll sell it back to someone where that that same material will be melted down and all and the same material there will be used to make something brand new. This is exactly what I think God is going to do in the recreation. Let me read to you what Wayne Grudum, the theologian, said, he said it's it's difficult to think that God would entirely annihilate his original creation, thereby seeming to give the devil the last word and scrapping the creation that was originally very good. And I agree with that. I don't think God's going to let the devil get the victory. I think God will take the elements of the old creation and God will make the new creation. Again, the key to this is Psalm 102. He says, like a mantle you will roll them up Like a garment, uh they will be changed. It will be changed. And what will it be like? Well We will see a restoration again of all the pre-fall conditions of the world. All of that will return. It will be a perfect environment. The new Jerusalem will be the capital city of this new creation of the heaven and the earth. We see the construction of it But also I want you to think about the comparison of it. Look in verse number two. And I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. When I read that verse, I always get the sense that John is just amazed. Aye, John, saw the Holy City. I think we're going to have that same emotion one day. Aye, Jerry, saw the holy city. It's uh it's it's it's gonna be so wonderful that we're gonna be there. And you know, John has a very difficult task. He's gotta describe what he sees in this vision. I don't envy him in that, this beautiful city. He said that's coming down. And what he does is he uses a comparison. He compares it to a bride on her wedding day. The most beautiful day in a woman's life is a bride on her wedding day. When she is presented. And John says, just like a bride is presented on her wedding day, even so this new Jerusalem will be coming down from God out of heaven. And notice verse number nine. And verse ten, where it says this, and and uh it says, And there came unto me one of the seven angels, which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither And I will show thee the bride, the Lamb's wife. city, the holy Jerusalem descending out of heaven from God. Again, the city is called a bribe because heaven is so identified with its occupants, which is the people of God. The church, the bride of Christ, heaven will be filled with God's people there in that New Jerusalem. And so we see the construction of it We see the comparison of it. But also think about the company of it. Look in verse number 3, where it says, And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men. And he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself will be with them and will be their God. God will be in the midst of it. Heaven will not be heaven without God. You know, in the Old Testament, the tabernacle, did you know it was right in the center of the camp of Israel? Now now why was that? Did you know back in those days, nomadic tribes that traveled around They would have a king with them. And the king's tent was always right in the center of camp. And by God putting his tent right there in the center, of uh the camp, uh it signified two things. Number one, that God was their king. Uh that tabernacle was right there. Right in the center of the camp, all of Israel was camped around it, and God was there, and God wanted to signify that he is in the midst of his people. This holy God Was in the midst of his people. Now there is a problem there in the Old Testament scenario, and that is sinful man could not approach holy God. And that's why in the tabernacle, what did it have? It had the the uh Ark of the Covenant it had the mercy seat where the the priest would come and sprinkle the blood of an innocent animal And that's pointed to the future sacrifice of Christ, that sprinkling of the blood there, reminded that God in his mercy would forgive people because of the sacrifice, the coming sacrifice. of the Holy Son of God. And so that that mercy seat there was a reminder that until that time came, God's people could only come so close. So close. Sinful man cannot dwell in the full presence of God. But you know what? One day all sin will be removed in that time And God will dwell among his people. And we will be able to experience the full presence of God there in heaven And that's going to be incredible when you think about it. I can't even imagine what that's going to be like. In heaven, the tabernacle of God will be fully with men in that time. God Himself will be with us. We will see the glory of God. We will experience this wonderful presence unhindered by sin in any way. And you know, God has longed a fellowship with his people. And God created us to fellowship with him and to enjoy him. And I think that heaven is going to be this experience where we just we learn more and more about God. And the more we learn about God and the more we enjoy his fellowship, the more our joy increases throughout eternity. That's another thing it's hard to imagine. That our joy will actually get better and better. But the more we know of God, the more our joy will increase. Again, all that was lost And Eden will be fully restored and then some. So we see the construction of it, we see the comparison of it, the company of it, but also notice the comforts of it. Look at verse number four, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain For their former things are passed away. And this reminds me of that old song, There will be no tears to stain the streets of that heavenly city. You ever hear that song or that line? Well, that's so true. There'll be no tears in heaven. And this, you know, cities today, uh, you know, we're in a mess here. Uh uh you know, you don't need me to tell you that, you already know. But cities today are just filled with all the things that are mentioned here in verse number four. There's there's crying, there's sorrow, there's death. All these things. I mean you go down here to Baltimore City and knock on doors and you know what you'll find behind each door? You'll find sorrow. You'll find pain. You'll find death. And you'll find people that are suffering tragedies, but not so in the New Jerusalem, not in that city. None of those things will be a part of it. No more sorrow, no more pain, no more death. No funeral homes in the New Jerusalem, no hospitals, no painkillers, no morphine. None of that. Not in the city of God. All those things came about because of sin, and all those things will be removed And so the only death in heaven will be the death of sin and sorrow and the death of death itself. That will be the only death that we see there. It's hard to imagine all the wonderful things that we're going to experience. And so there's the construction of it. There's the comparison of it. There's the company of it. There's the comforts of it. But also notice the citizens of it. Look at verse number 6. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, and I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. Now, who is the he in verse number 6? It is the Alpha and Omega. That is none other than Jesus who is speaking here. Now on the cross, Jesus said it is finished, meaning the price for sin was paid. But in heaven, when he says it is done, what he means is that redemptive history has now been completed. God's plan has now been completed. All those who will be saved have been saved. And the city is now ready for its citizens. It's done. It's finished It's ready to be occupied. And verse number six, where it says, I will give unto him that is a thirst of the fountain of the water of life freely. I love the way a believer is described here. He's described as those who are thirsty. Now some might look at this and say, well, this is an invitation to the lost. No. Jesus just said it is done. It's done. This isn't an invitation to the laws, friend. If you want to get saved, you better do it right now. You better do it right now. By the way, there is an invitation to the lost. Go to Revelation chapter 22. Let me show you this. And look down in verse number 17. Here's one of the greatest verses in all the Bible. Look in Revelation twenty two, seventeen. And the spirit and the bride say what? Come. And let him that heareth say come. And let him that is a thirst come. And whosoever will let him take of the water of life freely. I love that verse. Three times. It says, come, come. Friend, if you're thirsty, come. You can drink of the water of life freely. That's a wonderful invitation. That's the invitation to the lost. Listen, come, but you better do it right now. Because there's going to come a time when the invitation now is only for believers that are there in that city. And they are thirsty. And uh you say, what are they thirsty for? They're thirsty to know more about Jesus. They want to know more of Christ, more of his presence. You know, if you're truly saved, you can't get enough of Christ. You want to learn more about Him. You want to know Him more. Anyone if I ever s I I don't think I've ever heard a believer say, you know, I I I've learned enough about Jesus. If anyone ever says that, I doubt their salvation. We want to know more of Christ, more about Jesus. And heaven will be filled with those who desire the Lord more, who desire Christ more. And then they're characterized as those who have overcome. Look at verse number seven. He that overcometh shall inherit all things, and I will be his God, and he shall be my son And verse number seven, where it says, overcome it, that's again one of John's favorite words that he uses often. It is Nike, and it's the word for victory. the one who is victorious. Believers are the victorious one. Friend, make no mistake about it. You are on the victory side. And God's people will be victorious in the end. And so these are the victorious ones. What a wonderful thing. But now in contrast, And this is sad, verse number eight. In contrast to the citizens of heaven, there will be the citizens of hell. And verse 8. But the fearful and unbelieving, and the abominable and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars. shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone, which is the what? Second death. Now, again, surely this is the saddest verse, or one of the saddest verses in all the Bible. When it speaks about those who do not know God and them experiencing the judgment, eternal judgment, which is the second death. Now Just earlier in chapter 20, verses eleven to fifteen, we see there the great white throne judgment when all those who have not repented, the wicked will stand before the Lord, and they will be judged. In fact, just back up. And look at verse number eleven of chapter twenty. And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. I told you before that Sometimes a person will get their judgments mixed up and they'll say, Lord, Lord, grant that I stand before thy great white throne. And I'm like, please don't pray that for me. I don't want to stand before that one. I want to stand before the judgment seat of Christ that's mentioned in 2 Corinthians 5. That will be the place where believers will be judged for their works. That is our works as servants, as his children. But here, this judgment will be for sinners, those who have not repented, and they'll be judged according to their sins and their works. And verse 12 says, And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were open. And another book was open, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books according to their works. They will be judged according to the books. What books? I think the book of thoughts, the book of deeds. And the book of life, if your n name is not written in the Lamb's book of life, you're not going to go to heaven. And so God will judge them out of these books. During that time. Again, this is a very sad time of judgment for those who do not know the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we see the presentation of that city, but now write down number two the preparation of the city. Look in verses 9 and 10 again of chapter 21. And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talk with me, saying, Come hither, and I will show thee the bride. The Lamb's wife. And again in verse 10. And he carried me away in the spirit to the great and high mountain, and showed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God. So this angel comes to John. And leads him to see the city. This is one of the angels that introduced the impending judgment of Babylon. And this shows again the contrast between Babylon and the New Jerusalem. One goes up in flames, the other then descends out of heaven. He says, Come here and I will show you the Lamb's wife. This was a title originally given to the church, but now it's expanded to include all the redeems of all the ages. This is the place they dwell. The marriage has taken place. And in verse 10, John is carried away to this high mountain. And uh there's several things that we see here that need to be emphasized. The divine origin, this is a city not made with hands. The builder and maker is God. That is to say, it's all work of God. Abraham was looking for that city. Now again I I read some commentators who say, oh, this is not literal. We need to take this is all symbolic. It speaks of something else and it's not really this and it's not really that. Well I'm not sure how else I'm supposed to read it. Someone should have told Abraham because he was looking for a real city. He was looking for a literal city. And so I take this literal. And so it comes down from out of heaven. It's indescribably beautiful. I mean, how do you describe this? I mean, it's just incredible. I I I think about sometimes uh stories of missionaries that I've read about where they go to uh the mission field and they they are among primitive tribes of people that have never in any way experienced some of the the the technology that we have here in in the in the modern world. Um and so they try to explain to these folks um you know w what what an electric stove is like. or what a ref uh a refrigerator is, or what or what an air conditioner is. And they're trying to explain all of that. And it's just so difficult to explain. You know, it almost seems, missionaries in their reports say it almost seems unreal to these people that we talk about a box and cool air comes out of this box. I mean they can't fathom that. How is that? And I think we we see a little bit of the same thing here. John is trying to explain to us this incredible city. And he's doing the best he can, but there are some things that are very difficult to explain in words. But he does a good job here. Notice the majesty of this city. Look in verse number 11. This city coming down from out of heaven, having the glory of God, and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal. And so John just compares it, really the jasperson I think is like a diamond. Uh one of those beautiful diamonds, crystal diamonds. Jonathan Edwards pointed out that this biblical the biblical images are very faint shadows that represent the joys of heaven. that humans will enjoy. These are just little shadows, little things that that really speak about some of the realities that are behind him. This city will radiate With the glory of God. The same glory that was seen in the Old Testament. Isaiah saw that same glory. Listen to Isaiah 60, verse 19. The sun shall no more be your light by day. Nor for brightness shall the moon give your light, but the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your God will be your glory. Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself, for the Lord will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended. This city will this will shine with the glory of God. We see the majesty of it. But then look at the measurements. Look in verse number 12. And it had a a wall, great and high. And had twelve gates, and the gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and the names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. And on the east three gates, and on the north three gates, and on the south three gates, and on the west three gates, and the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of God. And verse 15, and he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof, and the city lieth four square, and the length is as large as the breath. And he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal. And he measured the wall thereof, a hundred and forty and four cupits according to the measure of a man that is of the angel. And so his these these dimensions here are just enormous. They're just the Normans. Now we got the gates. There will be twelve gates laid out just like an ancient city. You know, twelve gates, um, you know, three on each of the four sides. John Phillips writes this, its twelve gates directed toward the four points of the compass are guarded by those mighty sentinels, one of whom in the one night could destroy all Sennacherib's host. No forbidden power passed through these strongly guarded gates. How strong is that city. And the the twelve gates had the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. This may be a reminder that all of salvation came through uh God's chosen people, the nation of Israel. And the 12 foundations we saw in verse number 14, that the names of the 12 apostles will be on those foundations. in verse number 14. And this is to remind us that the church was built on the foundations of the apostles, as it says in Ephesians 220. And the size of it. In verse 15, John sees this angel and he has his measuring stick and he begins to measure the city, and it's laid out in a perfect square 12,000 furlongs. The length, the breadth, the height are equal. This is equal, 12,000 is equal to 1,500 miles. So that means there will be plenty of room in this city. Now, again, some people interpret this symbolically, but again, I think it's literal. So to give you an idea of how big this city will be, if it were placed in America, it would reach from New York City to Denver, Colorado. It would reach from Canada to Florida. This is a surface area of about 2. 25 million square miles. Now by comparison, London is only 621 square miles. The ground level area of the city is 15,000 times that of London. I mean this this thing is just huge. It's huge. Now someone calculated that if this structure is cube shaped, it would allow for twenty billion residents. Each having their own private 75-acre cube. If each residence were smaller, then there's plenty of room to accommodate 100,000 billion people. And it's left enough room left over to do all the other things, parks and streets and everything that you would see in a normal city, you see. And you know, God has a place for us there. They'll have a place for us there. Seventy-five acres sounds good to me. I think I can deal with that. Long as I have an angel cut the grass for me. So this is the New Jerusalem. And notice the walls in verse number 17. Where it says the walls are 144 cubits high or 250 feet high, that is. Now in comparison, that's not high to the walls in the ancient cities. But again, I think that's symbolic. No one's gonna walls in the ancient cities were for for defense and protection. I think all of that is just kind of a representation. You see. It's really just to show. And notice the materials in verse number 18 of this magnificent city. And the building of the wall of it was Jasper. And the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass. And again, I believe the Jasper here is referring to that of a diamond, a crystal stone. The city itself will be made of gold. It'll be of gold. I think it'll be clear. And the foundation of the city was made of precious stones. Notice the stones that are mentioned here. in verse number 19. All manner of precious stones. The first foundation was Jasper, the second sapphire, the third, uh Chalcedoni, the fourth, and Emerald. The fifth are Sardanix, the sixth Sardius, the seventh crystal crystallite, the eighth burl, then the ninth topaz, the tenth, Christopracis, the eleventh, Jasant, and the twelfth and amtest. Uh all these are precious, precious stones, beautifully colored stones, and so they will provide a an array of colors. You know, our God is a God of who loves beauty. And anything that God makes is just going to be incredibly beautiful. God is will lavish beauty upon this city that He is preparing for us. And then of course the twelve gates that are made of pearl. Look what it says in verse 21. And the twelve gates were twelve pearls. Every several gate was of one pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were, transparent glass. Now, there's not a whole lot more I can say to all of that. Just kind of try to picture that in your mind. How beautiful that is going to be, the city that God is preparing for us. Now let me let me give you one final thing and we're done. We talked about the presentation of the city and the preparation of the city, but you know the best thing about this whole thing? The person of the city. Because the centerpiece of this whole city is going to be Jesus. He'll be the center of it. You know, every city kind of has a center, something it's built around. You know, New York is built around commercialism. Hollywood's built around movies, entertainment. Dallas is built the centerpiece of Dallas' oil. Las Vegas is built on gambling. Washington's built on government. This city will be built on Jesus. He'll be the centerpiece of this city. And notice that what we see here, Jesus will be in this city. He'll be the light of this city. He'll be the Lamb in verse number twenty-two. And I saw no temple therein for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it There'll be no temple or sacrifice. There'll be no need for a temple there. His blazing glory will fill the new heavens and the new earth. We'll worship him. Jesus will be the light of that city. Verse 23, and the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it, for the Glory of God to light it and the Lamb is the light thereof. You say, oh, there's not going to be any sun. Are we going to be in the dark? No. We're not going to need a sun then. You know, what's funny is um sometimes when I talk about six-day creation and and people say, well, you know, God said let there be light and the sun wasn't created until like day number four. How can there be light without the sun? Well, that's not a problem, beloved. We're going to have light without the sun all through eternity. Right here. No sun, no moon. God will be the glory of God, will lighten this whole city. Jesus is the Lamb of this city. Jesus is the light of this city. Jesus is the Lord of this city. And verse twenty four and the nations of them which are safe shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it And so notice that kings and nations will pay homage and glorify and honor him who is the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus will be the life of this city. Look in verse 27. And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth. Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but they which are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Those whose names Are in that book, those who are saved, those are the ones who will dwell in that city. And this is the place that God is preparing for you. And if you know Jesus, you're going to be there for eternity. That's our home. That's our city. It's going to be a wonderful thing. One time a man was walking beside a construction site. It was a beautiful church. It had a scaffolding next to it that went all the way up to the steeple. And some men were working and carving an oddly shaped stone on the ground. And uh the man that was walking there, he was saw that, and he wondered how that stone is going to be used for that building. And so he asked the workman, he said, What are you doing with that stone? And they said, We're shaping this stone down here. So it'll fit in up there. You know what God's doing to you and I? He's shaping us down here for what he's preparing for us up there. He's shaping us and getting us ready and preparing us for that eternal glory. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing to know that our loved ones who are already there are experiencing some of the glory of God. They're seeing some of these things. But God has so many wonderful things laid up for his people. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Heads bowed, eyes closed. We are stones in God's temple. He's shaping us down here. For what he has prepared up there. You know what heaven is? Heaven is a prepared place for prepared people. The question is, are you prepared? God has prepared heaven. The question is, are you prepared for it? And you know what? It's available to anybody who wants it. Anyone who wants this eternal life. You want to drink from that river? You can. Again, I want to read that invitation. And the Spirit and the Bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will Let him take of the water of life freely. Are you thirsty? Friend, are you thirsty? Just come. Just come. Make sure you know that you know. And then thank him. You say, man, I I've already I'm already drinking from that river. Well then thank him. Thank him a thousand times for his grace. That he's given us. Father, it's hard to even conceive. Well, we we have your revelation, we have your word, and we believe it with all of our heart. With all of our soul. We see it by faith. We see it But even there, Lord, it's hard to conceive. And all we can do is we can just say thank you for your mercy. Thank you for your grace. Thank you, Lord, that you want us to be with you. You want to dwell among us. You look forward to fellowship with us. And oh how we should look forward to fellowship with you and getting to know you there. Thank you for the blessings that we have, Lord. They are indescribable And we give you honor and praise and thanksgiving. And let, Lord, what we read here just again motivate our heart because we also saw tonight there'll be those, there'll be some, not everyone's going to go to this city. Lord, we we want all those that we love that we know, all of our family members, all of our friends, we want them to be part of this. So Lord help us to be passionate about sharing the only way of salvation with all who will hear. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.