Would you take God's word now tonight? Would you open please to the Gospel of John? I want you to find chapter nineteen, and I want you to look tonight at one verse with me, John chapter nineteen, verse number thirty. This is a familiar verse to us that have been saved for a while. Verse 30. When Jesus therefore had finished the vinegar, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and he gave up the ghost. I want to preach tonight on the one word that changed the world The person who spoke that the one word that changed the world was not a philosopher, it was not Aristotle, it wasn't Socrates, wasn't spoken by a poet. It wasn't spoken by a statesman like Churchill or Roosevelt. The one word that was spoken that changed the world was spoken by our Savior Jesus Christ. And he spoke it when he was on the cross here as we see in the passage of Scripture. Now when Jesus was on the cross, uh he uttered seven different statements, seven sentences we could say. Uh being crucified back then it was very, very difficult to talk. Um normally victims of crucifixion would die suffocation because They would have to be stretched out like they were on the cross. They would have to push up even to breathe or even to speak. And so this is why when Jesus spoke on the cross it was seven sentences and they were all very short words that Jesus spoke. But even on the cross, Jesus, the words that he gave were just incredibly profound. It was said of Jesus during his earthly ministry that never a man spake like this man spake. And we can say the same thing of his death. No one spoke like Jesus when he died. And just before Jesus uttered the words, um Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. He uttered the words on the cross that we read in verse number 30. It is finished. It is finished. This is the uh this is three words to us in English, but this one word in Greek it's the word to telesti. It is finished. Now let me be clear that what Jesus did not say, Jesus did not say, I am finished. This is not a first-person singular verb here. This is a verb that is third person perfect tense. And what that means is uh to give you a little Greek here, are you okay with that one this evening? Uh and as I taught you before, Greek verbs are the th the words that really carry the the weight I I I I like to say when you're studying a passage of scripture, perfect tense Greek signifies this kind of action, something that was completed in the past, but has ongoing, continuing results. That was the tense that Jesus used when he said, It is finished. What happened there on the cross, it was an event that happened at one moment in time, and yet the impact of what took place there has had profound implications since then The power of what happened when Jesus died on the cross, we're still feeling that today. It was Dr. Albert Schweitzer, who was not a a true believer to me, he was a liberal And he uh was said that when he studied the words of Jesus on the cross, uh he made the uh the decision or he made the conclusion that when Jesus said these words, that these were not the words of triumph, but rather it was a shout of despair. Oh how wrong he really is Jesus was not giving words of despair here. These were words of victory. So I want us to look at these words a little bit closer tonight as we think about the cross. And I want us to think about what Jesus meant when he said those words. It is finished. And there are five things I want you to see here that I have written down that I think that Really give us the meaning and and we could go on. It's these are at least five, but there's a whole lot more that what Jesus meant when he said these words. But number one, I think that when Jesus said is it is finished, it meant that Christ's suffering for sin was finished His suffering for sin. This is why Jesus came. He came to suffer for sin. No one ever suffered the way Christ suffered. There were many crucifixions that were carried out in Rome. In fact, the Romans did thousands of crucifixions, but none can compare to the sufferings of Christ. That's why the Bible says of Jesus, speaking of Jesus, there's no sorrow like my sorrow. My friend, salvation is free, but it's not cheap. It costs God everything. Jesus was fully God and fully man. He had a body, soul, and spirit, and therefore when Jesus suffered, he suffered in body, soul in spirit. He suffered physically. We know this because look in John chapter 19, look in verse number 1. It this we starts out by saying, then Pilate therefore took Jesus and scourged him. Now scourging is a uh is just an incredibly cruel process that the Romans would uh would uh do They had a long whip called a phylacrum. It had a handle with twelve inch uh a twelve-inch handle with long strips of leather And uh sewed into that were bits of metal and glass and bone and they would take a victim and suspend them between two posts and they would tethered at his wrists and he would be lifted up until he was stretched out in just the right position and they would begin to with him one person from the front would go from the neck down, one person from the back would go from the heels up And then we whip a person in that manner. And it was said that if no one really walked away from a scourging like that, if you moved at all, you crawled away by the time the Romans were done. And this is what they did to Jesus. They also played what what is called the game of the kings. Look at verse 2 of chapter 19. And the soldiers planted a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and they put him on on him a robe, and said, Hail King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. Uh this is this is uh what the Roman soldiers would call the game of the kings. They were kind of making a sport. There's a historical record of this or uh given also their etching on the floor uh buildings in jerusalem that talk about this game where the soldiers would play with the prisoners kind of like a cat plays with a mouse And they would uh they would circle them and then one they would shove them back and forth in the circle, and one person would hit them with their fist, another person would perhaps rip out part of his beard, another person would spit on them and Uh they put a they put something over his head and said, you know, prophesy to us which one of us struck you. They took a club and they beat him in the head with it after they put a crown of thorns on his head, perhaps driving the crown of n of nails or excuse me thorns into his uh head even more. And when they finished with him The Bible says that he was unrecognizable. In fact, and it prophesied this in Isaiah 52, 14. It says that as many as were astonished at thee, his visage was so marred more than any man And they mocked him, they knelt before him, and they called him the king of the Jews. And then they made him carry his cross. Look down at verse number 17. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of a skull. Which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha. And so they uh they made him carry his own cross. The journey from Pilate's judgment hall to the place of crucifixion was just a few hundred yards. But victims of crucifixion, even though they had to carry their own cross, uh some could not make it the whole way. I mean this is this was the case with Jesus. He was so weakened from the loss of blood already that he wasn't able to carry his cross the whole way. And Luke records the story of a man who was compelled to carry the cross of Christ for him. But then it says here in verse 18 that they crucified him, where they crucified him and two other with him on either side one and Jesus in the midst. So Jesus in the middle of two thieves crucified between two thieves. There's no way to describe the pain as the nails were driven into his hands and into his feet there at the cross. The Bible also tells us in verse 24, and there there were men who were the soldiers that were at the cross, they cast lots for his garments. Roman law permitted the execution squad. Any minor possession that the executed person may have had, they could take it for themselves. And so they would cast lots to find out what they took. And the Bible says in verse 24 They cast lots for um for what Jesus for for his his garment that was there that he had. And this was all according to the fulfillment of Scripture. The Bible tells us that in verse number twenty four. That this fulfilled Scripture And that that says in verse 24 that the scripture might be fulfilled which says, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. Jesus suffered physically. There's no way to really adequately describe the physical suffering that Christ went through. But also I think Jesus suffered in his soul. I I think that in the Garden of Gethsemane already the Bible says as he prayed he began to sweat as it were great drops of blood. He was in such agon agony of soul because Jesus knew that he would have to bear the sin of the world He who is holy, who is sinless, the thought of bearing sin or becoming sin in a way by bearing the sins of the world That was what Jesus shrunk back from, not doing the Father's will, because you remember in the garden, Jesus said, Father, not my will, but thine be done. But this was a natural reaction of holiness to sin. To the idea of being the sin bearer. The Bible says he was in in agony already there. And then I think Jesus suffered spiritually On the cross, you remember Jesus, one of the things he said, and this was recorded in Matthew 27, Jesus said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And why did he say that? I think this was the precise moment on the cross when Jesus was bearing the sins of the world. And when there was a separation between the fellowship that Jesus had always had. All throughout eternity, there was fellowship between God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And for this brief moment In time in the history of redemption, there is a separation from God the Father and God the Son. God the Father turned his back. When Jesus bore the sins of the world upon himself, Jesus never stopped being God. There was just simply a separation of fellowship for that moment. And I suggest to you, friend, that that was a time of the most intense suffering for Jesus. He suffered in his body, he suffered in his soul, he suffered in his spirit when he was separated from the Father there on the cross. And again, there's no way for us to really conceive in our own mind all the suffering that Christ endured. Jesus, who is infinite, suffered in a finite period of time, what you, being finite, would suffer in an infinite period of time. He took all of your hell and my hell on himself on the cross when he died. On the cross, Jesus baptized his soul in hell for us. Jesus took our hell that we might have heaven. And when Jesus said it is finished, what he meant was all the suffering for sin was over. It was done. But here's the second thing it meant. I think it meant all the prophecies concerning his death were fulfilled. We already looked at one in verse number twenty-four. Where there was a prophecy about his garments that they cast lots for. Again in chapter 19, verse 28, it says this, after this, Jesus, knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst. That's an incredible verse because Jesus knew all things. He knew that all the prophecies about his death on the cross were fulfilled, except this one. And just this this to me just shows me he was in complete control. He was omniscient. He knew that everything was accomplished except this one thing. And so, fulfilling scripture, Jesus said in verse number 28, I thirst. This is prophesied in Psalm 69 verse 21. In Psalm 69, 21, it says, They gave me also gall for my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. And again, this is a reminder that everything that took place on the cross, everything that happened was by God the Father's design and plan. This was not an accident This was an event that was planned all the way from eternity past. It was all providential. Christ was the Lamb slain before the foundations of the world Now one thing to note about this is that in Matthew 27, verse 34, it says they gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall, and when he tasted that He turned away. He didn't want to drink that. That was a sedative kind of a painkiller that was supposed to dull the pain of a crucified victim. But Jesus refused that Because he wanted to uh to drink the full cup of God the Father's wrath for sin. He wanted to bear that in the fullest way. that he could. But what they offer here in this passage is totally different. This was a kind of a cheap sour wine the soldiers commonly used when they were there at the cross to quench their thirst. And there was always a jar of it nearby, and someone had a sponge on it, and they they lifted it up to Jesus and he he took a drink and he drank again in order to fulfill scripture. And verse number twenty nine. Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar, and they they filled a sponge with vinegar, and put it upon Hyssop, and they put it to his mouth. And when Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said it is finished. He knew that that was it. All prophecies were fulfilled. Everything was done. All the things that the Old Testament said about his crucifixion, it was all finished. But I think there's a third thing to this meant, not only that the suffering of Christ was finished, but all the prophecies were fulfilled. But a third thing that it meant was that the power of Satan was finished. The power of Satan was broken. In Jock twelve thirty-one it says, Now is the judge now is the judgment of this world, now shall the prince of this world be cast out. And that's what happened. There's an interesting verse in Colossians 2. 15. Having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a show of them, openly triumphing over them in it. When Jesus died, he defeated Satan and his myriad demons. When Paul gave this verse, he was comparing the triumph of Christ on the cross to Roman triumph. When he used the word spoiled, that has the idea of stripping off the clothes. He made a show of. That's a Greek word that means to make a public spectacle. And again, Paul is referring to a Roman triumph. You know, when a Roman general went on foreign soil and won a victory, a herald was sent back to the city announcing the victory. And the city would prepare for this triumphant general to come back in. He would he would ride down the via triumphant there in the city of Rome, and all the city was prepared for his coming. They would burn incense. That's where you get the phrase, the sweet smell of victory. All over incense was burned in the city of Rome They would throw rose petals, you know, like we have ticker tape parades today, you know, people would be throwing rose petals at the victorious general. The the victorious army would march in, followed by the general And you know what? They would always have chained to the chariot of the victorious general. They would have chained the defeated general to shame him. And he was stripped naked. And he was shamed publicly. And this is what Paul said happened at the cross. Jesus, the victorious general, shamed the devil. Jesus had complete, total victory over Satan and the kingdom of darkness there on the cross. And by the way, in the in the triumph always with join the joining the victorious general was some of the general's family and children, because they shared in the victory. You know what? We're sons of God. We share in the victory of the Christ on the cross. That means as a believer, you know what? You don't have to worry about Satan because God has already given you the victory in Christ. You already have that victory. Satan has been shamed. He's has been subdued. He has been defeated. We share in the victory of Christ there on the cross. But then there's a fourth thing that it meant. It meant that Christ's suffering was finished. It meant that all the prophecies were fulfilled. It meant that Satan's power was broken. It also meant that the full provision for salvation was finished. The full provision In the 19th century in Egypt, where the sands are dry, a uh pieces of papyrus were found by a man by the name of Adolf Disman. And uh they were they were business papers, they were correspondents, they were real estate papers, they did it all the way back to the to the uh time of the New Testament. And be and like finding them was kind of like finding a treasure trove because they found so many words in Greek on those papyrus manuscripts that we find here. in the New Testament. One of the words that they found on these papyrus manuscripts is the word that we're studying tonight to telesti. And what they found was it had a lot of nuances of meaning. It was a very significant word. Let me tell you how it was used back then. It was a servant's word. When a servant was finished, all that the master had given him to do, when he was finished, all of his duties, he would go to his master and he would say, Tatelasti. It's finished, it's done. And that's what happened on the cross. Jesus would go to the Father and say, Father, I finished all the work that you gave me to do. It was all done, it was all finished. In John 17, 4, he said, I have glorified thee on earth, I have finished the work which thou gavest me to. But also Tetelestae was an artist word. When an artist was carving out a statue or painting a picture, and when he got finished his masterpiece, he would stand back and he would say to telestai. It's done. And Jesus on the cross put the final beautiful strokes on God's redemptive masterpiece, the portrait of salvation. Jesus finished the final strokes. with his death there on the cross and he said it is finished. But also this word to telesti, this was a word that was used, it was a merchant's word. When something was bought and paid for They would write on the receipt to telescope, paid in full, completed, the transaction was done. And on the cross, when Jesus died, what he was basically saying was, the price for salvation has been fully paid. It's completely done. You know, every once in a while I I hear preachers say something like, Well, you know, Jesus after he died, he descended down into heaven, he suffered in hell. You know, that was all part of paying for salvation. You know, Jesus had to go and die and and go to hell for those three days. And I want to tell you something, beloved, I don't see that in scripture anywhere. Now Jesus may have gone according to Second Peter to Tartarus. Uh he descended and preached to the spheres in prison there, the Bible says, but the word for preach is not Uangeleon. He wasn't preaching the gospel. It's the word carusso. He was pronouncing victory. Jesus was announcing to the kingdom of darkness that he had completely triumphed, that he had total victory. He didn't go to hell to pay for anything because on the cross Jesus paid it all. And very frankly, that takes away from the cross. That whole idea that he had to go to hell and you know stay there for a while. Listen, when Jesus on the cross said it is finished, he meant it. That means all of the price of sin was paid for. Nothing else had to be done. No other suffering had to happen for Christ. It was all finished. This word Tatelesti was a warrior's word. When the final battle was over and the victory had been won, on the battlefield the warrior would say Tatelesti. And again, Jesus won the victory. It was a prisoner's word. When a person was put in prison in that day, they would normally have a uh a handwriting nailed to the prison door of all the crimes that this person had committed. If the person was crucified, they would have uh the crimes nailed to the cross that this person had committed But friend Jesus committed no crimes. You know whose sins were nailed to the cross? My sins. Your sins Those were the sins nailed. The Bible says in Colossians 2. 14, blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross. All of our sins were nailed there to the cross. And Jesus, when he said, to tell us die, man, it's finished. Those sins are paid for. Those sins are Completely paid for. This was also a priest's word. Did you know when a priest back in Jesus' day What he would go into the temple, he would sprinkle blood. Well he first he would go to the brazen altar and uh the the lamb was slain and they would take the blood to the into the holy place, and and then into the Holy of Holies, and the priest would sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat there, and then he would come back out of the Holy Holies, through the Holy Place, into the outer court, to the door where people were waiting, and he would say to the people waiting there, To tell us thy. It's finished. It's all paid for. It's all done. And I think that when Jesus used this profound word, he was meaning all of this. But he was saying the cross was the brazen altar where the lamb was slain and the blood was shed. The cross was also the mercy seat where God's wrath was satisfied for sin. You see, God is a holy God. He demands that sin be punished. But he's also a God of love, and he doesn't want to punish you or me. So the Father's wrath had to be satisfied And it was Christ's death on the cross that satisfied the wrath of God the Father, so that we could have salvation. Let me give you the fifth and final thing that I think Jesus meant. He meant that this his suffering was finished, that the prophecy prophecies were fulfilled, power Satan was broken. The full provision for salvation was finished, but number five, it meant that Christ's relationship to sin is finished And so should ours be. Let me show you one passage. This is a beautiful passage. Look in 1 Peter chapter 4 as we close this out. Look at 1 Peter chapter 4. Look at verse number 1. 1 Peter 4. 1 says this, for as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh. Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. I love that. Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. For he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. What does it mean, arm yourselves? That's a military term for a warrior getting ready to put his armor on, getting prepared for battle. The word mind means attention and your intention, your focus, your purpose. It shows that this we should have the mind of Christ. That's what Peter's saying See, how does all this apply to to you and me? I'll tell you how. The same mindset that Christ had when he went to the cross with regard to sin should be our mindset if we want to have victory over sin in our life. Say, what does that mean? Notice where it says, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now that last phrase presents us with some interpretation challenges. Uh there are four basic ways that that scholars argue over how to how to interpret that, but let me give you the correct way here. When it says, for he has suffered in the flesh. The word he here is Christ. And verse 1, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now the reason people have a problem with saying that he there is Christ is because when it says that he ceased from sin, it seems to imply that perhaps Jesus before that had sinned, and now that he suffered, now he ceased from sin. But that's that's not what that means, obviously. And it doesn't need to mean that. In fact, Peter already affirmed twice in this letter that Christ was sinless. Go back to chapter 2. Look at verse 22. We know Christ was sinless. Look what it says in chapter 2, verse 22. It says this, who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. That is, while Jesus was being tried and He was being crucified. He didn't sin. Neither was guile found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but he committed himself to him that judges righteously. Jesus was completely sinless. Look in chapter 3, look at verse number 18, where it says, For Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. The righteous one. Jesus never sinned. He was the sinless Son of God. So what does it mean in then in chapter 4, verse 1 when it says, for he that has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. What does it mean? Jesus ceased from sin. Well, what this means is not that Christ ever sinned. What it simply means is that Jesus had a relationship with sin, but his relationship with sin was not as a sinner. He's not someone who sinned. You say, what was his relationship with sin? He was the sin bearer. That was his relationship. And once he bore the sins of the whole world upon himself, you know what Jesus' mindset was after that? I'm done with sin. I don't have to bear it anymore. It's all over. It's finished. I'm done with it. And I never want anything to do with it again. It's over. That's what Peter says. That's when he says, arm yourself with the same mind. That should be the mindset of us believers. Because of what Christ has done for us on the cross, our mindset ought to be, I don't want anything with sin. Because of what it did to Christ. That's what he's saying there. You know, every once in a while I'll hear a believer say something really pious, like, you know, oh, you know, I'm struggling with sin, but I lay my sins at the feet of Jesus. Friend, don't do that. He's done with sin. He already died for your sins on the cross. Here's an idea. Just don't do it. Just forsake it. Just have the same mindset that Christ had. I'm done with it. And beloved, when you're tempted to sin, you need to remember that mindset. The mindset that Christ had, where you say, I I'm done, I'm finished, I want nothing more to do. And Peter what Peter's doing here is he's encouraging believers to look at the cross and to see the mind that Christ had when he died on the cross. That mind that said, I'm finished. It is finished. I'm finished with sin. The price for sin is paid for. It's all over with And that is a holy mindset, is what Peter's saying. That's the mindset that we need to have. We need to arm ourselves with that, Peter said. Arm yourselves. Likewise, you know, the apostle Paul, he tells us to put on the whole armor of God, and he gives all the pieces. With Peter it's really simple. There's this one piece, this mindset. You make sure you have this mindset in your war against sin. Now that you're a child of God, now that you put your faith in Jesus Christ, the finished work of Christ, now that you belong to Him, you need to have that same mindset that Christ had. Arm yourself with that. As we meditate on the sufferings of Christ, we need to remember that And so reminds me of the hymn that we sing, What wondrous love is this, O my soul, that caused the Lord of bliss to bear the dreadful curse. For my soul, to bear the dreadful curse for my soul. And so may we have this mindset, the mindset that Christ had where he said, I'm done with it, I'm finished with it So when Jesus said it is finished, it meant that his suffering for sin was finished. It meant that all the prophecies concerning his death were done. It meant that the power of Satan was broken. was made. It meant that Christ's relationship to to sin was completely over with. It was finished. And so should ours be. Let me close with it. Deal Moody was a great evangelist. He lived in another era. And one time he was on a train and the uh engineer or the train was a religious man, and he heard that Moody was on the train. And he sent word back to the conductor and said, Send Moody up that he could sit down here with me and we can talk the cab here. And so Dale Moody went up to the cab and he rode with that engineer. While they were riding along, they were discussing religion. And this man talked about how he thought he was going to be saved because of his his good works, his rituals, and and keeping the commandments and all those sort of things. He said, of course, he also believed that Christ died on the cross for him, but he also thought that it was Jesus what he did plus his own good works and that could bring salvation. And Moody, of course knew that that was wrong. And he remembered the words of Christ when he said it is finished. And at the end of the ride, D. L. Moody said to the engineer, he said, you know, the difference between your plan of salvation and the Bible way is the way it is spelled. It's spelled differently. You spell salvation do do. I spell spell salvation done D-O-N-E, done. It's done. There's only two religions, do religion and done religion. And later H. A. Ironside would say that. He would pick up on that and say There's only two religions in the world. It's man's religion says it, what must I do? And God's way is it's already been done. It's what Christ has already done. And salvation is putting your faith, your full faith, in what Christ has already done on the cross. When he paid the debt of sin and he said, it is finished. It is finished. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so while your heads are bowed and eyes are closed, I just I want to ask you to examine your heart tonight. And I want to ask you, have you put your your full faith in the finished work of Christ? What are you trusting in for salvation? What is your hope in? The songwriter said, My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. And I encourage you tonight to put your full faith in the finished work of Christ for salvation. It's not what you can do. It's not trying to be religious. It's not works, it's not any of those things. Salvation is recognizing that Jesus is the Son of God, the sinless Son of God, the Virgin-born sinless Son of God who came to this earth and Paid sin's debt when he died on the cross. He paid all of your sin debt. And it's recognizing that and putting your full faith in the finished work of Christ. It's saying, Lord, I know that you died for me. Forgive me, save me. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out If you haven't done that, I encourage you to do that right now. Would you pray right now where you are? Just say these simple words. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Say that. I believe that Jesus died for the sins of the world, and he died for my sin. And I'm asking him now for forgiveness and salvation. Come into my heart, save me, Lord Jesus. It's putting your full faith in Christ. That's it. That's it. It's simple, yet it's so profound. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen