Now open your Bibles to the book of Matthew chapter 22 this morning. Matthew chapter 22. As you know, I've been talking about some parables, teaching on the parables of our Lord Jesus. These are beautiful stories that illustrate spiritual truth. And this morning I want to talk about the parable of the wedding banquet and really answer this one question: Are you dressed for the wedding? That's really the whole idea here in this parable. I remember on my wedding day, funny thing kind of happened. I was wearing a white tuxedo. And I would counsel to you guys, don't ever do that Because I got a black soil mark right on the knee area. I mean it's just a big black soil mark. I mean when you're wearing a white tuxedo and you have a big black you know, Mark. It's kind of obvious. And I was just um you know, I was so anxious about that And I had one dear lady, she came to me and she said, Let me help you out. And she had some spot remover and she was able to remove that spot and save me uh for my wedding day. Well, we're going to read the story here about a man who came to a wedding, but he was wearing soiled stained clothes. And it cost him more than embarrassment. In fact, uh it it it really brought judgment to him. And this story has a great message for us today. Now, in this parable in chapter 22, this is the third in a string of parables that the Lord Jesus gives to the religious leaders in Israel. This is on Tuesday of the Passion Week Jesus is debating uh these these religious leaders in the temple and really he answers this one question by what authority do you do these things? They said to Jesus, Who gave you the authority to do these things? What things? Well he had cleansed the temple. Uh he had uh cursed the fig tree. Uh he said that this temple belongs to me and my father, and they're saying, Who you know, where did you get the authority to do this? And Jesus answers that by giving a string of three parables. This is the third, this is perhaps the most powerful parable that he gives. And it's the parable of the wedding banquet. And Jesus is going to teach us the uh that salvation is really an a invitation to a wedding and a wedding banquet. And for those who refuse that invitation, there are consequences. And this applies to that day because the Jewish leaders and many of the Jewish people did not receive Christ. And so really this parable illustrates perfectly John 1 11, he came unto his own, and his own received him not, but to as many that do receive him. So I want you to see three aspects of this wedding parable. Number one, if you're taking notes, write down the illustration of The wedding. Look in verse number one. And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son. And again, these verses paint a beautiful picture of salvation. Salvation is pictured as a wedding. Did you realize In many places in the Bible, that's how salvation is pictured. Did you know that one day when we go to heaven, the Bible says we're going to go to the marriage supper of the Lamb? You know that? Someone wonders, are we going to have eating in heaven? Well, according to that, if you take it literally, we will. And it'll be a marriage supper. And those who know Christ will be there because the church collectively is the bride of Christ. And when he receives us one day, we will be there in heaven. And really to understand the wedding uh uh uh imagery in the Bible, you have to understand a Jewish wedding. I know I've given this to you before, but let me just give it to you qu again quickly. There were three stages in a Jewish wedding. First of all, there was the covenant stage. This is where the prospective groom would leave his father's house, go to the bride's father, and he would basically negotiate a contract for the bride. This reminds us about Jesus, doesn't it? Because Jesus left his father's house, came to earth, and he negotiated a purchase price for his bride. You see, the groom would have to pay a price for the bride, and of course Jesus paid with his own precious blood. Now when the groom would negotiate the contract with The bride's father, uh, at that point, the contract was signed, and they were legally married at that moment. This is called espousal in the Bible. They were espoused. Did you know the Bible says that when we are saved, we are espoused to Christ? We become part of the bride of Christ legally. That's the covenant stage. And by the way, they normally will celebrate that by uh having uh some wine together and some bread together. And we just took partook of the Lord's Supper. Remember Jesus at the Last Supper drank wine, and he ate bread, because this was really letting everyone know that he had negotiated the covenant. He was going to pay the purchase price for his bride, which would be what? His own precious blood shed on the cross. There's the covenant stage. And then there would be the claiming stage. You see, what would happen then was the groom would go back to his father's house. He would then begin to prepare a place for his bride. Normally that's what would take place over a year. For twelve months he would be preparing a place for his bride and he was going to come back and receive her. She never knew when he was coming. She had to always be ready for when he would come. And then he would come and he would claim his bride. That was the claiming stage. By the way, did you know that Jesus went to heaven and he's there? You know what the Bible says he's preparing a place for us? And you know what we're waiting for now in this age? We're waiting for the bridegroom to come and to receive the church. One day we'll hear the words, Behold the bridegroom cometh Go ye out to meet him. That was the claiming stage. He would come and claim his bride. And then after that, there would be the marriage supper. This would be the celebrating stage. There would be a marriage supper, and normally this would last seven days. You talk about a party. Seven days. All that time it would be a marriage feast. And when Jesus comes to receive his bride, he'll take us there to the Father's house, the place that he has prepared for us, and we will have the marriage supper together. So this is what's going on here. In this, the the marriage supper is being prepared. Invitations are being sent out. That's the illustration of the wedding. So then write down number two, the invitation to the wedding. Because again, the wedding feast is being prepared here in this parable that Jesus gives, and the invitations are being sent out. Look at verse 3. And the king and sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding, and they would not come. I want you to notice this is an exclusive guest list This feast would last seven days. Those invited would have to be willing to come to be a part. And by the way, this wasn't just any wedding. This was a royal wedding. This was the king's son. And that culture to be invited to something illustrious as that would be a great privilege. And uh, you know, how many of us have ever been invited to go to a royal wedding? That that doesn't normally happen. We were over in England. uh just before that wedding, um I did not get an invitation from Prince Harry to go to the wedding. So a bit disappointed. We're not really invited to a royal wedding that much. But here, this man he sends out the king, he sends out invitations. Notice there's the first invitation, and by the way, normally there were two invitations. The first invitation sent out was after the covenant stage, when he knew that his son was going to get married, he sent out invitations and let everyone know this was a general invitation, you're going to be invited to a wedding feast And then after a year he would send out a second invitation. Now that would give people plenty of time to get ready, wouldn't you say? You get an invitation a year in advance. That we give you time to mark it on your calendar to make sure to clear out everything to come to this wedding. So the first invitation is sent out in verse number three He sends forth his servants, his dulas, to call them that were bidding to come. But here's the incredible thing, the refusal, but they would not come. This is shocking. This is unheard of. This is the epitome of rudeness to reject an invitation to a wedding, but especially the wedding of the king's son. This was unheard of. And the people listening to this parable would think that this is just preposterous, that this would happen. I mean, this would be such a privilege. I mean, think of the food that would be put there. This this Uh this layout of food. This would have been such a great privilege to come. And really it was more than an invitation. Since it's the king's son, it would be an obligation to go This was not so much an invitation as it was a command. But they did not come, the Bible says. And this is in the imperfect, stressing repeated refusals. They refused to come But then look in verse number four. Again he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner My oxen, my fatling are killed, and all things are ready. Come unto the marriage. Again, a second invitation went out, even though they refused the first one I mean, this would even be shocking in itself. To receive a second invitation after you've already refused the first one? This was grace on the part of the king. I mean, this first invitation, by the way, this is a parable, and so Jesus is speaking to the religious leaders. Who would the first invitation represent or those sending out the first invitation. This would be the Old Testament prophets announcing the coming of the Messiah. What about the second invitation? This would be John the Baptist, his preaching in Jesus' day, and even Jesus himself. That would be represented in the second invitation. And notice what he says, I prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fatling. These are things, foods that people normally wouldn't eat back then. Bulls and fatted cattle were reserved for special guests. The king had his best. Set up. This dinner would be the first of many meals. Remember, I said this would be seven days long, seven days of feasting. And notice the command: come. Come in verse number four. Come unto the marriage. Everything is already set. Everything is ready. And you know what this speaks to us about? The invitation to salvation. And the sufficiency that we have when we come to God as sinners. When you come to the banquet table at Christ, you know what? You're going to be satisfied. He blesses us. He gives us the works, right? He gives us the fountain of living water to wash away our sins. He gives us the indwelling Holy Spirit to replace the anxiety we have, and he gives us peace. He gives us power. He gives us joy to replace any depression. We have fellowship with him every day, this gracious Savior. Peter said it like this: His divine power has given us all things that pertain unto life and godliness. He blesses us. But notice not only did they reject the invitation, look at verse 5, but they made light of it And went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise, they simply refuse. And then they made light of it. That is, this is no big deal. Really no big deal. We're just going to go back to what we normally do. They acted as if as if there was no invitation at all. They went back to their work. One to his farm, another to his merchandise. And so on. In in the Gospel of Luke, which gives a parallel account, it gives it it gives the excuses that they gave. One said, Well, I just bought five yoke of oxen and I have to try them out. Can't come. Another said, I just got married, so I can't come. These are all these pitiful excuses. I want to say I bought a field, can't come, I go look at it. Really? Don't you look at the field before you buy it? Bad excuses. Trifling excuses. And you know what this represents? People who reject the gospel today, their excuses are so pitiful. Why they don't come to Christ? Why they don't receive the invitation to this wedding where they would be blessed beyond measure. What a privilege to be invited! And even more of that, commanded to come. Aren't you hungry? Don't you want to come? But people make up all kinds of excuses, and they don't come. But not only that, this this group goes a step further. Look at verse 6. And the remnant took his servants and entreated them spitefully and slew them. Wow, this goes beyond unthinkable. As an insult, not only do they not come, what do they do to the servants that invite them? They beat them, they kill them. That's just incredible. Again, this first group represents the Old Testament prophets. The nation of Israel beat many of them. They killed many of them. The second group represents John the Baptist and Jesus himself. What did they do to John? You remember he got his head cut off They rejected Christ. They go beyond what is right. And so what does the king do? Look in verse 7. But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth. And he sent forth his armies and destroyed those murderers and burned up their cities. And here Jesus is being a bit prophetic because what would happen to the Israel, what would happen to Jerusalem and those Jews that rejected that generation that rejected Christ. You know, not long after that, a Roman army came into Jerusalem and they just tore the place apart. destroyed the temple, that beautiful temple that Herod had built. And literally in the temple itself not one stone was left upon another. Many were killed. And here, this is the rage of the king, because they did not receive the invitation. So, but what does the king do? Look down in verse number eight. Then saith he to his servants The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid them through the marriage. So the servants went out into the highways and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good, and the wedding was furnished with guests You see, the king is not going to allow his son to be so dishonored. He has everything prepared. And those who were invited initially, the first group, they weren't worthy. So the king says to his servants, you just go out and you invite anyone you see into this wedding. There's no person who's uninvited. It doesn't matter who they are. You just invite them into this wedding banquet. What does this say? What is the Lord Jesus saying here prophetically? That the message of the kingdom, the message of the gospel, is not just for the nation of Israel, it's going to go out into all the world. And everyone is going to be invited to partake of this. They're going to be a part of it So invite anyone you see. Anyone. Why? What's the point? We're not going to allow the son to be dishonored. So we're going to get as many as we can into this wedding feast. You know one of the greatest motivations for us to go and share the gospel with other people, you know what it is? You say, oh, we want the church to be filled. Well, of course, we all want the church to be filled. That's good, but that's not the ultimate motivation. You say, what's the ultimate motivation? Because every person that gets saved brings more honor to Jesus. It brings more glory to Jesus. We are not going to allow the Son to go dishonored. And so when we go out and we share the gospel and we invite people to this wedding banquet, and people come to know Jesus Christ, they come to the wedding, it's more honor for the bridegroom, it's more honor for the son And if there's any desire in you to see Jesus Christ be honored, that will motivate you to share Christ with others all around. There are no bad invitations. Everyone's invited. Everyone Everyone that you see. The Englishman Henry Martin served as a missionary in India for many years in the 18th and 19th century. When he first got to India and he first went to a pagan temple there and he saw the people worshiping their gods, he burst out of that place with tears. And when he arrived back at his place, he took out his diary and he wrote that he could not endure existence if Jesus was to be so dishonored. You see, because in him his mind, to see people worshiping false gods, gods that are not, it dishonored the sun. It dishonored Christ. And so his heart was motivated by the honor of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we're to go out and we're to invite as many, notice where it says, as many as you find. Verse 9, go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid them to the marriage. So look in verse 10. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good. And the wedding was furnished with guests. Luke, again, his version gives a little bit more detail about the type of people. He said they went out into the streets, and they brought in the poor and the crippled and the blind and the lame. They just invited everyone, and the servant came back and said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is still room. So go out and keep inviting more. You know what? There's always room at the cross for someone else. The kingdom's never full enough. So just keep going out and keep involved. You know what's interesting? These people that actually came, they probably had legitimate reasons why they couldn't come. A poor man could say, well, I don't have anything decent to wear to a feast like this. A crippled man could say, well, you know, I I can't get anyone to get me there or carry me there. The blind could say, well, I don't I don't think I can find my way I don't think I can see enough to find my way. The lame could say it hurts too much to walk, to get that far. But you know what? None of them used any of those excuses. They all found a way to get there. You know why? They were hungry. They felt the privilege of the invitation. They accepted because they knew that they were invited, and they knew that this was such a great opportunity. They dare not turn down this invitation, yea, even more than that, a command. to come to the wedding. Now someone says, well, you know, the type of people that are there, well, you know, that doesn't honor the sun, does it? Oh yes it does You know, the Bible says you Mary, when she was told that she was going to have the Messiah, she said this He hath put down the mighty from their seats and exalted them of low degree. Prophetically, she said, you know what the Messiah is going to do? He's going to lift those of low degree to a place of exaltation. You know that's exactly what happens when we come to Jesus. He brings us we who are low, we who are really nobodies When we come to know Jesus, he exalts us in Christ. And we bring honor to the Son. And so I want you to see the last part. Got to get there quickly. The illustration of the wedding, the invitation to the wedding, but write down number three, the indignation at the wedding. Because look what happens in verse 11. And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment. And he saith unto him, friend, how cameest thou in hither, not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. So there's a part here. What happens? The king's house is full. The king comes now to greet his guests. The fact that the host did not eat with his guests was a sign of great courtesy of that day. Here, this king comes, and he He comes to greet these guests, and he sees that first of all, the guests with no robe in verse 11. He's still a man that had no wedding garment. He was a man that had gained entrance into the wedding, but he was not appropriately dressed. Now, although the invitation is given out to all, everyone is expected to have the proper wedding apparel when they come to the wedding. This is part of the culture. Not to do so would be a great Now someone might ask, well, how could the king expect beggars and the lame and the blind and the poor to be able to afford such expensive wedding garments to go to the wedding How can he expect them to do that? Well, there's an answer to that. Did you know it was common cultural practice that at a royal wedding, when the king invited guests, you know what the king did? He provided the wedding garment. He gave them a beautiful robe, a royal robe to wear. We see this in the Bible. When Joseph's brothers went to see Joseph, Joseph gave them robes. And Esther says, let royal robes be brought, talking about the way the king honors someone. He will give them royal. Robes, he'll give them wedding garments. She see when guests accept the invitation, they would be given their garments aware To that wedding. The garment had been provided. Otherwise, it would be a mockery for the king to invite someone to the wedding and then rebuke them when they came and they didn't have the right garment if they couldn't afford it So how can you know that for sure? Because look at the end in verse 12 it says when the king asked him about the wedding garment, he was what? Speechless. He had no excuse. If he was poor, he could have said, King, I'm honored to be here, but I'm so poor I I couldn't afford that kind of garment. That would have been a legitimate excuse. But he was speechless. Why? Because the king provided the robe. So we see that the guest with no reply. We see the guest with no robe. The guest with no reply. He was speechless. That's the guest with no repentance. You know why? Because again, all this is a beautiful picture. When you're invited to the wedding You have to have the right apparel. But guess what? You don't have to produce it yourself. He gives it to you. And what does this robe represent? It represents the righteousness of Christ. When you're invited to salvation, friend, you can only be a part of the kingdom if you're righteous. But you know what? We have no righteousness in and of ourselves that can satisfy God. But you know what he does? When you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, he furnishes you the garment of righteousness. It's not our righteousness, it's the righteousness of Christ. And we put on that righteousness. We're clothed in that robe of righteousness. That's what we're going to be wearing in heaven. The righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this man, he's speechless. This garment is a free garment. It was purchased by Christ. It's a faith garment. We put it on by faith when we received Jesus. And it's a fitted garment. You know why? Because it's going to fit you perfectly. But this man he didn't have the robe. You know what, there's not going to be any wedding crashers in the kingdom. This man just went in. He decided that he didn't need the robe, that he was just going to be himself. And this was really kind of arrogant to think that he could come. One person writes this the man had been utterly presumptuous, thinking he could come to the king's feast on his own terms, in any clothes he wanted. He was proud and self-willed, thoughtless of the others. And worst of all, insulting to the king, arrogantly defying royal protocol, he was determined to be himself You can't be yourself in the kingdom. You better receive the garment provided by the king. And so this man was an imposter. And so what happens to him? Look in verse thirteen. And the king said to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into the outer darkness, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. It's a serious thing to reject the goodness of the king To reject, first of all, the invitation, but then to assume that in and of yourself in your own way that you can do your own thing and be accepted by God at the wedding and not receive the robes that he has provided. But look at the last verse for many are called, but few are chosen. And really we have to see this in Semitic fashion where without the article when it says many, that's really a universal expression. We could say it like this, all are called all are called Few are chosen, that meaning not all will respond, but all are invited, not all will come, but the invitation is to all And friend, if you come, you better put on that wedding garment and be dressed correctly for the wedding. Because those that are not will be cast out. And so there's a message here. And so the question is, are you dressed for the wedding? Are you dressed correctly? Are you standing in salvation wearing the robes of righteousness provided by Christ because you put your faith in what He did for you on the cross, the finished work of Christ? But here's the second thing. I know that most people here would say, yes, that's where I stand and thank God for the righteousness of Christ given to us at salvation. But are we doing our part to invite others to this wedding feast? The Bible says, go out there into the highways, into the hedges, and compel them to come in. You know why we do it? To give honor to the Son. Is there a desire in your heart to give honor to Jesus? Help us to invite them to this wedding banquet. That's the message of this parable. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, again, we are so in awe of your word These parables that teach us spiritual truth. I pray, Father, that we would take this to heart. Because, Lord, you are speaking to us. This is your command to us. Your command to anyone here that's not saved is to come. Come to the wedding feast prepared for you. Are you hungry? Come. And then Lord, those of us who are your servants to go out into the highways and into the hedges and compel them to come in. So my first invitation with heads bowed is friend are you do you want to come? Are you hungry? The invitation is for you. He just says come. Will you obey Well, by faith you reach out and receive that wedding garment and put on the righteousness of Christ. You say, how do I do that? Just pray. Ask Him, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know it. I reach out to you in faith today, and I ask you to save me. Forgive me for my sin. And friend, put on that garment of righteousness by faith. And then for those who know the Lord, are you are you Do you have a desire to honor the sun? Would you help us to go out and invite others to come? Come This is a lost world. And the answer is Jesus Christ. The answer to the the problems of this world is not political maneuvering. It's not better legislation. It's not Better judges, all those things are good, friend, but those are not the answers to this world. The answer to this world is Jesus Christ. And we need to be busy about the master's business. There's still room and there's still time. How many say, I'm going to take this personally and be more Thoughtful about inviting others to Christ, would you say that's me today? Before God, I want to get involved in in compelling others to come to Christ. I'm taking this as a personal challenge If you're not doing it already. Father, bless these hands and these hearts. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.