Um would you take God's word tonight? And would you please turn to 2 Timothy chapter 2? 2 Timothy chapter 2. We're going to look at just one verse tonight, but it's a verse that's so very rich. And it has a whole lot in it for us just to think about and meditate on. And I want to, I'm calling this the mathematics of church ministry. While you're finding that, I read a Reader's Digest article stating how mathematics has changed through the years in education. And it demonstrates the change by giving this math test and how this math test has changed through the decades. Let me read you the 1960s version of this arithmetic test. Quote, a logger cuts and sells a truckload of lumber for one hundred dollars. His cost of production is four fifths of that amount. What is his profit? No, you don't have to tell me. Twenty bucks, right? Anyway, nineteen seventies version. Seventies new mat test. Quote A logger exchanges a set of L of lumber for a set M of money The cardinality of set M is 100. Set C of production cost contains 20 fewer points. What is the cardinality of set P of profits? Here's a 1980s dumbed-down version. A logger cuts and sells a truckload of lumber for $100. His cost is $80, his profit is $20. Find and circle the number $20. And here's the latest version, the uh the the friendly version of it. An unenlightened logger cuts down a beautiful stand of 100 trees in order to make a $20 profit. Write an essay explaining how you feel about this as a way to make money. Topic for discussion, how did the forest birds and squirrels feel? And mass certainly has changed through the years. But thank God God's word has not changed, and neither does the way we do ministry. The Bible not only records the truth, but it also gives us the method we are to use in communicating that truth in church ministry. And perhaps the clearest verse on that is 2 Timothy 2 and verse number 2. And the things which thou hast learned, or excuse me, hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. I call, again, this the mathematics of church ministry. I have to confess that as a student in school, math was not my best subject. But when it comes to the mathematics in church ministry, I can't afford to fail that, and neither can you. Now, in order for the church to have a lasting and enduring ministry, it must faithfully pass the truth on to the next generation. But the question is, how do we accomplish that task? And what I want you to see in this verse are just four principles that can help us in passing on the truth, handing off the truth to the next generation. Here's the first principle, the principle of addition. Again, look in verse number two. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. And so first of all, you must add the truth to your own personal life, the things that you've heard. This is our duty to to add to ourselves the truth, spiritual truth of God's word. It's not enough to be safe from sin. It's your duty to learn the truth of God's word. One night a little boy fell out of bed and his mother came and picked him up and dried his tears and she said, What happened? He said, I fell asleep too close to where I got in Some Christians are like that. They get into the kingdom of God, but they fall asleep too close to where they got in. Whom God saves, God sanctifies. And the way that God sanctifies us is through the truth of Scripture. And so as Christians, we need to be learning that truth. Jesus said this in John 17, 17: Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Now, Timothy, as a young man, learned the truth from the Apostle Paul. And in this phrase, we see really, it answers two questions. First of all, what do we learn? Notice again where Paul says, and the things. What does Paul mean when he says the things? Paul is referring to here things regarding sound doctrine. And then where he says, among many witnesses, who is that? Well that includes not just Paul, but the other apostles and teachers of truth. This would include Barnabas and Silas, as well as Luke. This was Paul's traveling companion, who was that great historian who wrote the book of Acts and the Gospel of Luke. And from the time he first met and began accompanying Paul, Timothy was exposed to the public teaching and private counsel of many godly witnesses, in addition to the Apostle Paul himself. Thank God for godly teachers that God raises up in the church. Thank God for the word of God that we learn from good, gifted teachers. This also establishes that there has been a body of sound doctrine that has been passed down from the apostles to others throughout the history of the church The New Testament does not support the idea of apostolic succession. However, it does support the idea of truth being passed down from generation to generation. Jesus, of course, is the master teacher. He taught his apostles. Actually, first they were, before they were called apostles, they were called disciples. By the way, you know the Greek word for disciples, it is mathetos, where we get the word math. And the word actually means a learner. Before they could become apostles and teach others, they had to first be learners. They had to learn the truth from the Lord Jesus Christ. And they themselves became skilled and gifted teachers of the Word of God, the gospel, and they passed it on to others William Barkley comments, he says, the teacher is a link in the living chain which stretches unbroken from this present moment back to Jesus Christ. The glory of teaching is that it links the present with the earthly life of Jesus Christ. That's so very true. And every generation God has raised up new links in this living chain of faithful men who have passed the truth on to the next generation. And so the teaching of the apostles is that body of objective truth that we must learn and we must then after that teach it to others. Now we live in a culture today that is permeated with the view that spiritual truth is a matter of personal preference. You know, kind of like your your your favorite flavor of ice cream. That's my preference, you know. If something is true for you, that's nice, but don't be so arrogant as to imply that that is true for me, because I have my own truth. That's the kind of society that we're living in. Truth becomes something that is more personal and subjective instead of the objective revelation of God, the objective body of truth that has been passed down to us from generation to generation. In his book No Place for Truth, David Wells shows how the church has largely abandoned doctrinal truth. He argues, he says, quote, the central function of the pastor has changed from that of a truth broker to the manager of a small enterprise we call churches. And that's a sad reality. Wells argues that the New Testament contains the apostolic exposition of truth about God and Christ. that to be a believer has to always meant to believe that uh what the apostles teach, that objective body of truth. He he continues in saying that this is why the apostles not only framed Christian faith in doctrinal terms, but called for its preservation and its protection in this form There is no Christian faith in the absence of sound doctrine. And you'll notice that in the pastoral epistles, we went through 1 Timothy how many times Paul emphasizes sound doctrine. Sound doctrine over and over again. Sound words, sound teaching, sound doctrine. That is all throughout 1 Timothy. And as we're going to see, it's all throughout 2 Timothy as well. Paul handed the baton to Timothy, and he wanted him to hold unswaveringly to that truth and then to pass it on to others. This is what we learn. But then how do we learn it? Paul's one way that he mentions here again in verse number two is the things which thou hast heard. The word heard is a kuo in the Greek, where we get the word acoustics. And a large part of our learning and growing is in relationship to our hearing of the Word of God. This is why it's so important to come to church and hear the word taught. This is a big part of our discipleship, is hearing God's Word. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. Listen to the word of God. Listen to it taught at church. Listen to it in other outlets. Um and and thank God for that. When I was first saved, I mentioned this morning that m you know my father got saved. Uh we we started coming to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night. And that was ingrained in me. And I and again I think that should be the pattern. When you're a member of church, you're there, you're meeting together with the people of God. Your your very very presence encourages others. And we hear the word of God together, being present for Public service is obeying what God says when you come together. Many times we see that expression used in the New Testament. Not if you come together, but when you come together. When you come together. I sat under Pastor Johnson for many years. And along with that, I listened to godly teachers on the radio. And this might date me, but I listened to cassette tapes. Some of you young people, come with me later, I'll explain to you what that is. But hearing God's word taught by godly men was extremely instrumental in my life in learning the truth. There's no substitute for hearing. The word hear is used 589 times in the Bible. And most of those times it is God commanding people to hear his word. Hear the word of God. Jesus said in John 10. 27, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. Again, Romans 10:17, so then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God James 1 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. And then Revelation, Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy. And then Revelation 2 7, he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the church. So that's the principle of addition. We have to add to our life the Word of God, and this has to be something that is done daily in our life. And there's, you know, the first sign of backsliding is when you no longer have a hunger for the Word of God. Hopefully every one of you has that daily hunger to learn of Christ through his word every day. But then there's a second principle. The principle of subtraction. Notice again in verse number two: the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou. The truth that you learn, you must give it away to others. What truth God adds to your life, you subtract it by giving it out to others. When I say subtract, I don't mean lose it. I mean give it away. And really when you give the truth away, you don't lose it. In fact, you gain it all the more. I noticed that the truth that I teach is the truth that stays with me. You know, I I I've had the privilege to go to seminary, sit under a lot of wonderful professors, go to a lot of seminary classes. I'll be honest with you, some of that stuff I forgot. You know, but you know what I don't forget? When I prepare and study and I teach to others, that I never forget. That's the things that stays with me. The truth that I receive and learn when I teach it to others, somehow it has an effect on me where it becomes a part of who I am. And I think that when you subtract it, when you give it away to others, it becomes yours in a greater, more real way. And notice, first of all, Paul's exhorting here, Timothy, to take the truth, learn it, give it away to others. Notice the content, the same commit thou. The same here. As a teacher of truth, I'm responsible to teach the same sound doctrine I have been given. As I said before, I'm so very blessed that people have invested in me. People have taught me the truth. the fundamental truth of the faith of the Word of God, as I mentioned, sitting under Pastor Johnson and then other teachers and going to seminary and all that. I've had a lot of people invest truth in me. You know what? I'm to take that same truth now and I'm to give it to others. I don't have a right to change it. I don't have a right to water it down or to make it more pleasing to people. You know, we can't bow to the pressure to soften the truth in order to be popular. You know, pastors like anyone else, they like to be liked. And there is added pressure because, you know, if people get offended by what you preach, you know what? They just go down the road to the next church. That's all. We've got a lot of different churches you can choose from. And if and if people don't like what you say, you know, your congregation can dwindle. And since in our world today, numbers is a sign of success. Many pastors become politicians who dodge the hard aspects of the truth so as not to offend anyone But that's not what the calling to pastoring and preaching is about. In fact, Paul will tell Timothy, look in chapter four, and we'll get to this, but look in chapter four and look down at verse number three. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine But after their own lust shall they heed to themselves teachers having inching ears, and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned on their on the fables. But watch thou in all things. Endure afflictions through the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of thy ministry. We understand that that is real, that there are some people that, you know, they don't they don't want sound doctrine They want other things. They want stories that tickle their ears. They want, you know, something to make them feel good. But I don't have a right to come up with my own truth or my own interpretation. I have to faithfully pass on the same. What's been committed to me, I need to pass that on faithfully to others. There's the content and then there's the commitment. Again, we see the commit thou. The word here means to entrust. It's the idea of depositing something, something valuable for safekeeping. This is in this verb form that this is It's a verb form of the noun used twice in a pr in the previous chapter referring to the treasure that Paul had entrusted to Timothy. That treasure that the Lord entrusted to Paul, Paul now is entrusting that to Timothy, the treasure of sound words. Paul says, which you heard from me, Timothy, it was now time for the treasure with which Timothy had been entrusted to, be entrusted by him to others. Give it to others. And this is what we're responsible to do. Many of us here we've been a part of this church for many years And again, the Word of God, the truth has been entrusted to us. I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for what I learned from Pastor Johnson, not only from the pulpit, but in private instruction. I'm grateful for the things that I've learned from many teachers, but now we must in turn give it to others. Timothy's assignment was to run the second lap, as it were, of this spiritual relay race, in which he was to entrust the things he had been taught by Paul and pass on the in-depth teaching of God's word to faithful men. And here's the next principle. So we see the principle of addition. The things that you've learned. Add this to your life, the things that you heard. The principle of subtraction. Now you got need to commit that to others. You need to give that away to others. And then there's the principle of division. I call this the principle of division. Who do we commit it to? Two faithful men. And what Paul's doing here is Paul is exhorting Timothy to be discerning. Don't cast your pearls. Don't pour pure water into a leaky vessel. In other words, he's saying Timothy, you have to divide those who are worthy of your time and investment from those who are not. You have to divide those who are you know will take the truth and pass it on and others who will do nothing with it. And here he's directing Timothy to invest himself in the lives of devout people who are gifted, who are able, who are willing to hear the truth and pass it on. Such men have must already have proved themselves and their love for the Lord. They must be kind of pre-qualified. Paul says, you know, you need to find out who these people are. You need to be discerning and invest your time and energy into people that are worth that time and energy. And sad to say Not everybody that comes to church is worthy of the investment. You have to be discerning. How do we know who to Who do we uh invest the truth in? We spend time with, discipling them, teaching them. How do we divide those from who are worthy from those who are not? Well, there are three factors that I see here First of all, it's based on faithfulness. Faithfulness. Who are we to pass it to, verse 2? Two faithful men. We must invest in those who are faithful. Faithful as opposed to unfaithful. Faithful implies that these are people that are believers. They're loyal. They're reliable. We can't always judge accurately, by the way, in advance on some of these things. Paul himself was disappointed by people who walked away people he had invested in and they ended up walking away. The Bible mentions Figellus, Hermogenes, it mentions Demas. Paul said Demoth has forsaken me. And there are probably many more But in general, what do we do? We look for young believers who give evidence of being faithful and trust the great truths that we've learned into them. First of all, there has to be that faithfulness. But then there's another thing, I think, and that is based on availability. Faithfulness and availability. Faithfulness also assumes availability. Those who are faithful are going to be here. You can't invest in people who are not here. You have to be here among the people of God and invest in them. This is the process of entrusting sound doctrine to others, and it just takes time. And it includes relationships, building relationships, personal relationships. That's all a part of teaching. You see. I know in seminary, you know, we have Faith Theological Seminary. One of the things that's coming along, and this is due to just recent circumstances in the world is that there's more and more this this turn to education that is um not personal anymore. Everything is done through the internet now. You can take classes through the internet. You can, you know, they even have, you know, artificial intelligence now is where, you know, I was actually at a seminary down in Virginia. I was visiting the president there, and he was showing me the artificial intelligence Do you know now what a professor can do is take his written notes? He can actually read them into a computer And the computer, actually we'll also video him saying a few things, and the computer will generate an avatar of him, his very face, giving that lecture. So he doesn't have to do it in front of students. It'll be computer generated. And by the way, it can do it in different languages if he says, you know, I want you to do this in, say, you know, Chinese. Artificial intelligence, you can take that lecture and now it can do it in Chinese. It can do it in any other language. And here's this avatar just spitting out all these words. You know? And that's that's where we're going. And I I I realize that's part of the education, that's where it's going now, but I see something else that I do not like, and that is the personal element in education is being taken out And I I do not think that's a good thing. That's why I'll be honest with you, I don't like livestream. I know we livestream, I know there are people that need it, I know there are some people that are shut it and they can't make it here. I get all that, but I also think sometimes we're catering to lazy Christians. We need to be in God's house. And the choice to stay home, and some of you are listening on live stream, don't turn me off just yet. Wait till I say this and then you can turn me off. The choice to stay home instead of come here if you're perfectly healthy is a selfish choice. Because your presence here encourages other believers. You should be here encouraging others. Okay? You say, well we may not live I'm not gonna listen to you anymore in live stream. Well I might just cut out live stream altogether. I would do it If it were not for the people that actually need it, there are actually people that do need that and they benefit from it. But it's not a substitute for being here and being disciple and building relationships with people in the church. And if you're trying to run from that, you don't understand what discipleship is all about. The church is to come together. There has to be that availability. You need to be in God's house. In some cases, people are not in God's house because they're just too busy with other things. They've got other things going. In some cases, the busyness is a matter of just of priority. They're simply not interested in growing in the things of God. And people like that need to be challenged to seek first the kingdom of God. Put the kingdom of God first. Many people are like the people in Haggai's day. Remember that story? The repr the repatriated People came back to the land of Israel, and their first task by God was to rebuild the temple, and they laid the foundation, everything was going good, and then they all walked away from it. They got interested not in God's house, but they got interested in their own house. They were too busy building out their own houses. Nothing wrong with building your own house. Nothing wrong with taking things at taking care of things at home. That's all important. That's all good. The only thing is you don't put that ahead of the kingdom of God God's kingdom always comes first. What does Jesus say? Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. You put the kingdom of God first. And because they were focusing on their own thing, their own houses, their own kingdom, God had to stir up a prophet named Haggai. And this is what he wrote. Then came to the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your paneled houses? And this house lie waste. Now therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Ye have sown much and bring in little. Ye eat, but ye have not enough. Ye drink But you're not filled with drink. You clothe you, but there is none warm. And he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Go up to the mountain, bring wood, build the house. I will take pleasure in it. I will be glorified. says the Lord. Here is the prophet Haggai saying to the people, a message from God, you put my house first. You put my kingdom first. You're so worried about your own kingdom. That's why I'm not blessing you. That's why you're coming up short. Consider your ways. And we can apply that even to today. Some people they start out in the Christian life, they build a good foundation, but then they seem to get disinterested and they walk away. And God is calling you back, saying, consider your ways and put my house and my kingdom first. That needs to be a priority in your life. There has to be availability. So we invest in those who are faithful. We make a division between faithfulness and unfaithfulness, between availability and unavailability, but also based on teachability We invest in those who are teachable. And we know that th they'll be willing to teach others. Verse 2. Again, the things That you have heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. We teach those that are willing to teach others. And no one is able to teach well unless they're also teachable. That's that's what you look for. Someone who is teachable, I can guarantee you if they're teachable, they're gonna be able to teach others. That's the one thing. People that already know it all, Or are stubborn have self- or have a strong will, self-will, who want to argue incessantly about things, that's not someone that's teachable. And they're not going to be able to teach others because people aren't going to listen to them because of their arrogance. There needs to be a humility. There needs to be a a desire to just be teachable and learn. And you have to come to the conclusion, first of all, that you don't know a lot. You don't know it all. You know. I've been saved for a long time, and I want to tell you, beloved, I'm still learning a lot. I'm far short of learning everything I need to learn. Every day is a day to learn more and more about spiritual truth and the kingdom of God. I've had some people that have come to me saying, you know, I want leadership in the church, and I I invest in them. I invest in them a little bit, all of a sudden they know everything. They're all sudden willing to tell me how to want things should go, how things should run. After all, they've been saved for three weeks And and and this arrogance where that you already know everything. And there and and forgive me, but there are some seminary students that are like that. You give them one year of seminary, all of a sudden they're a theological expert. On every little thing. They got it all tucked away in their notebook. They got it all figured out. And if you want to answer, all you gotta do is ask them. They've had just enough classes to make them dangerous. If you're not teachable, you're not going to be able to teach others. There should be a humility, a willingness to learn from other godly men, not claiming to have the cornered the market on truth. And of course, there has to be that never satisfied hunger to know God and understand His Word. So it's more than just about academics and getting a head full of knowledge. It's having a heart to know Jesus Christ. a heart to know the Lord, we never arrive spiritually in this life. So we must entrust the truth to those who are faithful, to those who are available, and to those who are teachable. So there's the principle of addition we add to our lives. The principle of subtraction. We commit what we've learned. We commit it to others. The principle of division, we have to discern between those who are faithful and those who are not, between those who are available and those who are not, between those who are Teachable in those who are not. And then here's number four, the principle of multiplication. The principle of multiplication. Look at the last part of the verse. Who shall be able to teach others also? I mean the task of reaching the world more than seven billion souls for Christ, that seems impossible. And I say it reverently, but God seemingly could have devised a more efficient method. than just using us, bumbling humans. I mean God just could have sent angels to all corners all over the earth to share the message of the gospel. But that's not what God chose. God chose to work through us. And his plan is the principle of spiritual multiplication. What I want you to see in this verse is that there are four generations listed here. There's Paul. And then there's Timothy, and then there's faithful men, and then they teach others also. That's four generations. If you teach someone and they bottle up the truth, they don't pass it on, then the process stalls out right there. Or if someone teaches you and you don't give it to someone else, then the process stalls. We have to learn, we have to be taught, and then we have to go and we have to teach it to others. You're involved in addition, but you're not involved in any of the other. You're not involved in multiplication because you're not giving it out to others who can teach others And again, it stops there. But if those you teach will teach others, who in turn will teach others, then what you do is you engage the principle of multiplication. It might be slow at the start It might take years, but after a while it just continues and it multiplies more and more and more. I read something very interesting this week. Suppose the two boys had a very rich father. He made them an offer. They could choose to receive either $100,000 per day for 31 days, or One penny the first day doubled each day for thirty-one days. Which one would you choose? Well if you choose The $100,000 per day for 31 days, at the end of 31 days, you would have $3,100,000. But if you choose a penny doubled each day, you know what you would end up with? $2,147,483,648. That's the right choice. But it shows you the multiplication, how it's doubled, and then doubles, and then doubles, and then so on. That's the principle of multiplication. When it comes to spiritual multiplication, again, the process doesn't happen quick, but If we just are faithful to pass on the truth, who will to others, who will teach others, then it's amazing how that spiritual principle of multiplication will be so very effective. And so we look for those that are willing and able to teach others also. And what Paul hopes here when he writes to Timothy He hopes for a living chain of truth that will extend not only Timothy, but also through the centuries. The truth will just continue on. And thank God it has continued on, even down to us. We have that same truth. The truth that Paul committed to Timothy. Now it's been handed down to us, and now we have to be faithful to pass it on I was reading that in the early 17th century, Dr. Richard Sibbs, a Puritan, wrote a little book about Christ called the Bruce Reed. Copy that book fell into the hands of a of a peddler who gave it to a boy named Richard Baxter. Richard Baxter became one of the great Puritan pastors. Baxter wrote, because he was influenced by that book, he wrote, among other things, a call to the unconverted, which influenced a man by the name of Philip Doddridge. Who again was a great preacher, and he in turn wrote The Rise and Fall of Religion in the Soul. That book influenced a man by the name of William Wilberforce. William Wilberforce was a man in Britain who basically abolished slavery in Great Britain. He was a believer. He was a very small man, a small man of stature. But James Boswell immortalized him by writing that during one of his speeches talking about Wilberforce, who was arguing for the freedom of all men, he said that the shrimp grew and grew and he grew to become a whale while he was making that speech. Indeed, Wilburforce became a great influence in nineteenth century British culture. And he influenced many others and Chuck Coulson was influenced by Wilber William Wilberforce who started the prison uh founded prison ministries and and then so on. It just it just continues on and on and on. That's the principle of spiritual multiplication. That is the mathematics of church ministry. The principle of addition. We have to add to ourselves. Truth, the principle of subtraction, we commit it to others, division, we discern and divide between those that we entrust it to and those that we do not. And then multiplication. We teach this to others who will teach others, and the truth is multiplied. I'll close with this. In preparing for this, I was reading a commentary by John MacArthur, and he tells about a state invitational track meet that he had during his college years. Uh when he represented the team, he was the second man in the relay race. The first man in the race he writes, uh the first man in that race, he says, did really well. Handed the baton to to John, and he did well on the second leg. But as soon as he passed the baton to the third runner One of the best runners on the team, he writes that that runner stopped and walked on to the mid-infield and sat down. At first the other teammates thought that he pulled a hamstring or twisted an ankle. They ran across the field to him and asked, what happened? And the runner there said, I don't know. I just don't feel like running anymore. I just don't want to run anymore. Understandably his teammates were just livid. His coach and everyone else were really upset. They said, how could you do that? Don't you understand that you don't just represent yourself, but you represent your team, you represent your school, all the hours that the coach put in you all the your teammates, all they and all hours they invested in this race? You don't just represent yourself. How could you in one brief selfish second destroy all of that investment? Just because you don't feel like running. And then MacArthur writes this. On a more infinite note, more infinitely important level, countless leaders in the church have simply dropped out of the Lord's service. Some with no better reason than the apathy of that collegiate runner. I just don't feel like it. Just don't feel like it. You know, when Paul wrote Timothy, Timothy was at the point of dropping out of the race. He was timid. He had come across a lot of persecution, a lot of conflict. That's an inescapable part of leadership. You're going to get that It's hard sometimes standing for the truth. And Paul was in his cell waiting execution, but he had handed the baton to Timothy. And now it was Timothy's turn to run the race. And he's telling Timothy to take the baton, carry it faithfully, but also to hand it off to others. That will hand it off to others also. And it's because of faithful men like that that we have the truth today. It's because of godly leaders that have passed the treasure of the Word of God down to us that we are here. And you know what? We have that awesome responsibility of passing the truth on. We all have that responsibility. May we all be faithful to that. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this wonderful verse. Very short and yet so very powerful. And it just really gives us clearly the responsibility we have in church ministry. I feel as if, Father, sometimes we're satisfied just to receive truth and that's it. But Lord, it's not, our responsibility does not stop there. There's a younger generation that's so very confused in this world. They're being told lies all over, so much so that they don't even know who they are. There's attacks against the image of God. Our children are at war. Satan is after their soul. And we have the great responsibility of passing the truth on to the next generation. Lord, help us in this task. We know that it's a formidable task, but first there has to be on our part a willingness, a willing heart to be used. to pass on the truth, a desire to do it, an opportun looking for opportunities to pass on the truth to others. So Lord help us in this calling that you've given us. The baton that we have been given, Lord, may we not drop it. May we not sit out in our leg of the race. But Lord, help us to be faithful. And Lord, may we do all of this for your honor and your glory, and we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen