And as you remember, I'm on Sunday night I've been doing a very unique sermon series called Echoes from Puritan Pulpits. And really what I'm doing is I'm just kind of uh just uh sharing with you things that I have learned by reading several of the Puritan books that are out there. If you're here tonight you say, well, what in the world is a Puritan? Well Puritan they d during the a time in church history uh around the early seventeenth century, late late fifteenth, early s uh s uh let me see, late sixteenth um early 17th century. Probably be the right day there, if I get that right. They were a group of men that were part of the the church in England and they uh they felt like the church needed to be purified. more. Of course we know that in there's a time when the Reformation was taking place in church history and uh the gospel was rediscovered in all of its purity. And there are many wonderful things that took place during the Reformation, yet there were certain things where uh the Reformation they felt felt short. And there needed to be more purifying in the church from some of the trappings of ritual. Especially Roman Catholic ritual and those sort of things. And these were men who were so very devoted to the Word of God and making trying to align the church and all of the worship that we have according to the scripture. They were just intensely biblical in the way that they approached everything. And for a time in church history, these were a group of gifted men that God rose up to really call out and cry out to the church, but not just the church, but also to believers. These were gifted men, godly men, and uh they've made a unique contribution to Christianity with some of the writings based on some of the sermons that they have preached, and a lot of these writings have been reprinted. So we can read them today. And so I've read several of these books. And I'll be honest with you, I'm I'm more challenged by reading them than just about anything It brings me to conviction. In fact, this Sermon Tonight is one of the more convicting books that I've read with regard to the Christian life and how we are to treat sin. And tonight I want to talk about the evil of evils, the exceeding sinfulness of sin. This is the title of the book that was written by the Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs. He was a Puritan pastor that lived in England from 1599. to 1646. And he was called the tender conscience of the Puritan pulpit because he was known for his gentleness and for his pastoral warmth. There's another book that he wrote called Um the uh The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment was another book that I have read, parts of that book, and uh all about the the idea of contentment and what is contentment and it's a wonderful book. This book reveals another side of him. This isn't so gentle. This isn't so tender. This is really the uh the kind of a watchman sounding the alarm. And again this book was based on a series of sermons that he preached to people uh who attended uh preaching faithfully. They attended church faithfully. By the way, thank you for coming tonight and braving the elements, the snow and that that sort of thing, to be obedient to the Lord to be in church But also these were people that identified themselves as believers. And yet, according to Burroughs, they tolerated secret sins. They tolerated pride and they called it zeal. They tolerated bitterness and they justified it by uh their political position. Or they j they tolerated partial obedience and they excused weakness in their life. Now again, this is a time and you've heard me say this before because this has happened to be the time in history when they were um ministering and uh there was a this was a time when uh England was going through a civil war, it's a very bloody civil war. Families were divided. Churches were fractured. There was a lot of fear and uncertainty. There was bloodshed all over the land. It was just a difficult time in the in the history of England. But uh Jeremiah Burroughs saw a church more concerned about escaping trials and affliction than hating sin. And so it was during that time he felt like people were treating sin too lightly, that Christians were not looking upon sin the way God wanted them to look upon sin. And he saw this was something very, very dangerous. And so it was during this dark time in England when people were suffering and they wanted relief from a lot of the suffering and the afflictions they were having as a result of the Civil War and other things. It was during that time that Burroughs stood in the pulpit and he made a shocking claim to the people. He told his hearers that the greatest danger facing England was not war, it was not the plague, it was not poverty, it was not persecution. He said those were terrible evils. Those were indeed bad things. He said, however, the worst evil, the greatest evil, was sin. And again, it was during the turmoil of the English Civil War. He saw where outward sins abounded from these people. And Burroughs feared that the Christians had grown dull to what he called the inward plague of sin. He argued that England feared suffering more than corruption. They feared loss more than disobedience. He said people wanted relief, but not repentance. They wanted deliverance, but not holiness. And so Burroughs preached this message that really cuts against the natural instincts of the human heart. When you're suffering, what do you want? You want to get relief from that. You want to get out of the affliction. You want to get out of the trial as quick as possible. But uh Jeremiah Burroughs said this: Affliction may wound the body, but sin damns the soul. That's why I said there's something worse than going through suffering. There's something worse than going through trial. He said affliction may come from God's hand. The trials that you go through, the afflictions that you suffer. may come from God's hand, but sin is always against God's heart. And so, now, Jeremiah Burroughs, in fairness to him, he was not minimizing suffering. He was not saying, you know, uh suffering is a good thing in that sense, but he was reordering his priorities. He wanted his people And really us, anyone who read his book afterward, to fear offending God more than fearing anything else that could happen to us. In other words, the thing that we should fear greatly is not that we suffer, not that we go through afflictions or trials or heartaches. The thing that we should fear more, much more than that, is in any way offending God and sinning against God. And he wrote this: quote, when a man sees sin as the greatest evil, He will see Christ as the greatest good. And so this book, The Evil of Evals, became one of the most convincing Puritan classics. And it's aimed at causing people to loathe sin, to hate sin. And the more that you loathe sin and hate sin, he says, will be the degree to which you love grace and you love Christ. You can't love Christ without hating sin. You can't appreciate grace without hating sin. And so again, his whole series was based on Romans chapter 7 and verse number 13. And uh let's look at that, but actually we'll try to catch it in verse number 12. Helps us get the context. Look in Romans chapter 7, look at verse number 12. Wherefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. God's law is always holy, right? Verse 13, was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin that it might appear sin working death in me by that which is good, that sin by commandment, by the commandment, excuse me, might become exceeding sinful. And so I want us to uh just kind of draw out, again, this is another kind of a long uh book. It's got 67 chapters in it. by the way. And uh it it but the chapters, some of them are are short, you know, but I'm just gonna summarize some of the things that or we should carry with us that will help us in our Christian walk. Because again, what is the desire that we have as believers? We want to be more like Christ, right? That's the thing that we're striving for as we're being sanctified in the image of Christ. We want Christ-likeness in our life. And as I told you so many times before, you know, you don't get that passively. You don't just fall into it. It has to be something that you strive for, like the Apostle Paul said, you know, I press towards what? The mark of the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. You gotta strive for that. You've got to press for that. And so part of that is learning to hate sin as believers. So, just a few headings here tonight. We got six headings. We'll see if we'll get to all six. Um, you know, tonight. Get out here before midnight, I promise. No, I'm just kidding. We'll stay within the time. But anyway, number one, the design. Uh the design. Paul wants to make sin exceeding sinful. And this is the Apostle Paul tells us plainly that God has a design in the law. What is the design of the law? That sin might, by the commandment, might become exceeding sinful. The purpose of God's law is not merely to restrain behavior, although it does do that But the primary purpose of God's law is moral revelation, not just restraint, but moral revelation. God wants us to see something as a result of his law. And what does he want us to see? He wants us to see uh sin the way it should be seen. Uh He intends that sin be seen Truly for what it is. That's part of the design of the law. And so the law exposes the nature of sin. Again, we see this in verse 7 of chapter 7. The law is not sin, but By the law is the knowledge of sin. The law is the instrument that shows us what sin is. If there weren't any law, we would have no knowledge of sin. There would be no sin. Uh you we don't we don't know it's wrong to w walk on the grass unless there's a sign there that says don't walk on the grass, right? I saw an interesting documentary a while back. It was about the Autobahn in Germany. Anybody familiar with the Autobahn in Germany? Uh okay, anybody drive on that uh before? Okay, so you know if you've been there, you know that it is a highway that has no speed limit. You can go as fast as you want. I know some of you say, well, Pastor, I do that anyway, you know. But you're it's it's a highway that has no speed limit, so you can go as fast as you want. I mean, that's the idea there. There's no breaking of the law because there is no law there. And so there's a sense in which God's law reveals God's holiness and his holy standard for man. And it lets man know when he is in violation of God's holy standard. And Burroughs explains that the law does not create corruption. It reveals corruption. It reveals that we are sinners. And so the commandment acts like light flooding a dark room, exposing all of the corruption in that room. Nothing new is added, but much is discovered as a result of this. He says this, quote, As the sun shining into a room shows the moats, so the law reveals the filth of the heart. And men often imagine their hearts to be clean. You know, you ever have that thing like, you know, I'm I'm pretty good. Uh you know, I'm not really bad. I'm not com what do we normally do when we when we think that way? I'm not bad compared to, you know, stop looking beside you folks, right? We we kind of compare ourselves with other people and say, I'm not all that bad. But the truth of the matter is what the law does, is it you know, again, without the law, sin kind of lies dormant in us. But what happens when the law comes, and we're made aware of that law? Sin rises up in us. Look at verse 7 again, the part where it says, For I had not known coveting, this is Romans 7, 7 For I had not known coveting, and that's the Greek word epiphemia, lusting or evil desire, except the law had said, thou shalt not covet. But when the law comes, uh thou sh when the law comes, though the law thou shalt not covet, it awakens the conscience and it exposes that it was always there. The problem was never the law, the problem was our heart. You know, it's like mud at the bottom of a a pond. It appears the pond is nice and clean, but uh you know you stir up that pond and what happens? The mud from the bottom rises up. And there's a sense, and that's the way the human heart is. The sin is there, it may be dormant, but it rises up. And this is what he says, sin turns good into evil. In Romans 7. 8, it says that sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. Another one of those old English words. There. But we see the dormancy of sin. For without the law, sin was dead. That verse does not mean that sin did not exist or it was not there. It means that it was dormant. It was asleep inside of us. And what woke it up? It was the law that did it. That's the development of sin. But sin, taking occasion, look at this, by the commandment. Wrought in me all manner of coveting or evil desires. It was the commandment of God, that holy commandment, that awakened sin inside of me. The word occasion here is a kind of a military word, talking about, you know, to uh uh uh to attack, to launch an attack. And so sin is launched. Sin launches his attack. But what woke it up? It was the law of God Don't you notice that there's something inside of you that uh when someone says, you know, thou shalt not, there's always something inside of you that says, Oh yes, I shall. You know, it's just human nature. That's the sin that lies dormant in us. So sin is perverse in that it abuses God's good law. To provoke rebellion. And that's what Paul is showing us here: the perversity of sin. Sin is so malignant that it uses God's holy law as fuel for rebellion. That's the idea here. The very commandment that should restrain sin becomes the occasion for sin to rise up in us. And Burroughs notes that sin is not passive. It is active. It is cunning. It is hostile. But there's another thing here. The aim of the law is not to cause sin, but to show its horror. And again we see this in verse 13 where uh you know where it says here that but but sin that it might appear sinful Paul is here is emphasizing that the law reveals sin, that it might appear sinful. He tells us that sin's true character is exposed when you really understand the law of God. That's why we need to preach against sin. Sin needs to be seen for what it is, sinful. And the law loudly proclaims to all the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And so the law reveals the seriousness of that sin. Now, so that's the, first of all, what I call the uh the the design, but then I want you to see the second part, the definition, what it means to for sin to be exceeding sinful. And Burroughs defined this phrase with real precision here. And he goes through several points that I just want to point out to you. First of all, He says this quote, it is the intention of the apostle to set out sin in its most odious colors, that it might be abhorred as the greatest evils under heaven. So, sin is evil in its nature. It's evil in its nature. It is the transgression of the law. 1 John 3:4, right? Sin is the transgression of God's holy law. It's not merely a mistake. It's not weakness. It's rebellion against an infinitely holy God. He says this, every sin strikes at the being of God. If sin could, it would ungod God. If sin could, it would take God off the throne. And every sin, he says, carries with it a hatred of God's authority. A hatred of his authority. It says, I will not have this man to reign over us. You know, to uh quote the parable of the Lord Jesus there. I will not have this man to reign over us. Sin is evil in its nature. He says sin is evil in its cause. One of the reasons sin is so sinful is that is because of where it comes from. What is the source of this sin? A poison spring corrupts everything that flows from it. So Burroughs insists that sin's fountainhead is never God. Sin never comes from God. But always the creature that is in rebellion against God. So God is never the author of sin. And we know that, right? James chapter 1, verse 13. Let no man say when he's tempted, I am tempted of God. Why? What's the rest of it? For for uh God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. God is absolutely holy, he exports nothing but holiness, and he does not tempt man. Sin never comes from God. God, he says, may order events, restrain sin, he may permit sin and overrule sin for good, but he never produces sin. He never produces it. And Burroughs warns that to trace sin back to God is to commit a greater sin in the very attempt to excuse a lesser one. You do not trace sin back to God. He says this, quote, though God be the disposer of all things, yet he is not the disposer of sin as sin. So sin doesn't flow from God, from his holiness. Sin arises, he says, from the devil's malice. And then just write down 1 John 3. 8, you know this. He that committed sin is of the devil. And Burroughs reminds us that sin didn't begin on earth. Where did it begin? It began in heaven. Pride arose in Lucifer's heart and rebellion followed. And the devil's work has always been to oppose God's rule. And that's what he's about. And he tries to entice other people to do the exact same thing. Christ said the devil was a murderer from the beginning. There's no truth in him. But another thingy point he makes is that sin flows also from our own hearts, from the devil and from our own hearts. He kind of presses this point even deeper. He says the devil cannot make us sin unless our hearts are willing. And James 1:14, every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed. So the greatest cause of sin is not Satan, but itself. It comes from us. And Burroughs says sin flows from the heart because the heart is proud, the heart is unbelieving, the heart is has enmity, resisting God's rule uh in our in our life. And also sin is born of pride. It's born of pride. A pride that says, I know better than God, and I deserve better than what God's given me. And I will rule myself Burroughs notes that every sin contains the seed of self-exaltation. God, I deserve better. And so sin's desire is to dethrone God and enthrone yourself. Because you, it doesn't matter what God desires. What matters more is what I desire. And it's you choosing yourself over God. And then he says sin is evil in its effects. And this is one of the clearest proofs that sin is exceedingly sinful and what it produces. If you don't believe that sin is evil, look at what sin produces. What's the fruit of it? What's the outcome? It brings death. The Bible says the wages of sin is death. Every grave is a sermon. Every funeral testifies of the sin of this world that reigns. And also it brings misery in this life. The Bible says in Proverbs 13, 15, the way of the transgressor is hard. Burroughs observes that sin disorders the soul. It troubles the conscience, it breaks peace, it poisons joy, it multiplies fear. And uh he says sin carries its punishment in its own bowels. But also sin brings with it darkness, it brings darkness, and also it brings separation from God. Ultimately, it brings hell and judgment, and so So all of that shows us the evil of it. But also another thing, sin is evil compared to all other evils. He says this, quote, there is more evil in the least sin than in the greatest suffering. So that's the that point there. But I want to go to a third topic, and that is the deduction, I call it. And then in his book, he gives twenty reflections that show the exceeding sinfulness of sin. You guys got time? No, I'm kidding. I'm not going to be able to go through all of these. Alright, we're not going to go through all of these. Um I just gonna touch on some of the things that he says here. These are just reasons why he says sin is the greatest evil. Number one, sin is the only thing God hates absolutely, he says. Affliction he might send. The devil he will chain, but he says, sin God abhors. Just as there's no adequate way to measure the love of God for his people, there's also really no adequate way to measure the hatred that God has for sin. It is a it is a hatred that is beyond our comprehension. And uh he quotes several verses here that we know. He Habakkuk 113, Thou art a pure eyes and to behold evil, and canst not look upon iniquity. And so God hates sin, and the Bible is very clear in that in several verses in Scripture But another thing he says, sin opposed the infinite majesty of God. He says it lifts up the infinite will, or excuse me, the finite will against the infinite. And one of the chief reasons sin is exceedingly sinful, he says, is this. Every sin is an act of defiance against the infinite majesty of God. And the the crime that a person may commit is the the the the vileness of that crime, this is the metaphor that he gives, is in direct proportion to the majesty and greatness of the person that you sin against. Okay? Just to kind of give you an illustration. Suppose there's this hot-headed soldier who lashes out against his fellow soldier and he hits his fellow soldier. Well, that is a crime, of course, and that's punishable, maybe a few days detention. But suppose this hot-headed soldier lashes out against his sergeant Well, wait a minute, that's a little bit more serious, right? Because that's going to require more than a few days detention. That could require jail, maybe years in jail. But suppose the president came on base and this same hot-headed soldier tried to strike the president. Well, he could die. It could be a Secret Service agent right there that that kill him immediately on the spot. Because in each case, the act is the same But the degree of the transgression is worse. Why? Because of the person to whom it's being done against That's the idea here. You know why sin is so exceedingly sinful? Because each sin, with each sin That the law loudly proclaims you have sinned against a holy God. An infinite holy God. Therefore, the sin is infinite. It is horrible. Because of the one, the majesty and the greatness and the holiness of the person that you have sinned against. Another point in this is that sin is personal rebellion against God's kingship, he says Every command that God gives carries with it royal authority, and to disobey that challenge, or disobey that law is to challenge God's right to rule. Sin, he says, is treason against the heavenly king. But also, here's another thing he says: sin despises the goodness of God. It's not merely rebellion, but it's an ingratitude against God's kindness. He writes this, sin is a despising of the goodness of God. It is a base requital of mercy with rebellion. Every breath, every meal, every moment of restraint from judgment is a gift of a good God. God is constantly giving us good gifts. He's constantly sharing us with shedding us with mercies. And God will give good things even to those people that will take those good things and use them to rebel against God. That that's sin is against God's goodness. But also sin violates the image of God and man. He says the The divine stamp upon man is defaced by sin. It doesn't merely break a commandment. It defaces the likeness of God. That image that God has put on man. He says this: quote, Sin is a defacing of God's image in the soul. It mars that which God stamped with his own likeness. And then sin makes men like the devil. Again, 1 John 3. 8, he that commits sin is of the devil. And Burroughs calls this the devil's image drawn upon the heart. And his whole point here is that sin is not morally neutral. It doesn't leave a man unchanged. In other words, when you sin and then you're done with the sin, you're not morally in the same place you were as before. It doesn't leave you neutral. What it does is it he says it makes you more like the devil Every time you sin, and then you sin again and you sin again, you become more and more like the devil. Just like holiness and and practical obedience and doing the things that Scripture tells us makes us more like Jesus. All those acts bring Christ likeness. He said every sin will make us more like the devil It makes us like him. But also, sin is the cause of all misery, he says. All the pain, all the sorrow, all the death. All that does not exist independently. They are all consequences against man's rebellion against God. This kind of misery. This was not part of God's original design. God didn't create the world with sorrow built into it. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes 7. 29, God had made man upright. In Genesis 1. 31, God saw that everything was good that he made. It was very good. There were no tears in Eden, no grace, no fear, no shame. Sin brought all of this into the world. And so sin is the root of all that misery. It's the root of physical misery. The Bible says, cursed is the ground for thy sake. And then he says this sin turned angels into devils. Uh this is one of the most sobering proofs that sin is exceedingly sinful. And uh And then Jeremiah Burroughs kind of presses this point. He says, if sin could turn angels into devils, what might it do to thee? I mean these devils that or these angels they were in the presence of a holy God and sin was able to turn them into demons. What can sin do to you? We're not in heaven. We're not in the presence of God like they were. We're here in a sin-cursed world. What would sin do to you? If it can turn the angels into devils. Angels were created in holiness and glory, and uh sin brought immediately irreversible ruin because of that. But then finally sin brought death into the world and we already talked about that. But the w the big point that he makes also is that sin crucified the Lord, oh glory And Burroughs what he does is he kind of brings us here to the summit. He's kind of building up about how evil sin is, and then he kind of brings it to the summit where he says, you know, if all other arguments fail to awaken the conscience, this one must not fail Sin crucified the Lord of glory. Nothing reveals the evil of sin's nature more than seeing what sin did to Jesus Christ on the cross. Sometimes people say, why did Christ have to suffer so on the cross? Because of the evil of sin. Because of the evil of sin. And so let me let me uh move on to there's more, but I'm running out of time. I'm only a third of the way through here. But uh let me talk about The demand. And this is why believers must learn the sinfulness of sin. We have to learn to hate sin as God hates it. And that's really his whole goal here. We as believers need to learn to hate sin the way God hates sin, or as much as possible. And Burroughs insists That we cannot hate sin rightly until we see it truly. And so he says a shallow view of sin always produces a shallow hatred of sin. God's hatred of sin is perfect and holy. God is not timid about this area of sin, he says These six things does the Lord hate, a seven or abomination, verses like that tell us, God says, I hate every false way, Psalm 119, verse 104. And he says, God does not hate sin because it inconveniences him, but because it's contrary to his holy nature. And believers are commanded to share God's hatred of sin. The Bible never commands believers merely to avoid sin. That's not enough. It's not enough just to avoid it. You have to hate it, he says. And he gives us verses here. Ye that love the Lord hate evil. Romans 12 9. Abhor that which is evil, cleave to that which is Good. And so he says the hatred of sin is not optional to spiritual maturity, but rather it is basic to Christianity. I mean if you're a Christian, this should be very basic to you. That you hate sin. Do you abhor it Your love to God and your hatred of sin, he says, rises and falls together. If you have a fondness for sin, that means your love for God is very weak. And if you truly love God with a passion, you're going to to that same degree hate sin so they rise and fall together. And so we to hate sin is God hates it, but also part of our duties is to uh to keep to keep from temptation. So So basically here he's telling us that we must learn to hate to see the sinfulness of sin. To hate sin as God hates it, and then to keep from temptation. A believer who sees sin clearly is far less likely to ever play with sin or toy with it. Or another way to say that is to play games with God. And beloved, every time we entertain temptation, every time we play or find any pleasure in sinful thoughts or motives or deeds, then you're toying with God. You're playing with God. You don't see sin the way it should be. And temptation thrives on ignorance. This is what he says, and this is such a good point here. He says, temptation draws its strength from false appearances. Temptation rarely presents sin honestly. It disguises sin as harmless, as pleasurable. The Bible says the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field in this respect presented sin something as desirable or pleasurable. And that's exactly what Satan gets people to do. You ever notice how Satan gets the way he gets people to yield to sin is he presents some kind of fantasy world in their mind that's not real. As if this is what it's going to bring you. This is the pleasure that you're going to get. And I when I counsel with people, beloved, I see this all the time People that are struggling or decided to go a certain way is because in their mind, Satan has presented a fantasy world. And people have believed it. You know, sometimes in dear in dealing with uh conflicts where uh in marriage where one mate decides to go out and and find another mate, it's because Satan has placed in that person's mind this idea of being happy over there and and this is going to be so much better if you do this and you know what sin brings death temptation disguises all of that And people, they live in this fantasy world. But that's what he says. Temptation draws its strength from false appearances. But a right view of sin, he says, makes your soul watchful. That's why Jesus said, watch and pray, that you what? Enter not into temptation. Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, is walking about like a roaring lion seeking to whom he may devour. He said temptation is resisted most effectively right at the very door. Right at the very door He emphasizes prevention over recovery. Sin is far easier to resist at its first motion than after it has gained strength. So you don't allow it to have any strength in you. Don't allow the temptation to linger. Because don't allow it to gain strength at all. Resist it, he says, right at the door. And the knowledge of sin strengthens the will, he says, against any enticement that might come. And Joseph is kind of a biblical example of seeing sin clearly. Joseph resisted temptation not by negotiating. When Potiphar's wife began to tempt him, Joseph didn't say, you know, let's sit down, let's talk about it. Let me pray about this with you. Let's kneel here beside the bed and pray about it together. He didn't negotiate. He didn't think about it What was his response? How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? And then he ran out of there. And he kind of highlights Joseph and the language that he uses. S and so sin will prevail, he says, because we don't fear it. We don't fear the consequences of it. But also the reason that we want to understand the exceeding sinfulness of sin is to magnify the grace of Christ. Burroughs teaches that one of God's great purposes in making sin appear exceedingly sinful is this, that grace might appear exceedingly gracious And the more we understand the sinfulness of sin, the more we appreciate and love the grace of God. The deeper the sense of sin, the higher the esteem of grace in our life. He says grace is always measured against sin. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. But a small view of sin causes a small view of the Savior. A small savior, he says. And so we have to we have to understand that. But also another reason is to make the soul humble, to make the soul humble Pride thrives where sin is minimized, he says. He says that he that sees sin exceedingly sinful sees himself as exceedingly vile. So a right sight of sin destroys any pride that we might have, any spiritual pride that we might have. It removes in us all grounds of boasting. As we understand sin in us and how sinful we are, it brings us humble before the Lord. The gospel leaves no room, he says, for self-congratulation. We have nothing to congratulate ourselves about. We are all recipients of God's mercy in Christ. And so let me give you the last thing. I know I'm at 7 o'clock now. Give me two minutes. All right? Here I call this the duty, how the soul learns to see sin rightly. You say it we're he talks about hating sin and seeing it the way God does and why we should do that. Well, how do we do that? And what are the ways that we do it? This is really the most important part, I think. And he gives just several suggestions. Number one, by looking into the law of God. By looking into the law of God. Meditate, he says, on God's law. Meditate on God's word. He says the commandment makes sin appear sin, sinful. And he teaches that if a soul is ever to see sin as exceedingly sinful, It must look to the holiness of God's law. That's why you get into God's Word and you constantly get it in your mind. The truth of Scripture, the truth of God's commands. And I've said this to you before, that I think one of the greatest tools to help children run to Christ and run to the gospel. Is when they understand God's commandments. Teach your children the Ten Commandments. And with them, teach them the holiness of God so that they're able to see how holy God is and how sinful they are. And so that that will cause them to run to Christ in salvation. And so he says by looking into the law of God, but here's another thing he says, if you want to really hate sin, you want to see it as really sinful We we do that by meditating on the sufferings of Christ. Think about Christ. What the cross did to Christ He says the soul will never see sin in its darkest colors until it looks steadily upon what sin did to Christ on the cross. He says this, quote, Would you know the evil of sin? Go to Gethsemane, go to Golgotha. And then also he says this, another way we we learn to hate it is by considering the holiness of heaven. The holiness of heaven. He presses his point like this. He says, quote, there is no sin in heaven. If thou wouldest go there, thou must hate what heaven hates. You have to hate what heaven hates. Heaven is the dwelling place of perfect holiness. There's no sin there. And the Bible makes that very clear. God does not tolerate sin there. It's cast out. Scripture explicitly states that sin cannot be there in heaven. It will not, and one day it will be abolished, and all of heaven will be all a place of holiness. And so we have to, he says, think about heaven, that heaven is not tolerant of sin. But also he says this, another way to learn to hate it is by observing the misery of the wicked. He says, quote, see what sin hath done to angels and to men. See hell as the harvest of sin. And here he says that throughout Scripture, this is one of the reasons why God intentionally displays the consequences of sin. These stories that you see in the Old Testament about what happens to people that go against God's law, they're not in their the Bible by accident. They are examples for us to show us that the way of the transgressor is hard. And if you want to hate sin, look at what it does, look at the misery that it brings to people. Even in this life, and the warnings that Scripture gives to those who have gone out of the way. And as we learn to hate sin, what will take place in our life? Repentance will be deeper If we learn to hate sin, our repentance will come quicker when we do sin, and it'll be deeper. Our faith will be strengthened, he said. Holiness in us will increase, and love to Christ will increase. Will grow, or to use his words, will be inflamed. Quote, he that sees the venom of sin will prize the blood of Christ. So let me just close here the way Burroughs closes the evil of evils. He closes with this appeal. Quote, if the sight of sin doth not humble thee. The weight of it shall crush thee. But if thou wilt see sin in Christ's wounds, thou shalt find that his stripes heal thee. And so we have to learn to see sin as God sees it, as the plague of our soul, as the poison of every joy, as the enemy of every blessing. And then only then will God's grace become so much more sweeter and we'll love Christ. So with your heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to think about I know I've given you a lot here tonight to to to digest and and dwell upon. But just ask yourself this question. How do I view sin in my life? How do I view sin, period, in general? If you're like me, you'll find that I feel like I don't hate sin enough. I don't hate it enough. And ask God to give you that holy hatred against sin, the thing that God abhors, so that it will strengthen us against temptation. And it'll bring in our heart a greater appreciation of God's grace and a greater love for Christ. Father, again, thank you for great men in the past like Jeremiah Burroughs, who are so thoughtful in the way that they come about to present subjects like this as they meditate on Scripture. And they give us biblical, a biblical understanding of these topics, Lord, that we so desperately need to hear. I fear that in our day in which we live, we don't hate sin enough, Lord, in the church. We we look upon it lightly. We don't appreciate Enough what Christ had to endure to pay that debt of sin with his own death on the cross. So, Father, will you do your work in us? Will you In every heart, give us that holy hatred of sin and help us to love Christ more. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.