Would you take God's word, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, chapter number six. We have been looking at this passage for several weeks, and we're going to look at it again this morning. We're talking about the believers' armor. And I want to read a few verses with you. So will you stand for the reading of God's Word? Find chapter 6, verse number 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand. Stand therefore, having your loins gird about with truth And have you on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked And that take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. I've read this enough that you all should have memorized this by now. Thank you. Let's pray. Together. Father, thank you for your love to us and giving us your word. And Lord, give us uh attentive hearts this morning as we again look into this wonderful passage of Scripture and teach us, Lord, how we can be good soldiers of Christ. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In the year 1221, during the Fifth Crusade, A band of Christian knights against overwhelming odds went up against the Egyptian city of Dameeta, and as they were crossing the desert plains, the enemy unleashed this terrifying barrage of fiery arrows. You see the enemy had taken the arrows, dipped their tips into oil, and fired them. And they came down, raining down like fire from heaven. One eyewitness recorded that the sky looked like a storm of stars falling from heaven. But those soldiers did not scatter. They were prepared. They crouched behind their massive wooden shields, these shields that were soaked in water and were able to, also covered in raw hide. which were able to extinguish the flaming arrows and absorb them. And so while uh the smoke may have swirled, the shields held, and so did the men who stood behind them You see, now you might not not ever be in a battle like that, but you realize that as a Christian you do live in a war zone, right? The Christian life isn't a walk in the park. It is a spiritual war in the trenches. And beloved, the devil has his arrows aimed at you. And let me tell you, when Satan fires his arrows at you, uh willpower or wit are not going to be able to overcome what Satan does. You need a shield of faith. And that's why the Apostle Paul addresses this issue. Look again in verse number 16. Above all, taking the shield of faith. Wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Today we're going to talk about that shield, what it is, why we need it And uh we've been looking at the armor of God, as you know, here in Ephesians chapter 6, because the command for us is to stand several times, as I've told you before. We're commanded in this passage of scripture to stand, and the word that is used here speaks about standing against an enemy that attacks. This is a military term. And it's the same word that's used to speak about r resisting the devil in the book of James, chapter four, verse number seven. So we need to resist, we need to stand, and the only way we can do that effectively is to use the armor that God has given us. Now we've looked at all these, well, not all the pieces, but we've looked at several of these pieces of armor. We're going through one piece at a time, and we've looked at the the uh belt of truth and we looked at the breastplate of righteousness and the shoes of peace. Today we're going to focus on the shield of faith. And I want to do this under three headings, just like we've been doing with all the other pieces we've examined. We want to talk about the adversary, the armor, and then the application. First the adversary. Why do we need the shield of faith? Well, Paul says it like this, so you can quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Now the wicked, of course, we know refers to Satan. He is your infernal foe. He is not a physical enemy that you can see. He is a spiritual enemy. The Bible says we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against wickedness in high places. And Satan is a master archer. And his arrows are fiery, and he knows exactly how to target them against you. Now in the Roman warfare of Paul's day The enemy would basically take um the tips of their arrows, they would wrap them in pieces of cloth, and then they would take those pieces of cloth that was wrapped around the arrow, they would dip it into a flammable tar-like substance that was called pitch. And just before the arrow was shot, they would light it on fire. And the arrow then would become this flaming missile that was shot at the enemy. And on impact, the arrow basically would splatter. That pitch that was on fire would kind of splatter and anything that it came in contact with, it would ignite. So not only did the arrow pierce the enemy, but it also set things on fire. And this was a very formidable weapon. I was reading about the fall of Sardis. In the sixth century BC, the fortress city of Sardis was considered to be invincible. And yet historians tell us that it did fall. How? Well, the enemy that conquered Sardish used fiery arrows to do it. The story goes like this: the enemy soldiers scaled the cliffs at night they began to fire these flaming missiles, these arrows, into the city, into the inner city where the wooden structures were caught on fire, and the city basically uh caught fire and was conquered. by this army. Now, your heart is like that city. And beloved, Satan is trying to conquer your heart. And he's going to use his fiery darts to try to conquer you. Now the question we have to ask ourselves is this: what do the fiery arrows represent? What do they represent? It represents all forms of temptation that Satan fires at us. It might be the temptation to pride or selfishness, which we all have to battle with on a daily basis. It may be a temptation to fear world events or to fear our own difficult problems, including health problems or death itself. These are flaming arrows of discouragement, flaming arrows of doubt and despair. Some of these arrows can come in the form of thoughts that Satan will place into your mind. Remember, we've already looked into this one question. Is it possible for Satan to put thoughts into your mind? And the answer to that question is yes, absolutely. Satan can and he does put thoughts into the mind and hearts of believers. We know this because in John chapter 13, verse number 2, it tells us that Satan had given Judas the idea to betray Jesus. Now Satan didn't force Judas to do it, but he simply gave him the idea, and Judas' sinful nature went to work at that time. You see, Satan can't force you to do anything. But he can wave before you the thoughts and place in you your mind and heart those thoughts so that you he tries to engage your sin nature. And so evil thoughts and images may pop up into our mind. Maybe you're praying one time, reading the Bible. and worshiping God. And then suddenly a an evil thought might come into your mind. It might even be while you're here in the worship service, while you're enjoying the presence of the Lord and you're worshiping, all of a sudden Satan will throw a a thought into your mind. to try to distract you. Charles Spurgeon, one of my favorite preachers of the past, a great preacher, he wrote about experiencing intrusive, blasphemous thoughts Particularly before preaching. And he would describe them as the most horrible, blasphemous thoughts that would bolt out of his heart And Spurgeon said he believed that those were thoughts that Satan was putting into his mind and into his heart at that time. In fact, let me give you a quote that captures the struggle that he talked about. He said, quote, blasphemous thoughts will come into our minds. And we shall not be able to tell them, tell from where they come. I have myself suffered from them to an extent. I could not describe these thoughts. uh uh to an extent I could not describe, excuse me, these thoughts are not ours. And we must not think they are. The very horror which the soul feels at them proves that they are not entertained willingly. And so these thoughts are the fiery darts of the wicked one, Satan. And then you know what he does after he puts that thought into your mind. He follows it up with an accusation. He'll say something like this, you call yourself a Christian. How can you think like that? You're not a follower of Christ, or you wouldn't have a thought like that. You're just fooling yourself. He also plants thoughts into your mind such as thoughts like this. Did God really say this? Remember we saw that to bring about doubt? You're not good enough? To try to discourage you, or there's no hope for you in God, to try to bring despair to your heart, or to try to get you to yield to a temptation, he'll put a thought in your mind like this, just once won't hurt. Or you deserve this pleasure. Or to cause you to fear, he'll put a thought in your mind such as this, you won't make it through this. What if God fails you? Or you're too sinful to be forgiven? Again, these darts that Satan puts into our mind are designed to undermine our trust in the presence. and the power of God. These are weapons that are forged in hell that Satan launches at his at us all the time. Now one of Satan's most Effective fiery darts is discontentment. He doesn't want you to be content in Christ. Thomas Brooks wrote this: Satan loves to fish in the troubled waters of a discontented heart. So he'll stir up discontentment, and you know how he does that? He'll do that by magnifying what is lacking in your life. He'll fix your attention on what you don't have rather than everything that God has given you. That's exactly what he did to Eve in the Garden of Eden. Eve had access to all the trees except for one. And rather than her s looking at all the trees that God gave her access to, Satan focused her attention on the one that she could not have. And that's how Satan works. He'll use discontentment to distort the character of God. He'll fuel sinful desires. He'll say that the way to fulfill this desire. The way to become content is to yield to this and he'll pr pr present before you a temptation. Something that will supposedly bring you this contentment that you don't have at that moment. And if Satan can get you to be discontented, and if he can fire the dart of temptation into you and you yield to it, then he has you. He'll present before you a lust to fulfill your emotional voice, greed to grasp what God hasn't given you, anger against others who have more, and so on. So the question is, how do we deal with these attacks when they come? Again, look at verse 16: taking the shield of faith, wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Do we have to take up the shield of faith? Now, here's the second part then. We talked about the adversary, what he tries to do, but then number two, the armor. What is the shield? That's the first question we want to deal with. In order to defend ourselves against Satan's fiery darts, we need the shield What is this shield? Notice what he says in verse 16, above all, taking the shield of faith. Now, above all doesn't mean that this piece of armor is more important than all the other pieces. In fact, the Greek word here actually means alongside of. So alongside of all the other pieces of armor, you need to have this shield of faith. Now, what is this shield? Again, we have to look at uh what Paul's referring to. The word for shield here is thyrios, where we from the Greek word thyra, which actually means door. And that's because this shield was shaped like a door. Now there were two kinds of shields that the Roman soldiers had. There was a round shield that he could wear on his arm that was pretty small. But then there was a big shield. This was about four feet tall, three feet wide, and it it was put together with two pieces of wood to make it nice and thick. And then it was also wrapped in cowhide or leather. And then sometimes that leather was dipped in water, especially before battle, so it would extinct extinguish these uh fiery arrows that the enemy would with fire. Now this shield was strong enough where a soldier could kneel completely behind it and he can be protected It was also, they were built in such a way too where they could come together, a whole Roman uh army could form one big massive wall by holding their shields next to each other. They were designed to do that very thing. And so if a soldier could stand behind a shield or the they could hold those shields together, they were protected from the enemy, but if they got out from behind the shield, they were vulnerable and they could suffer a wound, maybe even a fatal wound. One soldier reported having over 200 enemy arrows in his shield in an intense battle Now the question again that we have to ask, what is the faith that Paul is talking about when he talks about the shield of faith? What does he mean by faith? Well, he's not talking about defaith. He's not talking about the body of Christian belief that we believe. Sometimes Paul will use that term. For example, we see him using that in Ephesians chapter four, verse thirteen, till we all come to the unity of the faith. And again when he says the faith, he's talking about the our creed, the body of doctrine that we believe. But that's not what Paul's referring to here. What's he referring to? When he says faith, he's referring to believing in what God's Word says. Believing in the promises of God, believing in the character of God, and what God says to us in His Word. The question is, is God trustworthy? The Bible often refers to God Himself as our shield. For example, in Genesis chapter 14. Abraham led his men against four wicked kings that had taken his nephew Lot into captivity as a prisoner, and Abraham with his men defeated these four Wicked Kings and he re he g he received back all that was taken and received his nephew Lot back and However, Abraham at that night, that very night, was wondering if the enemy was going to be able to launch a counterattack against them And so he was kind of concerned. And at that point the Lord came to Abraham in a vision, and the Lord said this in Genesis fifteen, seven, Fear not, Abram, I am thy shield. And thine exceeding great reward. David also understood this. David wrote in Psalm 18, verse 2: The Lord is my shield and the horn of my salvation. Also in Psalm 28, verse 7, the Lord is my shield, my strength in my shield. My heart trusts in him, and I am helped. You see, taking or trusting in God is taking up the shield of faith and being helped. You see, there's a difference in knowing that God is our shield and actually actively taking refuge in God. Believing God, believing in his promises. That's what taking up the shield of faith is. It is choosing to trust God. It is simple faith that we must exercise in God every day of our life. When the enemy attacks, Really the question is this, will you believe what Satan says or will you believe what God says? Really, in the final analysis, that's what it boils down to. Who is more trustworthy, Satan or God? And if you yield to the temptation, if you believe what Satan says, then then you've lost. But the shield of faith says, I don't believe what Satan says, I trust and believe what God says. says. That's the shield of faith. You take refuge behind that shield. Martin Lloyd Jones wrote this. He said, faith here means the ability to apply quickly what we believe so as to repel everything the devil does or attempts to do. So we see the adversary, we see the the armor, but here's the third thing then the application. The question is, how do we apply this? How do we use the shield? Again, Paul says taking up the shield of faith. And this verb implies intentional action. Continuous action. Every day we have to pick up that shield and we have to use it. Because every day Satan is going to come with his fiery darts. So, how do we pick it, how do we do this? Let me give you just a few practical things here. First of all, you have to know the Word of God. Taking up the shield of faith means you must know the Word. There's no way around that Faith is not self-generated, it is fed by the Word of God. What does the Bible say? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. So you must daily saturate your soul in the Scripture. You have to constantly be learning God's Word. That's why it's good to come to God's house. That's why it's good to go to Bible study and hear the Word of God preached, because you're learning the Word of God. That is the first step. Saturate your shield with the word of God and prayer. But then here's the next thing. Actively choose to trust God in your circumstance. You have to choose to do that. I would encourage you to read the Psalms often. I try to read normally five Psalms a day. What I normally do is I will take the day of the m the month, like today the twenty-second, I'll read Psalm 22, and then I'll skip thirty chapters and read Psalm 52, and skip thirty and read Psalm 82, and then one twelve and then one 42, so I read five chapters throughout the whole month. I read through the whole book of Psalms. Now why the is it good to do that? Well the Psalms give examples of men who were desperate in their circumstances, but they trusted in the Lord and God delivered them. And we see that over and over again in the Psalms. The psalmist is in danger. He'll rehearse his circumstances before God. He'll tell God everything that he's going through. By the end of the psalm, he's normally rejoicing in God's salvation. Even though his circumstances hasn't changed at that very moment. He's trusting in God to take care of that thing for him. And then his faith begins to grow. And so he's actively trusting in the promises of God. for his salvation. Just an example of this Psalm 107 gives an example of how there's a man who's going through a certain affliction, and then he cries out to the Lord, and the Bible says God sent his word and healed him and delivered him from his inch his his destruction. That is exactly the uh the idea here. Whatever your situation is, you have to analyze your situation, you have to bring it before God. And then you have to choose to trust in God to help you in that situation. You might say, God, I've been diagnosed with cancer. Or God, my teenager has is rebelling against you and is being sucked into the evil of this world Or God, I need you to provide a job for me so I can take care of my family. You tell the Lord your desperate situation Then you rehearse who God is, you remember the promises of God, you take refuge in those promises, you make a decision to rely and trust in God. That is holding up the shield of faith. But here's another thing that it includes. Speak God's promises back to the enemy. This is exactly what Jesus did. Remember when the devil came tempting Jesus in the wilderness? What was Jesus' response? It is written. It is written. It is written. He's speaking back the word of God, the promises of God to the temptation. For example, Satan will fire the arrow that says, God has abandoned you. And you are to take up the shield of faith that says, He has said, He will never leave me nor forsake me. Satan will lie and say, You're too sinful for God to forgive. And then you hold up the shield of faith that says 1 John 1 9, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Satan will say, you'll never change. You're always going to fail. But then you hold up Philippians 1. 6, being confident of this very thing. He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Satan will fire at you the arrow that says, God is withholding good from you. And then you hold up Psalm 84, 11. No good thing will he withhold from them who walk uprightly. Satan will lie and say, God doesn't really love you, and then you say, but God commended his love towards us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Satan will say, you're all alone in this trial. And you respond with Isaiah 43, 2, when thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. Satan will say you've messed up God's plan for your life. Faith says the gifts and the callings of God are without repentance. Satan will say, Look, worry about tomorrow. You need to be in control. Faith says, Take therefore no thought for tomorrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Satan will say, you're weak and you're powerless. But you respond with 2 Corinthians 12, 9, My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. Satan will say, You don't matter, your life is meaningless. Faith says, I have called thee by thy name. Thou art mine, since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honorable, and I have loved thee. Satan says God is punishing you. And you hold up Romans 8:1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. Satan will say, God has forgotten you, but faith replies, Can a woman forget her suckling child? Yea, they may forget, yet I will not forget thee. Behold, I have graven thee in the palms of my hands. And so faith is the shield that receives all of these thoughts, all these wicked thoughts that Satan will put at you to cause you to doubt, to tempt you. And faith holds up the shield, which extinguishes the flame, which Paul uses the word quench here, which means literally to extinguish the fire. And this is something, beloved, that you have to do every day. Every day. The battle is real. He will be firing arrows at you. In fact, he's firing arrows at you right now. Why you shouldn't believe what I'm telling you. But here's another thing that is taking up the shield of faith, and that is stand with others in faith. Stand with others. Remember I told you that the Romans had a formation in their army called the Testuto, which is a Latin word which means tortoise. Because when they would hold all their shields together and form one big wall, it looked like just a giant tortoise. And so when the enemy was fired, they were completely protected And that's a beautiful picture I think of joining arms together in worship, coming together as the church. The church is not just a place to attend, it's a shield, it's a wall. And beloved, we are strongest when we fight together in the faith, when we hold each other together in the church. We bolster each other in the faith. That's why I say it's important for you to be here because in the fellowship time that you have after church, you know what you should be doing: encouraging each other, reminding each other of the promises of God Encouraging one another in the difficulties that you may be going through. You're strongest again when you fight shoulder to shoulder with other believers. So you can't afford to be without your shield. So let me just close with a story from ancient Sparta. In those days every warrior carried his armor into battle. He carried his helmet. He carried his sword, his breastplate. But none of those items were more important than the shield. Why? Well, because the Spartan shield wasn't just for personal defense. It was designed, they actually designed their shields to interlock. They could lock together. If one man dropped his shield, everybody was in danger. That's why Spartan mothers, sending their sons into war, would say, come back with your shield or on your shield. In other words, don't you dare return without your shield. Hold on to it in the battle. Don't drop it. To lose your shield was to bring shame. Not just because you died, but because you failed to protect your comrades, others that were in the army Beloved, your shield is the shield of faith. It is faith in the promises of God. It's faith in the blood of Christ. Faith in the victory of the cross. Faith in the certainty of heaven. It not only protects you, it guards you, but it also encourages other believers beside you. When you stand, others will stand beside you and help. So above all, take your shield of faith. Hold on to it tight. Don't let it go. Don't lay it down. We don't lay down our shield until one day we stand before the King of Kings. When all of our faith will end in sight. That's when we lay down the shield. That's when the battle is over. But until then, hold on to that shield. Keep your faith in God. Stay faithful in the battle. Let's bow for prayer together Father, thank you for the Again, the encouragement of your word. It is indeed our shield. The promises of your word are true and trustworthy. And when Satan comes, and he does daily, and places thoughts of doubt and despair and discontentment into our mind and heart, Father, help us to hold up this shield of faith. To know that your promises are true, that Lord, you are trustworthy in whatever desperate situation that believers here today may find themselves in. The Word of God addresses it. There's promises from your word that will sustain us, that will help us through. Lord, may we choose to trust in you. In our circumstance, not to believe the lies of the devil, but to trust in you, to choose to hold up that shield and put our faith and trust in you. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Maybe you're a believer here today and you're in a desperate situation. Will you choose to trust God in that? Or will you yield to Satan's fiery darts? How many will say with an uplift hand, no one looking around, I choose to trust God, preacher, in my situation. I'm trusting and calling upon the Lord for his help. I'm calling upon God, I trust in him If you're here today, God bless you all. If you're here today and you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus, I would encourage you right now to make sure of your salvation. Satan will say to you, There's no hope for you. But the Word of God says you do have hope. You have hope in Christ. Satan says your sins cannot be forgiven, but the Bible says that him that cometh unto me I will in no wise cast out. Friend, if you come with a repentant heart asking for the forgiveness of Christ, your sins will be forgiven. He will make you his child. He'll give you eternal life in heaven. All you must do is reach out in faith and say, Yes, I believe the promise of the gospel. I believe the promise of eternal life. And today I receive it by faith. And friend, if you prayed that and you're trusting Christ, let us know. We want to help you along. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk today. Father again, how we thank you for your word. May it encourage every heart here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen