I want you to take your Bibles this morning and open to the book of Hebrews, the book of Hebrews, chapter ten. We've been doing Hebrews on Wednesday night, and I thought I would take a few Sunday mornings to deal with uh this book. I mean we've been going through the Gospel of Mark, and we will get back to that. But I want to just kind of go through this part of Hebrews with you on Sunday morning because these are truths that are needed for all of the church And I want to, you know, I love to preach sermons that are encouraging and that are uplifting. But sometimes we have to preach sermons that are a warning. I would much rather be upbeat. I would much rather uh preach things that are a blessing. But sometimes again, we have to warn. Why do we do that? Well, parents warn their children. Why do we do that? We do it because we love them. Because there are dangers that they need to be aware of. And this sermon here is more like a warning. It's a warning for all of us. And God has it in his word because he wants his people to know it. He wants us to know these things. And so I want to talk today about the danger of apostasy. The danger of apostasy from Hebrews chapter 10. Look at verse 26. For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins. The cable television mogul Ted Turner, you probably haven't heard that name in a while, but uh he's around still. At one time Uh he claimed to be a Christian uh and later he criticized fundamentalist fundamentalist Christianity. He said this, he said Jesus probably would be sick at his stomach over the way his ideas have been twisted. He said that to a reporter from a newspaper. He gave those remarks at a banquet where he was honored by the American Humanist Association for his work around the world. And he talked about his upbringing as a Christian. At one time he considered, he said, being a missionary. And he said this, I was saved seven or eight times, according to the newspaper, he said. But then he said he became disenchanted with Christianity. And he said this. He said, the more he strayed from his faith, quote, the better I felt, unquote. The more I strayed, the better I felt. Now, what are we to think of people who make statements such as this? Well, the Bible calls this apostasy. And the book of Hebrews deals with this issue, and specifically this passage of scripture here here deals with this very issue. It deals with those who have heard the gospel. They have come face to face with the claims of Christ. They had been associated with Christianity to some extent, but then turn away. And these were people whose hearts had been warmed toward the gospel. Perhaps they made some kind of superficial commitment. And perhaps they came down the aisle and they knelt at an altar and perhaps tears coming down their face. And they made a decision to trust Jesus. And from all outward appearances, their faith looked genuine. They identified themselves with the church and with Christianity. But in their enthusiasm, they really didn't make a true commitment. And they begin to walk away from Christianity. What is that called? When you get over your faith, when you no longer associate with being a Christian. That's called the Bible calls that apostasy. And we often see this happen in the church. In fact, this is a warning that the writer of Hebrews gives to everybody in the church, so that you're not in danger of committing this This one sin, this fatal sin. In the book of Hebrews, there are what I call five parenthetical warnings. That is where the writer will be riding along and he'll stop and by the way he'll say, remember this And each time he says this, by the way, let me remind you about this, it always deals with this thing of apostasy of turning away from the faith. There are five of these warnings in the book of Hebrews. This is one of the warnings that he's going to give us right here. I think this is the most sober of all the warnings. that he gives us perhaps the most sober warning in all of the word of God that he gives to the church. And what I want you to see from our passage today then are four lessons about apostasy. Four lessons about it, so that we're careful to examine our own self to make sure that we are in the faith. Number one, I want to talk to you about the characteristic of apostasy. Again, look at verse 26. This perhaps is the clearest, most concise definition that we have of this in the Bible, verse 26. For if we sin willfully, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins Now what does this mean? Well, first of all, the truth is received. Notice we're kind of back into this verse 26. Notice at the end it says that um talks about a person receiving the knowledge of the truth. The truth is received, and the truth that the writer is referring to here is the truth of the gospel. Here is a person that seemingly receives the truth about Jesus Christ, about who he is. And so an apostate is someone who knows the truth. They're not ignorant of it. They have a knowledge of Jesus. In fact, the word for knowledge here, the normal word for knowledge in Greek is the word gnosis. We've heard this word in our English words like a diagnosis. Well, that's the Greek word gnosis is the word for knowledge, but the difference here is The writer puts the uh a prefix in front of this word, epic or epi, you know, where we get our word epic. Epic, of course, is something big something full. And so the word then is epionosis. And it has the idea of not just a superficial knowledge, but a real knowledge. A lot of knowledge, more than a passing knowledge. This is a person that has a real understanding. They understand the gospel. They understand the truth of Jesus Christ. I think the writer may refer to them. Hold your place here in Hebrews chapter 10. Go back to chapter 6 real quick and look at verse number Verse number four, where it says, For it's impossible for those who were once enlightened, tasted of the heavenly gift, were made partakers of the Holy Ghost. Have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the world to come. That's what he's referring to here. That's the kind of knowledge that he's talking about. Same idea. Here's a person that was enlightened. They have received the light of the gospel. They've even tasted of the heavenly gift and not yet really be saved. These are not descriptions of a real believer. This is someone who's gone through all the pre-salvation works. that the Holy Spirit can give someone. You know, you can come to church and not be saved and experience real worship. You can come to church and know the gospel because it's been taught to you You can even become a partaker of the Holy Spirit. In what way? In his convicting power. You can be a partaker and yet not have the Holy Spirit dwell in you. You can taste of the good word of God and yet not be saved. That's what the writer here is talking about. Now remember who he's writing to. He's writing to Hebrews who are considering the claims of Christ. They're on the verge of making a commitment to Jesus, but they're tempted to draw back into Judaism. They don't want to walk away from all their old religion, all the old rituals. The the sacrifices, all those things meant so much to them. But the writer here is saying, look, Jesus has come, the full revelation of the truth has come. You need to go on and trust him and be saved. And so they're kind of right there on the edge. Some may have even made a profession, but now because of persecution they're considering turning back. And he's saying, Don't do that, because if you do that, that would be a huge mistake. The truth is received initially, but then notice the truth is rejected. If you go back to chapter 10, verse 26. Look what it says in verse 26. For if we sin willfully, After that we have received the knowledge of the truth. So eventually they reject. When he says we sin willfully, what specific sin is he referring to here? He's referring to the sin of unbelief, of ultimately saying, okay, I know about the claims of Christ, I know about the gospel, I know about all of that, but I'm turning back. I'm going back to my old way. I'm going back to my old religion. The way it was. I turn away from Christ. That's specifically the sin that he talks about here. And notice what he says here. If we do that, if we sin willfully, that word there is a very strong word. It has the idea again of intentional planning it out This is not talking about someone who backslides away from being a uh after they got saved. We know that a Christian can backslide, right? Of course they can He's not really talking about this. He's talking about someone who's come to the very brink of salvation and even perhaps has made a decision to trust Christ. And they have all the knowledge and the light of the truth. But then they they turn around and they turn back. They give up, they lose interest, they go their way. What does that reveal? Well they never were really saved. They were an unbeliever that's turning back because they're willfully, voluntarily turning back You know, our laws today make a distinction between voluntary manslaughter, or excuse me, involuntary manslaughter and first-degree murder. Both of these things are punished, but if it's involuntary manslaughter, this is something that happened. That was an accident. It wasn't willful. First degree murder is punished more severely. And so it is here, we could say that when a person We're not talking about someone who backslides away. We're talking about someone who willfully says, I know about the claims of Christ, I know about Jesus, but I choose deliberately to turn away and to turn back and to go my own way. That intentional rejection of the gospel is what the writer has in view here. And friend, this is a very dangerous thing because the Bible says the only thing left after that is judgment The only thing left after that is judgment. And so we know that a true believer can lapse into sin. I'm not saying that a true believer can't backslide or lapse into sin or sometimes struggle with sin. We all know that that is true. All of us have perhaps done that. We've struggled with sin. But the difference is that a true child of God will be brought back. They'll be disciplined by God. They'll be brought back into the things of God. But someone who is not real will stay away. They'll say like Ted Turner, the more I strayed away from my faith, the better I felt. That's not a true child of God. And by the way, I don't know who is genuine and who's not. And by the way, neither do you That's not for us to judge. I don't know who a true child of God is and who's not. I think when we get to heaven, we're going to be surprised by who's there and who's not there. God hasn't given us this role of determining who is a backslider and who's an apostate. We can't know that. I can't know that. You can't know that. Of the twelve disciples, one was a devil, and nobody suspected Judas. I mean, they gave Judas the money. You don't give the money to someone that you mistrust. He held the purse. We don't know who it is. Our concern should be to make sure we're not using this to judge others. That's not why this passage is given. It's used to judge ourselves. We should be focused on ourself. We should examine our own heart to make sure that our faith is a real faith, that our profession is not just superficial. It's deeper than that. It's a true commitment to Christ. That's why the Bible says many times in the New Testament to examine yourself. Make sure you're in the faith. 2 Peter 1. 10 says, wherefore the rather, brethren, give all diligence to make your calling and election, sure. In 2 Corinthians 13, 5, Paul said this: examine yourself whether you be in the faith. Test yourselves, he says. Examine yourselves. Make sure. Do you really measure up to the test of genuine Christianity? Every time a believer comes to the Lord's table, the Bible tells us to examine ourselves So there's a spiritual self-examination that needs to take place. Again, God has not called us to examine others. He's called us to examine ourselves. So the question is, is your faith real? Is your faith genuine? But I'll tell you this: a true believer will be marked by one thing: they'll be marked by obedience to Christ. If you're truly saved, you'll want to obey Jesus. This will be the pattern of your life. John said this, and hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. He that says, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, the Bible says is a liar, and the truth is not in him. And then John will go on to talk about a true believer will not remain in sin. We might lapse into sin, but God will bring us back. And so that's the characteristics of an apostate, of apostasy, I should say. It's the knowledge of the truth initially. But then ultimately rejecting the truth. But here's the second thing I want you to see quickly, and that is the causes of an apostate. Why would a person who knows the gospel, who has seen the light That has had all these wonderful blessings from the Holy Spirit, the ones that we mentioned we saw in Hebrews chapter 6. Why would they turn away from all of that? Why would they come to the very brink? of making a commitment to Christ or even making a superficial decision to follow Christ. And then ultimately they turn back From where they came. They turned back into Christianity. Well, there's a few reasons I would just like to give them to you quickly. One could be persecution. Could be persecution. You know, persecution will drive a true believer closer to God. But someone who's not truly saved, it'll drive them farther away. Uh it's like the parable of the soils that Jesus gave. You know, there was one soil that was shallow, uh there was just a half inch of dirt and a rock underneath, and when originally the seed is planted, it seems like it grows up quickly, but when the sun comes out and the heat comes, it withers away and it dies. And in Jesus' parable, that son represented persecution. When they're called to really stand for what they believe, they can't stand up to it. Persecution causes them to go away, and it reveals that their faith was not genuine. But then also there's another thing, and that is false teachers False teachers. People that claim to be real teachers of God, but are not really of God I heard about one pastor who wanted to use reverse psychology to his church, and uh so he dressed up in a devil suit one morning, and when people in the parking lot were coming to church, he went out there and he said, Don't go to that church, don't go to that church Of course he was using reverse psychology. He wanted the people to say, I'm going to this church. The devil's not going to keep me away. And some of the members got concerned about this guy in a devil's outfit. They didn't know it was the pastor. So they called the police. And the police came and they took the mask off, and there it was, the pastor. The pastor in a devil suit. Well friend, I'm not concerned about the pastor in a devil suit. I'm not concerned about the pastor in a devil suit. I'm concerned about the devil in a pastor suit. And this is what the writer here is talking about. False teachers. Jesus said many false prophets will arise and lead many astray. False teaching does much damage. It does damage to the true child of God. True believers can be led astray by false ideas and false teaching. But friend, it's deadly for those who don't really know Christ. That makes a superficial decision, a false teacher can just draw them away Apostasy can be caused by that. Persecution, false teachers, but then temptation. Sometimes the temptation from the world becomes too much. And if a person truly isn't rooted in Christ, they'll be drawn away. Again, we go to the parable of the soils, where Jesus said there's some seed planted among the thorns, and the thorns represent the cares of the world, which chokes out the real seed. It's the love of the world and other things that will draw a person away from Christ That is not truly saved and it brings about what we could call an apostasy in their life, a falling away from The truth. They're like the little girl who won a who one neat one time a young man proposed to her and he said, I love you more than anything, and he said, I want to marry you. He said, I'm not rich like Johnny Brown, I don't own a yacht and a Rolls-Royce like Johnny Brown, but I do love you. And she said, Well I love you too, but tell me more about Johnny Brown There are some people that they have a love for Christ, but they are still looking out into the world. And the world becomes so alluring. But then there's another thing, neglect. Perhaps this is the saddest cause of apostasy. A person is given the knowledge of the truth. Again and again, they're faced and confronted with the gospel. They don't make a decision to fully commit to Christ. They keep putting it off and putting it off and putting it off until finally God says, okay, that's enough I'm not going to draw you in again in order for you to repent. And they neglect salvation. They neglect the day of visitation and the door closes, the Bible says in Hebrews 2. 3, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? And then another thing is clinging to the old, holding to the old religion or the old lifestyle. And that's the problem with the people that the writer was ready to hear. They just were unwilling to let go of their old religion, their old life Sometimes I'll witness to a religious person who doesn't know the gospel, they don't know Jesus, and they're unwilling to trust Christ because they don't want to let go of their old religion. Religion can be damning. Religious tradition has been one of the greatest barriers to the gospel. And then finally, forsaking the church. And it's no accident that the writer writes this right after verse 25. Look in chapter ten, verse twenty-five. Not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much more as you see the day approaching. He just gives this exhortation, don't forsake the assembly. And right on the heels of that he gives this warning about apostasy falling away from the truth. One of the Signs, we could say, of this happening is a person who begins to forsake the assembly of the church. They are not faithful in coming to the assembly. They eventually are pulled away, the Bible says. And so we see then the characteristics and we see the causes. Let me talk to you number three about the consequences of apostasy. What are the consequences? Well the writer is very clear in verse 26 again where he says, For if we sin willfully after that we've received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins That's one of the consequences. There's nothing else to be done. There's no more sacrifice that can atone for sin. God's not going to give you another option If a person is confronted with Christ and the gospel and they consider it and consider it and think about it and they say, Finally, you know, I'm not impressed with this, what else do you have for me? God says nothing I've offered you my son, and you have not committed to him, you've not received him. There's no more sacrifice for sin. You can't go back into the Old Testament and and do those rituals and sacrifices and expect that to work because that all pointed to the ultimate sacrifice. There's nothing left for you. Nothing. Nothing but judgment. Certain judgment is the next thing. Look at verse 27. But a fearful A certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation. And this is what he's saying: judgment is sure. It's coming. If you reject the gospel, you turn from the truth, you have one thing left, and that's judgment A certain fearful looking for. That means this is going to happen. People just don't want to believe in the wrath of God. They don't want to believe in hell. I preached a sermon here called uh The Forgotten Attribute of God, which dealt with the wrath of God, and it was went out on the our internet. And some reporter from a magazine got a hold of it and used it to tell the world what a mean creature I was And how I was so judgmental because I was preaching about the wrath of God. Because people don't want to hear about the wrath of God. They don't want to hear about this. But friend, let me just tell you, the wrath of God is just as true as the love of God. Thank God God is merciful, He is loving. But he's also a God of wrath. And when we get saved, we're being delivered from the wrath of God over sin. That's what salvation gives us. Spurgeon said this, think lightly of hell, and you'll think lightly of the cross. It's the cross that delivers us from this wrath. But people don't want to believe that. But the Bible says it's a certain judgment. And then a greater judgment. Look at verse 28. He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy who has trodden underfoot the Son of God, has counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing? And has done despite unto the spirit of grace. And what is he saying here? He's saying, sometimes people will say, are there degrees of judgment? And the answer is, absolutely there are. And he uses what is called a rabbinical argument from the lesser to the greater. If in the Old Testament you willfully sinned against the law of Moses, you received no second chance. There was no mercy extended to you. Under two or three witnesses, you were stoned. You received judgment. And if under the Old Testament you received that punishment, how much greater punishment will you receive under Jesus Christ? Jesus is greater than Moses. Jesus had more truth than Moses. He gives greater light than Moses. If they were punished under Moses, how much more will a person be punished? In the New Testament, if they walk away from Christ. That's the idea here. The the how much more argument I call it You'll receive greater punishment. Why? Because he likens it to three things. If you walk away from Christ, look what it says in verse number 29. He likens it to trampling the Son of God underfoot Look at verse 29. Of how much sore punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy who has trodden underfoot the Son of God? That's what he likens it to. When you turn away You're trampling the Son of God under your feet. I remember one time I went into a Christian bookstore down south, and I was of I'm not easily offended, but I was offended in this bookstore. Some of these bookstores have become so commercial. They were selling Jesus doormats, doormats with the name of Jesus on it. Now, I uh maybe it's me, maybe I'm just being a little weird here But I I just thought about that and I thought I don't want to come home and wipe my feet on the name of Jesus before I go into my house, trample his name underfoot. I went to the owner of the Christian bookstore and I basically said, Are you serious? Are you really going to sell these things? It reminded me of this verse here. Trampling underfoot, the Son of God, when you turn away from the Lord. It's what it likens it to. But also another thing in verse 29, you're counting the blood of the covenant an unholy thing. You're basically saying that the blood of Christ is worthless to you. This precious blood. Peter calls it the precious blood of Christ. When you turn away from the gospel, you're counting it an unholy thing. And also you're despising the spirit of grace, he says there in verse number 29. At the end where it says, hath done despite unto the spirit of grace. And so he likens it to these three things. Very serious offenses And for you to do that, that's a serious offense to God. Here's a man, a homeless man, lying in the gutter in his rags with sores. He's there because of his own sinful choices. But here comes a generous man who wants to basically take this man to the hospital, pay all of his bills, and then Give him money in his bank, give him everything he would ever need to live. Have a comfortable home. He wants to give all of it. And this man, rather than receiving it, spits in that man's face. And then says to others that this offer is worthless. What a terrible thing. But that would not be as bad as insulting the spirit of grace. by turning your back on the pardon that has been offered to us in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me give you the last thing quickly and we're done. We talked about the characteristics and the causes and the consequences. Let me talk to you about the cure. You say, how do I make sure that I don't commit this one Error. Well look at the end. Look down in verse number 30 and 31. For we know him that has said, Vengeance belongs unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And the Lord shall judge his people. Look at verse 31. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. So how do I make sure that I don't do that? Very simply, remember to fear God. Remember that God's judgment is sure. And you really have only two choices. There's either Jesus or judgment. So what do you want? What choice will you take? It's either Jesus or judgment. If you reject Christ after hearing the gospel and being associated with God's people, you fall into the hands of the living God. And the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, you don't want that to happen You don't want that. So you better make sure. But you know what? Let me just end with this. Again, I want to end with the mercy of God. Because let me tell you something. For any person that wants mercy from God, they can get it. And you know what? It's very simple. You just reach out and take that mercy. Last week I preached on the thief on the cross. And actually yesterday when I did a funeral service for Eric Boone at a Cozar Sun, I again went to this story of the thief on the cross because again what's amazing to me is this man on the cross There at one moment he was scoffing at Jesus, and in the next moment he feared the Lord He saw Jesus for who he is. He looked at him in eyes of faith. And in that moment, there was a sudden turn, a sudden change. And think about it, he's right there on his deathbed. And at that very moment he sees Jesus for who he is. And what does he say? Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom? That was enough faith right there to save him And Jesus said, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. You might say that this man was on the verge of committing that great sin of apostasy, but at the last moment he learned to fear God. And he reached out in faith and God gave him mercy. Right there on his deathbed, right minutes from dying, he prayed and God gave him mercy. Isn't that a merciful God? Anybody who wants mercy, you can have it. But I want to say this, dear friend. Don't dare shun the grace of God. Because if you shun it, the Bible says it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. Let's bow for prayer together today. And so, Father, we we do take warning from this passage of Scripture. And Lord, I pray that no one under the sound of my voice, no church family member, no friend, no family member will ever be guilty. Of the danger and the sin of apostasy, where they turn away from the only truth that could ever save their soul. I pray that every person here under the sound of my voice has already either reached out in faith to Christ or they will, or today, this very moment, reach out. Because we know according to this passage, the writer makes it very clear: it's Christ or judgment. And it's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. So I'm going to ask you, friends, with your head bowed and eyes closed, to do a quick self-examination, spiritual self-examination. Do you know Christ? Have you turned from your sin to turn to Christ? Are you believing in Him as your only means of salvation? Because again, friend, if you want mercy from the Savior, you'll get it if you ask for it. If you want it. But I plead with you, don't make a superficial commitment. The Bible says, pick up your cross and follow Christ. Make sure of your salvation. Don't don't put it off. Make sure. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. And we pray this in Jesus' precious and matchless name. Amen.