Take your Bibles, open to Romans chapter ten. If you didn't bring a Bible, there should be one in the pew there in front of you. Please feel free to use that. Romans chapter ten. uh is where we are today. The passage we read just a moment ago, and I want to speak on the world's greatest need. By the help of God, I hope to What is man's greatest need? Have you ever thought about it? When I look in our world today, I see a world that is hurting. I see people that are broken, broken and have great needs. What is man's greatest need? Well the intellectualist will say we need more education. The socialists will say we need more social reform. The activists will say we need to get busy and do more things. The legalist says we gotta quit doing this and quit doing that and God knows we need to quit doing some things. The government says we need better government But none of these things really deal with the core issue. And then the philosopher stands up to the plate and he says, I I can figure it out A man in his wisdom tries to figure out man's greatest need. And so you have men like Sigmund Freud that basically stand up and say, well, you know, man's greatest need is that he he he suffers guilt And he has to eliminate that guilt through self-analysis and he has to transcend the stiffling codes of culture. You know, basically what he's saying is our standards are too high. And man suffers guilt because he can't live up to that standard, so therefore lower the standard. And then another philosopher behind him, uh B. S. Skinner, says the problem with man is that he's a victim of his environment The environment is bad, therefore man is bad, so therefore we have to change the environment. And then another philosopher stands up and says, uh Carl Rogers says, well, man just needs encouragement and motivation And uh we just need to encourage him. We need to motivate him. But none of these things really deal with the root problem. This is man's wisdom and it fails. It's like putting a band-aid on cancer Philosophy doesn't have the problem. It's like putting a uh uh it is uh actually Bertrand Russell said this philosophy proved a washout for me Jeremiah said this in Jeremiah 30 verse 12, For thus saith the Lord, thy bruise is incurable, and thy wound is grievous. Thou hast no healing medicines. It's not with man. Man doesn't have the answer. The answer is not in man's wisdom, but I want you to know that I have a book that has the answer. The Word of God has the answer to man's problem. And what does the Bible say? Really, if you just open up your Bible and you go to the book of Genesis, don't go there, but sometime read it, you'll find out that when God created man God only gave him one standard, it wasn't too high. He just said, Don't eat fruit off that one tree. The problem wasn't that he was a victim of his environment, because what kind of environment did God give man? He gave him the perfect environment You see, the environment doesn't make man. Man makes the environment. And the problem with man was not that he needed encouragement and motivation, because God was with him there every day in the garden, and the presence of God is enough to encourage us, dear friend. He had God's presence. You say, what was the problem with man? The problem with man is sin. That's the problem. One time the great preacher Adrian Rogers was flying on a plane. He sat next to a Washington lawyer. They struck up a conversation. The lawyer said, What do you do? He said, I'm a Baptist minister. And the Lord said, Oh, you probably talk a lot about the problems in our world today. He said, What do you think are the greatest problems? And Dr. Rogers said, Man only has three problems, sin, sorrow, and death. And the Lord said, Oh no, he's got many more problems than that. Dr. Roger said, no, he only has three, sin, sorrow, and death. The man said, oh no, he must have more problems than that. And Dr. Roger said, I tell you what, sit down and think about it. If you can think of a fourth problem, you let me know And that lawyer sat down and he put his analytical lawyer brain to that and he came back to Dr. Rogers and he said, Man only has three problems sin, sorrow, and death. But I would like to just add to that just a little bit. Really, there's only one problem and it's sin because if you think about it, sorrow and death come from sin. If there were no sin, there would be no sorrow and death. So really we could say that all the problems of man, directly or indirectly, come from this one issue of sin And the answer to that sin problem is salvation through Jesus Christ. Man's greatest need is salvation. Life is short, death is sure, sin is the curse, Christ is the And that's why God sent his Son Jesus to this world. The Bible says in Luke chapter 10, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. God sent his son Jesus Christ into this world to meet man's greatest need. Jesus did not come as an educator. He did not come as a social reformer. He didn't come as a political leader or a philosopher. Friend, he came as the Savior of the world. First Timothy says this: for this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am chief. And so based on that front, I just want you to see three things about the answer salvation. And here they are. Number one, if you're taking notes right down the source of salvation. Look in Romans chapter ten, look in verse number one. Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge, for they being ignorant of God's righteousness. and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. Now Paul had a burning and a yearning in his heart for his people, his fellow Jews to be saved, to know Jesus. Now friend, that's our desire for you. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as you your Savior, our greatest desire for you is that you know him and that you have salvation through him. Do you know him? Do you know today if you died uh that you would go to heaven? Some people think there's no way for you to know that, but friend, there is. That's why God gave us His word. These things have I written unto you, that you might know that you have eternal life. And God wants you to know that. Now, first of all, I want you to think about there's man's way. Some people think that man is the source, but man's way is failure. Man thinks he can make his own way to heaven, that he can establish his own righteousness. And basically, that was the problem with the Jews that Paul's writing about. He's saying they're out there, they're trying to establish their own righteousness by just doing religious ritual, by doing good works. They were trying to make themselves pleasing or satisfactory. But I want to tell you something, dear friend, man can't do that. There's some people that have this this the great scale theory, what we call it, and that is that when you get to heaven there's going to be a huge scale scale on one side is all my good works and on the other is all my bad. And if my good works outweigh my bad, then maybe I'll make it to heaven. If not, then I'll go to the other place. But friend, that's not what the Bible teaches. But this is what the Jews believe. It'll begin in Verse number three, for they being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God Paul said they just don't understand. They're trying to establish their own righteousness, but man's righteousness will never be good enough to get them to heaven There is a righteousness that is available to us, however, that will make us acceptable to God. It's not our righteousness, but it's available to us. It could be attributed, it could be put on our account. You know you ever transfer funds to your children when they say, Dad, I need more money? And you take money out of your account and you transfer it to their account. Well imagine righteousness in that way, you see We are bankrupt in our own righteousness before God. We have nothing to offer God. The Bible says all of our righteousness is like filthy rags. Yet man goes out and he tries to do all these things to get himself Acceptable to God, He will burn candles, He will be sprinkled, He will eat wafers, He will do all these religious things. And yet the Bible says none of that will earn him salvation It's like monopoly money, friend. Go and try and spend monopoly money in the store. It just doesn't work. But you see, when you there is a righteousness, however, that is available, and it's the righteousness of Christ And when we get saved, all of the righteousness of Christ is transferred to our account. It's not our righteousness. That's what Paul means when he says they being ignorant of God's righteousness Have gone about to establish their own righteousness. And friend, if you go that route, you'll never make it. If you try to work and earn your way to heaven You'll never do it. Why? Because the Bible says, look at verse number five. For Moses described the righteousness which is of the law, that the man which doeth those things Shall live by them. What he's saying here is if you want to fulfill righteousness with your own works, then you better be ready to do it all because God wants absolute perfection. One half of one sin is enough to dim your soul to hell forever. And if you want to go that route, okay But God wants absolute perfection. How many of us would be willing to admit I'm I'm so far so good, I'm perfect? Don't raise your hand, please. None of us are there. We've all failed. That means no man can get to heaven based on his own good works. James says if you fail in one law, you've broken all the commandments. The commandments are like ten links on a chain. You break one link, you've broken the whole chain And you can't get to heaven that way. And so, friend, the worst form of badness is human goodness when you try to use it for salvation. It just won't work. Now man's way is failure, but God's way is faith. Look in verse number four of chapter ten. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believes. You see Friend, it's not by trying, it's by trusting. It's not what you can do, it's what Christ has already done. And that's what it means when it says Christ is the end. That's the Greek word telios, and it doesn't mean termination. Christ doesn't terminate the law. It means fulfillment. Christ fulfills the law. He is the fulfillment of all the law. You see, that's why His righteousness This can be transferred to our account when we put our faith in Him because when Jesus came and He lived in this world as the virgin-born son of God, He was sinless. He fulfilled all of the law. Every bit of the law. And so in his account, he built up all of this righteousness. And friend, what happens when you get saved? You know what happens when you put your faith in Jesus? You know what? There's two imputations. All of my sin is imputed to Christ. That's why on the cross he died for my sin. But all of our sins were put in his account. All of his righteousness was downloaded into our account And when a person receives Jesus, when God looks at you now, he sees the righteousness of Christ. He sees his son. That's what it means when it says in verse number four: for Christ is the end of the law. For righteousness to everyone that believes. And so Jesus did two things. He took our sins, he satisfied the wrath of God on the cross when he Died, and when we put our faith in him, all of that righteousness now is given to us. That's why Paul says these poor Jews, they don't understand. They're trying to establish their own righteousness And because of that, they have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God, which is given to us by Christ. Friend, I would not trust the best five minutes of my life For salvation. It has to be Christ. It can't be us. So that's number one, the source of salvation. But I want you to write down number two. I want you to think about the simplicity of salvation. Look what it says in verse Number six. But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise: say not in thine heart, who shall ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above, or who shall descend into the deep That is to bring up Christ again from the dead. But what saith it the word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart? That is the word of faith which we preach. Now Paul says that salvation is so very simple. It's so very simple. It's just a matter of faith. And if you want and he's really Showing the contrast between the law and the gospel. The law says, Do this and thou shalt live. The gospel says, live and thou shalt do this. The law says, pay me what thou owest. The gospel says I will freely forgive all. The law says the wages of sin is death. The gospel says the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. The law demands holiness. The gospel provides holiness. The law says do. The gospel says done. The law says run, but it doesn't give us any legs. The gospel says fly and it gives us wings. Oh, thank God, dear friend, for the gospel. And if you want to be saved, let me tell you this: you've got to stop trying and you got to start trusting in Jesus Christ and in him alone. Now, Paul's talking here about simple faith. Now, think first of all about Notice what he says in verse six. You don't have to go up to heaven. If you want to be saved today, you don't have to ascend some staircase and go to heaven and knock on the doors of heaven and say, Jesus, Jesus, I want to be saved. Paul said, You By the way, I think he's referring here to an old Jewish tradition that if any single Pharisee or Jewish man kept the laws of Of God perfectly, it would be like going up to the very gates of heaven. That person's righteousness could carry them up to heaven and they could bring the Messiah down. And Paul says You don't have to do that. You don't have to perform some ritual like that. First of all, it's impossible for you to do. Secondly, Christ already came down from heaven, friend He came down to save us. And thirdly, we have a book that tells us how to go to heaven. And then he says you don't have to ascend down into the deep, verse 7, to bring Christ up again from the dead. Faith doesn't reason that way. You don't have to go to hell or the grave and bring Christ up, friend. He already rose from the grave. Now sometimes I hear about these people that write these books about going to heaven and what they experience there in heaven and they want to write a book and people buy that book and say, Oh, isn't it wonderful this is what heaven's about? You already have a book that tells you about heaven. It's called the Bible. You don't need anything else And Paul says, you don't got to go through all that. That's not how simple faith reasons. But what does simple faith say? Look in verse 8 again. But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth and in thy heart, which is the word of faith which we preach. Friend, it's simple faith operates on the word of God That has just been preached, Paul said. I just preached it to you. It's right here. Your faith has to be not in some mystical experience Not in some ritual, not in some very difficult, hard thing to do. Your faith has to be in the Word of God. And it is this book that tells us about Jesus. Pray tell me what do you need Know about Jesus outside of the Bible. You don't know anything about Jesus outside of the Bible. Pray tell me what do you know about salvation outside of the Bible? There's nothing that you know about salvation. God has revealed it here in his word. And Paul said, This is the word that we're preaching to you right now. Your faith has to be in what God says right here. I'm telling you, based on the authority of the Word of God, salvation is available for you through our Lord Jesus Christ who died for your sins on the cross. And took your punishment. And now he's waiting to transfer his righteousness to your account if you will just come in simple faith. Say, yes, Lord, I believe. I believe. And I'm trusting you. That is the reasoning of simple faith. Notice the requirements of simple faith. Look at verse number eight But what saith it? The word is it is in thy mouth and in thy heart. That is the word which we preach, verse 9, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt Be saved. What's the first thing? Confession. You have to confess with your mouth what you believe in your heart, and that's what he's saying here. Confession and really a belief in your heart, those two things go together. You have to confess what you believe. Look at the word believe there in verse number 9. And look at verse 10. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession Is made unto salvation. You believe in your heart, you confess with your mouth what you believe in your heart. And friend, if you believe in your heart that Jesus is the Savior, the Son of God, who came to this world to deliver you from sin. And to give you his righteousness so that you can stand satisfied before God? If you believe that, then you have to confess it, Paul said. You confess it with your mouth, what you believe inwardly in your heart. And by the way, the word believe, it has the idea not just of an intellectual understanding, but it goes far beyond that. It's putting all of your hope, all of your faith, you're fully reliant upon something. Give you illustration. One time the missionary John Patton, missionary to the South Sea Islands, was translating the Bible into the language of the people he was ministering to. And by the way, that was a big job because when he got there, they didn't have a written language. So first of all, he had to give them a written language, and then he had to translate the Bible into that language And when he got to this word believe here, he was trying to really convey what the word believe means. And he knew it was something more than just an intellectual understanding And so he began asking natives, what do you think this means? What do you think this means? And he really couldn't get a satisfactory answer. And so there was one very intelligent native that came into his house and he said, Let me show you something. And so John Patton sat down on a chair and he said give me the word for this and then they said well you're just sitting down and then John Patton he picked up his seat put him on the rungs of the chair and he put all of his weight he lifted his hands up and all of his weight was completely in that chair And he said to the native, What is the word for this? And the native said, Well, you are fully, completely relying on that chair. And this is the word for that. And John Patton said, That's the word. That's the one I'm going to use when I translate. And friend, that's exactly right. Because that's what belief means. And I want to tell you, standing before God, all of my hope and faith is fully dependent, not on Jerry Harmon, but on Jesus. Jesus on what Jesus had already done and accomplished for me, not on my righteousness, but on his. My whole faith and hope is in Christ. That is what it means To believe. And friend, if you're willing to put your faith in Jesus Christ, the Bible says that you will be saved. Notice what it says. Look in verse number eleven, for the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed. And verse thirteen, whosoever shall call upon the name So this leads me to the third thing. And by the way, there's also submission that's implied there. But let me give you the third point quickly. Not only the source of salvation And the simplicity of salvation. But I want you to see the third thing. I want you to see, number three, the satisfaction of salvation. Because again it says here in verse eleven that you will whoever calls upon him will not be ashamed, and the word ashamed there means disappointed. And another way we could render the word here is disappointed. And so he's saying here that whoever calls upon the Lord, you won't be sorry you do Did. You won't be disappointed. Friend, I've never met a person who truly trusted Jesus and said, Boy, I'm sorry I did that. It's always the opposite. I'm so glad I put my faith in In Christ. I'm so glad. You will not be disappointed. Friend, He will cleanse you from your sin. He will give you eternal life. He will place his spirit in you. He will begin to sanctify you in the truth. He will be your friend. He will be your comforter. He will be your guide. You'll have sweet fellowship with Jesus. I want to tell you Friend, when you put your faith in him, you will not be disappointed. But here's another thing, friend. You won't be denied. Look at verse number 12, for there's no difference between the Jew and the Greek For the same Lord overall is rich unto all that shall call upon him, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so this promise extends to Gentiles as well as Jews, that's everybody Paul's basically saying there's no there's only one gospel. There's only one plan of salvation. It's the same for the Jew, it's the same for the Gentile. Why? Because the Jew is under To the same condemnation as the Gentile. And salvation is the same for Jew and Gentile. It's the same for everyone. There is only one gospel, there's only one salvation. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Life. This is it. And it's the same for everybody. And it doesn't matter who you are or where you're from or what you have done, the Bible says, Whosoever shall call upon the name. name of the Lord shall be saved. Whosoever. Anyone, anybody, under the sound of my voice, you say, Oh, you don't know my sin. Friend, you don't know my Savior. He will save you. He will cleanse you. He will forgive you. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And so, friend, man's greatest problem is sin. And the answer is salvation through Jesus Christ. And that's that's the that's your greatest need? That's our world's greatest need. And I believe, friend, if you're here today and you're not absolutely certain about your standing before God, if you will put your faith in Christ, he will save you right where you are. The Bible says, Him that cometh unto me I will in no wise cast out. You will not be denied. You will not. Let me just close with this illustration. A dad was trying to get some work done. His little boy came up and said, Dad is the time to play. He said, Son, in a in a minute. A few minutes later, he said, Dad is the time to play? He said, son, just give me a few more minutes here. About 30 seconds later he said, that is the time to play. And the father knew he had to be occupy his time. So he had a newspaper there. It was a picture of the world. And so he took that picture and he tore it up into little pieces and he gave his boy some scotch tape. He said, son put that picture back together and when you've finished that come on to me and we'll play. He thought that would take his son about a few hours to do that. Buy him some time. Five minutes later, the little boy came back with the picture fully done. The father thought, may I have some prodigy on my hand here? He said, How did you do that? That would have taken me and it's all an hour to put all that back together. How did you do it? He said, Dad, it's very easy. He said, on the other side of the picture of the world there's a picture of a man, and I just put the man together, and when I put the man together, the world came together Let me tell you something, dear friend. If if man will get his act together, the world will come together. But man on his own can't get his act together, it only can happen through Jesus Christ. When a man or a woman trusts Jesus, you know what? Your life will be put back together if you'll trust him. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you for this wonderful gospel. We thank you, Lord, that you are the source of our salvation. We can't do it. There's no way for us to do it. And we thank you, Lord, for the simplicity of salvation. Lord, that all we have to do is just exercise faith and believe. And put our whole hope and trust and faith in Jesus. Not what we can do, but what he has already done for us. And we thank you for the satisfaction of salvation. That we know that we're not disappointed, Lord. How could we ever be? And Lord, anyone here who places their faith in Jesus will never be disappointed. And so with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you today: would you be willing to put your full faith and trust in Jesus Christ as your salvation? Would you be willing to do that and say yes? That's my prayer today. Would you just lift your hand so I can pray for you? That's my desire. That's my prayer. God bless you. lady. And who else? I just want to put my full faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. God bless you, ma'am. And who else? God bless you. I want to put my faith in Christ. I want to know that I have salvation and I'm going to heaven. We're not going to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. Anybody else, I'm looking around. God bless you. And God bless you. And God bless you