It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter thirteen. We're going to continue our study in the letter of First Corinthians. And in these chapters, chapters twelve and thirteen Now, if you've been saved for any length of time, you know that 1 Corinthians chapter 13 is the famous chapter on love. This has been called one of the One of the greatest chapters in the Bible, and I believe that's true. Chapter 12 and 14. And uh I think that's a good way to put it. Now many times when we hear this uh chapter read, it's it's uh read as a poem of love A lot of times it's read at weddings, and that's all good and fine. But to really understand the uh this chapter the way God wants us to understand it, we have to study it in its particular context. Now let's be reminded about the the church at Corinth. Now you know if you've been with us in the study that this is a church that has had many problems. There was division in the church. There was carnality there was Sexual perversion, there was worldliness, Christians were suing one another, there were lawsuits, there was marital conflict, there was the abuse of liberty and idolatry in the church. Pride, there was selfishness, there was the abuse of God's intended purpose for the roles of men and women, uh the abuse of the Lord's Supper, and specifically That we're in tonight, there was the abuse and the perversion of spiritual gifts. Just like the Corinthians had abused and perverted every other thing, blessing it seemed like that God gave to the church, they were abusing spiritual gifts in their life. And so Paul seeks to straighten some issues out. And that's why he takes three chapters, we could say rather lengthy chapters really. Remember that we said that we can divide spiritual gifts into three categories. There are the speaking gifts, that's those who have the gift of teaching or prophesying, that is, proclaiming the word. There are serving gifts. This is someone who might have the gift of giving or the gift of helps or the gift of administration and so on. There are signed gifts. These are gifts that really show uh miraculous works from God That are designed to to be signs to affirm and confirm the word of God and the message of the gospel, such as tongues and miracles and healings. These are listed here in First Corinthians. Corinthians. Now the problem with the Corinthians is that they were putting elevating some gifts among others. They were saying these gifts are the really important gifts and these other gifts are not all that important. more concerned about the showy gifts, the ones that really took the spotlight. These could be the gifts that perhaps were the sign gifts, uh were the speaking of And so they wanted these best gifts. And it's because they felt that they were inferior if they didn't have some of these better gifts that some in the church seemed to have. And so they felt inferior inferior. And so they began to covet some of the best gifts. And there were actually some that began to counterfeit gifts. You know, we already established in chapter twelve that we We don't get to pick our spiritual gift. This isn't something that we can do. It is something that God does for us. God is the one who is sovereign over His church. And his body, and he will distribute the gifts to the members of the body as he sees fit. But these all work at that one and We don't really get to choose our own gifts. Now evidently the people in the ch the church of Corinth didn't understand this because they began to covet some of the best gifts. Now the verse that really connects chapter twelve and chapter thirteen is really the last verse in chapter twelve. So I want you to look at it. Look at verse number thirty-one. But covet earnestly Now you remember that when we dealt with this verse the last time, that we said that this verse is really not an imperative in the Greek Greek, because if you're not careful you could read this verse as if it's a command. Whereas Paul is saying to the Corinthians, Covet, I command you to covet the best gifts. But that's uh there's a problem if you uh interpreted that way, and that is it undoes everything that Paul said in chapter twelve. Paul was telling them to stop coveting the best gifts, that all the gifts are given by God and we don't get to choose our gift So it wouldn't make sense if this was a command. Now remember I told you that in the Greek there are different moods for the verbs and the imperative mood and the indicative mood, which is the mood of fact, both end the same. That is, they both look the same. You tell you can tell the difference between Greek verbs by the endings of those verbs. But the indicative mood and the imperative mood end exactly the same way. And so we have to ask our ourselves when we come to a passage like this, is this an imperative? Is it a command or is it indicative? And how do we determine that? And remember we told you the context helps you to determine that. And so the context of this This makes it very clear that Paul is not giving a command, he's stating a fact. He's saying, You are coveting the best gifts, but I want to show you about I want to show you a more excellent way. And that leads us up into chapter thirteen. That Paul is referring to, of course, is love. And part of the problem with the Corinthians is that they were exercising spiritual gifts, but they weren't doing it in love. Now we already Established as well that the Corinthians were very gifted. Remember, Paul said that in the very first chapter. He said that you come behind in no spiritual gift. They were gifted spiritually, but the problem is that they were not exercising their spiritual gifts with love. One commentator says this, the Corinthians were not walking They were selfish, self-designing, self-willed, self-motivated, and doing everything possible to promote their own interests and welfare. For his own good, with little or no regard for others. The Corinthians did not lack in any spiritual gift, but they were terribly deficient in spiritual fruit. And I think that's very true. True. You can have a gift and you can exercise that gift, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you're spiritual, especially if you're not exercising that gift with the way God wants you to exercise. Exercise it, and that is with love. And so Paul emphasizes the need for love. And everything that you do when you're exercising your gift and serving the Lord, it must be done So in short, there's no substance Right theology is no substitute for love. There's a lot of churches that have a lot of right theology, but they're they're not very loving. There religious works are no substitute for love. There's a lot of people that do a lot of religious works in the church, but they don't do it in love. And there's no substitute for love. And as Christians, we have no excuse for lacking in love because when we got saved, what does the Bible say? The love of God was shed abroad in our heart by the Holy Spirit. We all have been given love We don't have to manufacture love. All we have to do is to share the love that God places in us when we get saved, we have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in us. That's why the Bible emphasizes It we're told to pursue love. We're told to put on love. We're told to increase and abound in love, to be sincere in love, to be unified in love, to be fervent in love, to stimulate one another to To love. And so Paul is going to emphasize this very thing. And so what he's going to emphasize here are really three aspects of love, and I want you to see this with me. If you're taking those right down number one The priority of love. It has to be a priority. And look at verse number one. Though I speak with the tongue of men and of angels and have not charity or love, we could say, I become as a sounding brass So Paul calls our attention to the priority of love by imagining a hypothetical situation in which there are spiritual gifts but there's no love. And you have to re uh When you read these verses, know that Paul is really using kind of hypothetical language, or we could say hyperbole, in his language to emphasize a point. Having gifts. And then he uses the expression several times, though I, as if you were using the language of imagination. Paul is saying, you can be incredibly gifted And yet if you don't do it in love, it means nothing. So notice the first thing. Speaking this without love, Paul said is simply noise. Again in verse 1, though I speak And Paul begins by discussing the gift of tongues, which I think the c Corinthian church uh it was fixated on because of the influence of mystery religions, and you might remember we talked a little bit about that. There was the influence of the pagan mystery religions, and there were several That was bringing some of the practices of those mystery religions into the church. One scholar said this: at the time of the Corinthian church, the Greco-Roman world had a multitude of gods And in their worship of these gods, it was very common for a person to go into ecstasy, which literally means to go out of oneself. He said they would go into an unconscious state where all kinds of psychic Phenomena would occur. They believed that when they were in a ecstatic trance, they actually left their body, ascended into space, connected up to whatever deity they were worshiping. Would begin to commune with that deity. Once they began to commune with that deity, they would begin to speak the language of the gods. Now, this was common practice in the pagan mystery Religions that were characteristic of that world, especially there in Corinth, where there were so many of them going on. Speaking in the language of the divine would speak words that no one knew. It was kind of a gibberish, and they were caught away in this trance, and they were speaking these tongues. And so You know, Paul had a real problem on his hands because he had to show the Corinthians that there is a legitimate real gift of tongues and there's a counterfeit gift. And Paul he doesn't want to debunk the real gift of tongues He wants to debunk the counterfeit gift, but and so he doesn't want to throw the baby out with a bathwater, so to speak. And so he has to show the difference between the two. Chapter thirteen, he refers to this tongues of men. It's very impressive for someone to stand up and speak in a language that you haven't studied before before haven't known before uh and and some people just uh had the gift of tongues where they could do that led by the spirit of God they could speak in the tongues of men and uh you know it's just really the gift of languages, you we could say. By the way, I wish I had this gift when I was studying Hebrew in seminary. It really would have helped me a lot. I remember when I was doing the final exam in one class Our professor uh kind of tried to really make it hard and he didn't tell us he was going to do this beforehand, but he put a facsimile of the Dead W uh page of the Dead Sea Scrolls on the exam Really. But you understand my point. Uh but there are just some people that simply have that ability to speak with the tongues of men. And Paul said, yet if you could do that, or if you could r had this the ability Speak with the tongues of angels, with the eloquence of angels. Now, I don't think that Paul is saying here that there was actually angelic languages, as some may believe. I think that he was simply using hyperbole It was if he was saying, Look, if I had the ability to speak with the eloquence of an angel or the tongue of an angel, if I had the incredible ability to use language Languages, not only the languages of men, but even of angels, in such a fantastic way that it could keep people spellbound. And yet if I had that gift And I did it without love, what would it amount to? He said I would become as a sounding brass and as a tinkling cymbal, which really means it really doesn't amount to anything. And I think Paul here is referring to the fact that part of the mystery religions was when a person was supposedly caught away, they would they would sometimes make noises, they would gong cymbals, and And they would blow the trumpet, and really all it amounted to was a bunch of noise and nothing more. And so it doesn't really profit you, Paul said, if you had the gift of languages And you didn't do without love. But then here's the next point. Supernatural gifts without love is nothing. Look in verse two. And though I had the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all And I think again Paul's using hyperbole. He said, if I have the ability Let me ask you a question. Anybody here tonight know all mysteries? You have that ability? If you had the gift of prophecy, and by the way, Paul will speak about the gift of prophecy and how important it was was in the church and he'll do that in chapter 14 and we'll look at that. But if a person had the gift of prophecy and they had great spiritual insight to know all mysteries, I don't know anybody That is that uh at that point spiritually, where they know all mysteries, or have all knowledge. And though I have all knowledge, do you know of anyone that has all knowledge besides God God? Alright? I know teenagers think they have all knowledge. Nobody. I don't know of anyone that has all knowledge. Only God is omniscient. This is a supernatural ability. This could be referring to the gift where God gives knowledge, the ability to know things. Anyone have that? Of course, he's speaking in high Nobody has all knowledge. Nobody knows all mysteries. But let's just say for the sake of argument that you did have that. You had all mysteries You know all mysteries, you have all knowledge or all faith. Look what he says again in verse number two. And though I have all faith, so that I can remove mountains And have not charity. This is not saving faith. It's the ability to believe God for great things. It's the ability to trust Trust God and believe God to do miracles and to watch God do those miracles. And he gives an example here of that of re of moving mountains. If a person had the ability was no obstacle in their way. They could move every mountain. Uh and they had this incredible gift of faith. And by the way, do you know of anyone who has that kind of faith? I know some people that have the gift of faith They they are the ability to really trust God. But I don't know anyone who has all faith. Again, he's using hyperbole here. But again, for the sake of argument, let's just say that I had That gift of all faith. And yet if I didn't do it, if I didn't practice these supernatural gifts of mysteries and knowledge and faith, if If I didn't do it with love, what profit is it? And Paul tells us it profits nothing. I, in verse number two, am nothing. By the way, can you think of somebody in the Bible that had a lot of faith and yet he practiced that faith without love? When I think of this, I think of Jonah. Remember Jonah? God said go to Nineveh. And Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh. Now the reason he didn't want to go to Nineveh was not because he didn't have faith, but because he did have faith Because he knew that if he went to Nineveh, he knew he had faith in God, he knew the mercy of God, he knew the power of the Word of God, he believed that God would bring revival and he would save those people and the problem with Jonah was he didn't want them to be saved. That was in fact if you read the story it's I know you some of you are looking at me like stunned. But if read Jonah And in fact, when God did bring revival, at the end of the book, he's sitting on a hill, and the Bible says it greatly displeased Jonah. He's sitting on the hill. He's waiting for God to judge Nineveh. And you know what happens? Instead of judgment, instead of the fire of judgment, it's the fire of revival that falls. And people are getting saved. And the Bible says Jonah is displeased And he's angry, and he prays to the Lord. This is what he said. Lord, was this not what I said while I was in my own country? This is why I didn't want to go. This is why Why I ran to Tarshish, because I know you're gracious, you're loving, you're compassionate, you're abundant in mercy. And now, Lord, you know what I want? Take my life. Kill me Look at all these people getting saved. Just take my life. Talk about exercising a gift without love. His problem was that not that he didn't have faith, he did have faith. Had faith that God could do great things, and yet he exercised that gift without love. I can't think of a more loveless man of God than a man who wants to die because people are getting saved. But that was the way Jonah was. And so it profited him nothing. But here's another thing, serving gifts without love is nothing. Look at verse number three. And though I bestow all my good Goods to feed the poor. And though I give my body to be burned, and have not love, it profits me nothing. That is, you can give all your possessions, all of your good goods. And again, I think Paul is continuing his hyperbole here. Paul imagines someone who had the gift of giving, so much so that they gave everything away And I know some people that are very giving. We have some here in this church incredibly giving and generous, but I don't know of anyone that has given everything away except for Jesus. Jesus gave all things, but I don't know of anyone that gives to that degree. And let's just say that this person was so giving that they would give their body to be burned. I notice again he said As though I give my body to be burned. And I think Paul is concluding here that this is the ultimate sacrifice, giving one's body to be burned, being burned as a martyr And by the way, if you look throughout church history you'll find that there are some who did pay the ultimate sacrifice, the ultimate price of giving themselves in martyrdom and they were burned I think of the story of William Tyndale, that great Bible translator who translated the Bible from the Hebrew and the Greek into the English. The first person to do that from the original languages into the English English and become because the Catholic Church didn't want people to have the Bible in their language, he was chased and hunted as a heretic, and finally he was turned in by a friend and they took him and they burned him at the state They tied him to a stake, and they he could have recanted and saved his life. He could have denied everything he did, but he wouldn't. And so on October the sixth, fifteen thirty His last words were, Lord, open up the eyes of the King of England. And they burned him at the stake. I think of John Huss, the Bohemian reformer, a man who believed that the scriptures were infallible, that They were the final authority that the Lord of the church was Jesus, the head of the church was Christ, not the Pope, and because he took that stand, they burned him at the stake. And again, he had the opportunity There to recant what he was teaching, but his last words were this What I have taught with my lips I now seal with my blood. And they burned him at the stake. There are people that have made these great sacrifices, but I'm but Paul is telling us right here that you can make these sacrifices of your body. And yet if you do that without love, it doesn't profit anything If there's no profit in it. Again at verse 3. It profits me nothing. Love is so important that if you take it out of the greatest deeds ever done, it makes that deal See as if it had never happened, as if it was never accomplished. That's how important love is. Church being the body of Christ. Remember, he uses the analogy of a human body, and all members have different gifts, like we all have different members of our body that accomplish different things. Maybe emphasizing here is that love is to the body of Christ what the circulation is to a human body, what blood is to a human body. Blood. Think of a beautiful, strong, muscular body with perfect parts, perfect symmetry and shape and function, but it has no blood What's that body going to accomplish? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. What blood is to the body, love is to the body of Christ. Love is the lifeblood that has to flow through Through the church, otherwise we can accomplish nothing. And that's Paul's point. And so there's the priority of love, but I want you to write down here's the second thing: the personality of love. The personality of love. Now, love is one of those things that's hard to define, but the Apostle Paul is going to give us a good description of love here in chapter 13. You ever ask people to define love? Someone said it's a feeling One little seven-year-old girl named Karen said this. Said, when you love somebody, your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you. A little five year old boy said this about love. His name was Carl. He said love is when a girl puts on perfume and a boy puts on shaving cologne and they go out and they smell each other. But here's a good definition of love. This is from a little boy named Billy. He's four years old. And this is I think is very profound, really. He says listen to what he says. Because when when somebody loves you, the way they say your name is different. You just know that your name is set your name is safe in their mouth. Profound. But what is love? Now the best way to understand love really is to see it in action. Love is one of those things that we have to see. It's demonstrated. demonstrated than defined. And so Paul's going to talk about some actions that we will see if a person has real love. And so from verses four on down to verse seven Paul will kind of take love and he'll make it kind of a a personality. It is personified. He kind of wraps it up in flesh and blood and gives it a personality. And really, if you read these verses and sub The name Jesus for love, we have really a description of the life of Christ because he really was the personification of love. But let's talk about the characteristics and really this it's kind of a checklist. Let's just go through the checklist. Let's measure ourselves next to these things and see how we do, okay? Here's the first thing: what is love? Notice verse 4: love suffers long, it's long suffering. Now, why does this have to be first on the list? This is the chief failure probably that I have, and that's patience. But the Bible says love is patient. To be impatient is to love yourself. To be patient is to love others. Someone said patience is an interesting quality in that when I don't need it, I want it. And when things start to get bad And that's true. But the word for patience here comes from two words that means long temper Tempered, or we could say slow to anger, uh you endure personal wrongs without retaliating, you bear with others imperfections or faults or differences you know, without getting irritated. It's just patient. Here's another one in verse 4. Love is kind. In verse 4, again, love suffers long and is kind. Time and the word here is just a word that means really useful. A kind person is disposed to be helpful, seeks out needs, looks for opportunities, wants to help others. Really, the word is the idea of someone gentle who has the ability to soothe hurt feelings, to calm the upset person, who wants to quietly help others in practical ways Talks about the kindness of God. Thank God we have a God who is very kind. But then there's the word, we could say sincere. Look again in verse 4. Love envy if not. This word means uh To eagerly desire. It's kind of used both in a positive and a negative sense in the Bible. I think here it's used in a negative sense. It means jealousy. It's related to greed and selfishness Um jealousy or envy really has two forms. One form says, I want what someone else has. If they have something better, a better car, a better this, we want that. But there's a worse Kind which says I wish they didn't have what they had. That's wishing bad upon a person. And that really takes it down a level. But the Bible says love is never that way. Love doesn't envy. Envy's not. It's not jealous. It's not envious of others when someone else's gain is their loss, then a person is not operating in love. But notice the next Things self-effacing again in verse number four. Vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. And this is really is just talking about someone who is very proud. Their words with pride. That's what it means when it says wanteth not itself. That's talking about proud words. It's not puffed up. That's talking about an attitude. And really the word for puffed up is a word That means windbag. It just means boastfulness, verbally boastful. Um and it basically saying love is is not something where a person is puffed up and They're constantly shooting off their mouth and making themselves look big with the purpose of making others look inferior or small. Love doesn't act that way. It doesn't vaunt itself. It doesn't brag And then it's self-restraining. Look in verse number five. Does not behave itself unsafe Seemly, or we could say rude. It doesn't act in a way to embarrass others. It's courteous in little things. It doesn't needlessly offend. And so they'll go out love will go out of its way not to offend or be rude to someone else or make another person feel bad. That's love. Courteous. It's polite. It's sensitive to the feelings of others. Love uses tactful conversation. You know, the reason why some people are not courteous is because they're not thinking about anything They really don't care how other people feel. And so that's love never is that way. Love is always kind, it's always courteous. But here's another Next thing, self-denying. Look at verse number five. Seeketh not her own. And again, that's just plain old selfishness. And you know, let's be honest, we all have a lot of it. We have to deal with our selfishness all the time, don't we? You don't look so holy. I didn't get an amen. I had anyone there. We all have it. And uh, you know, uh selfishness is demanding our rights, thinking Glory, and that's true. Linsky said this: Cure selfishness, and you plant a garden of Eden. Very true. We all deal with that. But love sets aside Itself it is self denying, it thinks of others first, and and we see this personified and no one better than our Lord Jesus Christ, who acted in supreme selflessness when he left heaven to come here to die for our sin. But also we could say love is serene. Look again in verse number five. Is not easily provoked And the Greek word here means to rouse to anger. Someone paraphrases it like this. It's not touchy. Love doesn't have a hair trigger for a temper, you know You see people like that, they they go off like a shotgun, you know, and they say, Well, I got over that quickly. Meanwhile, there's all kind of dead people laying around because you just shot off, and it's the least little thing that just Kind of puts you off and where you're yelling and screaming and but love is not does not act that way. It's not easily provoked, is what it's saying. You don't have to walk on eggshells around someone like this because love is just not easily provoked. But then notice this next thing, thinketh no evil. And literally this means doesn't take into account a wrong suffered. And really this is an account It's really used with numerical calculations. And we could say it like this: love doesn't impute wrongs, it doesn't keep a tally of wrongs. You know, if someone wrongs you, you kind of write it down And keep it. You know, it's the old, the old uh, you've you've heard this a thousand times probably, you know, the guy at the marriage counselor he said to the counselor, he says, My wife, every time she gets mad at me, she gets historical He said no he said, No, you mean hysterical? He said, No, I mean historical. She goes back in history and she drags up everything I've ever done because she keeps a tally, a list. But what it says Here is love doesn't do that. Love doesn't keep a list of wrongs the way an accountant lists figures on a ledger sheet. Love doesn't do that. Doesn't think evil Uh it forgets, it forgives. But then here's the next thing, sympathetic in verse number six. Rejoices not in iniquity, but rejoices in truth. And one And when there's error, there's iniquity, for a person to rejoice over another person Downfall, that's just plain evil. That's just plain wrong. Never rejoices in iniquity. It rejoices in truth. It gets excited. Love gets excited. When it hears about spiritual blessings and spiritual victories in the lives of other people. That's what he's saying here. It's sympathetic. But then it's also suffering. Look at verse 7. Beareth all things Believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. It is suffering, it's really describing suffering under love. Bears means to bear under. Endure is a military word Meaning to sustain an assault on an enemy. It has the idea of holding up under trial, persevering under difficulty. It means love hangs in there. It's not just passion. It's not a stoic attitude. It is positive. It is triumphant. Uh it doesn't give up easily. You know, we have an epidemic of people just when things Get bad, they just jump out of a situation. We have that in marriages. We do marriage counseling a lot where one of the s a spouse wants to just jump out of that marriage because things aren't going the way they They thought they should go. People are constantly jumping out of difficult situations. Love doesn't do that. Love perseveres. Love continues on. Love hangs on. Love endures suffering. And someone said You can't really love without choosing to suffer. C. S. Lewis had a good word on this. He said, to love it all is to be vulnerable. Love anything and your heart will be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give it to no one, not even an animal. Wrap it carefully around with hobbies little luxuries, and void all avoid all entanglements, lock it up safe in a casket or a coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe and dark, airless, it will change And I think that is uh exactly what It's saying right here, to love it all means you will be vulnerable, but love will bear up under suffering. Um and so that's that's the personality of love. Now let me ask you a question Question. How did you do on your checklist? Oh yeah, okay, I can see on your faces. About as bad as I did on mine. We all need to work on it more. We need to yield to the Holy Spirit who Will increase this grace of love in our heart as we yield to the Holy Spirit. Let me give you the third thing. Paul talks about the priority of love. He talks about the The personality of love, but then write down number three, we could say this the perpetuity of love. Because look what he says in verse eight. Love never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Love doesn't fail. The word for fail here is an in Interesting word in the Greek. It's really means to fall, literally means to fall to the ground, and it refers to something, uh, a finality of something falling into decay. For example, it's used to speak of petals From a flower that dropped to the ground from decay. And sometimes this word is translated abolished. And so we could say it like this: love will never be abolished. Love will never fall away. To the ground and decay. We could say that love is like a flower in which there's no decay. Never in the Greek has it So we we can say it like this: love at no time will ever be abolished. Love at no time will ever fall away. Love at no time won't ever fail Some someday the only thing we will have left is love. Everything else will be gone. You know, when we get to heaven, we're not going to need teaching anymore. Actually, we'll listen to Jesus in heaven. I'd rather listen to him than listen to me any day. We'll listen to Jesus. The Bible says people will come to Mount Zion and listen to the Lord Jesus, but you won't need teaching from a We won't need preaching or prophecy. We won't need the gift of wisdom. God will teach us there. We'll have all knowledge there. We'll know all things because we'll be just like And so while all these other things will not be necessary, we will, however, have love in heaven because love will never be abolished. While some of these other things here on the And so really what Paul is saying to the Corinthians is you need to get a grip on what's going to be around forever. You're fighting over all these spiritual gifts and you're putting Putting such a priority on some of them as just realized a lot of them are going to pa pass away. They're going to be gone. But let me tell you something that's not going to be gone. And if you want to work on anything, work on this. If you want to pursue anything Pursue this, pursue love. Because love's not going anywhere. Love is going to abide. Love's going to be around. Now, some people, when they say love never fails, They interpret it wrongly. They say it like this, well, you know, things are bad, but if I just keep loving, eventually love will win out in the end. And that's not really what it's talking about. You know, the Apostle Paul, he loves people, but you know what? They some of them stop And they chased him out of town. And no one ever loved like the Lord Jesus, but was his love spurned by some people? Yes, it was. So don't get the idea, well, if I just love, in the end, love won't fail and everything And tragically, I have done some marital counseling where one spouse said, if I just keep loving my other spouse, everything will turn out in the end. And the truth of the matter is it didn't Because that other person spurned their spouse and they went out and did the wrong thing. And in that sense, love didn't win out in the end. That's not what Paul means here. He's basically saying that Love, not that it always wins, but what he's saying is love is eternal. It'll go on forever. And since love will not be abolished and it will go on forever, we need to focus on love Because love will outlast the gifts. Look again in verse eight. Love never fails, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Knowledge it shall vanish away. So it will outlast these spiritual gifts. Prophecy, what is that? That again, that's the ability to proclaim God's truth publicly. It's really From two words pro meaning before and feminine meaning to speak, to speak before. So literally it's someone who stands before the people and speaks the word of God. And back in the early church, when we didn't have a completed revelation, people with times with stand and speak a word that the Lord put on their heart to speak, and they wouldn't do it for courage, encouragement, I should say, or comfort. Paul will talk about that in First Corinthians 14. He that speaks prophecy Does it for encouragement or comfort or consolation to people in the church? And so that was going on. And it was something that was very valuable. And of course now today we have the complete Revelation and so we stand and we teach and we preach the word of God because that is so very useful. But Paul said even prophecy one day is going to fail. And then he said Tongues shall cease, glossa meaning languages, and is referring to earthly known languages. I think that's the definition of the gift of tongues. It's the ability to speak a foreign language That hasn't been previously learned by the speaker, but the Holy Spirit miraculously gives that person the ability to know that language and that was used there in the The early church and Paul says tongues are going to cease and knowledge, it's going to fail. And again, I think the word knowledge here, whether it's God giving supernatural knowledge to a person Or whether it's God giving a person the ability to learn things and know things and use that knowledge to help others. Either way, Paul says that gift of knowledge is also going to evaporate Now, Paul said these gifts are going to vanish away. These three prophecy, tongues, knowledge, they're all going to pass away. Now Though we're told here that the all three gifts will someday cease to exist, two different verbs are used to indicate their sexation. For instance, prophecy and knowledge will be done away, but then tongues will cease. Now, when The Bible says will be done away. It's using a specific word, catageo, which means to be reduced to inactivity. And the verbs here are passive, which means something outside What are they? Well the Bible tells us look at verse nine. For we know, that's knowledge, in part, and we prophesy in part. Verse ten, but when that which is perfect is come, that which is in parts shall be done away. When with the coming of the perfect, knowledge and prophecy will be done away. Will be reduced to inactivity So now the question is, and this has been a big issue with a lot of people, what is the perfect? What does he mean when he said when that which is perfect has come? And there's a lot of different interpretations as to what the perfect is Um and you know what I'm gonna have to tell you next week. Because it's already eight o five. Can you believe that? It's eight oh five already. I'm already five minutes past. You give me five more minutes? Okay, five more minutes, I promise. Well, I don't necessarily promise, but I'm gonna do my best in five minutes to wrap it up. Let me just leave you with this. What is the perfect? Some say that it's the compl Revelation of Scripture, the Scripture when it's completely uh canonized and we have the complete revelation, that's the perfect. Some say it's the maturing of the church. That's the perfect. Some say it is the rapture. And so there's different interpretations. Let me just tell you what I think the perfect is. I believe it's the eternal state in heaven. When we get to heaven. When we get to heaven, we're going to see Jesus face to face. That will be the perfect. Right now we see him in a glass, as it were. But one day we're going to see him Face to face and in our present spiritual condition, we're like children compared to our mature spiritual state one day when we get to heaven and we'll That's what I think Paul means there when he says um in verse number eleven when I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child, but when I Became a man, I put away childish things. Now I think what he's uh probably comparing his present spiritual state with is as a child As a Jewish boy, before the Bar Mitzvah, before he became a son of the law, he was considered a child. But once he uh reached the Bar Mitzvah and he was officially Declared a man at that moment in time, he was declared to be a man, no longer a child. And he had reached a new state. And I think Paul is using that illustration to talk about our spiritual condition. Right now We're in this in the spiritual adolescence. We're spiritual children in this state. But in an instant, one day when we get to heaven and we go to the perfect, we're going to be spir Spiritually fully mature. We become in a sp a condition of spiritual adulthood when we reach the perfect, which is when we reach heaven. Look at verse 12. For now We see through a glass darkly, but then when we get to heaven, face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know, even as I am also am known Right now we see through a glass darkly, right now we know in part, right now we're in spiritual uh uh a childhood, but one day when we go to heaven, we go to the perfect, we reach spiritual Adulthood and then we'll know all things. We'll no longer see through a glass, we'll see Jesus face to face. That's when we will reach the place of perfection. Now let me just say this one thing. Then we'll move on. I got two minutes. The word for where it says tongues will cease such a different verb altogether, pa'o in the Greek. It will Stop, it will come to an end. This is a middle voice verb in the Greek. Let me tell you why that's important. And the middle voice in Greek, it's an action we do to ourselves. Let me show you the difference between active, passive, and middle voice. Voice in Greek. In the active voice, we would say like this: I hit the ball. Subject's doing the action. I hit the ball. Passive voice, the ball hit me. The subject is being acted away Upon the ball hit me. In the middle voice, in Greek, we would say it like this, I hit myself. Because in the middle voice, it's an action that you do to yourself. So we could say it then like this tongues will stop of themselves. In and of themselves they will cease. When they're no longer necessary, tongues in and of themselves will stop themselves. Now the question that is really debated in churches nowadays is whether that has happened. ceased. Uh I I believe as a normative practice. It has ceased in the history of the church. Now I I would call myself a leaky cessationist. You say what does that mean? That means I believe as a normative practice But I think as a normative practice in the church, they have ceased. But I wouldn't say that God would not use Use this gift, if there was ever the need for this, as it's prescribed in the Bible, God would never do anything out of harmony with his word, would he? Of course not. If there was ever a situation where it was the purpose for the use of this gift was the conditions were exactly right, a God who is sovereign, who can do whatever he wants, and he doesn't need anybody's permission to do what he wants. Ever chose to do it, perhaps God would do it. I would say this, however, as a normative practice in the church, I think that that cessation has come. A subject for another time, but here's the point that I want you to see: that love will outlast all of these gifts, no matter where you stand on that issue. There's going to come a time when these gifts are not necessary. Prophecy will cease, knowledge will cease, tongues will cease, but love will continue on. So Paul's point is focus on Look at verse 13. We'll wrap it up. And now abideth faith, hope, love, these three, but the greatest of these is love. And why Love the greatest because when I get to heaven, I won't have any more faith. Why? Because my faith will end in sight. No more need for faith. And all my hopes will be realized So I won't need hope when I'm in heaven. But I'll tell you what I will need. I'll need a lot of love up there. And in fact, my love will increase. And did you know that our love together Will increase in heaven. You think you love now? Wait till you get to heaven. It'll be a place of perfect love. All of our love now has baggage. It's it's it's mingled with With our own depravity and selfishness, but one day our love will be free of all those things. It'll be pure love. We'll have love all throughout eternity, and I believe that love for God and for others will continue to increase and thus our joy will continue to increase throughout eternity in heaven if you can imagine that. It's going to be a wonderful time there in heaven. That's why Paul says, look, focus on love. Chapter 14, verse 1. Follow after love. Pursue love. That's what you should be pursuing. Stop focusing so much on these Gifts focus on love. Pursue love. It's the greatest of these. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, help us to do indeed what Paul tells us to do. Focus on love. Forgive us, Lord, for the times when we have it measured up Forgive us for the time when we've allowed selfishness to dampen our love, when we have been boastful and proud. When Lord, we have been basically so consumed with our own things that we don't think of the things of others. Lord, may we manifest through the power of the Holy Spirit the love that you've already really shed abroad in our heart. And so Lord, that's our prayer. That we would follow exactly what Paul says. We can do many good things. We can use our gifts. We can do all these wonderful things in the church, but Lord, if we don't have love, we're nothing. It is the lifeblood of the body of Christ. And so, Lord, help us in this area to follow the instruction of the Apostle Paul. May this be our passionate Pursuit to love the way you want us to love, to love in the body of Christ. And how many will say that's my prayer? To pursue love for one another. Father, take these words, seal them to our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen