And uh open to the book of Colossians tonight, as you know we're studying through this wonderful little epistle. And tonight we come to chapter 3, verses 18 down to verse 21. And I want to talk about the preeminence of Christ in the home. The preeminence of Christ in the home. You know, life is all about relationships. In the beginning, when uh Adam was in the garden surrounded by animals, God said it's not good for man to be alone, and so he created for him Eve. And there was that beautiful relationship of husband and wife in the first wedding that we see there that is there in Genesis three. And then she gave him children, and now Adam has other relationships. He has what he has a wife, he has children And this is one of the great blessings that God has given from the very beginning. Uh it was all wonderful. Adam's relationship to God was right, his relationship to his wife was right, his relationship to his children. was all wonderful, it was all bliss, until something entered into the picture and you know what that was. It was sin. And with the fall of man came this inordinate self-love, this selfishness that is now ingrained in all of humanity And man has struggled in all of his relationships ever since. Um what be became what was really given to be a blessing to mankind that is the the family, the home and relationships all had the potential to be a big curse. And again it's all because of this terrible selfishness that was in men when the fall came. And I often, when I counsel young married couples, I say, this is the one destroyer of homes, it's the destroyer of marriages, and is this thing called selfishness, and we have to learn to deal with that If you doubt whether man is selfish, or if that selfishness if you doubt whether that is an in fall in man, just try this little experiment and see if it doesn't change your mind. Take four or five toddlers, put them in a room, and then put one toy in the middle. And see what you get, right? And you'll see the selfishness that's there. I've given you the laws of the toddlers before. If I like it, it's mine. If it's in my hand, it's mine If I can take it from you, it's mine. If I had it a little while ago, it's mine. If it's mine, it never can appear to be yours in any way. If it looks like mine, it's mine. If I think it's mine, it's mine Now, all that's funny when there are children, but when they grow into adulthood, selfishness becomes a very ugly thing. Read in the paper and you'll find that in uh the home there's all kind of abuse that's going on Fathers and adults abusing children, children abusing parents, and so on. I was reading this week. It's estimated that every year in the United States, approximately three million women are assaulted by their partner One in four women in the U. S. will be assaulted by their partner over their lifetimes. According to the Census Bureau, in one year there were 691,710 non-fatal domestic violent acts committed. There were 1,247 fatal incidents committed in the home. And that's not just men with women. According to another report, women are just as likely as men to engage in partner aggression. And so what and was intended to be a blessing, in many cases, has become a war zone. Where you've got fighting, you've got abuse. Where does all this come from? It comes from that selfishness that is in man. James said this, where do quarrels, where do fights come from? And then he goes on to say, Is not is it not your passions or your we could say your selfishness that is at war within you? You desire and you do not have, so you murder, you covet, and you cannot obtain, so you fight and you quarrel. But you have not because ye ask not. Now what's the answer to all of this abuse, this selfishness that is in relationships? Well the answer is making Christ preeminent in your heart and in your home. That's the answer. And that's what we're going to talk about here in Colossians Now you remember that in the book of Colossians, the whole major overarching theme of the book is the preeminence of Jesus Christ Paul was writing against the heresies that were creeping into that church and threatening that little people there, that little church. And they were saying you needed extra knowledge. Jesus was good, but you needed to go beyond that. You needed esoteric knowledge to help save you. So in response to this dangerous teaching, Paul writes a letter and he hammers home the sufficiency and the preeminence of Jesus Christ As believers, you are complete in Him. You don't need to go anywhere else searching for any knowledge that will help you live out your faith or help you through problems in your Christian life. We need to put Christ first. And that was the emphasis that Paul has given. And we already saw in the book of Colossians that in this book it is some of the greatest Christological doctrine and theology that you'll find anywhere in the New Testament. And remember that in chapter 1, Paul was declaring the preeminence of Christ. And in chapter 2, he's defending the preeminence of Christ. He defends it against intellectualism and philosophy, against legalism and mysticism and asceticism and all those other isms that Dr. R. G. Lee said ought to be wasms. And they can't add anything to your faith. They can't do anything for you. And then the third part of this letter We see the preeminence of Christ demonstrated. And this is in chapter 3 and 4. And remember I said that now Paul is getting into practical issues. He's already laid the solid foundation. Now he's going to teach us how to live out the preeminence of Christ. And last time we learned about the principles of holy living. How to live a resurrected Christian life And there was the principle of mortification where we put to death desires, and the principle of modification where we put off the old man and we put on the new man with all the things that come with that And then there's a principle of mediation where we let the peace of Christ dwell in us, a rule in our heart, and then the principle of meditation where we let the Word of Christ dwell in us richly. And now we come to the next practical part, which is what I want to call the people of holy living. And this is us. Look at verse 18. Why submit yourselves unto your own husbands as it is fit in the Lord? Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath or anger, unless they be discouraged. And so here are some basic guidelines that the Apostle Paul is giving us guidelines on how to run the relationships in our life Now sad to say that when Christians begin to experience problems, one of the first things they want to do is go to get counsel, and there's nothing wrong with going to get counsel. I encourage that, but make sure the counsel you get is good biblical godly counsel In fact, some of the best counsel you ever get will be in church where the Word of God is being preached. If you'll just listen and apply that, that'll be half your battle. But if you're having problems, it's okay to get counsel, but again, make sure that the counsel that you get is from the Bible because there's a lot of counsel out there, especially in this area of behavior and uh and the family that is not really based on the scripture. A lot of counsel is Freudian. That is, it comes from Sigmund Freud, who basically did not believe that man was a sinner. He did not believe that the root of man's problem was sin. He believed that all problems of man came from repressed desires in man. And these high standards that were placed over man. And so he developed this client-centered uh psychology where he would go into an s uh archaeological dig into your past, into your subconscious, and try to bring up all of this repressed um uh memories, your whole psyche is a reservoir of unconscious repression, and so he tries to dig into all of that. And then you have someone like Skinner who believes in behavior modification. That is, you're a victim of your environment, and you have to change the environment. And then others say, like Carl Rogers, that man just needs encouragement and motivation. That's all he needs. That's his whole problem. Well, I don't believe any of that psychology. I believe the fourth view, which is God. And God says the problem with man is that he's a sinner And he sinned against God. And the problem with man was not that he was uh was had low standards because in the beginning God gave Adam only one standard, don't eat fruit off that one tree That wasn't the problem. The problem was not that he was a victim of his environment, like Skinner says, because what kind of environment did God give man in the very beginning? It was a perfect environment You see, the environment doesn't make man, man makes the environment. And the problem wasn't that he lacked encouragement or motivation because God came and he walked in the garden with him every day If you walk with God, you're going to be encouraged enough. You're going to be motivated enough. You say, what was the problem? The problem was sin. And man sinned against God. What's the solution? Salvation through Jesus Christ. And when you're saved, you're baptized into Christ, and that old image that was lost is now restored. It's renewed. Look in Colossians chapter 3, look in verse 10. Notice this verse again. And we have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge. after the image of him that created him. That original image that was lost, that was covered through sin is now restored because you're now in Christ. And you're complete in Christ. And all of your resources come from Christ. And so all that you need, you have in Him. And that means there's enough in the Lord Jesus Christ to restore black the blessing that God originally intended in the home. You have what you need to make your home all that God intends for it to be because of the Lord Jesus Christ. You are complete in We have counselors today say, well, you know, the Bible's good and Jesus is good, but you need more than that. No, you don't. You need what the Bible says. And that's exactly the message that Paul is giving us here. The answer for relationship problems is simply following what the scripture says. And it's mortifying that selfishness. It's putting to death those evil desires. It is just obeying the Lord. And remember now, because you are so one with Christ and you're seated with Him in heavenly places, you now have the authority to say no to the sin nature. You have the authority to do what God commanded you to do. And so you just simply obey what God says. Now having a home where Christ is preeminent, beloved, is not rocket science. It's just not. It's very simple. In fact, it's so simple we just read it right here. And I want you to notice these principles that he's giving us that we have to obey. Here's the first one to wives. Wives Submit yourselves unto your own husband. And there it is. Your primary role as a wife is to submit. This word is very graphic, hopotasso. It just means to be under a rank. It's a military term It's used in Ephesians. It's used in many other places in the New Testament. And it just means to be put yourself under authority. And this is so foundational in the Christian life. Again, we see it all over the New Testament. 1 Corinthians 16, 16, submit yourselves to everyone. Hebrews 13, 17, submit yourselves to the leaders of the church. 1 Peter 2. 15, submit yourselves to the law of the land and his government. 1 Peter 5. 5, submit yourselves to those that are older than you. James 4. 7, submit yourselves to God. And so we're to constantly be submitting. This is not just for wives, this is for all of us as believers. We're to be under authority. We are to submit. And this is the pillar of a godly home. If we're submitting to each other in the home, how much quarreling is there going to be How much fighting is there going to be? You first. No, you first. No, I want you to have your way. No, I want you to have your way. If we're submitting to one to another, there's not going to be a whole lot of problems in the home. And by the way, this is the evidence of being filled with the Spirit. Now you say, why is submission so important? Well, it's a part of the fabric of daily life. From the very beginning, God has called on man to submit. And it was a lack of submission that caused the fall. And it's a lack of submission that brings all the problems that we have every day of your life. Listen to me, young people, every day of your life you are called upon to submit to someone or something. We get up every day of our life submitting. When you get up and you go to work, you have to submit to the laws of traffic, unless you live in a third world country where they have no laws in traffic. But you have to listen to the laws. You have to you can't speed. You have to stop at a red light. As a citizen, you have to submit to the government. As an employee, you have to submit to your boss. If you're a student, you have to submit to your teacher and to the principal. If you are a Christian, you submit to spiritual authorities. If you have a boss, you have to submit to him. And so all of life is about submission. And if you don't learn to do this, then you're going to have a very difficult life. Now some people think, well, I can't wait till I can be a leader, that way I won't have to submit to anyone. Well, friend, that is so wrong Leaders have to be the example in submission. In fact, if you can't learn to submit, you can't be a leader. You're disqualified from being a leader Jesus taught this. Remember, he went into the centurion, came to him and said, My servant is sick. And Jesus said, Well let's go and we'll heal him. And the centurion said, No, wait a minute, Lord, you don't have to come under my roof. He said, I'm a man under authority, and they and uh and I also give orders, but I also take orders, and because I understand authority, you don't have to come under my roof. Oh I believe in you, I believe you have authority because you have submitted to authority, and so therefore if you just speak the word, he'll be healed. And what did Jesus say? I haven't seen such great faith in all of Israel You see, that centurion understood that Jesus had a lot of authority. Why? Because he learned to submit. And as you learn to submit, God entrusts to you authority. And that's the way it works. That's the principle of it. But the most Christ-like thing you can do is submit to authority. We teach the doctrine of the Trinity, God revealed in three distinct persons. co-equal, each fully God. We understand the principle of the Trinity, and that there's equality within the members of the Trinity, but did you know that Jesus is subordinate, not in his character, not in his deity, not And any of that, but he's subordinate in his role. Because all throughout eternity, Jesus is willingly submitted to God the Father. And so his whole life is one of submission. He submitted continually to the Father. And so you're never more like the Lord Jesus Christ than when you are in submission. And so this principle of submission is just part and partial to the whole Christian life. And now there are some people that think, well, submission is inferiority. It's not. There's a lot of people that submit To those that are inferior uh that are inferior to them. It doesn't mean that you are inferior because you submit. Let me ask you a question. Was Jesus superior to the ones he submitted himself to? Of course he was. He was God in the flesh. And yet he submitted himself to the laws of man. And the Bible said he became obedient unto what? Even the death of the cross. And so to submit doesn't mean you're inferior. There was equality within the members of the Trinity, and yet Jesus lives in submission. And so there's to be submitting And the Bible says to wives, as it is fit in the Lord in verse number 18. That is, she does it unto the Lord as an obligation to the Lord. Wives You submit to your husband as doing it unto the Lord. Is there ever a time when a wife doesn't have to submit to her husband? Yes, it's when her husband tells her to do something against the word of God or against God Then you obey God. You're not rebelling at that time, you're submitting to a higher authority. But you're still living out submission. You say, honey, I love you, and I would normally do what you want, but I can't go against what God says. There's one authority in my life that's higher than yours, and that's God. And I'm not going to disobey him. So wives submit. Now here's the next thing. Husbands love. Look again in verse number 19. Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. And so this is the role of the husband. Now there's a twofold command here. First, love. And we've heard a lot about this. I'm sure you've heard this taught. Husbands are to love their wives like Christ loved the church. And that's an incredible responsibility. And very frankly, we understand men that we can't do this in and of ourselves. There's no way. We have to have the help of God What kind of love did Christ give the church? Steadfast love. The word love is an imperative present tense. Continually love. You just keep loving your wife. Now some men say, well, you don't know my wife. You don't know how she's wronged me and how it's hard to live with her. I tell you what. If you knew her, you wouldn't say that. Well, I'm sure that you have faults as well, but here's the deal. Do you think the church has faults? Do you think that the church has wronged Christ? Do you think Christ has ever stopped loving the church? No. He just keeps on loving the church. No matter how imperfect, no matter how many faults, no matter how ugly we can get, he just keeps on loving the church. Steadfastly, but then sacrificially, Jesus was willing to die. And men we ought to love our life our wives so much that we're willing to die for them. Now some may say, well that's easy that's easy to die for them. It's just hard to live for them. Well, that's agreed. But love, really the definition of love is you want to if you want to really know what I think the biblical concept of love is, it is selfless sacrificial acts towards another Continually giving selfless sacrificial acts. I think that is the best summary of biblical love. Sacrificially But then sanctifyingly, our wives are to be better Christians because they're with us, men, because we are living out the Word of God in our life. And they are being sanctified through the relationship they have with us. We're teaching her the Word of God. I counsel couples all the time, begin early learning to pray together. You want to sanctify your wife, but then selflessly love her as you love yourself. But notice the next command, don't be harsh. Look again in verse 19. And be not bitter against them. Now we hear a lot of preaching on love, but not a lot on this. Be not bitter. This is the Greek word that just means to make bitter. Husbands can make their wives bitter against them. You say, how? By being too harsh, by being a dictator. By calling her honey and then treating her like vinegar. It's like one Indian chief said when he saw an Indian with his squaw, he said, Honey is on his lips, but hatchets are in his heart. And you don't want to have that. You don't want to be bitter. You don't want to be harsh. Don't exasperate them. But provide loving leadership in the home. This is a tender, loving leadership. They say, w is there a problem with this? Look in Genesis chapter 3, verse 16, real quick. I want you to look at this one verse. We're going to come right back. Just open up the Genesis 3. 16 because in this passage here, this is after the fall, and God is handing out punishment because of the fall. And you'll remember in that passage that he gave a curse to the serpent? And he cursed the the ground for the sin, but then he gave a curse to man and woman. Look at verse 14. And the Lord said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle and so on. But look down at verse sixteen. Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception, and in sorrow shalt thou bring forth children, part of the Curse of the fall is the sorrow that comes with childbearing. Now notice the next phrase, and thy desire shall be to thy husband. Now the word for desire here Some have debated as to what this means. There are some Old Testament scholars that think that the desire here that's being spoken of is a sexual desire. But that doesn't make any sense Because that this is part this is a punishment. This is a curse because of the fall. That is totally out of t context here What's the desire here? And it's the desire to rule over him. In fact, this word desire is used to talk about Cain where it says sin waits at the door and it desires to rule over you. Same word And so there's part of the fall that's an Ain't desiring women to usurp authority, to step out of line. And that's what Paul meant when he said to Timothy, I permit not a woman to teach, nor to what? Usurp authority. Why did he say that? Because that's the tendency is to step out of the role and to usurp that authority. But now, what about men? Look again in verse 16. And he shall rule over thee, which is the tendency of man. The word rule here, Mashaw, it means to dominate. To reign over. To be a tyrant. That's the idea. As women toward rebellion, Men tend toward despotism or tyranny or being like a little dictator in the home and ruling in that way, an abusive authoritarian. And this is what uh this is a way that men can cause bitterness to their wife. You want to micromanage every part of her life. You want to be a tyrant in the home. There's not loving, gentle, nurturing, leadership, kindness, and gentleness. There is a be the tendency to be a little dictator, a little Napoleon. And by the way, I've counseled married couples where in the marriage relationship he has been so abusive in this manner, so much desiring to rule over and dominate her that she doesn't want to be in that relationship anymore. She's tired of being under that And so a lot of homes were destroyed because of that. Listen, the command is for us husbands is to love our wives the way Christ loved the church And that includes loving, gentle, kind leadership. You think Jesus is a tyrant with us? No. He's the most loving, gentle, kind person. I thank God for the kindness of God in my life I thank God for the gentleness of his leadership in my life. Even when I get out of line, even when I do wrong, God very kindly and gently brings me back. It's gentle leadership. Now here's the third thing. Wives submit. Husbands love and don't be harsh. But here's the third guideline in the home. Children obey. Again in verse 20, children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. If we're to put Christ first in the home, then we must teach our children to obey. If children are not taught taught to obey, they will have trouble all their lives. And that's just a reality. Two German men of intellect one time wrote a letter about American families. This is what they said. If one has lived in America and seen the countless cases what injustice is done to children, one has enough of it. One sees too much that someone hid behind the misunderstood psychoanalytical maxims Allows them to become little tyrants and ill-humored despots, despots whom adults troll in front of for pure convenience only to get peace. And one sees how this takes effect in the unfortunate adolescents when they, brought up without authority, are confronted with the difficulties of life, end quote. It's a pretty strong word, but it's very true. Children have to be taught to respect their parents, to respect authority. How many of you know that children don't come out saying, here I am, I'm ready to obey anything you tell me to do. I'm just ready to submit my whole life to you, Mom and Dad. That's not the way it happens. And so we as parents are responsible to discipline our children. And this means drawing clear lines and then communicating those lines. And then when they step out of line, we correct them lovingly, graciously, moderately, where the punishment fits the offense. We're very careful in wisdom to administer punishment. The Bible says this Proverbs 22-15, foolishness is bound in the heart of the child, but the rod of correction shall drive it far from them. And the rod there is not a big branch, it is a switch, the twig at the end of a branch. We know what that is. I thought my mother invented it, but it's in here in the Bible It's been around for a long, long time. The Bible says, whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him And then there's a lot of other proverbs there that you can read. You know they're in there. But God takes this very seriously. In 1 Samuel chapter 2, God one day sent a man of God to the home of Eli, the high priest, and said God's going to punish your home. Why? Because you honor your children above me, Eli. How? Because when your sons did wrong, you did not restrain them. When they made themselves avow, you restrained them not. And because you didn't discipline your children and restrained them, I'm going to punish you You see, God holds us parents accountable to teach our children to obey. This is a serious issue with God. And by the way, God is a God. Does he discipline us? Yes, he does We know that in Hebrews chapter 12. He's giving out discipline for whom the Lord loves. He chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. And so the idea behind Hebrews 12 is the absence of discipline means that fatherhood is not being practiced And if you're a father, you have to practice this. And by the way, it's not always spanking, it's sometimes speaking, just uh speaking a word. Or just setting down standards and teaching them to obey them And and so there's speaking, there's spanking, and then the third level is scourging according to the book of Hebrews, but it's there in the Bible. But here's another thing we need to do with our children, that is not only discipline them, set up the lines clearly of what you expect, but then just teach them the Bible. Because the word of God has an effect on the hearts of children where they will learn to actually discipline themselves when they get the Word of God. So teach your children. One of the things I like to tell young couples when I counsel them is listen, make a determination that you're going to pray together as a family. Have family devotions, read scripture together, pray together. Now in our family, we did it in the evening right before they went to bed because I found out that my kids would rather do anything than go to bed And so it was very easy for them. In fact sometimes they would remind me, Dad, are we having family devotions tonight or what? I'd say it's time to go to bed. They say we didn't have family devotions. Why? Because they don't want to go to bed. And so we would we would read the scripture and we would teach them the Word of God Sometimes it was based on what they learned in Sunday school, what the the the sermon was about, or sometimes it was just a little Bible story book where we would just teach them things and we would pray together. And I would just encourage you, teach your children the Word of God Teach them the Word of God, but then be an example yourself. And that is what will help them to discipline themselves when they see you doing it, when they see you obeying and being submitted. And so, um, let me go to the fourth point. There's a lot more I can say on that, but let me go to number four. Wives submit Husbands, love and don't be harsh. Children obey. And then here's number four. Parents, provoke not. Provoke not. Look in verse number 21. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger. lest they be what discouraged. Now the word for fathers here, we could say it like this, parents, because really it's more of a general word. And it includes both mom and dad, fathers and mothers. But it's fathers here because father is the responsible agent here in the home. But it's really to both parents. And it says, parents then provoke not Now the word for promo for provoke here means to stir up. We say, Lisa, stop nagging your children. Stop being overbearing with them, lest they become discouraged or broken in spirit or without spirit or completely frustrated. It's the idea of being listless, sullen, discouraged, despairing. They can lose heart. Now listen, we want to discipline our children, but we don't want to take their spirit. We don't want to break their spirit We want them to be who they are. We want them to be who God created them to be. We want them to learn discipline, but we don't want to take away the gifts that God's given them. And we don't want to be oppressive. And so we don't want to cause them to be angry or frustrated. And so how does a parent do this? This is just a few things I listed here about how we can frustrate our children or take away our their spirit or make them discouraged. Number one is excessive discipline. You can over-discipline your child. You can over-correct your child. You say how? By breaking their spirit instead of their will. You want to break their will, but not their spirit. And when a child's will is already broken, there's no need for further discipline. When they're submitting, when they're listening, when you tell them what to do. When you e even administer corporal punishment, you want to be careful and you and you want to break there again their will, but not their spirit. You want to overdo it Because then they become disheartened, then they become discouraged. And if that's that will is broken, then leave them alone. I remember when I was administrator here at the school Sometimes teachers would bring their kids in because they were exasperated with the way they were acting. And for some reason I developed this reputation that I wasn't a very nice person to come to any situation like that. And every once in a while a child would come through the office door crying already. He was just crying. I haven't even said anything. Haven't even touched him. He said, What did you do? I would say, all right, go and sin no more. There was no need to say anything to him. There was no need to do anything. Why? Because his will was already broken. He was already punishing himself And so just, hey, just will be good. Do good. Now some of our children have a strong will, and we have to break that will. And for some it's stronger than others, and this is based on experience in my own home, by the way. I had some children that are harder to break their will, and then somewhere just one little word and that's all it takes And you don't need a sledgehammer to kill a gnat. You don't need to overdo it. Just one little word is all it takes. But we don't want to over-punish them. I don't want them to get angry. And by the way, overpunishing our children can also lead to bad patterns of life and their own bad patterns in their own life, I should say. Let me give you one illustration. I had one child. I'll go ahead and say it, you know, I didn't ask her for her permission, but I think she'll forgive me. This is my daughter Abby. We're getting ready to go over to her wedding. Not so very proud of Abby, but I want you to know that she was a challenge. when she was growing up. And one thing about Abby, she had a very strong will. She was so very free-spirited and all that, and I love that spirit about her, but she could also be very stubborn. But I could be overbearing. And sometimes I was overbearing. Sometimes I would overpunish her. And there was a certain point in her life where she was constantly lying to me. And it really burdened me because we know that we want to teach our children always to tell the truth. Why? Because if they will get into the pattern of always telling the truth, that'll ward off all other temptation in their life. Anyone who will lie will cover their sins with a lie, and that opens up the door of temptation. So I always went on to tell the truth. But yet she went into this pattern where she wasn't telling the truth. And she was always deceiving me, lying to me. And so one day I just said to her, I said, Abby, Why do you always lie to me? And she said, Dad, I'll tell you why. She said, because if I tell you the truth, you become overbearing. And I would rather not deal with you. It's so much easier just to do this. That way I won't have to deal with your overbearing personality. And you say, well now what did you do? Did you get mad at over punish her again? No. Because you know what she was she really taught me something there And so I said, you know what, Abby, you're right. You know what the problem was? The problem was that me as a parent, I was afraid. I had an insecurity. And you know what the insecurity was? I was afraid she wasn't going to turn out right. And that scared me so much that I had the tendency to overpunish her. But the problem was me. It wasn't her. And so I said, Abby, I promise you this, if you just tell me the truth, I won't get angry. And I will, I'm not saying I won't punish you, but I will take into consideration that you told me the truth, and I will not be angry with you. And she said, I agree. And you know what? She never lied to me ever again. And you know why she was lying? Because I was overbearing, I was over-punishing her. The problem was really me. And so I had to rein it in. And you know what I had to do? I had to learn as a parent to trust the Lord with her. I had to learn that I gotta do what I know to do, and then I have to trust the rest of uh tr uh trust God with the rest. I have to give God all the rest Because I'm going to make my share of mistakes, but the Lord is a perfect Father. He doesn't make any mistakes. And so by over-punishing them, you can cause them to be angry, but then also being overly critical. Some parents are so much a perfectionist that their children can never do anything right. And they can never live up to your standards. Don't do that. Find something positive to praise them about and what they do. When they do something, don't nick pick it apart. Praise them for the good things that they do Write down Proverbs 27, 21. As the finding pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, so is a man to his praise. You know what the principle there is? Praise is a character builder. And when you praise a child for doing something right, for good character, what happens is that enforces that character and it burns away the draws just like a finding pot burns away the impurities of gold, even so that word of praise will enforce that character and burn away all of the negative character. So praise them. Here's another thing by forcing them to be someone they're not. Every child that the Lord gives us is a gift from the Lord, and He's meant made them with certain bends, with certain personalities. In fact, I think this is what the proverb means, Proverbs 22, 6. Train up a child in the way he should go. A lot of people think that's a promise. It's not a promise. It's just simply saying you have to recognize the bends in your child. You recognize the way he goes. This is a Hebrew word that's used to talk of the bend in a twig or the bend in a piece of wood. And God when He creates a child and gives them to us He creates that child with certain bends. And they have a certain way in which they're going. And so as parents, we have to recognize that way and then train them according to that way. For example, my son Jeremiah, he's a music kid. I mean he loves music. If I try to get him to to be a preacher and and try to pull him away from music and be a professor or be something else Because that satisfies my ego. Rather than training him according to the way God made him, it's going to frustrate him. Because I can't change that bend that God put in him I have to train him up accordingly. I have to recognize what his gifts are, and I have to push him in that direction. I have to encourage him in that way. Not get him to be what I want them to be, but what the Lord wants them to be That's the idea there. And then here's another one, unrealistic goals. If we put unrealistic goals in front of our children, we may frustrate them. Recognize that they're limited and accept whatever limitations they have. A lot of times this is just a parent trying to live through their children. And it becomes a p uh really a a parental pride issue. My child can't fail. Oh yes they can and when they fail you should be there to pick them up. It's a pride issue when we put these high goals that are beyond their expectations, beyond their abilities, and beyond their gifts, and when they don't reach that goal, what do we do? We don't accept them We don't say that, but our attitude, our outward expression shows that we're disappointed in them. And the issue again is with us because we haven't accepted what they are and who they are. And so that can cause a child to be angry. In fact, I remember counseling a child, always in the office, always rebelling, always angry, vitriolic, bitter. And one day this child was in my office and I said, Why are you so angry? And he began to cry. This was a high schooler. He began to cry. And he said, No matter what I do, it's not good enough for my parents. no matter what. If I get a B, it should have been an A. If I get an A, it should have been an A plus. He really wasn't a rebellious child, he was just hurt. He was just frustrated. But then here's another way, failing to show affection. Failing to show affection. We have to show affection all the time. And let me tell you, your kids never outgrow that. There's a book out called The Blessing. It's been out for some time, but the whole concept is in the Old Testament, Jewish parents would bless their children. And how would they do it? A meaningful touch, a spoken word, expressing high value, picturing a great future for them. All those are ways in which in the Old Testament parents would bless their children. But it all starts, I think, with a meaningful touch. Our children are like this emotional tank and every day it needs to be filled. And according to a study from UCLA, our children need eight meaningful touches a day just for emotional stability. And so as parents, we have to give those meaningful touches and fill up that emotional tank inside of them and show that affection constantly. But when you fail to show that affection, children could get resentful or hurt And then lack of standards. If we don't give them guidelines and then punish them for something they don't know they did wrong, they're gonna get frustrated So we have to clearly communicate our standards. I would never spank my children until I understood that they knew what the rules were. And if they willingly understood the rules and then crossed them, then they got punishment. But if they didn't understand where the standards were, that's my problem, not theirs. And so I had to hold them accountable as long as they clearly understood. And then here's another one, just neglect. If you just neglect your children, if you just don't spend time with them, they're going to become frustrated. In the Bible, Absalom wanted to spend time with David. He wanted an audience with a king. David never had time for him, so Absalom burned down Joab's barley field. That'll get David's attention. And some kids are out there doing that. They're burning down barley fields because they simply want attention. And then here's another one, favoritism in the Old Testament. We have to f uh stop with this. But favoritism. If you love one child more than another, that's going to frustrate them. Now, I've had parents counseling say, well, I do favor one child over another, but I never say anything. And I always say, you don't have to say anything, they know. Kids are not dumb, they have discernment. In the Old Testament, Jacob loved Joseph more than the rest of his children. And you know what? He didn't go around broadcasting it The Bible says that when his brethren saw that their father loved Joseph more, they knew it. They could see. They could see the attitude. They could see the gifts. They could see all that. And as parents, we have to realize that every one of our children are different, but they're gifts from God, and we have to love them and appreciate who they are uniquely and love them equally. I know there are some children that are a little more high-maintenance than others. But friend, we have to love them all the same and we have to let them know that. And so all these things, you say, boy, that's a lot. How do I know? Here's the good news. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ in Christ, you have all the wisdom that you need. You have all the wisdom that you need. You don't need to go see some, you know, child psychiatrists and and and and all that. And and I'm not saying all of them are bad. As long as again, if they're giving biblical advice, I'm for that. But if they're going outside the scripture, friend, I'm not for that. You have all that you need in the Word of God. You have all that you need in the Lord Jesus Christ. And if as a parent you sit and you pray with your children and you pray to God for wisdom, you know what? He's going to give it to you He just will. And so Christ is preeminent in a home where w wives submit, husbands love, and are not harsh. Children are taught to obey and they do obey. And parents, they don't provoke their children to wrath. But what's the opposite? But bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Now close with this, a little boy named Danny lived with his family in a trailer. And one day someone asked him, they said, Don't you wish you had a real home? And Danny's reply was very wise. It was beyond his years. He said, we have a real home. We just don't have a house to put it in. You know what a real home is? A real home is where Christ is preeminent. Where he is first place. And the kids know it. And we're we're just obeying these principles. They're very simple. Again, this is not rocket science. We just have to do it. And guess what? You have the power to do it. You have the resources to do it because you have all that you need in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for these basic things, so very simple. Lord, help us to apply them. Help us, Lord, to put these to practice in our life. Help us not to capitulate to the lie that we just can't do this. We can. Because Lord, you are our source of strength. You are our wisdom. We're abiding in you. You have given us strength. You've given us power. You have given us wisdom. And Lord, we can apply these things. We can do this. We can through your strength. And so, Lord, help us to make you preeminent in our home. Help us to learn to love as we ought to love, to set aside selfishness. To teach our children to love and obey. Give us wisdom as we learn each child and help apply principles to their life. So Lord help us. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And how many are here tonight? I said my prayer is that I would just be able, through the power of the Holy Spirit, Christ on the throne of my heart, to apply these things in my life. Would you pray for me? That I'll just be able to apply these simple principles. Is that your prayer? God bless you. Pray for me. I want to apply these things to my heart and my life. God sees your heart, your hand. And so, Father, do so. Give us strength and wisdom to apply this. And we pray in the mighty name of Jesus. Amen.