Take your Bibles tonight and open please to the book of Matthew. I want you to look in Matthew chapter 16. Matthew chapter 16. And uh look at verses one down to verse four, Matthew sixteen tonight. Then the Pharisees also with the Sadducees came. tempting, desiring him that he would show them a sign from heaven. And he answered, and he said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, It will be fair weather, for the sky is red And in the morning it would be foul weather today, for the sky is red and lowering, and ye oh ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, but ye cannot discern the signs of the time. And a wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign, and there shall be no sign given unto it, but the sign of a prophet Jonas, and he left them and departed. There was a young man by the name of Josh Bell. He emerged in the metro down in Washington, kind of positioned himself against the wall. And uh by most measures he was just a typical ordinary uh young man. He was uh a white young man in jeans, long-sleeve t-shirt. He was wearing a Washington Nationals baseball cap. And he took and he removed from his violin case, his violin, and uh he placed, he opened up the case, put it at his feet, put a few dollars in the case, kind of a little bit of seed money there. And uh for the next 45 minutes there in the DC Metro station, he played Mozart and Schubert and all those other guys. And uh thousands of people came by and and just were listening. This was just an incredible thing here. He was not just an ordinary musician, if they look closely they would have noticed that the violin that he was playing was worth three million dollars itself. A Strativarius violin And if they had taken notice a little bit closer, they would have noticed that this young man was not just an ordinary musician. He was a concert violinist. And just a few days earlier he had packed out Boston Symphony Hall with ordinary seats going about a hundred dollars apiece. And yet he had managed to scrape up in a hour that he was there about thirty-two hours in the violin case. And so why was he there? This was uh a project that was arranged by the Washington Post and experiment to see if in an ordinary setting people would stop and notice the beauty in that ordinary place, that commonplace, that banal setting, if people would stop and notice some of something beautiful that was going on. in that ordinary setting. If beauty could transcend the commonplace, that was the experiment. When I read that, I thought about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ Because there was no more ordinary setting than in a little town in Bethlehem. And you know all the setting that was there when our Lord Jesus Christ was born. And the question is, could beauty transcend there? And really what it shows us is that it's human nature to overlook the obvious, to overlook that which is beautiful, to be so caught up with our own thing that we forget what's going on around us. Now here in the passage that I read just a moment ago, Matthew tells us of a group of people who miss some things. They miss some of the signs that were around them. And really, because of that, it really determined their eternal destiny. And so I want you to see this passage with me. And really the whole thought that we're going to consider here in this passage is don't miss the signs. Or we call could call this the missed signs of Christmas. And really, this whole story is a warning to all of us to pay attention to what God is doing and not miss the signs that are around us. Now let me give you a little bit of background into the setting of this. Of course, Matthew's gospel is all designed to prove that Jesus is what? He's the king, right? He's the rightful king. In chapters one through ten, there's all this revelation and evidence that he gives. We could call that section the revelation of the king. He lays it all out there. But then in chapters eleven to thirteen, we could call that the rejection of the king. Because what Matthew records in from 11 to 13 is a series of negative responses to Jesus Christ. There's doubt, there's skepticism, there's ridicule, and even blasphemy because Really the the the uh opposition climax is in chapter twelve where they accuse Jesus of doing miracles how? And the power of Satan, right? And that's kind of the climax of the opposition. And then when you get to chapter 13, what's he doing? He's teaching him parables. He's kind of withdrawing from the multitudes. And he's teaching in parables because only those who would have really been enlightened by God will understand spiritual truth, and those who rejected what he said already would not. And then when you get to chapter 14, what happens? John the Baptist is beheaded. And the whole tone and uh nature of Jesus' ministry changes. Look at chapter 14, look at verse 13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place. That is, he left. When he heard about the death of John the Baptist, he kind of takes his disciples and he departs And by the time you come to chapter 16, what's Jesus doing? What he's doing in chapter 16, then, is he getting his disciples ready for what's going to come. And what's going to come? His crucifixion. In fact, look in chapter sixteen, look in verse twenty-one. From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how he must go unto Jerusalem and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and be raised again the third day. This is the first time that Jesus actually comes out and talks about his death. And he talks about his suffering. And he begins to prepare his disciples for what's going to come. Now in chapter 14 and 15, he kind of withdrew, and he was kind of in the backwater towns of Galilee and the upper north and the Gentile territory. where he uh did the feeding of the 4,000 this time up there kind of reproduce the feeding of the 5,000 to show that he's the bread of life not just for Jews, but he's also the bread of life for the Gentiles. But now he resolves to go to Calvary. And so chapter 16 opens up with Jesus coming back from Gentile lands, coming back to Jewish lands, coming back to a place called the coast of Magdala. And look in chapter 16, verse 1. As soon as he gets on shore, he's met by some Pharisees. And notice what they said. And the Pharisees also with Sadducees came tempting. As soon as he gets back He's met with enemies. He ri withdrew for a while to get away from the hostility, to talk to his disciples, to prepare them. And now he's back, and as soon as he gets back, what happens? He's faced with these enemies. And now this is no longer a passive hostility that was in the first part of Matthew, kind of a passive rebellion. Now it becomes more of an active rebellion. Now they're seeking to confront with him They're seeking confrontations with Jesus. And they're looking for reasons to to put him to death. And so I want you to see this story. Notice the first part of the story. I call this a sinful demand Now remember, he just got back from Gentile territories. And notice the people in verse 1. The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came. I want you to notice that. You say, why is that strange? Well these are strange bedfellows. Because these guys are on opposite ends of the religious spectrum, right? Pharisees mean separated. They were the traditionalists. They believed in Orthodoxy, they believed the Bible was the word of God, they believed in the resurrection, they believed in tradition. In fact, they were so fastidious And so preoccupied with the minutiae of the law, they added to the law their own traditions, and Jesus rebuked them for that. But these were the guys who were the legalists And they wanted to take something, read something spiritual into every tiny word of Scripture. They they interpreted the Bible with a wooden literalism that lifted it out of what it really meant. But these were the Orthodox guys But then you have on the other side you have the Sadducees. What were they? They were the modernists. They were the liberals. They didn't believe in the resurrection. They didn't hold hold to the scriptures the way the Pharisees did. The Pharisees hated the occupation of Rome. But uh uh the Sadducees, they loved it. They loved Greek culture. They again they would we would call them liberals in our day, we would call them modernists in our day, and so here are these guys that are on the opposite end of the spectrum getting together. This would be like Democrats and Republicans coming together in one big united convention, which we will never see happen, right? But that's what it would be like. You say, why were they united together? They were united in one thing. What was that? Their hatred and opposition of Christ. They wanted to get him. And since they had a common goal, now they were side by side And they were coming to Christ. But notice the purpose. Look again in verse 1. The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, watch this, tempting him. That is to test him. This is to to uh to give him a a little bit of a test here. And by the way, they weren't really testing him because they believed in him. It was the opposite. They were testing him because they wanted to bring him down. They were trying to find fault They were trying to destroy him. In fact, look in chapter twelve. Go back there in chapter twelve and look in verse number fourteen. Again to kind of give you the idea of how they were already thinking. Chapter twelve, verse fourteen says, Then the Pharisees went out and held a counsel against him how they might what? Destroy them. You with me? How they might destroy him. They wanted to bring him down. And so they came forth with a question. And Mark's Gospel is even more, gives you a little bit more here. They said they came forth and began to question him and to argue with him, or we could say they began to dispute with him. This is a confrontation that's not born of belief, but it's born of unbelief. And notice the petition in verse 1. And tempting desired him that he would show them a what? A sign from heaven. They asked him for a sign. Jesus, give us a sign. Now this is a this took a lot of nerve on this delegation's part. In fact, you might even call this blasphemous. You might even call this an insult. Basically what they were saying is, look, you have improved yourself. You haven't really done anything noteworthy And you call yourself the Messiah? We want you to give us a sign. And literally, verse 1, it says, a sign from heaven. We could say literally a sign out of heaven. Give us a sign that comes out of heaven. Now the Jews had a superstition, and that is that God could do heavenly miracles, and demons could do earthly miracles. Earthly miracles could be done by Satan and his kingdom, but only God can do miracles from heaven. And that's why the Egyptian magicians could do what they could do. But They believed that only God could do things like uh cause the sun to stand still as in Joshua, or bring down uh fire from heaven, as in the story of Elijah, or call down thunder from heaven, just the way Samuel did, or uh any of those things. So there was this notion also that when the Messiah came, there would be signs all around them. And there would be signs from heaven. And so they say, give us a sign from heaven. If you're really the Messiah, give us a sign so we can believe. Now again, this was not born of belief. This was born of unbelief. I want to tell you folks, there's some people out there, and it doesn't matter what you do, they're not going to believe. And in fact, there are people all around today, you know what they're doing? They're looking for all kind of signs Give me a sign. God show me something in order for me to believe. And that's what these guys are doing here. And so I want you to see the next thing. Not only a sinful demand, but also write down number two, write down a sorrowful declaration. Because look at verse 2. And he answered and he said unto them, Now, how does Jesus respond to this brash, arrogant request? Well he he responds, but uh he he responds with sorrow. Hold your place here in Matthew 16. Flip over to Mark. chapter 8 verse 12 because this is the parallel account and it gives us a little more insight into how Jesus responded. Look in Mark chapter 8, look in verse number 12. Mark 812 And look there, it says, and he sighed deeply. In fact, back up to verse 11. And the Pharisees came forth and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven. tempting him, and he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, What doth this generation seek after a sign? Verily I say unto you, there shall be no sign given unto this generation. Notice what it says. He sighed deeply. Anastanizo. He drew deep breaths from the bottom of his chest. This word is only used one other time in all of the Bible. It's used again in Mark to talk about a man whose countenance had fallen. Sorrow. And so it has this idea of sorrow. And I think here Jesus is lamenting here. I think he's deeply hurt. I think this wounded his soul. Why? Are you asking me for a sign? Why are you asking for this? And then he responds by saying later on, and we'll see, we'll take a look at that later on, but I'm not going to give any other signs to this generation. And he uses that phrase, this generation, and a wicked and adulterous generation, which reminds us of Matthew twelve where he talked about that generation, that that wicked and adulterous generation, that all of Nineveh will rise up and judgment against this generation. Why is that? Because they already had so much light, they already had so much truth, and yet they rejected it all. And so there's sorrow here. But then he gives them an illustration. Look what he says. When it is evening, ye say it will be fair weather, for the sky is red. And in the morning it will be foul weather today, for the sky is red. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky, but ye cannot discern the signs of the time. And so to give them a a bit of shame here and to reveal to them their lack of spiritual discernment, Jesus gives them an illustration. And basically what he's saying is you're better meteorologists than you are theologians. You're better at telling the weather than having any bit of spiritual discernment about you. Because you know that when you look out when the cla in the morning, when when the sky is red in the morning, you know rain is coming, you know storm is coming And you look at night and if you see the sky as red, you know that good weather is on the way, that is the storm has already passed over. And uh we still use that rhyme, don't we? Red sky at night, sailor delight, red sky in morning. Sailor take warning, you know. And that's really what he's saying here. Jesus said, look, you can detect weather patterns, but you can't detect what is going on around you. You're really asking me for a sign, and you really can't see everything that has already happened, everything that has already taken place. The whole coming of Jesus Christ into this world was accompanied by signs. It was accompanied by all these things to give approval and authentication as to who Jesus was. Go to Matthew chapter 1. Let me let me Matthew kind of helps us out because in his old gospel, what does he do? He just points out over and over again some of the things that were really signs. That were really things that authenticated Jesus. And he uses one phrase over again. Look at chapter 1, look in verse 22. Notice the phrase there. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet. See that phrase there? Go to chapter 2 and look at verse 15. And was there until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled, which was Spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son. Same phrase there. Look in verse 17. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremiah the prophet. Look in verse 23. And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets he shall call be called a Nazarene. Do you get the idea here? All the way, and by the way, this goes all the way through the Matthew, all the way through this gospel of Matthew that way. Because he's constantly saying, now all this was done that it might be fulfilled by the prophet. Matthew is very careful to point out that whenever something took place in the ministry or life of Jesus When it fulfilled scripture, evidence, signs that Jesus was who he claimed to be. And the signs were all there They were all there. Go back to chapter one. Let's look at the first one. What's the first sign? The virgin birth itself. Verse 23, behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Now where is Matthew quoting from here? Isaiah, right? Isaiah 7. 14, right? You remember that passage? Ahaz is preparing because these wicked kings have come in confederation against him, and he's afraid, and God sends Isaiah down there to him. Through the prophet Isaiah, God says, Ask me a sign, Ahaz. Ask me for a sign. You know, that's when Ahaz pretends to be spiritual. Oh, I I would never tempt you, Lord, by asking you for a sign. You know, he's a false spirituality there And God says, you know, you're trying my patience. I'll give you a sign. Therefore the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. And what would be the sign, by the way, the word for sign there in the Old Testament is oat. That is a miraculous sign. God says, I'm going to give you a miraculous sign. Now I know Old Testament people who try to say that woman that that the woman that's spoken of there in Isaiah 7. 14, that Hebrew word means a young woman, and it can be translated young woman Well, that doesn't make any sense in the context if you translate it that way, Mr. Liberal Einstein. It doesn't make any sense. Here's a miraculous sign. Behold, a young woman is going to have a child. That's not a sign. That happens all the time. The only way you can translate that is, behold, a virgin is going to have a child. Now that is a miraculous sign. And Matthew's take on this when he gives the word here in Matthew 1 23 the word that he uses here for virgin can only mean virgin in Greek and so that ends that discussion right there And here's the first sign then. The virgin birth itself was a sign from God to the world. that Jesus is the Son of God. Well that's not enough. Here's another sign. Look in chapter 2. Look at verse number 1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem. Now we all know this story, the story of the wise men. There's a lot of misconceptions out there. Were there three? Were they actually wise men? Were they kings? There's a lot that has been written on that. But what I want you to see here is that these wise men, they were Gentiles, and they were men who came from a Gentile land, and there's a sense in which Matthew might be heaping shame upon the Jewish people by pointing this out. You say, why? Because here we're Gentile, pagan, wise men, or kings, however you choose to translate that, and they were seeking diligently Christ. And they had come a long way. And here the people in Jerusalem weren't looking for him at all. But here are these Gentiles, and they're seeking Christ, and you know why? Because they saw a sign. And notice that they came from the east. You say, where is that from? We can boil it down to Persia or Babylon. The word for wise men is Magi, as you already know that. And the word is a Persian word. And did you know that this was a title that was given to priests in the ancient Persian religion? And you know what their specialty was? Looking and interpreting special signs from heaven That's exactly what they did. They were always looking for signs in the heavens. Now today we would call it astrology. Back then it was astronomy and astrology. They were kind of all lumped together. And these Persians were always looking for patterns in the sky. And these were probably very rich and respected people from their land And they acknowledged, look at verse 2 of chapter 2, saying, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him. They saw something in the heavens And they call it his star. And by the way, these Persians had the opportunity to learn the Jewish scriptures. You say, where? Because Daniel lived in Babylon. And Daniel, while being there, was a government official, and he gave prophecies about the Messiah, and he no doubt taught them, by the way, you know the title that Daniel had, one of the titles he had while he was in Babylon? He was called the chief of the magi. And so he was able to share with them, no doubt, scriptures about the coming Messiah. And some scholars feel that they believed in the verse in Numbers. Write down Numbers 2417, I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. There shall come a star out of Jacob. And so these men were seeking Christ. And them coming to Jerusalem itself was something incredible. In fact, it says that it kind of put Jerusalem in a stir there. Look down in verse number three. When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. So this put the whole city in a stir. Why are these men here? This in itself was a sign. But then also the star itself. You say, what was the star? The star that drew them, that led them, that guided them on this journey to Jerusalem. There's a lot, again, a lot of things said about this. Some say, well, this is a common. And other I've read others where it said this is a conjunction of planets, you know, when planets line up, it's uh it's brighter in the heavens, you know, when they planets line up like that. And some say it's a supernova, which is an exploding star And they try to give all these scientific explanations and you know what? Let me say you're a lot of reading, it doesn't, none of it makes any sense. You say, what was it? Notice where it says his star in verse 2. Look at it again. For we have seen his star. Now it appears that only the Magi saw this. And it seems to have led them to Jerusalem, then disappeared. You say, why? Because look in verse number nine. It suggests that the star reappears. Look in verse nine of chapter two. When they had heard the king, they departed And lo, the star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was, verse 10. And when they saw the star, They rejoice with exceeding great joy. What does all that imply? That the it disappeared for a while, and now it reappeared, and when they saw it, they rejoiced again And this star led them to the very place where Jesus was, the very resident where Jesus was staying, and then it says so it's it came over to the child where the child was Now, that's a peculiar star, if you ask me. I don't know many stars that behave like that. That can disappear, then reappear, and then lead you to a certain location. And then even to a certain person, you say, what are you trying to say? I'm trying to say, I believe the star here was nothing more than the Shekinah glory of God. That led these men to the the Lord Jesus. In fact, in chapter two, verse seven, when f when uh Herod asked about the star He asked the men, he inquired of them diligently, what time the star appeared, and the word for star there is fano, which means the shining forth. He says, what time did you see this shining forth? And it makes sense to me that Gentiles would call this a star because they really had one word, Persian word, to talk about something bright in the sky, Ashtar, which can be translated as a star, but can also be translated something that was shining up there uh in the sky. And also remember that in Luke chapter 2, what happened when the birth of Christ there? There was glory all over. Remember, the glory was all around. It shown all around And so I think this was nothing more than the glory of God, the Shekinah glory that could appear and reappear and lead people and and and hover directly above a resident. You remember in the Old Testament, the Shekinah glory was right above the tabernacle. And what when that Shekinah glory was above the tabernacle, what was it saying to everyone? That God was right there inside there. God dwelt there. That was the message. So I think this was the glory of God. By the way, do you know what the sign will be at the second coming of Jesus Christ? You know what it's going to be? Write down Matthew 24. Verse twenty nine Immediately after the tribulation of those days the sun will be darkened, the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heaven will be shaken. Listen to this. Then will appear in the heaven the sign of the Son of Man And it goes on to say, the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with great glory. It will be the glory of God, it will be the sign of his second coming. And beloved, I believe the sign of his second coming, which is the glory of God, was also the sign of his first coming, the glory of God. That led these men to Jesus. But whatever you choose to believe about this, one thing is for sure, this star was a sign. And there was a sign in the heavens. And then there was the birth of Christ in Bethlehem itself The very fact that Christ was born in Bethlehem. Look again in chapter 2, verse 4. When they had gathered all the chief priests and scribes, the people together, he that his hair had demanded of them where Christ should be born And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet, and thou Bethlehem and the land of Judah are not the least of the prince of the uh princes of Judah. In other words, Herod grabbed all the scholars together and he said, Look, I want to know about this king of the Jews. Where is he going to be born? And they said, Hey, he's going to be born in Bethlehem. That's what the Old Testament scripture says Bethlehem of Judea, right down here, right down the road, just a few miles away. Isn't that interesting? They all knew. They knew something was going on. But by the way, did any of them bother to leave Jerusalem and go for the sea for themselves? No. They all knew. This wasn't a case of, well, they just didn't know. Yeah, they knew. They chose not to do anything about it. And then we don't have time to get into all this because we only have a few minutes left. But in chapter 2, down to verse 18. When, or excuse me, verse 13, an angel appears to Joseph and he says, Take the young child and his mother, go to Egypt. And be there until I bring thee word, for Herod seeks the young man, then child to destroy him. And then verse fifteen, and there was until the death of Herod that it might be fulfilled, which was Spoken by the prophet so here is another incredible event, and Matthew points it out that uh Mary and Joseph took Jesus and they went to Egypt And after a while when Herod died, he came out of Egypt that it might be fulfilled with the prophecy in the Old Testament, Hosea 11, 1, that says, Out of Egypt I have called my son. And then there's the healing ministry of Jesus. You want signs? Do you realize that in the earthly ministry of Jesus, he was constantly healing people? Constantly. Look in chapter 4, look down at verse 16. Again, he's quoting a scripture here, verse 14, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah, the people which sat in darkness, verse 16. Shall see a great light, saw great light, and to them that sat in the region of shadow death, light is sprung up And then in verse 23 and verse 24, you know it says, All these sick people are coming and coming to Jesus, and you know what he's doing? It says at the end of verse 24, and he healed them. All of this was according to the prophecies of the Old Testament that when the Messiah would come, he would come with great works. And the lame would walk, and the blind could see, and the deaf could hear, and all these great things would accompany the Messiah when he came. And Matthew is pointing all of this out. All of it. Look at Matthew chapter 8. Look at Matthew chapter 8. Look at verse 16. Again, Jesus is healing. And look what it says in verse 16 of Matthew 8. And when the evening was come, they brought into him many that were possessed with devils, and he cast out the spirits with his word, and watched this, and healed some that were sick. All that were sick. He healed everybody there. Everybody. I mean, he virtually wiped out sickness in that land. He just wiped it out. Why? Look at this verse 17. That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by Isaiah the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities and bare our Sicknesses. You think that's enough signs? You think that's enough? Look at chapter eleven. Look at chapter 11. And look down at verse 20. You think they believed? Look at verse 20. Then began, this is Jesus, then began he to upbraid the cities. Wherein most of his mighty works were done. Watch, because they what? They repented not. And he said, Woe unto thee, Corzin, woe unto thee, Besseidah, for if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire in Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. Drop down to verse twenty-three. And thou Capernaum, which are exalted to heaven shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which have been done in thee had been done in Sodom, it would remain until this day. And so by the time Jesus gets to Matthew 11 here, again we're seeing the negative responses to the ministry of Jesus. They don't believe his mighty works, which is to say they don't believe the signs. And by the way, the signs were proof of his authority They were proof that he was a son of God, and he did all these signs, and still they didn't believe a lot of them. And so he pronounces well on them. He says to Capernaum, You've been exalted up to heaven. How were they exalted to heaven? Jesus' headquarters was right in Capernaum. I mean how would you like it if Jesus were going to come back and he set up headquarters right here at Grace? That'd be pretty good. I'd let him have my office. He set up headquarters right there in Capernaum. And he stayed there. And they had heaven dwelling right there in Capernaum while Jesus was there. And during his earthly ministry, they were exalted to heaven. And he did all these signs. And you know what? Many of them didn't believe. And so he says, you're going to be brought down to hell. Now go back to Matthew 16. It kind of kind of gives you a context now. Jesus leaves, he comes back, he gets off the boat, he steps on the land, he's faced with these This delegation, and they say, we want a sign from heaven. We want a sign from heaven. That's why I say this was blasphemous. This was an insult. He had already done all these things. And so he says, I am not going to give you any more signs. In Mark 8. 12, truly I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation. And this is a very strong construction in the Greek. If I could interpret it literally, he was really saying this. If I give a sign to this generation, may I die. We would say it like this in our day, over my dead body. Very strong. I am not going to give any more signs. He was he said, I'm done. No more. Except one. Look at verse four, chapter sixteen. A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and there shall be no sign given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. There's the only other sign you're going to get. What's the sign of Jonah? We know what that is. He's not a new sign, it's an old one. And like Jonah was And the next sign that Jesus would give to all these was the sign of his resurrection. And by the way, when he did come out of the grave, they still didn't believe. They still didn't believe it. You know what they did? Roman soldiers came back. Here's what happened. An angel was there and you know we we kind of lost it. And uh, you know, the tomb was empty. And you know what they did? You read Matthew twenty eight, they bribed them. They say Look, we're going to give you this. Just tell them the disciples stole his body. As if to show that that sealed their faith. That showed their complete rejection of Jesus. Some people just refuse. They just refuse to believe. So here's the third thing. A solemn departure. There was a sinful request. We already saw that. And then we saw right after that Jesus after the sinful request that they gave, asking Jesus for a sign, we see the next thing here, and that is The uh sorrowful declaration is what I'm trying to say, and then a sorrowful departure. Look in verse four. A wicked And adulterous generation cease after sign, but drop down to the latter phrase, the very last phrase, and he left them and departed. He just turned and he walked away. You say, what is that? That is that is a sense of judgment right there. There's nothing more that could be said, nothing more that could be done. They refused to believe. He abandoned them. He walked away from them. You know what this is? This is the wrath of abandonment. You know what he's basically doing? He's just turning them over to their own ways. It's going to turn you over to yourself. You know one of the worst things God can do to mankind is turn mankind over to himself. Just turn him over. That's what it says in Romans 1. Where God basically gave them over. That Greek word is a word, a strong word. He gives them over to their own devices. He gave them over to a reprobate mind. Genesis 6, his spirit will not always strive with men. Later on, Jesus will say, leave them alone. The disciples said, Hey, do you know the Pharisees, they're really in opposition to you. And Jesus said, just leave them alone. Just leave them alone. He turned them over to themself because it was over. And they missed all of the signs. They missed the signs. We could say this, they missed the signs of Christmas You say, why? Let me tell you one reason. Apathy. They just did not care. Someone said hatred is not the opposite of love. Apathy is. And the problem with the people of Jerusalem and many of those people is they had been so accustomed to being around holy things. I mean, they lived in a holy city, they had a holy temple. They had holy priests that ministered there. They had holy days all the time. They had all these things around them. They had the Word of God. They had the scripture. Paul talks about that in Romans 2. all the privileges they had, and you know what? They became apathetic. They they became used to all these holy things. They became familiar so much so that they let their hearts dry up and they got hard and they got unbelieving And you know what there's a warning to all of us as Christians because you better not take for granted the things that God has given you. You better not do it. You better not take for granted the fact that He has given us His Word, He has given us His grace, He has given us so many privileges. And I want to tell you something else, beloved. Signs are all around us They're all around us. You understand that? Just like there were signs for the first coming, there are signs for the second coming. And I want to tell you something, friend, we see those signs every day, and they're all around. I'm not looking for signs anymore. I'm listening for a shout. Behold the bridegroom comes, go ye out to meet him. They're all around us. And we better not close our eyes to all these things. We better see these things. And we better not allow ourselves to become uh careless and apathetic the way these did here. Don't miss all the blessings, all of the things that God has put around us. Don't miss the signs of Christmas and the signs of Christ. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Lord, we take this warning to heart. As we read these passages, Lord, our hearts I have to admit I I I get a bit fearful in my own heart. And Lord help me to banish away any apathy. To confess that, to to rid my heart of any carelessness or ease That might come, Lord, with all the privileges that you have given us. Lord, may I never take anything for granted of the blessings that you've given to us May our hearts not allow any unbelief that can creep in suddenly and then and then grow in our heart and harden us. Lord, help us always to be discerning, seeing your hand at work, seeing your hand of blessings, seeing the signs all around us of the wonderful things that you're doing. And let me just ask this with heads bowed and eyes closed. Perhaps you're here tonight. And you may be here, you may not have made a decision about Christ. You know what, you've been given a lot of evidence right here. Just in this scripture, these verses we looked at. It's a lot of evidence And and it may be that the Lord's been working on your heart, He's been pointing out things. It's no accident that you're here God does things for a purpose. And if you have any unbelief or any apathy in your heart about who Jesus is, friend, you need to repent of that, confess it, and turn to Christ today with all your heart. Don't don't miss the signs about who Jesus is. See them, believe them in Father, take these words and bless them to our hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.