Would you take God's word tonight, please? And uh I invite you to open to the book of Romans, chapter seven. There goes half my congregation standing up to preach, half of them walk out. Romans chapter seven. That's our children's choir going to do their thing. It's a good group of kids there. But Romans chapter seven, you know, um we we have been going through first Timothy and we'll get back to that, but we I kind of interrupted that series just to Do a brief series on the believers uh war against sin and how to get victory over sin in the believer's life. This is a battle that we all face. As believers in Jesus Christ, our desire is to be more like Jesus. Our desire is to learn what the Bible says about this process of sanctification and how to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord. Now, the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans has much to say about this. And in fact, chapter 7 is a key chapter to understand and understanding how to have victory over sin in your life. But let me ask you a question. You ever you ever feel like you're you get tired in this battle with sin? It seems like you uh it's kind of a a merry-go-round where you you you you struggle with the same things over and over and over again This is what Paul is describing here in Romans chapter seven. This is his struggle, his warfare against sin. And uh what we're going to look at are some principles I think that can help all of us. We have to understand these principles if we're going to have victory in our life. And again, Paul is describing his spiritual experience here in Romans 7. He hates what he is doing. But it it seems like he he can't seem to stop doing what he's doing. He knows that God gave us the law. It's spiritual, it's good, it's the right thing to do. But the problem is he just can't seem to do the law. He can't seem to obey it the way he wants And so Paul is going to uh talk to us about this this experience that he had in dealing with sin. Now let me just say this in Romans chapter 7. One of the big questions that scholars debate is whether Paul's talking about his experience before salvation or is he talking about his experience after salvation. So is Romans chapter 7 Talking about his struggle with sin before he was actually saved? Or is he talking about his battle against sin after he became a believer? And so that's one of the things that we want to consider as we look at this tonight. Now, my understanding is that Paul is describing his experience as a believer. before he came to understand that he was no longer under the law and that he could experience consistent victory over sin by relying upon the power of the Holy Spirit, the power of the indwelling spirit And so I hope that that's what we'll see here tonight. Now again, Romans 7 is a difficult chapter. We're going to kind of take more of a bird's eye view of it, uh not to get down into every verse, because you could spend literally months in Romans chapter 7. But what I want to give you is kind of the summary idea of what Paul's talking about, and I want to kind of summarize it under four basic principles that I want you to understand that Paul is teaching here in this chapter. Here's the first principle. Number one, Christians have been delivered from the condemnation of the law. And Paul emphasizes that. And where does he do that? Well, we go all the way back to the first verse of chapter seven. For he says, Know ye not, brethren, for I speak to them that know the law, how that the law hath dominion over men as long as he liveth. Now, the very simple principle that Paul establishes here is that the law is only binding for a person who is living. If you're dead, the law doesn't apply to you Now when Paul says law here, he's talking really he means law in general. Regardless of what law you're that you're talking about. It only has authority over the living, whatever that law may be. Now, in order to communicate this simple principle, Paul gives us an illustration about marriage. Look at verse 2 For the woman which hath a husband is bound by the law to her husband, so long as he liveth. But if the husband be dead, she's loose from the law of her husband. Now let me just say here parenthetically that many errors come from Romans 7 from a misinterpretation of this verse. Some see this as an allegory, it's not. Some try to pull out of here more than what Paul intended. They press the illustration and extract more from it than Paul actually intended. So what is Paul saying? What is his his point? And again, it's very simple. He's using an analogy about marriage. A marriage person is bound by the law of marriage as long as their spouse lives. They're bound by the law of marriage. If your spouse dies, you're no longer bound by that law. If you're not bound in marriage, because you're not bound in marriage to a corpse, right? So when a spouse dies, the law of marriage is no longer binding. And so look at verse number three. So then, if while her husband liveth, she be married to another, she'd be called an adulteress. But if her husband be dead, she is free from that law, so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man. So you can understand this. This is pretty simple, right? If a woman marries another man while her husband is alive, Paul says she's an adulteress. But if her husband dies, that law no longer condemns her. Because death cancels out that law. And that's all that Paul's talking about. The bottom line is we are not under the condemnation of the law because we died. That's how this is applied to us. While we're alive, the law condemns us because we disobey the law. Just give you another illustration. If I commit a crime and before the police come to arrest me, I die, is the law still able to condemn me? Well the answer is obviously no. Well, let me just say this. I did commit many crimes against God's law. And you know what? I stood condemned by the law. But before the law could condemn me, I died. Now you say, Pastor, I hear you preaching here tonight. You don't look dead to me. When did I die? Spiritually speaking, I died with the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. Remember, Paul's talked about in Romans 6 our union with Christ. We are identified with Christ. And when Christ died as a believer, we died. And so therefore, since Christ died and I died with him on the cross, the condemnation of the law is no longer binding for me. As a child of God, you were placed in the Lord Jesus Christ, and what happened to Christ happened to you. And again, this all took place in the mind of God in eternity past And so therefore the law cannot condemn you if you are in the Lord Jesus Christ. Look what Paul says in verse number four. Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by what? The body of Christ, that ye should be married to another, even him who is raised from the dead. Now you're married to another that is the Lord Jesus Christ. And also because Jesus died on the cross through his death, you are not under the condemnation of the law. That's the whole point here that Paul is making. And so therefore, we are free to serve our new master. Look again in verse number five. Of chapter seven, for when we were in the flesh, the motions of sin which were by the law did work in our members to bring fruit unto death Verse 6, but now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held, that we should serve in newness of spirit, not in the oldness of the letter. And so we serve our new master, we serve the Lord Jesus. It is not burdensome. It is something wonderful that we can do. We're not under the heavy yoke of the condemnation of the law, but we serve him with a spirit newness of spirit, with with joy and with willingness, the burden of struggling under the law, that is all gone. And that is the simple principle that Paul is teaching us here in these first six verses. Principle number two. Christians must understand the convicting purpose of the law. We're not under the condemnation of the law, and we have to understand the purpose of the law, the convicting purpose of the law. And there are several things that the law does. First, the law pinpoints sin. Look at verse seven. What shall we say then is the law sin? God forbid Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law said, Thou shalt not covet. So the law is the instrument that shows us what sin is. If there weren't any law, there wouldn't be any sin. Breaking God's law reveals sin. And so the law does two things really. First of all, it shows us the holy standard of God. And it shows us when we violate God's standard. And so there has to be the law in order for us to understand sin. The law pinpoints sin. This is what sin is. The law does that. Romans 3. 20, you want to mark that down on your margin. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified. In his sight, listen to this: for by the law is the knowledge of sin. It's a very important truth. The law simply shows us what sin is by God's definition. Romans 4. 15, where there is no law, there is no transgression. So the law pinpoints sin. It lets us know what sin is. But here's the next thing. The law provokes sin. Look at verse 8. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence, or we could say evil desires For without the law sin was dead. Now Paul here describes how the law shows our indwelling sin. You know what the law also does? It shows us how sinful we are inwardly. You say, how does it do that? Well, when a law is given, what it does is it provokes our inward rebellion against that law. Paul said, for without the law, sin was dead. Now what did he mean by that? That verse does not mean that sin did not exist or it was not there. It means that sin was dormant in me. I had this sin nature. It's in me. Every once in a while the sin nature will rot rise up in me and I feel the sin nature strongly, but every once in a while that sin nature is dormant in me. It's there. It's kind of like a a hibernating bear, you know. It's asleep in me. You know what causes that bear to resurrect or to rise up this sin in me? You give me a law. Okay? You give a law, and you know what happens? It's the nature of sinful human nature that there's something inside of the of man that wants to rebel against that law that is given. And that's what Paul's talking about here. Again, in verse number eight, where look what it says. But sin taking occasion by the commandment, we could say, but the sin nature, indwelling sin in me, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of evil desires. For without the law, sin was dead. Sin was asleep inside of me until there was a law that was given, and all of a sudden there's something that rises up in me and wants to go against that law. Let me give you illustration. If you If you don't want your children to do something, you just don't mention anything about it. But if you say to a child, whatever you do, don't do this. You know what? All of a sudden that child, there's something in them that rises up. All of a sudden they start thinking, why doesn't Dad want me to do this? What's so wrong with doing this? I wonder what he was talking about when he said don't do this. And you know the next thing they do? They do that. They want to find out why did Dad say not to do that. Now if you had said nothing about that thing, they probably would have never done it That sin nature would have stayed asleep inside of them. But you know what caused it to rise up, which caused the motion of sin? Giving them a law And that is true universally for all people, for all those, all of us who are sons of Adam, all of us sinners. What causes the sin principle in us to rise up is when a law is given. Notice where he says, but sin. But since taking occasion by the commandment, look at the word occasion there. It's a word, it's a military word that refers to a base of operations which is an attack when attack is launched. The sin principle in me rises up and launches an attack against that very law that is given to me. That again shows how sinful we are in our heart. So the law pinpoints sin, the law provokes sin, but then another thing, the law prosecutes sin. Look at verse number nine. For I was alive without the law once. But when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. You see, the law condemns, and the law shows what sin is and it brings death. Now Paul says, you know, I was alive without the law once. What does he mean by that? Paul doesn't mean that he was spiritually alive before the law in his days before he knew Jesus. He wasn't saying, you know, I was spiritually alive, you know. before I knew Christ, you know, um without the law. No, what he means is this. He means that he was just walking along minding his own business He was he felt fine. He had his religious act together. He was content with his self-righteous life. He thought that he was doing just fine. You know, there's a lot of people out there like that in their religious life. Oh I'm I'm a good person. I do I do fine. I'm you know I'm I don't do this, I don't do that, and you know they think they're all good and they think they're religious and they're self-righteous. And that's how Paul felt. Paul said, without the law, you know, I was alive, but watch this in verse 9. But when the commandment came, sin revived, and I what? I died. All of a sudden there came the law, the commandments of God, and what I realized is that I can't obey any of those commandments, and when the law came The commandments were given. The sin nature inside me revived, and guess what? It showed me that I am a sinner. And death by sin. And so when the law came, he died. So he died in the sense that everything that he thought that he was, he realized that he wasn't. He thought he was religious. He thought he was righteous. He thought he was okay. And all that was shattered by the law when it made him realize that indeed he was sinful. But then here's the next thing. The law proclaims sin. Look at verse number 12. Wherefore the law is holy and the commandment holy and just and good. And then in verse thirteen, was then that which is good made death unto me, God forbid, but sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good That sin by commandment might become exceeding sinful. And what Paul means here is that sin needs to be seen for what it is. It is incredibly sinful. The law loudly proclaims the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And that's what we need to understand. That's what the law does. It shows us the incredible sinfulness of sin. Alright? Principle number three. Here's the third principle. The law is unable to give the believer victory over sin. The law, you know, we're not under the condemnation of the law. We have to understand the convicting purpose of the law and what it does. But here's the third thing. The law is unable to give the believer victory over sinning. This is what Paul's understanding here. Look at verse 14. For we know that the law is spiritual. But I am carnal, sold under sin. Now, in this principle, we see what the law cannot do. In the last principle, we saw what the law could do. The law can convict us of sin, show us our sinfulness, but here what Paul is saying is that the law cannot deliver us from sin. Paul has already stated early on in Romans that the law cannot justify us. Here, he's about to teach us that the law is also powerless to sanctify us. Now, again, let me just say That this this passage is kind of controversial. There's a lot of theological discussion about this passage. And um as you read closely, you'll read about a man who is struggling. He has this intense conflict over sin. And as you read this passage, you also understand that you get the distinct impression that he's kind of lost this battle with indwelling sin. And he cries out in despair. Look down at verse number 24 of chapter 7, where he says, Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? Now, the controversy is whether or not this is representative of a normal Christian. Who is this person who is struggling here with sin in Romans 7? Again, this has divided Bible students for many years. So let me give you four main views about this, and then we'll talk about the right view. First of all, the first view is that this is the Apostle Paul while he was unregenerate. Some people say, oh, this is Paul, this is all before salvation This seems to be the dominant view in the early church. In fact, Augustine held this view at first, so later he came to believe that this could be referring to a believer. Now according to this view, Paul could not say some of the things that he said here if he were a Christian. What things? Well, in verse 14, he claims to be a slave to sin in verse 14 where he says, I am sold under sin. How could a Christian say that? In verse eighteen he says, There's nothing good in me. A believer can't say that, can he? Because God is inside of him. And then in verse twenty-four he asks, Who shall deliver me from this body of death? Well, doesn't he already know that Christ can deliver from sin? And so some people say this this can't be talking about Paul as a believer This has to be talking about Paul as an unbeliever, but let me just answer some of that by saying, first of all, what Paul says of himself here from verses 14 down to verse 24. is I don't think it's what Paul's saying about his free Christian state. What Paul is doing here is he is lamenting over his inability to fulfill the righteousness of the law. He wants to fulfill the righteousness of the law But he's struggling over how to do it. If you want to know what Paul really thought about himself before conversion, you know what you need to read. You need to read Roman, uh, excuse me, Philippians chapter 3. If you want to find out his mindset before conversion, What does Paul say about himself regarding the law? In Philippians 3, he said, concerning the righteousness of the law, I was blameless? There he's talking about before he met Christ. And how did he think of himself as a lowly sinner who couldn't obey the righteousness of the old? No. He thought, hey, I'm blameless when it comes to the law. In fact, he reads his resume in Philippians chapter 3 And before he knew the Lord, he was very proud of all of his religious achievements. He was self-righteous. He felt like he was doing just great. And so, this is a typical unbeliever. They are deceived about their condition. Paul was absolutely satisfied with his performance. He was self-righteous, he was self-confident, he didn't even know that he needed to be saved. Like I said this morning, Paul on the road to Damascus, he wasn't going to a revival meeting. He was actually going to persecute Christians because he thought they were preaching a false doctrine. And he was doing it in service to God. He did not know he needed to be saved. He thought that he was already all right. And Paul would have said here in Romans 7, you know, I delight in the law of God, and guess what? I obey all of it. I don't struggle with it at all. That was his pre-salvation mindset. But unbelievers don't think of themselves as being sinful. They don't think about themselves as obeying the law, not obeying the law. They think that they're all right. And so that's why I think that this is not talking about Paul before his conversion. Also the other thing, just to note here That in the first part of Romans 7, he uses past tense verbs, eris, past tense, but in the second part, from verses 14 on down to verse 24, they're all present tense verbs. And what I mean by that is, yes, in the first part of Romans 7, Paul could have been talking about the way he felt before salvation. But in verses 14 down to verse 24, these are all present tense verbs. In verse 14, he said, I am unspiritual, present tense. In verse 15, he said, I do not understand what I do, present tense. He said in verse 16, I agree that the law is good. Present tense. So Paul is speaking about a present experience that he was having as he was writing these words. G. I. Packer said Paul's shift from the past tense to the present tense in verse 14 has no natural explanation save that he now moves on from talking about his experience with God's law in his pre-Christian days. to talking about his experience as it was the time of the writing. And I think that's true. So I don't think that this is Paul As an unbeliever, talking about his struggle. There's a second view. Some people say, oh, Paul was talking about a carnal Christian. That's a very popular view today. This is a carnal Christian that is defeated And I don't think that this is the right view for several reasons. First of all, in this passage, this is Paul's autobiography about himself. I'm not prepared to say that Paul was a carnal Christian. All right? I don't think he was a carnal Christian. Okay? So you might want to say that about Paul if you want to. That's up to you. You're going to have to face him in heaven one day about that. But I'm not going to call him a carnal Christian. I think he was a very godly person. I think he was a spiritual person. Secondly, I think those who hold to carnal Christian theology, they kind of teach a a two-stage salvation idea where that you know you receive Jesus as your Savior and later on you can receive him as your Lord. I don't see that dichotomy anywhere in Scripture. Just receive Jesus as your Savior now, and then if you live however you want to in a carnal state, then maybe later on you can accept him as your Lord. Friend, that is a dangerous theology. I don't believe that's biblical. I don't believe that's scriptural. You don't divide up Jesus and say, I'll receive you as Savior and I'll and I'll receive you as Lord later on sometime when I feel like it No, you receive Jesus Christ as he is the Lord Jesus Christ. You don't come and barter with him. You come fully submitted and repentant of your sin to the Lord Jesus. So I don't think that that's the right position uh either. So there's a third interpretation, and that is this is speaking about a person under conviction, they say. Well Romans 7 is talking about a person that's under conviction. And the problem with this is this view does not account for the change from past tense verbs in verses 1 to 13 to present tense verbs in verses 14 to verse 24. So I don't think that's right either. So here's the fourth view, and I think this is the right view, and this is that the view that this is Paul, and he is speaking about his experience after salvation as a believer, as a mature Christian that is struggling with sin. That's what he's what's going on here. Paul is describing his continual conflict. And Paul shows us that we cannot win this struggle against sin by the law, but only by the power of the Holy Spirit. You're not going to win this battle against sin with your own self-effort in the law. You need to rely upon the power of the Holy Spirit. The law cannot sanctify us in this way. And so this passage describes someone who is in conflict with himself, someone who loves God, someone who loves the law of God, someone who wants to obey the righteousness of the law. But seems to fail so many times in doing all that. It's an experience of a person who is in conflict in his soul, so much so that it causes him to cry out in verse 24, Oh wretched man that I am Who shall deliver me from this body of death? But so I think this is Paul. He pursues God. Look at verse 22, where he says, I delight in the law of God after the inward man You can't say that about an unbeliever. Does an unbeliever delight in the law of God? No, of course not. But Paul says, here in this, I delight in the law of God after the inward man. What is that? That's that new nature There's a part of him inwardly, this new nature, that delights in the law of God. In verse 25, he says this, I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. That doesn't sound like an unbeliever to me, thanking God for Jesus Christ as Lord. So then with the mind I serve the law of God. Again, that's not a unbeliever there. That sounds like a Christian thanking God through Jesus Christ who desires to obey the righteousness of the law. But also what we see here about Paul is that he hates sin. Look at verse 15. For that which I do, I allow not. For what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. Does an unsafe person long to do what is right and hate sin? No. They don't really think about those things. That's not really not on their mind. So again, I believe that Romans 7, verses 14 on down to verse 25, is Paul's own testimony of how he lived As a believer trying to learn to live the spirit-controlled life to have victory over sin. He loves the law of God with his whole heart. But he finds himself wrapped up in human flesh, and he's unable to fulfill the law the way his heart wants him to. And so this is all a picture of indwelling sin. And a believer striving against it. Now, from verses 14 on down to verse 24, what we see the rest of the passage, the way it's structured, is basically three laments. Three different times when Paul just is lamenting in this battle. The first section, verses 14 to 17, and then from verses 18 to 20, and then from verse 21 to verse 24, we see three laments. And what we see in each section is a statement of the problem. Verses 14 to 17, Paul says, I am spirit unspiritual, sold under sin. In verses 18 to 20, he says, In me dwells no good thing. In verses 21 to verse 24, he said, Evil is present within me. And then also we see in these three sections a description of the problem. In the first section, verse 15, what I want that to do, I can't do. In verse 18, I have a desire to do good, but And then in verse 23, I see another law warring in me. And then what we see in these three laments. Is a statement of why the problem exists. He says in verse 17, it is sin living in me, or we could say the principle of indwelling sin. It is sin living in me. Verse 20. And then Paul refers to this body of death. Verse 24. Now, with the time I have left, I want to talk about these three laments real quick. Alright? I've got 12 minutes. So I got to spend four minutes on each one. But anyway, we'll see how that works out. Verses 14 to 17. I call this Paul's desire. Paul wants to obey the law. He wants to fulfill the righteousness of the law. Again, verse 15. For that which which I do, I allow not, for what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I Paul desired to do what was right. And by the way, if you're a child of God, you're truly saved, guess what? You want to do what's pleasing before the Lord. You want to obey the righteousness of the law. Is that your heart's desire? Does that honestly describe you? I just want to please Christ. I want to do what He tells me to do. I want to fulfill the righteousness of the law. If you don't care about any of those things, my friend, you need to check your salvation. But those who truly know the Lord, they want to fulfill that righteousness of the law. In verse 14, Paul affirms two things. Look at verse 14. For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. So, first thing, the law is spiritual. Nothing wrong with the law. Number two, I'm carnal. Although Christians are not in the flesh, the flesh is still in us. We're no longer held captive to it, but we can still act fleshly. We can still lapse into carnality. That's not a permanent position for a Christian. But a Christian can certainly lapse in the carnality. And so Paul uses the word carnal here in that sense. Sometimes when Paul uses the word carnal, he's referring to being lost. And sometimes when he uses the word carnal, he's referring to the sin nature that is in us, or he might refer to a believer lapsing into the flesh. Okay? And you have to check the context to see what he means by that And so what Paul's talking about here when he when he says that I'm carnal, what he means by that is that it is the he has this inward f uh indwelling sin, the flesh working in him. This puts the emphasis on the sin principle that is in all of us as believers, even though we're saved, even though we're declared righteous because of what Jesus did. We still all have this sin principle in us. There's a carnal side there. And so this is what Paul's talking about. When he says, I am carnal, sold under sin. In verse number 14, I am carnal, sold under sin. Paul doesn't mean that he's actively committed himself to sin. It means he recognized that in this life we as believers will constantly have to battle against this carnality that is in us, this fallen sin nature. One commentator Cranfield wrote this. Let me read this. He said, the more seriously a Christian strives to live from grace and to submit to the discipline of the gospel. the more sensitive he becomes to the fact that even his very best acts and activities are disfigured by the egotism which is still powerful within him. And no less evil because it is often more subtly disguised than formerly. And boy, he's right. He's so right. The sin principle The sinful presence of the flesh is still there. Sin is so wretched that even when a person has been redeemed, it somehow hangs on us to some degree. So, look at verse number fifteen, where Paul says this, For that which I would uh for that which I do I allow not, for what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is Goods. Paul's sin nature was so insidious and so influential that the very things he did not approve and did not want to do, he did. Does that sound familiar? Does that ever happen to you? Paul is saying, man, I want to do the right thing, but I just sometimes I don't know how. It's funny, Paul sounds like a little boy whose answer is to his father is, you know, his father said, why'd you do that? He goes, I don't know I don't know. And you know what? They don't know. Sometimes I say to my son, why are you doing that? I don't know. I don't know. I know why. Because you get your sin nature from your father, that's why. And we all have this sin nature. In verse 16, Paul said, Look, I agree that the law is good. The word good here, Greek kalos, beautiful, noble, excellent, useful. Because the law is good. The only other conclusion is that Paul was sinful. So in verse 17 he says, Now then it is no more I to do it, but sin that dwells in me. Now he's not denying personal responsibility for sin. What he's saying is that I, the real I, I am I'm in Jesus Christ. I had this new nature, I'm in Christ, but I still also have this sin principle in me, the old self, the old sin nature, and it is getting the upper hand. So there's Paul's desire, but then there's Paul's determination. Look at verse 18. For I know that in me, that is in my flesh dwelleth no good thing, for to will is present with me, but how to perform that which is good I find not. Now, so Paul here is talking again about this battle. And Paul concludes, I know nothing good lives in me. And when he says in me, he's talking about his sinful nature. There's nothing good about our sin nature. There's nothing good about the flesh in us. And he says, to will is present. I want to do what is right, but how to perform that which is good I find not. And that's the battle right there. He can't he's saying he can't figure out how to do anything that is right. And so um And so even though he loves the law of God, even though he wants to obey the righteousness of the law, he's falling short of doing it the way he wants to do. And so he is struggling here against sin in his life. And then I want you to see thirdly Paul's discovery. Look in verse 21. I find then a law. That when I would do good, evil is present with me. What does he mean by that? Paul, when he says I find a law, we could say it like this, I find a principle that's generally true. in this battle against sin. That when I want to do good, evil is in me. The sin nature rises up. Have you ever noticed that You want to do what's right, you want to do what's good, and maybe you're having some success in your Christian life obeying the Lord, and right when you're ready to pat yourself on the back, the sin nature rises up in you. And while you're doing good and desiring to do good, you sense this this sin w welling up in you sinful thoughts or desires, this sin principle. That's what Paul says. I find this general principle that every time I am doing good or I want to do good The the indwelling sin just rises up his ugly head. It's right there inside of me, rising up. And so Paul says, Look, I delight in the law of God. Look at verse 22. For I delight in the law of God after the inward man. Verse 23, but I see another law in my members, talking about in his body, warring against the law of my mind. The law of my mind is really talking about his new nature. because it works in being renewed in our mind, the law of the mind, a new nature, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. And that's when he cries out in verse 24, Oh wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Have you ever gotten to that point where you lament that much over indwelling sin? The problem is that sometimes we don't lament over sin. We need to see sin for what it is, and we need to mourn over it. We need to hate it. It's okay to get to that point where you cry out. In frustration, because what does that reveal? That you want to do well, you want to do better, you want to have victory over this. I'm a little worried about the people that never cry out, oh wretched man that I am, or never see how sinful we are at times in our own sin nature. Paul certainly saw that. That's why he cries out, oh wretched man, that I am, who's going to deliver me? From this when he says body of death, he's really talking about our physical body. Did you ever notice that the sin nature works through our own members? And that it works through our mind, it works through our tongue, works through our hands, works through our our you know our being, our our body And it's like this body, there's a warfare going on where I want to yield all these members to righteousness under Christ, but it's the sin nature dwelling in me that sometimes takes control, and this body of death is already. . Always to yield over to that sin nature. And this body of death sometimes gets the best of me. And so Paul says, Oh, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Now, thank God for verse number 25. All that leads up to this verse. Look at this. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so that with the mind I myself serve the law of God. But with the flesh, the law of sin. So verse 24 is Paul's desperation. At verse twenty four, he just desperately cries out, but he's reminded, and here's principle number four, the last principle Remember, we said number one, Christians have been delivered from the condemnation of the law. Number two, Christians must understand the convicting purpose of the law. Number three, the law is unable to give the believer victory over sin. And that's what we see here in that section there. Paul's desire, Paul's Determination, Paul's discovery, and then Paul we see also Paul's desperation that it's not the law that's going to give us victory But here's number four. The law teaches the believer to depend upon the Spirit for victory. We have to look to the Holy Spirit for this victory. Again, in verse number 25, he kind of summarizes these two laws or principles. When he says, With the new nature I serve the law of God, but with the flesh I serve the law of sin. But the bottom line is this, we cannot have victory over sin with our own self-effort trying to obey the law of God. We can't do that in and of ourself. So drop down to chapter 8. Look at verse number 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Amen. Thank God we're not under condemnation in Christ. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Look at verse two. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. And there Paul's learning. The idea that the only way that we get victory over this indwelling sin is through the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. If you have Jesus Christ as your Savior, then you have the Holy Spirit living inside of you. And it is the Holy Spirit, as you're walking in the Spirit, as you're yielding to the Spirit, it is the Holy Spirit that gives you the power To overcome indwelling sin. That's the whole point right there. It's not just you, it is the Holy Spirit living inside of you. And that is the law that you must submit yourself to. We can't do it by the law. It has to come by the Spirit of God. And you know what? Guess what the Holy Spirit does? The Holy Spirit's work. is to sanctify us inwardly and through his power, he helps us to to produce the righteousness of the law by him. It's through his power. That we produce that righteousness of the law. It is the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. And that's what Paul's saying here. That's the whole point. We have to yield to that law. Now let me, I'm out of time here, but let me just give you one illustration. Hopefully it'll summarize all of it. Because this is a lot in Romans 7. A lot here. But let me use the illustration. Let's just say that one day I decided to jump over the Grand Canyon. I'm not evil can evil or anything like that, but I'm gonna jump over the Grand Canyon and I'm gonna use the law of self-effort to jump over the Grand Canyon. Why you why you looking at me like that? So I say, you know what, I'm gonna use a law of self-effort and I'm just gonna jump this grand king. So I I I get back and I run about a hundred yards and I'm already out of breath by the time I get to the edge. Anyway. So I get back and I run hard. I get to the edge and I jump as far as I can. And you know what? At first I'm doing pretty good. But there's another law that takes over. Yeah, you're right, way ahead of me. It's the law of gravity The law of my self-effort is only going to take me so far. But then there's a law of gravity that takes over and starts pulling me down And you know what? In and of myself, I'm not going to be able to do it because the law of gravity is stronger than my own effort. So let's just say that I I try another way to get to the other side of the Grand Canyon. So this time I get into a little airplane. Okay, get into the airplane. The airplane takes off, and now I'm flying over the Grand Canyon. You know what? There's another law that I put into practice. It's the law of aerodynamics that overcomes the law of gravity. And as long as I'm in that plane, submitted inside that plane, resting in that plane. That airplane is taking me over, and it is defeating the law of gravity, and it can land me on the other side safely because I'm depending on another law that is greater. And that's the way it is in sanctification. The law that you have to submit yourself to is the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus. As long as you are in Christ and you are yielded to the Holy Spirit and dependent upon His power, then that is that law that helps you overcome the law of sin and death. Because through the law of self-effort The law of sin and death is going to pull you down every time, and you'll never be able to have true victory until you submit yourself completely. To the Holy Spirit. Ask him to give you that victory. And you know what? He will. He will, if that's what you want If you are walking in the Spirit, again, look in verse number two. For the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law. of sin and death. What the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but what? After the Spirit. If you are walking after the Spirit, depending upon the power of the Holy Spirit, It is the Holy Spirit that gives you the ability to conquer indwelling sin. But one final thing, beloved, it's a war that you face every day. Every day. Just because you had victory today, it's not a guarantee you're going to have it tomorrow. It's a constant battle. It's a constant war that you have to get the right mindset for. And depend upon the Holy Spirit in Christ for total victory. All right, let's bow for prayer together tonight. So, Father, it's our desire to please you, Lord. We want to fulfill the righteousness of the law. But Lord, we're so weak. And the law shows us, Lord, how sinful we truly are. And even though the law is good, it's there to guide us. It shows us your holy standard. It shows us what sin is. It has no power, Lord, to help us live above it. But Lord, it's through your Holy Spirit. It's through being in Christ Jesus and walking in the Spirit and dependence upon the Holy Spirit that Lord you give us this victory. And so, Father, I pray that you would, in your grace, first of all, give us a great desire to live in victory over sin in our life, not to be complacent. Or to be apathetic. But Lord, truly desire to please you and to live in the walk like Christ. And Lord, do that in every heart of those who know the Lord Jesus. And if there's anyone here tonight that's never trusted Christ as their Lord and Savior, I pray that tonight would be the moment when they say yes to Christ. They open their heart and they receive Him as Savior and Lord. And beloved, if you're here tonight and that's your heart's desire, you can receive Christ right where you are. Just reach out in prayer. Tell Him, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Make me your child And he'll do that for you. He'll save you. Father, bless your word. Thank you for it. Help us, Lord, to apply it, to live it for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.