Would you take God's word and please open to the book of Psalms, chapter fifty-one today, Psalm fifty-one. And I Want to read a few verses out of this chapter with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word, Psalm 51, and start at verse 1? Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness, according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in Sid did my mother conceive me. Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with thysop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within thee Cast me not away from thy presence, and take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. This is God's word. So may we submit to it. You may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, how we thank you for your word in this beautiful psalm of confession. And how it instructs us. It's an example and a model for us as believers on how to deal with sin when it comes into our life. So Lord, may we find instruction from this as we study it today. And Lord, may you speak to our hearts. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So for several weeks we've been doing a series on spiritual disciplines, as you know. And our key verse has been 1 Timothy 4:7: discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. And we have defined spiritual disciplines. We said that these are really just godly habits that aid us in spiritual growth. It's changing bad habits into good godly habits, things that we need to incorporate into our life. And we've looked at the discipline of Scripture. And we looked at the discipline of prayer, and we looked at the discipline of participating in the Lord's Supper, and we looked at the discipline of worship. And today I want us to consider the discipline of confession. Psalm 51 is one of the most graphic pictures of confession of sin found anywhere in the Bible. It's a model for confession for the believer. And confession is one of those spiritual disciplines that we must practice on a daily basis. Athanasius, the early church father and champion for the faith. He recommended that believers should read this chapter every night before they go to sleep and practice what it says every night. So what happens when a Christian sins? Just know this that our legal standing before God is unchanged. The Bible says there's no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus. And you know what that means? You can't lose your salvation. There's no condemnation. All of your sins have been paid for, past, present, and future. All of your sins were future when Jesus died on the cross for you. All of those sins were taken care of. Salvation is not based on our merits, it is the free gift of God. And so in theological terms, we keep our justification. We can't lose that. And moreover, we're still children of God. We still re retain membership in the family of God. God's never going to disown us. I mean, would you disown your child for something they did wrong? No. Who's a better parent? You or God. God's not going to disown his children. God will not kick us out of the family. The same epistle, 1 John, that tells us that we have to deal with our sins. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. He also reminds his readers, beloved, we are the children of God. We're still God's children, even though we wrestle against sin. And the fact that we have sin remaining in our lives does not mean we lose that status as children of God But we need to remember our fellowship with God is disrupted. When sin comes into the life of the believer, our fellowship is broken. And our Christian life is damaged. There's so many things that sin can do to disrupt the spiritual growth of a believer. And the other thing, the most important thing, is that when we sin, we displease God. Now, again, we are never under God's condemnation. A believer doesn't suffer the wrath of God, but a believer can suffer the chastisement of God. A believer can displease the Lord. And Paul tells us that it's possible for a Christian to grieve the Holy Spirit of God. This is why confession is such a necessary discipline in the Christian life. Charles Spurgeon said a Christian must never leave off repenting, for I fear he never leaves off sinning. So true. And so the Bible says if we would judge our sins, we would not need to be judged. First Corinthians 11, verse 31. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. But when we are judged, we are chastised of the Lord that we should not be condemned with the world. Paul says, Look, if you deal thoroughly with your sins, if you judge your sins If you take care of those things, if there's no need for God to do that, you know, we as parents, we discipline our children, hopefully, with the idea that they will learn to discipline themselves, right? And they grow to the point to where they learn to discipline themselves. This is the same principle here. God doesn't need to judge us in respect to sins. With chastisement, if we learn to discipline ourselves and deal thoroughly with our own sins. So how do we judge our sins? Well, first John 1 9, when we confess our sins, we're judging them. The word confession is a Greek word homo leggeo, homo the same lego to say, to say the same thing. When we judge our sins, we're saying the same thing about our sin that God says about it. We're not finding excuses. We're not trying to justify our actions. We say, no, my sin is a it's it's I that have done it. I sinned, I did this evil just like we read where David said, I acknowledge my transgressions. This is the evil that I did. And God, please forgive me for this. I confess this as sin. We ought to be so sensitive to sin in our life that we have to immediately stop and confess when we fail. It's kind of like I I kind of like use the metaphors when you get something in your eye, isn't that irritating? You don't say, well, I'll just get it out later. You walk around with one eye closed and say, I'll take care of it later. Who does that? No, what do you have to do? You have to stop immediately. And you have to cleanse it out of your eye. Why? Because it's such a a source of irritation because your eye is so sensitive that you have to deal with it right there. And we ought to have a spirit and a soul that is so sensitive to sin in our life that we have to stop right at that moment and say, I've got to take care of this. And that's the discipline of confession. And when we don't do that When we cover our sins, we place ourselves in a joyless, dark prison of the soul The Bible says in Proverbs 28, 13, he that covers his sins shall not prosper. But whoso confesses and forsakes them shall have mercy. And the reason many Christians do not prosper is because they have unconfessed, unforsaken sin in their life. It just seems to be the nature of human nature to try to cover our sins rather than to deal with those sins. All the way from the very beginning. When Adam sinned, what did he do? Adam blamed Eve. Someone said Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, and the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on So I want you to notice two great lessons that we learn from this psalm about confession. Number one is the cost of covered sin. The cost that it does to our soul when rather than confessing those sins, we cover those sins. This is a this is this is the principle, he that covers his sins shall not prosper. And this principle is substantiated over and over again through God's word and even here in this Psalm of Confession. Notice verses 1 and 2 again, have mercy upon me, O God. according to thy loving kindness, according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, and wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity. Now, really, to understand the power of David's words here, we have to really get to the background of this psalm. Why was this psalm written? What was the occasion that brought about this great Psalm of Confession. And I want you to see this. It's worth looking at. Hold your place in Psalm 51 and go back in the Old Testament to the book of 2 Samuel, chapter number 11. I want you just to see this briefly with me. the occasion that brought about this psalm of confession. 2 Samuel chapter 11, and I want you to look down here in verse number 1 of 2 Samuel chapter 11. And it came to pass after the king was expired. Excuse me, the year was expired, not the king, he didn't die. At the time when kings go forth to battle that David sent Joab and his servants with him and all Israel And they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabah, but David tarried still at Jerusalem. And it came to pass in the evening tide that David arose from off his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house and from the roofs he saw a woman washing herself, and the woman was very beautiful to look upon. And David sent and inquired after the woman, and one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam? The wife of the hit of Uriah the Hittite. And David sent messengers and took her, and she came unto him, and he lay with her, and for she was purified for her uncleanness, and he she returned unto her house. And the woman conceived and sent and told David, she said, I am with child. This is the story of David's fall with Bathsheba. David lingers from battle This is normally where sin starts when you neglect doing your duty, your responsibilities. He walks on the top of his uh His palace roof one night he sees a woman. He lusts after her. If you ever been to the city of David there, you can see the area where his palace was, and if you're there I've been there and standing at the top you can actually look down and see houses all around you. It was a very elevated uh place. So I can understand this. How he looking down was able to see a woman and you know the whole story. He lusts after her, he sends for her, he commits adultery, she conceives a child. And then David begins an elaborate plan to cover it all up. We don't have time to go through all of this, but if you read the story, you'll find that he calls back Uriah, her husband, from the battle. He tries to set up a scheme to uh maybe make it look like that the baby is Uriah's child. When that plan fails, he goes to plan B, which was he has Uriah killed in battle Look in verse number fourteen. It came to pass in the morning that King David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah, and he wrote in the letter saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him that he may be smitten and die. So you when Uriah dies, then David marries Bathsheba, and he has successfully covered His sin. Lust, adultery, lying, murder, hypocrisy. At least he thinks he covers his sin. He might have covered it from the eyes of man, but you never cover your sin from the eyes of God. Look at verse number twenty-seven of chapter eleven. And when the morning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife. So he marries Bathsheba and bare him a son. But notice this last phrase. But the thing that David had done displeased the Lord. God saw all of that. And then God sends a prophet, Nathan. In chapter 12, verse number one, notice and the Lord sent Nathan unto David, and he came in to him and said unto him, There were two men in one city. one rich, the other poor. The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing save one little ew lamb, which he had bought and nourished up, and it grew up together with him and with his children, and it did eat of his own meat and drank from his own cup and lay in his own bosom, and was unto him as a daughter. And there came a traveller unto the rich man and spared to take one of his own flock out of his own herd to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him. But took the poor man's lamb and dressed it for the man that was come. And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man and said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely die. And he shall restore the land fourfold because he did this thing, and because he had no pity. In verse seven, and Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. You're the one that did this. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul, and so on. God basically says, look at all the things I did for you, and yet you do this. So, and then David realizes his sin. Look in verse 13. And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. Nathan pronounces God's judgment on David for his transgression. David acknowledges his sin. I mean if you ever want to find out the devastating impact of sin upon the life of someone, just look at the whole book of 2 Samuel, because when you look at it If you go to 2 Samuel and you go from chapters 1 to 10, what you see is it kind of moves upward because you have David having one blessing after another after another. I mean he's made king, he conquers Jerusalem, he makes it the capital city He moves the ark into Jerusalem. He conquers all of his enemies. We have one blessing after one, after one, after one. And when you read through the first ten chapters, you're like, man, how much more is God going to do for this guy? I mean, he's just blessing him and blessing him. So many blessings. And then you get to chapter 11, and you have David's transgression. And then you had chapter 12 where judgment is pronounced upon him for his sin. And then when you go to chapter 13 and 24, you notice you find a downward movement in the book. We have David's triumphs, David's transgression, David's tragedies. Because the book swings like a door on a hinge. David's son Ammon rapes his sister Tamar. Absalom murders his brother Amnon. Absalom plans to kill David to take over the kingdom. David is forced to run from his life. Joab kills his son Absalom. There are three years of famine. 70,000 people die. It's just tragedy after tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. You want to see the consequences of sin in the life of a person. Look at this whole book. What an incredible warning. This is to us about covered sin. Like one country preacher said, sin will take you farther than you want to go. It'll keep you longer than you want to stay. It'll charge you more than you're willing to pay. But it's upon this occasion that David confesses his sin. For one year he lived with covered sin in his life. And now he's going to confess it. Now, with that in mind, go back to Psalm 51. Because this reveals the soul of David. It reveals what he was going through while that sin was going on in his life. While he had covered sin. Again, he says in verse 2, Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. Why did he say that? Well, because he felt dirty. A true believer, when they sin, they feel dirty. And so he says, wash me, cleanse me. And verse 7, purge me again, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. The most miserable person in the world is not a hell-bound sinner sinning, but a heaven-bound saint living with sin. If you're truly believers. It's going to make you feel dirty. And that's the basic difference between a a child of Satan and a child of God. Christians feel dirty when they sin. Those who are unbelievers idles, they don't feel bad about it. They don't have any sensitivity to sin in their life This is the difference. John says this in 1 John. If we say we have no set sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. You know what he's doing there? John is contrasting a false believer from a true believer. Those who say they are saved, but they're really not, if you say that the truth is in you and yet you don't have any sin in your life. You're deceived about who you are. Because the characteristic of a true child of God is there's a new sensitivity to sin in your life. When you sin, you sense it, you know it, you feel dirty, you have to confess it. That's it. What does a lost person say about sin? What sin? I didn't sin. They don't know of anything of sin in their life. But a true believer is miserable. In the ancient Roman days, a Christian was in prison, and the Roman soldiers are trying to figure out a way to make him suffer And so they gather around him. One of them said, I know, let's just put him in solitary confinement. Well he's another one said, Well that's not gonna work because he says he has a friend who sticks closer than a brother. Someone said, well let's just take away all his possessions. Another one said, that's not going to work because he says he's got treasure laid up in heaven and we can't get to that. Another one said, well, let's just kill him. He said, that's not going to work because this guy said to live is Christ and to die is gain. He said it's better. They said, well, how are we going to make them suffer? And one Roman soldier said, I tell you what, let's make them sin. Because if he's a real believer and he sins, he'll suffer. He'll suffer. Sin dirties the soul. Covered sin dirties the soul, but also it dominates the mind. Look at verse number three. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. This is another test of authentic Christianity. Can you just sin and forget it? David couldn't forget it. It was constantly on his mind He tried to forget it, but he couldn't. It kept coming back. It haunted his mind like the relentless ghost of guilt. It would not go away Kept coming back and coming back and coming back. He might try to suppress it or push it, but it was coming back. His his conscience was dirty. He felt guilty. He's like the person who wrote the letter to the IRS saying, In close you will find a check for $150. I cheated on my income tax return last year, and I haven't been able to sleep. If I still can't sleep, I'll send you the rest. Covered sin, it doesn't mean uh it doesn't necessarily mean that you think about it all the time. It might show up as a headache or an irritable disposition or the inability to pray. But it's definitely a wound to the human psyche. There it's a c the clean wound to the human psyche is sorrow. We can deal with that in time and grace, but guilt and sin is a dirty wound. It has to be dealt with. It has to be expelled. And this dominated David's mind. But also another thing, it depresses the heart. Look down at verse number 8. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. And here the sweet psalmist of Israel was silent for one year. His heart was depressed. He couldn't get happiness and joy. in his life. The joy was gone because the really the only thing that really takes our joy is sin. And so He wasn't singing. Look at verse 15. Oh Lord, open thou my lips and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. Why did he pray that? Because he hadn't been doing that. He wasn't praising the Lord. He was silent because his joy was gone. And David wanted his joy back. Look at verse number 12. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. He wanted that back. We as Christians, we're to rejoice with joy. We can't always be happy. Happiness is surface. It depends upon our happening. But deep down in, we can always have joy. And that joy was gone. But then here's another thing. Covered sin dirties the soul, dominates the mind, depresses the heart, but also it diseases the body. Look in verse 8. Make me hear joy and gladness, so that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. And here he's talking about his physical body, that there was a pain in his body. His body was sick because of the sin of his soul In Psalm 38, verse 3, it says, There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation. There is no health in my bones because of my sin. This is a psalm that was kind of written on the same occasion, Psalm 32, verses 3 and 4. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long, for day and night Your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was dried up like the heat of the summer You know, there are some people that teach that if you sin, you know, God's just gonna let you go, you can lose your salvation. Listen, when you sin, God doesn't loosen his grip, he tightens his grip. And you feel that. David said his body was wasting away. Not all physical suffering is because of God's hand of conviction on our heart. But there's no question here that unresolved guilt can cause serious physical difficulties if it's left. unattended. This is what some call psychosomatic illness, psycho-soul soma body. It's where the sins of the soul affect the body And you can have physical ailments because of sin that is in your soul. It can hurt you with regard to your health. But then here's another thing. It defiles the spirit. Look down in verse number 10, where he says, create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit in me. David had to pray this prayer because David had a wrong spirit while he lived with covered sin. He developed a critical spirit, a bad attitude. He began to look at the faults of others. He began to get judgmental towards others. He wasn't worried about the log in his eye. He was pointing out the splinter in other people's eye. You know, when a person has sin in their own life and they refuse to deal with it in their own life, they become experts in the sins of in other people's lives. They go around trying to uncover sin in other people's lives instead of their own. That's why we see, remember when uh Nathan came and he gave the parable about this man, this little, you know, about the ew lamb, David rised up and said, That man shall die. Well he's being pretty harsh, pretty judgmental against that one man. We had a tendency to be harsh towards others when we're not dealing with sin in our own life. And David had a critical spirit, and he needed his sweet, kind spirit to be restored back to him. But here's another thing. Covered sin dirties the soul, it dominates the mind, it depresses the heart, diseases the body, it defiles the spirit, but it destroys the testimony. Because again, look at verse 12, restore into me the joy of thy salvation Uphold me with thy free spirit. Verse 13, then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. David was silent. Well he had covered sin. He didn't speak about the goodness of God. He didn't witness about God. He didn't sing one psalm. He didn't worship. He didn't worship with psalms He his mouth was just closed And he was no really real good for God during that time. And so it destroyed his testimony. But then here's another thing it dishonors the Lord. This is the worst thing about it. Look at verse 4. Against thee and thee only have I sinned. And done this evil in thy sight. David understood that his sin, the worst thing about it, was it was against God. We're created to glorify God. We don't bring shame to his name. That's not what we're supposed to do. We're supposed to glorify God. You know what that means? It means to represent God in the right way. In the world, while the world watches and they look at our lives, we should be making God look good in the way that we live. Glorifying him Because we wear the name of a child of God. We wear the name of Christian. And so we should never shame God's name. We should always live in a way that glorifies him, that makes him look good. In the eyes of a watching world. And sin, the worst thing about it, is it changed the name of God. And so David realizes this is what covered sin has done. But I want you to see the second part of this psalm. Notice number two. The cleansing of confessed sin. The cleansing. Again, look at verse seven. Purge me with hyssop And I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. I like what he said, whiter than snow, not as white as snow. You know, scientists discovered that in the middle of every snowflake is a speck of dust. The snowflake has a dirty heart. David didn't say, wash me as snow, but whiter than snow. David wants to be completely clean from sin in his life And so there are three ways that this happens for us as believers, and this is the discipline of confession. First of all, sin must be exposed. It has to come to light. You have to deal honestly with your sin. You have to face up to it. You have to see it for what it is. Stop making excuses. It has to be exposed. And you know here's the problem. Our hearts will not turn us in because again, we like to cover things. We like to give ourselves a lot of credit. You know, the Bible says in Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Someone says, Well, I know my heart. Really? The Bible says, who can know it? Your heart will lie to you. Your heart will tell you what a good person you really are. When actually we're we're sinners. The word deceitful here is the Hebrew word it's Ya'a'akov. That's the word Jacob. We could literally say it like this, the heart is Jacob. Proper name, Jacob. What did Jacob do? Jacob was a good, honest person, right? No, he wasn't. Jacob was the biggest deceiver in all the Bible. He lied to his father, he lied to his family, he constantly was lying and stealing. He fooled his father into thinking that he was somebody that he wasn't. And your heart is just like that. Your heart will tell you that you're somebody that you're not It'll lie to you. We don't like to turn ourselves in. Paul said human judgment is not an accurate guide. If you want to have your heart correctly diagnosed, you know the tool that does that? It's the Word of God The Word of God correctly will diagnose our heart. The Word of God is the only book that when you read it, it reads you back. And it reads you better than you read it. It tells you exactly who you are, who I am And it exposes sin. It's like a mirror. It's a mirror for the soul, a mirror for the spirit. It exposes what we are. Listen to Hebrews 4. 12, for the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword Piercing to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit and of joints and marrow, and it is is a discerner of the thoughts and the intent of the heart. You know how sharp the Word of God is? It doesn't cut your body, it cuts your soul. It goes on the inside and it tells us our sin. When we're in the Word of God, we get convicted about our sins. It tells us who we are. It brings to light acts of sin. Those aren't hard to really discern. We know those thoughts of sin will it'll tell us about the thoughts that we've had that are not right, but even more so it'll tell us about the motives of our heart. That those motives are wrong. Those are the hard ones to detect. I can't tell you how many times that I've been studying, getting ready for a sermon, where I've had to stop and get on my knees and say, God, Help me. I'm the worst sinner here. Some people leave and say, oh man, you were preaching at you. Well, I preach at me all week long. It beat me up all week long. I have to get on my face and realize there's things in my life I need to get right. I need to confess those things before the the Lord. The word of God will expose our heart. But also the Spirit of God also comes along. Write down Psalm 139, verse 23. Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. It is the Holy Spirit that will shine the spotlight of God's holiness into the dark recesses of our heart and show us our sin So we should pray like the psalmist, search me, O God. Holy Spirit, uncover anything in my life that I need to confess and to have cleansed Now, be careful here because there's a difference between Holy Spirit conviction and satanic accusation. The Holy Spirit will convict you of present sins yet unconfessed. Satan will try to accuse you of past sins you already confessed Don't let Satan put you on a guilt trip. One Christian said to me, Pastor, I've confessed my sins a thousand times to God. And I said to him, look, just confess your sin once and then praise God a thousand times that God has forgiven you for your sin. Don't let Satan put you on a guilt tread, but allow the Holy Spirit to expose that sin. And here's the second thing. Sin must be expressed. Take it to God. This is what David does in Psalm 51. He brings it to the Lord. He lays it out. He doesn't make excuses. He just says, Lord, this is what I've done. I acknowledge my transgression. Against thee and thee only have I sinned. God, cleanse me. Name it. And nail it to the cross, call it what it is, bring it to the Lord and confess it in brokenness. You know, God honors a broken heart over sin. Look at verse 17 of Psalm 51. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. God loves to see a broken heart, a heart broken over sin. And beloved, when you confess that sin, you know what? God does something very wonderful. He will cleanse it. He'll forgive it. Sin must be exposed, it must be expressed, sin must be expelled. We get cleansing from that And again, David writes about this in Psalm 32, verses 5 and 6. I acknowledge my sin unto thee. And my iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgression unto the Lord, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. For this shall everyone that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found. You want to know how you can find God? When you're ready to go to Him and deal thoroughly with your sins, you can find Him real easy. He's right there. And then he says that surely in the flood of great waters, they shall not come nigh unto him. David is saying, Lord, I acknowledge I didn't hold back. I was honest. I acknowledged my sin. I didn't cover anything up I was transparent with you and you forgave me my iniquity And what a beautiful thing that is. And then he says this surely the rush of great waters shall not reach me. In other words, this is here is using a beautiful poetic expression to talk about the waters of judgment. I'll be safe. From that. I can stand in confidence before God in a time of judgment, knowing that all of my sins have been taken care of. I've been forgiven. And so then we must forsake that sin. Let it go. And by doing that, we are cleansed. And beloved, this is a discipline that we need to do all the time in our life. You know, the characteristic of a believer is not that we repented the one time, but we live in continual repentance. We live in continual confession dealing with our sins. And that's what the Christian life is. It's this battle that we wage against sin all the time. Wanting to live in a way that's pleasing to the Lord. And again, we can't lose our salvation. We'll never be out of the family of God, but we don't want anything to disrupt the fellowship that we have with Christ We don't want anything to get us in a place where our prayers cannot be heard, and we don't want to do anything that's going to short circuit spiritual growth in our life. Where Christ-likeness is not taking place. And so we deal with these things. I'll close with this. The great Prince of Preachers, Charles Spurgeons, used to tell this story. He said, A certain duke once boarded a galley ship. These were prisoners, men who committed crimes. And as he passed the crew of prisoners, he asked several of them what their offenses were. And almost every man said, I'm innocent. I didn't do anything. They laid the blame on someone else. They accused the judge. The judge was bribed. That's why I'm here. And the Duke went to one young fellow and he said, What's your offense? And the young fellow said, sir, I deserve to be here. I stole money. It's my fault. It's nobody else's fault. It's my fault. In fact, I deserve worse. I'm guilty. Upon hearing this, the Duke grabbed this young man and he said, You scoundrel, you. You did what? What are you doing here in the midst of all of these honest men? Get out of here. I'm throwing you out of this prison. I don't want a crook in here defiling these honest men that are here in this prison. And he let them go free. Of course, the moral of that story is there's freedom in confession. There's freedom in owning up to what you've done and confessing it before the Lord. David must have felt like a new man after Psalm 51, when he confessed that sin. And beloved, let me just say this because of Jesus Christ, because of what he has done for us, we at any time can go to God and we can be freed from any guilt, any sin. that we may have committed and have our fellowship restored, our joy restored, a right spirit restored. Any hindrance from our growth can be taken out, and we can be all that God called us to be through this discipline of confession. Let's bow for prayer together tonight, today. Father, thank you for your word in this area, how we need this encouragement. Because Lord, as your children, we want to do what is pleasing and what is right in your sight. But Lord, we fail. We still wrestle against the old sin nature. And many times, Lord, we fall. We live in Romans 7 where the things we want to do, we don't do, and the things that we do want to do, we just don't seem to do them. And we cry out like the Apostle Paul, oh wretched man that I am. And Lord, we need this daily discipline of confession, renewing our fellowship with you. Having our sins cleansed and the joy restored. Lord, help us to judge ourselves, to discipline ourselves, that we might grow and be all that you call us to be. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just give this invitation before we leave. If you're here today and you're a believer, you understand everything that I've said here and you know what God expects of us. But if you're here and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, let me just say this, beloved, this this is the first thing you have to do. is to put your faith in Christ, to come to Him to begin with. Realize that Jesus Christ was the one that took all of your sins upon himself on the cross. And he paid your sin debt. And you must come to him in repentance and faith and put your full faith in what Christ has done for you. That's salvation. Repenting, turning to Christ. And you know what? There's no condemnation After that, you have eternal life. You have forgiveness. What an incredible blessing that is. Beyond description. To have your sins forgiven. Like David said, blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin And friend, if you've never trusted Christ, I would ask you right now, put your faith in him. Reach out in prayer and faith. Trust him. And say, Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me. Save me. Cleanse me. And he will. Would you pray that? Would you just say, Lord, save me? Make me your child. Cleanse me from my sin. Give me eternal life. I turn to Jesus. I recognize him as the only way. And I put my faith in him, him alone. Pray that immediately. Friend, if you've done that, let us know. We want to encourage you along in your Christian walk. Father, bless again these words to every heart here today, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.