Good to see you here tonight. I encourage you to take God's word and open to the book of Revelation as you know we're studying Revelation on Sunday evening. And we come to chapter 17, and I want us to look at just a few verses, but I want to talk tonight about a subject that will help us set the context as we begin to study these two chapters. Revelation chapter 17 and verse number one and there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither, and I will show unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication. So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet colored beast full of names of blasphemy having seven heads and ten horns. And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, decked with the gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations, and filthiness of her fornication And upon her forehead was a name written Mystery Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots and abominations of the earth. Did you know the modern man is asking more questions about the future than ever before? There seems to be more of an interest in Bible prophecy. I was just reading that not too long ago, Time magazine ran a cover article entitled Apocalypse Now, Why More Americans Are Reading and Talking About the End of the World. And then, according to another poll that was taken, 35% of Americans are paying more attention now to how the news may relate to the end of the world. Seventeen percent believe the end of the world will happen in their lifetime. Fifty-nine percent believe that the prophecies of the book of Revelation will come true. And so more people now are looking for answers. They're looking at the things that are taking place in the world and they're looking at the scripture, trying to find any kind of uh help and understanding. Think about all the events that are happening in the world today. There's the the rise of Islam. This is what we can call the age of globalization. It just seems like all the markets of the countries of the world are now all tied together. All this seems to be consistent with getting things ready for the end according to the scripture. Mark Hitchcock lists seven key indicators of of that for that he says foreshadow what the Bible predicts for the end time. Globalization, he said, will continue to accelerate. The EU will expand Uh radical Islam will continue to foment hatred for Israel. The Middle East peace process will continue to dominate the world, he says. Jerusalem will continue to be a major sticking point. Oil will continue to be to draw the the world eastward. Iraq will remain in the news as a player in world politics. This is what he says. Others point to three signs that indicate that we are in the end times. One is the the rebirth of Israel as a nation and we've seen that. The revival of the Roman Empire. The EU now has 27 countries or states in it And then another thing that they point to is what they call the rebuilding of Babylon. Babylon is in modern Iraq. Now as we get ready to study Revelation chapter seventeen and eighteen, the one big question is, what does the Bible mean here by Babylon? Are we to interpret Babylon as symbolic of something else? Is this talking about the literal city of Babylon? Is this talking about the country of Iraq? And so many scholars and Bible teachers have debated over this. There's been different opinions with respect to this. I know that doesn't shock you since There's all kind of different opinions on the book of Revelation as it is. Is it is Babylon something other than the literal city? Some say it's uh it represents New York City. Some say it's America. The dominant view seems to be that Babylon here is symbolic of the city of Rome in the Vatican. Now we've been while we've been going through the study of Revelation, I've kind of let you know the major views that people take in different parts of the book of Revelation, different interpretations, and I'll do the same here. Uh what are the different views about what Babylon means? The historicist approach says this. Babylon is the papal system of religion and government yet to be seen in the future. This approach says these chapters feature the divergent reactions of the godly and the ungodly to the final judgment and the vindication of true religion. The rider on the white horse represents the ongoing conflict that Christ has, the c his conquests. through his word, and they'll continue on unto the end. And then there's the preterist approach who always looks at revelation has already been fulfilled. The preterist has two different views. They say Babylon, one group says Babylon is Rome, or they say Babylon is Jerusalem. If Babylon is Rome, then these chapters they say describes the downfall of the Roman Empire, especially the city of Rome, who was the harlot. Again, all that's already taken place. If the city is Jerusalem, then they say that Babylon is Jerusalem. These visions depict the burning of the city by the Romans and the mixed reaction to that by the wicked and the righteous. And then there's the idealist approach as to what Babylon would be. Babylon, according to the idealist approach, says that Babylon represents the world system as the seducer of the godly Its destruction in the end of the age is depicted in terms of his current manifestation in John's time. That would be Rome. The ultimate judgment upon this harlot comes through Christ at his second coming, who is the rider on the white horse. And then, of course, there is the futurist approach for those who interpret the book of Revelation as yet Future. These are prophecies about what's going to happen at the second coming of Christ. There's different approaches by futurists as well There are some who say, well, the Babylon represents the Catholic Church or some great apostate religious entity that is formed under the Antichrist in the end times. Revelation 17 would be The religious Babylon that will be destroyed. And then Revelation 18 would be the economic power, world power of Babylon that will be destroyed. In any case, this great enemy of truth and righteousness will be destroyed in the end of the tribulation to the chagrin of the wicked, to the rejoicing of the righteous. And in chapter 19, then you have Jesus visibly returning to the earth at the end of the tribulation period. Now, again, there's always the debate when you come to the book of Revelation is how to interpret it. Or do we see these symbols that as symbols that have a literal interpretation? Are we to take a literal approach? I've all you heard me argue before that why do we change our hermeneutics when it comes to prophetic passages? Um that we take a literal approach unless there's something in the passage that would definitely let us know that this is a symbol It's to be interpreted symbolic, and normally in Revelation, they give you those clues there. This is a symbol of something behind it which is literal. Stands for something literal. And so um that's why there's been these different different ways to see this. Some look at rev Babylon here as being symbolic It's not the literal city. It is symbolic of another city or something else. And part of the reason that people take that approach is because they say that Babylon in the Bible has already been destroyed the way God prophesied it in the Old Testament. So therefore this can't be the literal city. This can't be talking about Iraq and Babylon becoming a world power at the end. In fact, uh writers like Josh McDowell listed a series of eight specific prophecies on the destruction of Babylon from the Old Testament, and he concludes saying, quote, All eight predictions have been fulfilled. Saying all these things have already been fulfilled with regard to Babylon, so therefore we can't really take Babylon here in chapter 17 and 18 as literal. And that seems to be an approach that many evangelical scholars take with respect to this. But There's another man who by the name of Charles Dyer who came out and he wrote a book called The Rise of Babylon, and he argued that Babylon has not yet been destroyed as the Bible prophesied. And in order to see that, we have to look at these verses. Has Babylon been destroyed according to the Old Testament prophecies? And I think the best way to study this is to look into the Old Testament prophecies and see what God had to say there about Babylon and has it happened just exactly the way God said So that's what I want you to do tonight, and you be the judge of this, whether or not this is literal Babylon or is it symbolic? Does it stand for something else? So here's number one. If you're taking notes, write down the prop the prophecies of Babylon's ruin. Let's just take a look at some of these verses. And by the way, let me just say a few things. When John uses a city symbolically, he lets us know in the context. of Revelation. John has mentioned cities in Revelation before. In fact, we start off by seven cities in Asia Minor, Ephesus and Smyrna, Pergamus, Sardis, Satira, Philadelphia. These are all literal cities And John lets us know that these are literal cities. When he refers to a city in a symbolic way, he lets us know that too. For example, in a Revelation chapter eleven, verse eight, when he's speaking about Jerusalem Notice what he says in verse eight of chapter eleven, and their dead bodies shall lie in the street of that of the great city, which spiritually is called what? Sodom and Egypt. Where also our Lord was crucified. There's no question about what city he's talking about there, but spiritually it's called also Sodom. Jerusalem is also called Egypt there. So John lets us know that. Six times in Revelation 17 and 18, when he talks about Babylon, he refers to it as that great city. As if we should take it that way. Look at Revelation chapter 17. Look at verse number four. Notice that we saw the woman is the harlot, that is a symbol. Every symbol has a literal meaning. And notice what the literal meaning is. First in verse four, the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet color and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations, her filthiness of her fornication, and upon her forehead was the name written Mystery, Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots, abominations of the earth. Obviously that is symbolic What is it point to drop down to verse eighteen? And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth. When is Jerusalem ever reigned over the kings of the earth And so we read this, if we take it at face value, we would have to say that what he is referring to here is the literal city. Revelation, the title actually means unveiling, not hiding. Henry Morris takes the literal approach and he said this, quote, it must be stressed, revelation means unveiling, not veiling. He went on to say, Babylon is indeed a prime prospect for rebuilding, entirely apart from many prophetic limitations. Its location is in the most ideal in the world of for any kind of international center. Not only is it in it in the beauty, beautiful and fertile Tigris Euphrates Plain, but it is near some of the world's richest oil reserves. He goes on to say thus there is no more ideal location anywhere in a world for a World Trade Center, a World Communications Center, a World Banking Center, a World Education Center, especially a World Capital. The great historian Arnold Toynbee used to stress to all his readers and hearers that Babylon would be the best place in the world to build a future world cultural metropolis, he would say. And that's another thing that we need to consider. There are voices from the past. Many scholars of the past taught that the city of Babylon would be rebuilt in the end times. This was long before the Gulf War, long before Saddam Hussein or any of the things that happened over there or the things that are happening now. J. A. Sais was a Lutheran pastor and a scholar. He was born in 18 23, in commenting on the identity of Babylon, he said this of Revelation 17, quote, The realization is yet in the future, and we cannot speak with and we cannot speak with confidence as to how matters will eventuate But he goes on to say, but there seems to be reason for belief that the literal Babylon will be restored, and that we are to look to the coming again of that primal city for the fulfillment of what is here foreshone. F. E. Marsh, he was a Bible teacher in 1925. He wrote an article, Will Babylon be rebuilt? And in the article, he observed this. He said, This writer believes Babylon, an actual city, will be rebuilt. And uh he gives reasons why, we now give reasons why we believe that there will be a rebuilt Babylon. And he went on to state some of that. A. W. Pink, another scholar, in his summary on the biblical teaching of the Antichrist, uh basically uh he supports the view of the rebuilding of Babylon, and he says this quote that there will be That there will yet be another Babylon, a Babylon eclipsing the power and glory of that of Nebuchadnezzar's day, has long been the firm conviction of this writer. Nor are we by any means alone in this conviction, a long list of honored names might be given of those who arrived independently at the same conclusion that the Scriptures plainly teach that Babylon is going to be rebuilt. He goes on to say the Word of God expressly affirms that Babylon will play a prominent part of the time of the M. And then there's William Newell in his commentary on Revelation. He stated that he believes that Babylon will be rebuilt on the Euphrates in the end times. and that the a city that would function as Antichrist world commercial capital. He go he writes this, we are forced then to the conclusion that the overthrow of Babylon as the revealed center of iniquitous luxury and Satan worship The culmination of man's glory lies in the future, the land of Shinar, where Babylon's history began. He goes on to say the final form of Babylon is the literal city on the Euphrates. rebuilt as Antichrist capital in the last days, opposing Israel as God's earthly people who will have been gathered back to their land. And another thing to consider again is the question, has Babylon been destroyed the way the Bible says uh it will be destroyed. Again, that's the one major objection of Bible teachers that of that Revelation seventeen and eighteen is the literal city. They said it can't be Because Babylon has been destroyed. And the Bible says that when Babylon has been destroyed, it will never again be rebuilt. The Bible's clear about that. But the question again we have to ask, has it been destroyed the way the Bible says? Well, let's look There's a few passages. What does the Bible say? First of all, it says this that when Babylon is destroyed, it'll be overthrown like Sodom and Gomorrah. If you want to follow along in your Bible, Isaiah chapter 13, verse 19, and Babylon, the glory of kingdoms. The beauty of the Chaldees Excellency shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. So it's going to happen, and when it happens. When when it just is destroyed, it'll be like Sodom and Gomorrah. Is that pretty clear? Do we understand how Sodom and Gomorrah was overthrown? It was it was it happened at one moment. It was with fire. It wasn't drawn out. It was quick. It was over quickly. We read of nothing happening like this in the history of the city. When Babylon is destroyed, Israel will dwell in peace and safety. That's the other thing. Isaiah chapter 14. Verse three, and it shall come to pass in the day that the Lord shall give thee rest from thy sorrow, from thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve. That thou shalt take up the proverb against the king of Babylon and say, How hath the oppressor ceased, the golden city ceased? And then it goes on to say in verse number seven, The whole earth is at rest and quiet, they break forth into singing. Again, we have to ask the question, has that happened? Does Israel now dwell in safety? Why don't you go ask some of the people that live there, that are dodging missiles? That are aimed at them. What about the Holocaust? What about all the persecution to the Jews in Israel? Israel has to constantly fight off threats and enemies. During Desert Storm Iraq launched missiles into Israel, and since then we've seen it happen again and again by other enemies Another thing that the Bible says about Babylon in the Old Testament is that Babylon will be overthrown in a time called the Day of the Lord. When will it be destroyed? It'll be destroyed in a time that the Bible calls the day of the Lord. Again, Isaiah chapter thirteen, verse number one, the burden of Babylon, which is which Isaiah the son of Amaz did see. This is in reference to Babylon, verse number six says, How ye for the day of the Lord is at hand It shall come as a destruction from the Almighty. The day of the Lord, if we consistently apply that in the Old Testament, is a reference to the time when God's wrath is poured out on the earth, and that would be in the tribulation period. And now there are some who say, well, you know, the day of the Lord doesn't have to mean the tribulation period. The day of the Lord can just mean any time when God comes and fears judgment. For example, when Egypt was destroyed in five eighty-six It was called the day of the Lord in Ezekiel 30, verse 3 and verse 10. Yeah, okay, but I that's true. But Isaiah is even more specific. In verse number 10 of chapter 13, for the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. The sun shall be darkened in his going forth, the moon shall not not cause her light to shine. Verse eleven. And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity, and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease And will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. And I will make man more precious than fine gold. In verse thirteen he says, Therefore will I shake the heavens And the earth shall be removed out of her place, and the wrath of the Lord of hosts in the day of his fierce anger. Now all those things that happen there, that all parallels completely to the things that take place in the tribulation period. And God says that it's going to be so bad that it will be a time when the population is greatly reduced. Again, we look in verse twelve where it says, I will make man more precious than fine gold. Man will be more scarce than gold. And so Isaiah is pretty specific there. Another thing that the Bible says about Babylon is when it's destroyed, it'll never again after that be inhabited or lived in. Again, Isaiah chapter thirteen, verse twenty, it shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be it be dwelt in from generation to generation, neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there, neither shall the shepherds make their fold there. But the wild beasts of the desert shall lie there, and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures, and owls shall dwell there, and and Saturn shall dance there, and the wild beasts of the island shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their Pleasant places, and her time is near to come. Her day shall not be prolonged. It'll be totally destroyed, and when this happens, it will not be inhabited again. Again, the question we have to ask ourselves is, did this happen yet? Did it happen? And if you look at history, you would have to and honestly look at it You would have to answer no, it didn't. Nothing like this has ever happened in the long history of the city of Babylon. People continue to live in the city after Cyrus destroyed the city. People continued to live in it. For over a millennium after these prophecies, Arabs have pitched their tents there. In 539 BC, the Persians under King Cyrus conquered Babylon. But the city was not destroyed. The Persians simply captured the city. In 450, Herodotus, the father of history, he visited the city of Babylon himself, and he described it in grand terms. He said this. He said the inner walls were 85 feet thick, 340 feet high, with 100 gates. So at the time of Herodotus, Babylon was still a flourishing city. In 323 BC, Alexander the Great visited the city. In fact, that's where he died. He took up headquarters there for a while In 25 BC, Strabo, the famous geographer, visited the city. He described one of the hanging gardens as one of the seven wonders of the world. He also described the bountiful crops of barley produced in the surrounding country. And then on 35 A. D. on the day of Pentecost, there were Jews from Babylon in Jerusalem. In 500 A. D. , the Babylonian Talmud, which is a commentary on Jewish law, was promulgated in Babylon. And there's not a lot of information about the Middle Ages, but there is information that the city was inhabited in the modern era from at least the 1700s. Robert Codaway, he was a German archaeologist He was responsible for much of the work that's been done at Babylon. And he makes these comments on the villages around the city. He described it like this. He said at the bend of the Euphrates between Babel and Kheser lie the ruins of the former village. of uh Weuresh whose population migrated elsewhere a hundred years ago, the walls of mud brick still overtop the heaps of heaps of debris. And so Caldaway, he goes on to make some important statements. He says definitely that a village was existing in that his day within the walls of the ancient city of Babylon. He headquartered in this village as he excavated the ruins. Secondly, he reports that the existence of another village with the same name had also existed within the city of Babylon a century earlier. And so he shows that it was still inhabited, even in his time. And uh nineteen The Assistant Secretary of the British School of Archaeology in Iraq responded to a question that Charles Dyer on asked about the city on the existence of any modern villages within within the walls. And this is what she wrote She said, quote, there are three modern settlements situated inside the walls of the ancient of ancient Babylon. The government of Iraq does indeed plan to restore much of Babylon and has indeed made a start on certain buildings. And then, you know, you you can you can Google this yourself if you want to. Just Google, you know, Babylon being rebuilt. And what you'll read is a lot of articles, even the US has inve has given money to Iraq. to help them rebuild that city there. Some of it is just for tourism, but they're the government of Iraq is more concerned about R rising this city out of the ruins and making it a a place of power. Again, there was an article in uh March two twenty twenty-two called Babylon is coming back to life. And then another thing about what the Bible says about Babylon, Babylon will be destroyed suddenly. It'll happen suddenly It'll collapse under the hand of God's judgment. Jeremiah chapter fifty, verse forty-four. Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of the Jordan unto the inhabiting inhabitation of the strong, but I will make them suddenly run away from her. And who is a chosen man that I may appoint over her? For who is like me, and who will appoint me the time? And who is that shepherd that will stand up before me? God compares himself to a lion Pouncing suddenly on an unsuspecting foe. And then he says this in Jeremiah chapter and that he's talking about the destruction of Babylon there, by the way. It's going to happen suddenly, just like a lion who pounces. It's going to happen quickly. Jeremiah 51, verse 8. Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed. How for her? Take balm for her pain. If so be she She may be healed. We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed. Forsake her and let us go, every one into his own country. For her judgment reaches unto the heaven, and it is lifted even unto the And so Jeremiah compares Babylon's collapse to someone who's suddenly stricken with an illness. And she cannot be healed. Another thing the Bible says, when Babylon is judged, no stones would ever be taken from it. Again, Jeremiah chapter fifty-one, verse twenty-six, and they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations. But thou shalt be desolate forever, saith the Lord. When Babylon is destroyed, no one's going to use the bricks or the stone from it to build anything else Has that happened in history? No. The archaeologist Coleway came to Babylon at the eight at the end of the eighth, excuse me, nineteenth century. He found entire sections Of the city being mined for the bricks, for those those fine bricks that were used there. It says it is reliably reported that at least six cities bear the marks of having used parts of ancient Babylon in their building. And then another thing the Bible says about when Babylon is destroyed, after Babylon is destroyed, God will restore Israel. Again, Jeremiah 50, verse 4, in those days, and at that time, saith the Lord, the children of Israel shall come They and the children of Judah together, going and weeping, they shall go and seek the Lord their God. They shall ask the way to Zion with their faces, thitherwards saying, Come and let us join ourselves to the Lord And a perpetual covenant that shall not be forgotten. Right after Babylon's destruction, Judah and Israel are restored to the land of Israel and to the Lord And so again, we have to ask ourselves, has any of this happened yet? And if we're honest, we would have to say none of these things have happened exactly the way the Bible has said it would happen. So therefore we have to make the conclusion that since Babylon hasn't been destroyed the way the Bible says it's been destroyed yet, it's been in ruins, certainly. A lot of things have happened to it. It's changed hands. It's been conquered But it hasn't been destroyed the way Scripture says yet. Not according to these prophecies. If we take these literal, that means the city of Babylon has to be rebuilt. If it hasn't been destroyed the way the Bible says, it has to rise. And if this is referring to Babylon here, then it will rise to become a dominant force in the world. towards the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. The late J. Vernon McGee, he suggests the following scenario. He says, quote, in that day Babylon will dominate and rule the world. The capital of Antichrist will be Babylon, and he will have the first total dictatorship. He goes on to say the world will be an awful place. In that day everything will center in Babylon. The stock market will read from Babylon, not New York. Everything in the city will be in rebellion against Almighty God, and it centers in Antichrist. So. And that's the prophecies about Babylon's ruin. But secondly, I want you to see this, the prophecy of Babylon's rise. Is there a prophecy in Scripture? That speaks about Babylon rising to power. Well, I'm glad you asked that question. Go to Zechariah in the Old Testament. Go to Zechariah. I want you to turn your Bibles there. Spoiled with these screens behind me if it's showing you all these verses. But now I want you to use your Bible. I want you to Zechariah chapter 5 And I want you to look in verse 5. The prophet Zechariah was born in Babylon during Judah's 70-year exile there. He returned to Judah under the leadership of Zerubbabel, and he gives a prophecy concerning Babylon. In fact, chapters 1 through 6 record eight night visions that he has had. Seven of those visions deals with Babylon in the end times. This vision here, chapter 5, verse 5, is the vision of a woman in a basket. When Zechariah wrote this vision, it was 519 B. C. That means Babylon had already fallen to the Persians. It had already fallen at that time under Cyrus. So keep that in mind. And this vision shows that the house of Babylon will rise again when God's ready for it too. Look at verse number five. Then the angel that talked with me went forth, and he said unto me, Lift up now thine eyes, and see what it what is this that goeth forth. And I said, what is it? And he said, this is an ephah that goeth forth. And he said, moreover, this is their resemblance through all the earth. In this vision it shows that the house of Babylon will rise. But in verse 5 the angel asked Zachariah, what do you see? Now this vision basically has five simple parts to it. First of all, there's a measuring basket, an Ephah There's a woman in the basket, then there's a lid that's on the basket, and then there is two angelic beings flying with this basket. And then finally the fifth part of this vision is the basket is carried to Shinar. Now let's look at each of these things. First of all, the measuring basket. We saw again in verse six. You know, what do you have there? And I said, What is it? And he said, This is an ephah that goeth forth. An ephah is a measuring basket used to measure grain. It was the largest measure in the Old Testament equaling about ten gallons. So here's about a ten gallon basket. It's used to measure flour and various types of grains. But the ephah was a symbol for commerce or for economy. And notice where it says in verse 6, this is their resemblance through all the earth. We could say it like this, this is the iniquity of the people through the earth. Another way to translate that, Zechariah then asked this question in verse 6, and I said, what is it? He said, this is the basket that is going out. Again, this is from another version. This is their iniquity in all the land. Next we see the woman in the basket in verse number seven. And behold, there was lifted up a town of lead And this is a woman that sitteth in the mist of the Ephah. The basket has a lead lid on it, and it was lifted up, and inside the basket was a woman. And this woman in the basket is the personification of evil. Look at verse 8. And he said, this is wickedness. This is wickedness. I love that. We don't have to wonder what the woman symbolizes here, because it tells us in the very next verse. There's a woman in there. What does she symbolize? Wickedness. She's the personification of wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of the Ephah, and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof. And so inside the basket is this woman, and this woman represents wickedness, and uh There's this lead lid on the top of it and they close the lid, which has the idea that it's under restraint right now. We see the lead lid on the basket here in verse number eight. He closed the mouth of it. And so it was uh this woman is being held back. She's being restrained, she's in the basket. It's interesting the wickedness in the basket is being restrained or held back or pushed down until a time When it's ready to be unleashed or it's ready to be opened and revealed. What does that again suggest to us that God is in control? He will not let the woman out of the basket until it's ready. But then notice what happens next. Two women transport the basket. Look in verse 9. Then I lifted up mine eyes. And look and behold, there came out two women, and the wind was in their wings, for they had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the epha between the earth and the heavens. So here are two Women, women like creatures, we could say, taking the basket away. They have wings like the wings of a stork. Now some see these two women as demonic forces on an evil mission. And so identify them as kind of angelic beings. There are these two angelic beings carrying this basket with this woman in it, who is the personification of wickedness. But there are two agents under God's providential control, however, we could say, and the basket is transported to its destination, it's carried away. And look at verse number ten, because Zechariah will ask the question that we all want to know, where are you going with that? Then it then said I to the angel that take talk with me, Whither do these spare the Epha? And the answer is the next part of the vision. The basket is transported to Babylon. And they said to me, to build it and house in the land of Shinar, and it shall be established, and set there upon her own base. The land of Shinar Of course, is Iraq, or we could say Babylon, to build a house for her in that land. And so here, clearly, Babylon is to be rebuilt. When? And again, I like some of these translations here. The English Standard Version says, To the land of Shiner to build a house for it, and when this is prepared, they will set the basket down there on its base. Another says this, to build a temple for her in the land of Shinar, when it is prepared, she will be set there on her own pedestal. Or another says, to the country of Babylonia to build a house for it when it's ready, the basket will be set there in its place. When the time is right It'll be there, it it'll it'll be put on its pedestal, and a house will be built there. In other words, the woman will not be let out of that basket until all the things are ready, when the time is right, when the time when history, the world history is right. This house will be built in Babylon, and God will be in control of that. Remember in the Old Testament that right after the flood There was a first outbreak of evil in the world and it occurred. And where did it occur? It occurred in Babylon, at a tower that they were building in rebellion against God. When God said, you know, scatter throughout the earth, replenish the earth, God said, move out. There was a leader there by the name of Nimrod that said, no, no, we're not going to do that. We're going to come together. And we're going to build a house. You know, our own house. This is this is uh humanism. This is human uh achievement, this is faith and human ability and human science. We can build our own tower to the heavens This is man boasting and bragging and what he can do without God. This is rebellion against God. It's funny in that passage because when you go there The Bible says there, and I think it's purposeful play there. There are these proud humans building this high tower, and God says, I gotta go down there to look what they're doing. Couldn't have been too high. God had to go down to see it But that's where rebellion started right after the flood. The world's first capital city. Will be the final capital city, you could say, because if there is a rise of Babylon here in Revelation chapter 17 and 18, and Jesus will destroy it when he comes back, if it will rise to power again as a global world power With the economy of the world in his hands, that means that the world's first capital city will be the final capital city because when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back He will destroy it because we see in Revelation chapter 18, the fall of Babylon. Jesus will destroy it. So it means that That in the end times Babylon will become will it will come full full circle. The first world capital will be the last world capital. Evil will come full circle, and God will destroy it where it started right after the flood God will destroy it right there. An evil economic system run by the Antichrist And so Henry Morris writes this, Zachariah's vision thus clearly foretells a time when the Center of World Finance and Commerce will be removed from its base in New York. and Geneva and other great cities and transported quickly across the world to a new foundation and headquarters in the land of Shinar there So I rest my case. I'm just saying here here's here's something to consider. Is this Babylon here in Revelation 17, 18, is it symbolic of something else? Or is this actually referring to that literal place? That God will destroy. Well, just keep your eyes on what's happening in the world. And keep your eyes on the scripture. But I will tell you this with absolute certainty, friend, Jesus Christ is coming. And he will judge this world. And he will judge the evil of this world. And he will judge the rebellion that man chose against the Lord Jesus Christ. Again I remember Psalm two where it says, you know, he that sits in the heaven shall laugh. You know, the leaders of this world they take counsel together and they they try to throw off the restraints of God Let me tell you something, friend. God is not in heaven wringing his hands worrying about what's happening. The Bible says, He that sits in the heaven shall laugh. God is in absolute absolute control. And I tell you what, you better worship his son The psalmist says, kiss the Son, which is really adoration and worship. Worship Jesus. Recognize him for who he is, because if you don't, you will face the wrath of Almighty God. You'll either face Christ as Savior and Lord and worship him, or you will face him as judge, and you'll feel the wrath of him. I pray that you will bow the knee to him. Let's let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we uh again are just grateful for the fact that we have the Word of God to look at and to see that we know, Lord, that you're in control of things. We know, Lord, that it looks like from man's perspective that things are spinning out of control and getting dark, but Lord, we know you're in control. And we know our Savior is coming. And so, Lord, I pray that this would build our faith, Lord, that we would be busy doing what is important to you, focusing on your kingdom. We live in a world that's temporary. This is all going to come to nothing. May we focus on a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Your eternal kingdom. Lord, help us to be witnesses. Help us, Lord, to guide others into this kingdom to know Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to be the witnesses that you've called us to be in these end days. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.