Well it's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles and open, please, to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 2. On Sunday night, we're going through a study of 1 Corinthians. And tonight we're going to look in chapter 2, verses 6 to the end of the chapter, verses 6 to 16. And we're still dealing with the issue of the superior wisdom of God. I heard about a pastor who once asked one of his staffmen to open in public prayer before a sermon. And the young man hadn't prayed much in public, and so he was a bit nervous. And he meant to pray and say, Father, illuminate our minds tonight. Instead he said, Father, eliminate our minds tonight. There was a big difference between illumination and elimination. When we come to church, God doesn't want us to eliminate our minds. He wants us to put our minds in gear. Perhaps some would rather have it that way. I've been accused before of being a little too difficult in the pulpit I mean uh preaching. And and that may be true sometimes, but the truth of the matter is is that we do have to engage our mind when it comes to hearing the word of God. We have to think. We have to use our mind. This is a gift that God has given us. But let me also be quick to say that if that's all we depend upon, we'll never really learn God's truth. It takes more than just the mind. Thank God for the mind. Thank God for reason. Thank God for empirical learning, observation, and all the ways in which we learn. But if that's all we have and all we use Then we will not be able to comprehend the truth of God. And more specifically, for what Paul's saying here, you will not be able to comprehend the wisdom of God. You see, you can't do that on your own. If you're depending on yourself to comprehend God's wisdom, you just won't get it. You'll never get it. In fact, that's the whole point that Paul is making here in this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 Starting at verse 6 on down to verse 16. This is the final point we could say of the argument that he started in the beginning of uh chapter 1, actually in chapter 1, verse 18. Well he's arguing this one idea, and that is that the wisdom of God is superior to the wisdom of man. And the problem that the Corinthians were having in the church was that they were depending upon the wisdom of man It was affecting them. It had come into the church. It was causing them to have some of the problems they were having, namely that one of division, because there were philosophical factionism That that whole idea was part of the city of Corinth. It was part of the culture. Zell uh uh excuse me, being zealous or loyal or cliquish to a certain Greek philosopher while seeking to tear down competing philosophies was part of the spirit of the age. It was part of the wisdom of man. And that whole kind of spirit entered into the church. And there were people then that were treating God's servants that way. I am of Apollos, I am of Peter, I am of Paul That whole idea of depending on human wisdom had entered the church. And also it was an obstacle to their spiritual growth. And it will be an obstacle to ours. If we depend upon the wisdom of man more than the wisdom of God, our hearts will depart from the Lord. And we won't learn to depend upon God the way we should. And if we don't depend upon God the way we should, we'll never really grow the way we should spiritually. And so that was a difficulty. It'll keep us from getting divine wisdom. It'll keep us from seeing that all of the wisdom that we need is really in Christ. And it starts at the cross. And so Paul argues for the point that God's wisdom is superior to man's, and he gives seven reasons. Let me just go through quickly the first six because we've done that, because it's superior in its power. Look again in chapter one verse eighteen, for the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved. It is the what? It's the power of God The whole logic of the cross, the whole logic of the message to the world might seem foolish, it might seem nonsensical, it might seem dim-witted, but we have seen the power of the cross. We've seen it change lives. It's superior in its power. But also it's superior in its permanence. Look at verse 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? Human wisdom will come to nothing, Paul says. But God's wisdom will be eternal. And of course, as we pointed out before, he's quoting from Isaiah 29, an Old Testament illustration where the wisdom of man couldn't help Hezekiah and Israel But only God could do that. And it's the same today. God's wisdom is permanent. It can it's helpful. Man's wisdom will pass away. It'll come to nothing. But also it's superior in its product. Look at verse 21. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe The preordained way that God uses to reveal Himself to man is not through philosophy. It's through the preaching of the cross. You get to know God through the preacher. Not through the philosopher, not through the psychiatrist. God's wisdom is dispensed through the preaching, the simple preaching of the Word of God, the simple preaching of the cross. But then it's also superior in its plan. Look at verse 26. For you see your calling, brethren, have it not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, has God chosen, yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. And so the wisdom of the cross is superior because of what it does for us. It takes nobodies and makes them nobilities. It takes us a it makes us somebody. Those that the world might pass over and think is nothing. God uses and calls people like that and he does great work in their heart and life So that people are confounded by that. Why? Well, notice the purpose. It's superior in its purpose. Look at verse 29. That no flesh should glory in his presence. He does it for his own glory. Why does God take nobody's and make them somebody's? To show that it's of him. And in verse thirty, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who is of God has made unto us wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. You see, in Jesus I have all those things Jesus is my wisdom. He is my righteousness. He is my sanctification. He is my redemption. We are free in Christ to serve him and to be used of him because in Christ He's all these things to us. I have all the wisdom I need in the Lord Jesus Christ. So God's wisdom is superior in its power, in its permanence, in its product, in its plan, in its purpose. But number six, it's superior in its presentation. And we look in chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, where Paul said, you know what? I just simply preach Christ. I simply preach the cross. Verse two. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him Crucified, and I was with you in weakness and fear and much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom But in demonstration of the spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. When Paul arrived at Corinth He had been beaten. He had been chased out of Thessalonica. He had been chased out of Berea. He was nervous. He was weak. He was fearful. He was trembling. All he knew to do was simply stand up and preach a simple message of Jesus Christ and him crucified. And God honored that, and there was great demonstrations of the Spirit's power And Paul said, I want you to see that the power comes in the very simple presentation of the message so that your faith doesn't stand in the ability of man's wisdom and his rhetoric and all of that oratory. It comes with the simple preaching of the cross that your faith would stand in the power of God. And so Paul is using all of these reasons. And now he comes down to the next reason. What he's he's telling us here is that we don't need the wisdom of man. We don't need the the the the wisdom of the world to help us. And something that really bothers me sometimes is where churches, they kind of try to mingle in the wisdom of man with the wisdom of God. You can't do that. You choose one or the other And by choosing to mingle in the wisdom of man with the wisdom of God, you really are bringing the message of the cross down You're bringing the preaching of the gospel down. All real truth starts in the Bible. It starts in the scripture Let me read to you what a a psychiatrist wrote. This is called the Confession of a Psychiatrist. I thought this was pretty good. He writes this. He said, I'm a psychiatrist, but I can attest to the fact that all truth, including psychological truth, is already written in the Bible. All the findings of the social scientists and psychologists have their basis, first of all, in the Bible. A person could visit three different psychiatrists and get three different approaches to his problem He could visit them a few years later and discover they have shifted their views even more. Those of us who believe the Bible have an unchanging foundation on which to build. And that's so very true. So now Paul's going to remind us one more time, one more argument, why man uh man's wisdom is inferior. God's wisdom is superior. And this is number seven if you're taking notes. It's superior because of its perception. Or we could say it like this, how we understand it. How we comprehend it. And so the question is, how do we comprehend God's wisdom? What is the way in which it is learned? And this is the whole point that Paul's making in the rest of chapter 2. How we receive the wisdom of God, and you don't learn it or comprehend it. With ordinary human ability or intellect. That's not the way it's done. It's not a matter of IQ. It's not a matter of human reasoning It is superior because it is spiritually imparted and it is spiritually comprehended God's wisdom is not humanly discovered. It is divinely revealed. That's the point. Otherwise, how could we ever comprehend God? We could never do that on our own. Man on in and of himself on his own could never comprehend someone as great as God. There's no way to do that. Think about it like this. How can anything that is a creature, a lesser creature, how can a lesser creature understand a more advanced creature? That's impossible. Just to use a a little illustration here, for a flea to understand a dog Okay, I'm I guess I'm thinking that my dog had fleas a lot. This flea could ride on that dog's back, but that flea will never understand that dog. You see, that flea would have to be at least as advanced as that dog in order to really comprehend that dog. And we can go to the next level. A dog really can't comprehend man A dog would have to be on the same level as a man to comprehend men. A lesser creature can't comprehend an advanced creature on its own. That is impossible. How much greater distance is there between the creature and the creator, Almighty God? There's no way for us and our mortality, and our limited understanding, to really ever truly comprehend God who is beyond our ability to comprehend. Great is the Lord. And greatly to be praised. And his greatness is unsearchable. There's no way we could do it on our own. And you know, people today try to do that, you know that, right? They try to understand God outside of the scripture. They try in their own way, in their own reason, to really comprehend God. And you know what they ultimately do? They pull God down. Because you in your own human intellect and reason can't comprehend the greatness of God. And so they come up with these ideas about God that are outside the scripture and they make a God themselves in their own mind That they can comprehend. The only problem is that's not the God of the Bible. And what that is, that is idolatry. People uh in ancient times would make their own God out of wood. Today we make God in our mind. We try to formulate our own God outside of the Bible. And they have all these people have all their opinions about who God is. But let me just tell you, man's opinion about who God is is irrelevant. The Bible has revealed to us God. He's revealed to us part of Himself in the Scripture And so by our own resources, the creature cannot possibly comprehend the Creator. We just can't do it. So how do we reveal how do we understand the wisdom of God? Well again, first point, God's wisdom is not humanly revealed. This is what Paul is emphasizing. Look in verse number 6 Notice what he says. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. Now, we've already seen how that the world says the wisdom of the cross is foolishness. Paul argues the very opposite here. He says the wisdom of the cross is so simple that a child can understand it, yet it is so deep that scholars can't fully comprehend it. The message of the cross is by no means devoid of wisdom. In fact, it's the greatest wisdom there is. It is a higher wisdom than the world knows. It's superior to all human wisdom, so much so that only certain people can comprehend it. Who can comprehend it? Write down it's comprehended by the mature. Again in verse 6. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Look at the word perfect there. That's the word telios. It can mean mature or complete, but it can also refer to a person who has been initiated into a cult. A person who has full membership into a group, who's been fully initiated, and keep in mind that Paul's writing to the Corinthians, and there were many mystery religions that surrounded that city And part of their practice was to initiate people into their cult. And once a person was initiated into a certain mystery religion, You know what? That person who is initiated then would receive secrets. They would receive special wisdom as part of that initiation into that cult. Paul's using the same idea, same word here when he says, listen, you who have been saved, you have been initiated into the family of God. And now God is sharing with you his wisdom. You are the ones who are the recipients of it Not everyone can understand this wisdom of God. Only those who are perfect. Only those who are initiated into the family of God. And so if you're saved here tonight, guess what? You are initiated into the family of God, and you get to learn His wisdom. Not everybody can, but you can. Notice what he says in verse 6. How be if we speak of wisdom among them that are perfect, notice the rest of it, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to naught. The word princes, architecture, meaning leading men, men of authority, which come to naught. That is, it is empty, futile, coming to an end. Paul is saying that you get to understand the wisdom of God, not through the wisdom of the world, which comes to nothing. But you were privileged to understand the superior wisdom of God, and others can't. The princes of this world The high intellect, the PhDs, the Albert Einsteins of the world, they don't get it. But we do why? Because we've been brought into the family of God. We have been initiated into this membership of God's people. And so we are the Telios. We are the ones that now get to understand this wisdom. It's comprehended by the mature, us who are in Christ. And I think Paul is kind of being a little sarcastic here when he's talking about some of those philosophies and philosophers that talk about being mature and be it's kind of this elite mentality. Paul's saying, you know what? That's what we are as God's people We're the mature. We're the initiated. We get to understand this special wisdom. It's comprehended by the mature. It's contained in a mystery. Look at verse 7. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Now, Paul again repeats that he's speaking real wisdom, true wisdom, but this wisdom was contained in a mystery. The word is mysterion. He's not talking about something strange or puzzling But something that was intentionally hid until a certain time. He's talking about God's plan of salvation, the wisdom of the cross. It wasn't fully revealed until God wanted to reveal it In God's time. Notice verse 7 which says, which God ordained. This plan originated in God's mind before the world began. It was outlined in the Old Testament. It came together piece by piece like a puzzle. It was finally and fully revealed in the New Testament. And notice what it says in verse 7, unto our glory. This is what the plan God ordained before the world, unto our glory. This plan was for our glory. We would share in the glory of salvation and of Christ. Do you understand you have a future glory waiting for you? The Bible tells us the sufferings of this present life are not to be compared with the glory that we're going to have. And this wisdom of God was in the mind of God in eternity past and progressively revealed, and it was all done that we might be partakers of God's salvation unto our own glory. And so it's comprehended by the mature. It is contained in a mystery. And notice it is it was concealed from the mighty. Look in verse 8. Which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Paul said, the crucifixion is proof that the rulers of this age did not have the wisdom of God. That's proof. When Jesus stood before Pilate, Jesus came to reveal the truth and the light. When he stood before Pilate, Pilate said, What is truth? Now think about that. Here is this mighty ruler. And the personification of truth is standing right in front of them. And was he asking? What is truth? Seriously? It's right in front of you, dude. It's right there. And you don't get it. The princes of this world don't get it. That's the whole point he was making. On the cross, Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they don't get it. They don't know what they're doing. The Jewish leaders didn't get it. They stumbled over the rock. The Gentiles didn't get it. It was foolishness unto them. None of the earthly rulers understand or understood what was going on. And so it is concealed from the mighty. But here's the next thing. It is not conceived by our mind. We can't understand it by just our mind alone. Look at verse 9. But as it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of men. The things which God has prepared for them that love him. Now, I I know a lot of times we use this verse to talk about heaven and the glory of heaven and that we're not going to be able to fully know what heaven is like until we're there, and all of that is true, beloved. However, this verse here in its context is talking about the wisdom of God. It's not necessarily talking about the glory of heaven, although that's true about heaven. He's talking about the wisdom of God. And the point here is this. Natural eyes and natural ears and natural minds and hearts cannot really know or comprehend God's wisdom on its own. That's the point. The depths of God's wisdom cannot be discovered through the typical learning process. That's the point. God's wisdom is not discovered only through empirical means. Alright? And this is represented by the seeing, the hearing, you know, empiricism is the the five senses, learning through the five senses. You know, we we look at books, we read the books, we do observations in science and experimentation and all those things and all those things are fine. We have a a theory and then a we try to prove that theory through all the research that we do and that's how we attain knowledge. And all that is good. All that is fine But God's truth is not learned just through the eye or the ear, no matter how sophisticated the instruments we might use. If that's all you have, you're not going to get it And also when it says, neither has entered into the heart of man. That's inward reasoning. Jeremiah said this, O Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself. It is not in man that walketh to direct his steps. What was Jeremiah saying? Man, in and of himself isn't going to really be able to do this. And so our inward reasoning. With our inward reasonings, we can't comprehend God's wisdom. Man's inward reasoning will lead man astray every time. Why? Because it's depraved. It's darkened. Some of these great philosophers that have this great thinking, none of it leads them to God. It leads them away from God. And so man's two greatest human resources, empiricism and rationalism, his observation, his reason. are useless in discovering divine truth. In fact, they will turn man away from God. Because of man's depraved heart. It will lead him to the wrong end. Man is dark and depraved in his reasonings. You say, well, if man can't do it on his own, If man can't do it by himself, how is anyone ever able to learn the wisdom of God? Here's the second point. God's wisdom is not humanly received But here's Paul's second point. God's wisdom is divinely revealed. It is divinely revealed. Look at verse 10. But God, now he's answering the question in verse 9. How are we going to know this? Verse 10, but God has revealed them unto us by his what? His spirit. For the spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. While it's impossible for man to discover God's truth on his own, God comes to man through his Holy Spirit to reveal truth. You see, man cannot come to learn God and know God on his own. God has to come to him. And God comes to man through the Holy Spirit. It is revealed unto us by His Spirit. You see, that's the point. It's gotta be the Holy Spirit. And so Paul tells us that God's wisdom is conveyed by the Spirit of God. Because the truths of God are spiritual in nature. And they have to be spiritually learned. They have to be spiritually discerned. Man needs that assistance. Now we we need to use our eyes and our ears and our understanding and all those other things That's all good and fine. Those are wonderful gifts from God. But friend, if that's all you have, you're not going to get it. You need to have the Holy Spirit of God reveal truth to you. You see. You have to have the Holy Spirit. And so number one, he does it through spiritual revelation. Look again in verse 10. Look at the word revealed. God has revealed them. That is the word apocalypto, is where we get the word apocalypse, meaning to uncover, to disclose, to take away the veil. The Holy Spirit has to take away the veil from our mind. It doesn't matter how much research you do, how much digging, how much observation, if the Holy Spirit doesn't take the veil away from your mind, you will not get it. You won't get it. You know, the Holy Spirit is so much more important than the eyes because a blind person can understand spiritual truth. So much more important than the ears because someone who may be deaf can still comprehend spiritual truth. You see, the Holy Spirit has to reveal it. And uh there are a lot of people out there that are very, very smart. But you know, if they don't have the Holy Spirit revealing truth, they they're just they're gonna be blind spiritually. You know, I remember I I think I've said this before, but it illustrates the point. When I was getting my PhD, I went to I took a s uh a semester at Johns Hopkins and reading through the Hebrew Bible. And so all we would do is a bunch of students in there, we would read through the Hebrew Bible, we would give our translation there, and then we would give our interpretation of the verse. And there was a bunch of really smart people in that room. I was the dumbest among them. I'm okay with that. They were all smarter than me. I believe students, the professor could read Hebrew like he was reading the paper And and we were all taking turns just sitting around and and reading from the Hebrew Bible, and everyone would give their translation and then they would give their interpretation. And we were reading through some of the greatest passages in the Old Testament about Jesus in the book of Isaiah. And you know what? All these really smart people, much smarter than me, they would come to translate the verse and then interpret it, and they were so way off. They they didn't see Christ in there at all. Some of the greatest messianic passages and they couldn't see Jesus. And it got to be my turn and I would give my translation and my interpretation, they would all just go, man alive Drop their head. You know why? They just didn't get it. And you know what? I felt pretty superior to all those people in there. I felt pretty smart. You say, why, your intellect? No. They all had a better intellect. But what they didn't have is they didn't have the Holy Spirit ripping the veil away from their eyes. to see the Lord Jesus Christ. They had all of the abilities, but they didn't, they it wasn't spiritually discerned. And yet I, this simple person, have been given this wonderful privilege by God, through his Spirit, to show me truth, to show me the glory of Jesus in the pages of Scripture. Do you understand what a privilege that is? Such a great privilege. And so it has to be revealed. Now look again in verse 10. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. You see, the Holy Spirit is the one. The Spirit of God is God's agent of transmission and communication. He is the one qualified to reveal what who God is to us and what God's truth is to us. Why? Because the Spirit of God searches everything out Even the deep things of God. The deep things of God, the Spirit of God knows. Now think about that. He's able to communicate that to us. What an incredible privilege. Now Paul uses an illustration here to help us understand. Look at verse 11. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? In other words, it is our spirit inside of us that knows us. Okay, you understand that? Nobody knows me better than me. Carolyn knows me better than any living human being. But she doesn't know me better than I know me. Why? Because my spirit knows me even deeper. My spirit knows all of my feelings, all of my deep thoughts. all of my emotions. My spirit searches within me and knows the deep things of Jerry Harmon. That's what the Spirit does. And so it is with the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God knows the deep things of God. Look at verse number 11 again. For what man knoweth the things of man say the Spirit of man which is in him Even so, the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. You see, it's only the Spirit of God that knows the deep things of God. Now, as I said, Carolyn knows me better than any living human being knows me, but she doesn't know me better than me. My spirit in me searches me and knows me better. than anybody or anyone. But now listen, if it were possible for me to take my spirit out of me and put it in Carolyn, then Carolyn would know more about Jerry. She would know the deep things of Jerry. But I can't do that. But you want to know something really neat? God can do that. And you know what God did for us? This Spirit of God that knows all the deep things of God, God takes that Spirit and He puts that Spirit inside of us. When we get saved, why? So that we can know the deep things of God. That's why I did it. I can only know God through the Holy Spirit that is planted inside of me. And that is the key. to understanding God's wisdom. That's the key to revealing truth to our heart. This Holy Spirit that God has given to us, with that, He gives us the ability to know the deep things of God. That's why some of the most wise, godly people I've ever met are people that didn't have a big education. Some of the most spiritual people that know the truth of God, or people that didn't perhaps go to a Bible college or a seminary But boy, they know God. They know the deep things of God. They know the Spirit of God because they are walking in the Spirit. Jerry Vines talks about a country preacher back in his hometown who didn't have the opportunity to get an education, but yet he said he had profound wisdom. And Jerry Vines said one day, he asked him, he said, how do you get such insight? into the things of God. And I I can just hear it in your study and in your preaching. And this is what the man told him. He said, well, he said, when I come to study the Bible, he said I lay out all the tools I can, he said I use all the common sense God has given me. And then using all the study aids and doing everything possible with my own human intelligence, I put my Bible on the floor in my study, and I get on my means and I bury my face in the Bible and I pray, Oh Holy Spirit, You who inspired men to write these words, illuminate my dull mind to understand the things of God. And he says, you know what the Spirit then shows me? The things of God. Freely given by God. He shows me those things. And friend, that's exactly how it's done That's exactly how it's done. Unless the Holy Spirit opens your eyes to see the truth, you just aren't going to see it. That's why we are dependent upon the Spirit of God. Do you remember that story in the Old Testament about Elisha? Where the Syrian king got mad because Elisha seemed to know the king the things the king was talking about in his secret council with his men. Remember the king of Syria called in all his men and said, Okay, one of you guys is a spy How come that that guy over there in Israel knows everything I'm doing? Now you don't need to confess, and one of the men said, Look, none of us is a spy. God tells him the things that you say in your bedchamber He knows secrets. And then you know after that the king of Syria decided he was going to go kill Elisha. So he gets his army and he gets out there and he they surround the the home of Elisha and Elisha's servant is just all nervous and he's afraid and Elisha's at total peace. It's in the morning time. Elijah, he's not worried at all. He's over there making a cup of coffee on a steering machine. He's not even concerned about anything. And the servant says Man, you know, how come do you understand what's going on? And remember what Elijah prayed, Lord, open his eyes. Open his eyes. And you know the story, all of a sudden God opens now when he said open his eyes, the guy could see he wasn't blind. He was saying, Lord, open his spiritual eyes. And when God did that he saw angels surrounded all around. The guy was like, Oh okay. I'll have a cup of coffee too. That was it. Now the truth of the matter is, unless God opens our eyes, our spiritual eyes, we're just not going to see. We just won't. And so that's what Paul's talking about. Spiritual revelation. And then he talks about spiritual inspiration. Look at verse 12. Now we have received not the spirit of the world. But the spirit which is of God that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. Paul says, God didn't give you the spirit of the world. He didn't give you the spirit of the worldly wisdom when you got saved. He gave you the spirit of God so that you can receive the things that God has Given the things that are freely given to us of God. What does that mean? What are the things that are freely given to us of God? It's right here. It's the Word of God. This is what's freely given to us. God's inspired word has been freely given to us. And Paul says, look, God didn't give you the spirit of the world so you can understand this. He gave you the Spirit of God so that you can understand this. Look at verse 13. Which things also we speak not in words which man's wisdom teaches, but which this Holy Ghost teaches comparing spiritual things with spiritual. This word was freely given to us. This book was freely given to us of God, and God has given us His Holy Spirit that now teaches us as we go through the Bible. What do we do when we go through the Bible? We compare spiritual things with spiritual We go from one verse to another. You know, one of the great arguments that we know that the Bible is the Word of God is the incredible unity of the Bible. This the Bible was written over a period of 1600 years. Forty diff different authors, different men from different cultures and backgrounds educationally, and yet when all these books are put together, there's an incredible unity that's there That's why we can go and compare spiritual things with spiritual. That in itself is an argument for the inspiration of Scripture. But as we go through the Bible and compare one verse after another, the Holy Spirit just continues to illuminate our mind and open our mind, and we're able to see the truth of God. And so it's spiritual inspiration, but then finally spiritual illumination. Look at verse 14. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them, because again they are spiritually discerned. It isn't it is now it's possible to read the Bible. And you can use whatever version you want to when you try to read it. You know, some people say, well, this is too hard. You know, it's really not You can read it and not get it, not understand it. And it doesn't have to do with the fact, well, it's King James Version and you know it's Old English, you know. You know, look, step up. All right Step up. Learn. Alright? Now I don't I again I'm not going to get into Bible versions with you like that's not the point. The point is the version is not the issue. The point is, you need the Holy Spirit of God to reveal truth to you. Because you can read whatever version you want to, and if you don't have the Holy Spirit, you just are not going to understand it. And so you have to have the illumination of Spirit. Think about this. The scribes and the Pharisees in Jesus' day, they were trained in the Old Testament, and yet they didn't really get it. I mean of all people, these scholars that were in the Hebrew, in the Old Testament, and they were putting together verses, and many times Jesus had to say to them, Listen, you do err Not knowing the scripture, neither the power of God. And someone says, oh, they just needed a more modern version. No, they didn't. They needed the Spirit of God to show it to them. And you know what? Jesus never said, well, you know, I can understand why you don't get it, because after all, this was written, you know, over a thousand years ago, and because it was written so long ago, it's too hard to really understand. Jesus never said that You know what Jesus always assumed? That the Bible, the perpiscuity of Scripture, the clarity of Scripture, you can understand it. It is clear. It doesn't matter that it was written Centuries ago. It is very clear. And if you have the Holy Spirit of God, He will show you what it means. And if you don't, you can read it without understanding, and you can come to wrong interpretations, and you can really twist and distort things And that's what the Pharisees did. They read and they read and they studied, but they just didn't get it. And there's been times when I was w went through seminary and I was assigned certain theological books and would read authors and sometimes I would put the book down and go, Man, this guy just doesn't get it. I didn't sense anything about of the Spirit of God in that. This person might have great understanding and great reason and intellect, but there's no spiritual illumination in what they're writing, and it's dead because of that. There has to be the opening of the Spirit of God, that illumination, the opening of the eyes of the Spirit of God. Martin Luther said this, man is like a pillar of salt like Lot's wife. He's like a log or a stone. He is like a lifeless statue which uses neither eyes nor mouth nor senses nor heart unless he is enlightened Converted and regenerated by the Holy Spirit of God. And then he's illuminated So let me just wrap this up. We've got to wrap it up. Look at verse 15. But he that is spiritual judges all things Yet he himself is judged of no man. So again in verse 15, Paul is contrasting human wisdom with God's wisdom. And a believer who has God's wisdom is able to judge and discern things correctly. That's what he says in verse 15. But an unbeliever cannot accurately judge or discern the believer. That's what he means in verse 15 when he says, yet he himself is judged of no man. You know when the world looks at us believers, they just don't understand us. They can't really judge us correctly because they don't get it. That's what Paul's saying in verse 15. So look at verse 16: For who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we, here's the, here's the summation, but we have the mind of what? Christ. We have the mind of Christ. And that's why God's wisdom is superior Because it's superior in the way it's received. Because if you don't have the Holy Spirit of God, it doesn't matter how smart you are. You don't get God's wisdom. It's for the initiated. It's for those who are in Christ. It's for the mature. It was contained in a mystery. It's concealed from the mighty. It's not received by just the mind. You have to have the Holy Spirit. There has to be divine revelation. There has to be divine illumination. Before you understand it. You know what? Thank God we know Christ. Thank God we get to be recipients of this great superior wisdom. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So Lord, we thank you for this privilege that we have of being in Christ. We thank you, Lord, for your wisdom that you've given us, not because of our own IQ or abilities or anything like that. Lord, it's because you have revealed truth to us. We get this wonderful privilege as being your children. That Lord, you would give us your wisdom. A wisdom that's not really comprehended by the mighty of this world. Lord, you've given that privilege to us. And Lord, help us to understand what a privilege it is. And Lord, help us to make this give us a determination to go into your word more, to learn more of you through the Scripture. May we pray the prayer of the psalmist, open thou mine eyes, that I might behold wondrous things out of thy word. Now with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give this one invitation. You know, how do I you say how do I get God's wisdom? It's again it starts at the cross, friend. You'll never comprehend God's wisdom until first you come to Christ. Until the Holy Spirit shows you that you're a sinner and that Jesus is the Savior. Who came and died for your sins. And then time you respond to that. You say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Turn from your sin and turn to Christ. And receive Him. And friend, when you do that, when you put your faith in Christ, you receive the Spirit of God. And that Spirit of God then begins to teach you the things of God What a wonderful, wonderful thing that is. And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Jesus, I'm inviting you right now. Right where you are, to put your faith in Christ. And pray. Just pray something like this, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me, Lord. You reveal to me that you are the savior. I believe that. And you reveal to me that you're the only way of salvation. And so I come to you tonight, and I ask you to save me. Friend, if you'll pray that, then you can become a child of God Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. Thank you again for your wonderful spirit that we have that teaches us your word, your wisdom. We pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen