Well it's good to be back on Sunday night and uh get back into the book of Revelation where we left off. We uh started in it last year. And uh took a little break. But we come tonight, uh, we're going to pick up in Revelation chapter six, right where we left off. And let me let me just review with you a bit about where we are. In Revelation 6, we're going to see that this is the time when God pours out his wrath upon the earth. But the book of Revelation is all about the revelation of Jesus Christ. It reveals Jesus Christ in all of his glory. I got good news for you. Jesus Christ is coming again. And when he comes, he's going to come in glory. And so this is all about the things that will be. Remember that uh the book of Revelation kind of outlines itself in chapter one, verse nineteen. He said, Write the things which thou hast seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. And so John was uh in the Isle of Patmos. Uh the Bible says that he was in the Spirit on the Lord's day. And uh he saw a great vision. First he heard a voice and he turned and it was of gl the glory of Jesus Christ is what he saw, and this beautiful vision of Jesus Christ. was uh described beautifully here in figurative language here in chapter one, verses twelve down to verse uh twenty. And then uh Jesus said to John, John, I want you to write these things down in a book and send it to uh the church at Ephesus. Um and then John had a message for the church at Ephesus from the Lord. The church at Smyrna in chapter two, verses eight to eleven, the church at Pergamus, verses twelve to seventeen, Thyatire verses eighteen to 29 and then in chapter 3, Sardis and Philadelphia and Laodicea. And these were words of comfort and encouragement to churches, some which were going through persecution, words of challenge, of rebuke to those churches that were not uh fulfilling what the Lord wanted them to do. And so we saw all of that. And then we came to chapter four. In chapter four, John is brought up to heaven. He sees things now from God's perspective in the throne room of heaven. And While he's there, he sees the one who is on the throne. And John has to describe what is completely indescribable to describe the beauty of God the Father on the throne. He describes what he sees on the throne. He describes The scenes around the throne, the things before the throne, including the twenty-four elders. All of this was just a beautiful picture. John is about to see God uh from God's perspective what God is going to do on the earth. And then this the scene kind of shifts in heaven in chapter 5. There's in the hand of the one on the throne, there's a scroll. And in on in that scroll, the scroll that's in the Father's hand on the throne, there are seven seals. The Bible says seal the book was sealed from within and without. And there's no one that in heaven, as a strong angel looked, there was no one in heaven worthy to open this seven-sealed scroll. In chapter five, verse four, John says, I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and read. Neither to look thereon. And verse five of chapter verse five of chapter five, one of the elders said unto me, Weep not, behold the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed prevailed to open the book. And to loose the seven seals. And verse six And I beheld and lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders stood a lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and Seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. And verse seven, and he came and he took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. Now when that happens there, what we see is another beautiful dramatic scene there in heaven where heaven erupts with praise, it erupts with worship. All of the the twenty-four elders fall down and begin to worship and sing. The uh every people the Bible says, out of every kindred and tongue and uh nation uh begin to sing the people that are there in heaven are singing uh all the angels join in in song and they're giving worship to the Lamb who now is the one who is worthy to open up this seven sealed book And that brings us to chapter six. This is where the seals begin to open, and what we see take place now is the wrath of the Lamb. Now, in chapter 5, we see the worship of the Lamb, but here in chapter 6, we're going to see the wrath of the Lamb. Now, it may seem strange to us to see worship and wrath dwelling side by side in Scripture. They might seem to be totally different concepts, but let me just remind you that they both have to do with the holiness of God. And if you don't see anything else in the book of Revelation, I hope you see God's holiness. Worship takes place when God's holiness is observed, and wrath takes place when God's holiness is offended And God's wrath will be poured out upon the earth, upon a sinful people. And so the the scene will shift now from um from heaven down to what God is going to do on Remember in chapter 4, John saw the throne, he saw lightnings and thunders. That's the idea of wrath. There's a storm, and God is about to pour out judgment. Now there's a debate among New Testament scholars and theologians as how to interpret Revelation 6, or many of these chapters for that matter. With different approaches. And now you might remember when we started this study in the book of Revelation, I gave you the four basic approaches that people take with reference to the book of Revelation. And I want to take a moment just to remind you of that because as we go through this and we study this, we're going to look at some of these other views and give reason why we take the view that we do. But first of all, there is what is called a preterist approach. Now what is that? The word preterist, if if it's used as a noun, dis describes someone who's chiefly concerned with the past. And this is the idea that everything in the book of Revelation is already fulfilled. It's already in the past. A preterist doesn't look at the book of Revelation as something that will happen in the future. They look at it as something that's already happened in the past. Now from John's perspective, when John wrote this, it was all future because it hadn't happened yet. But now on this side of it, a predator will say all of these things were already fulfilled. And what they'll do is they'll point to Revelation chapter 1 and they'll talk about where John says these things which must shortly come to pass, Revelation 1. 1. And they'll point to also Revelation twenty two ten, which reads, and he said unto me, do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book for the time is near And they'll say, well, all of this uh had to be near. It already happened. And so what they will say is that all of these things basically took place uh during the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. It all happened right there. And what they'll say is that this interpretation uh basically is able to demonstrate an immediate relevance for the original readers. That's what they they'll say. Hey, this is a good interpretation because Uh the the original readers would understand this. The churches at Asia Minor uh would would see this, whatever interpretation a person has to take. in the book of Revelation, it has to make sense to the original readers, and I would concur with that. Whatever interpretation we take, it had to make sense to the people to whom it was written to in that day, and then also applied to us today. But what a predator will do is they'll look at historical events in AD 70 and try to line it all up here with Revelation and say, this happened here and this happened here. And what I find in reading the uh the that this view is that a lot of them were dependent upon uh Josephus and the accounts that Josephus gives about the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. And what a preterist will also do is they'll take the book of Revelation and they'll line it up next to the Mount Olivet discourse and they'll say all of these things are parallel and they'll compare one of these things over against the other. And so um and so that's basically that view. Um but I would just say this uh the weakness of this approach is there's Uh there's no persecution in the first century that fits the horrific events that we see here in Revelation chapter six down to verse nineteen. And I also don't see, and I and I've read some of the views, I don't see how the all these things were fulfilled in seventy AD. The primary weakness, I think, however, of this view, is that it completely depends upon Revelation. being written before 70 AD. And so that's why you might remember when we first started this study, I gave to you the two different views of when the book of Revelation was written. This is really important because this will help to determine what view you're going to take when you interpret Revelation. A person who takes this kind of view that all this is already done, they have to see that that Revelation was written before 70 AD, right? I mean if it was written after 70 AD, they couldn't. uh say that um all these things happen. And so they have to take the early date of the writing of the book of Revelation. And so what some preterists do is they date Revelation to the time of Nero in the mid-sixties. And they even say that the beasts that Revelation talks about is Nero. Nero is the beast. And so they don't see an Antichrist. They say this was already fulfilled in uh Nero. Now, you know, during the Christmas break, I read a book called The Fall of Jerusalem by Kenneth Gentry. And this is kind of the big book that a lot of people use when they're trying to say that the early date of the writing of Revelation is the correct date. And I read through that thing and and I was read through it with an open mind But I could not and he said you know this is an open book open and shut case. Well I'm sorry my friend I couldn't see it even though I read through all of that The weight of evidence goes to a late date of the writing of the book of Revelation. Now let me tell you about the historicist approach This view finds the book of Revelation as a record of the sweep of church history from the apostolic times until the present. And so what a historicist will do is he'll come to the book of Revelation And he will see the things that he'll look at history and he'll look at some of the things in Revelation and he'll find a correlation. And what he often does is he'll resort to a kind of an allegorical interpretation And to me, it's very it's very subjective when they interpret it, their approach. Uh they go from the realm of really being literal to really allegorizing and spirit spiritualizing the book. For example, historicists will look at Revelation 6 and 7. They'll see the Lord Jesus breaking the seals on the scroll. And what they'll do is they'll say each seal is that is broken will really talk about events that have taken place on the earth during the the the history between the time of the apostolic time and today. And for example, um When the fifth seal was broken. A lot of historics will say, well, that's signaled the rise of Muhammadism in the world. When the sixth seal was broken, that was talking about the invasion of Rome uh of Rome by the Turks. They'll look at Revelation 13 and they'll see the beast there and they'll say that is the papacy, that is the Pope And so the Pope was kind of universally held as the Antichrist by the Reformers who basically took this historicist approach to the book of Revelation. And so this was the predominant view of the interpretation of Revelation by believers down through the church history, we could say Essentially all the reformers took this historicist view, a lot of leaders. In fact, let me just n let me just name some of the people who took this approach to the book of Revelation. Who believed this? Who took the historicist view? John Wycliffe. John Knox, William Tyndale, Martin Luther, John Calvin, Isaac Newton, John Huss, John Wesley, Jonathan Edwards. I think we got all the Johns in there, right? George Whitfield, Charles Spurgeon, Matthew Henry, I mean that's virtually a who's who of historical figures in the past. So this was a view that was held. Now, the weakness of this is if this is true, it would seem then that the book of Revelation, if it were seen this way. It would mean that the book had little to no meaning to the churches of Asia Minor in that time. And also I think there's again a subjective nature of assigning meaning to symbols and this subjective way of doing it to me is kind of unavoidable. There's kind of a tendency also to see the culmination of history in one's own time. And there also is a tendency to see the fulfillment only with the Western European Church. And so um now by the way let me just say that this is not a popular approach today. A lot of people have abandoned this approach. There has been kind of a little bit of a resurgence in this view of Revelation, but it hasn't been very big. And then there's a third approach. There's the idealist approach. And this sees Revelation as a timeless struggle between good and evil. This is a struggle that goes out over every age. According to this view, Revelation is neither historical, it's not a historical record, and it's not really predictive prophecy either. It really is uh it kind of ignores uh uh when this uh approach to prophecy, it ignores Revelation's claim to be a prophecy. And so what they say is what's being conveyed in the book of Revelation is the reality of spiritual warfare that's constantly going on, and it's being waged in every age along the history of the church. For example, uh here's how an idealist would look at Revelation 13. They would see the beast rising out of the sea signifying satanically inspired political opposition to the church at any time in church history. Not just this time, but at any time, whether it's Rome and it's opposition to the church in Asia Minor or the Soviet Union and its opposition towards Christians uh during its time of power. And so on. The beasts from the land in Revelation 13, they would say, well, that signifies the opposition of pagan, corrupt religion to true Christianity. And again, that's a struggle that we see all over the history of the church. The harlot is representative of all apostate and heretical Christianity. Now, they'll say, you know, the strength of seeing the book of Revelation this way is that this could apply to believers at any period of history. But the weakness of this is the book of Revelation specifically says that it deals with historical events. This whole interpretation violates that whole thing that the claim that the book of Revelation makes about itself. That these are things that must come to pass. This is talking about historical events, real historical events that are going to happen. And so um now let me just let me just say this that most commentators, even those who use um These three approaches will resort to mixing this method in in some way. One would have to use this method if the book of Revelation is to be used to encourage the struggle. between uh to encourage believers that are struggling with persecution. Now then there's the fourth way or the fourth approach and this is the futurist approach. And this is the approach that sees revelation as predictions of events that are yet to come in the future. And and so this is futurist this futurist approach uh does full justice to the claim that the book of Revelation is prophecy. And so this is the approach that we take that we look at. Um now let me just say that I I this is the interpretation that I hold. Now I believe I would just I I think when you were with me when we studied through the the Gospel of Mark and we went to the Mount of Olives. I I said then and I still believe that a lot of the things that Jesus said at the Mount Olive Discourse, they were fulfilled in 70 A. D. That's undeniable. If you look at that and look at it close, of course some of those things were fulfilled. But also if you look at it, I don't see how all of those things were fulfilled. That there are so many things yet to happen that the Bible talks about. So here in Revelation 6, this is the beginning of a period that the Bible calls tribulation. This is not like any other tribulation. uh such as heartache or misery or famine and death, not like anything that the world has ever seen. And the Bible prophesies about a time of tribulation in Jeremiah 30, verse 6, asking now and see whether man doth travail with child, wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins? as a woman in travail, and all faces turned into paleness. And then in verse 70 he says, Alas, for that day is great. so that none is like it, and it is even the time of Jacob's trouble, but he shall be saved out of it. The Bible calls this time of tribulation the time of Dra Jacob's trouble, and it says that there is no other time just like this. And Jesus said this in Matthew 24, verse 21. For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time. No nor ever shall be. Now that's a remarkable statement. Think about that. Jesus said when this happens, there's not going to be any other time in history. Just like this time, with reference to the horrors of this tribulation. Now you consider all the wars and the famines and all the heartache and the sickness and all the atrocities that have taken place. on the earth. And yet Jesus said, this time will be unlike any time that the world has ever seen. Daniel calls it a time of trouble. Jeremiah calls it Jacob's trouble. Jesus said it's great tribulation. And here it's called the wrath. of the Lamb. Look in chapter six. Look down in verse number sixteen where it says, And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb. This is the wrath of the Lamb. We saw the worship of the Lamb, and now we see the wrath of the Lamb. And so when Jesus begins to open the seal judgments, things begin to happen on the earth. And this is the first and a series of other judgments that Jesus will pour out on the earth. There are seven seals, and then later on there are seven Trumpets and then later on there are seven bulls, and it seems like each judgment is more severe than the last. Some th who look at this say, Well, it seems like that these judgments are picking up with intensity as we move throughout the book. Now, let me just also say that some when they come to this They seal that they they excuse me, they see that these sealed judgments are really and the trumpet judgments and the bold judgments, what they do is they say that these are the same judgments, but they're seen from a different perspective. That's another view. In other words, what they're saying is just like there are four gospels, they all present the life of Christ, they present it from a different perspective, that these judgments that are listed here in Revelation are all the same thing that's happening, they're just seen from a different perspective perspective or a different way. And I don't see that. I see them as sequential. Let me tell you why. Look in chapter 8, look down at verse number 1. And so this is uh all the the the seals have been opened all except for the seventh seal. Look at chapter 8 verse 1. And when he had opened the seventh seal, There was silence in heaven about the space of a half an hour. So the seven seals open, and there's quietness. There's silence in heaven. And verse 2, and I saw the seven angels which stood before God, and to them were given what? Seven trumpets. So out of the seven seal, what is there come forth? There comes for seven trumpets out of the seventh seal. And what that suggests to me is something that is sequential. And then you come to chapter eleven, verse 15. The seventh trumpet sounds And then everything described in chapter 11, verse 16, on through chapter 14, verse 20, they're all part of that seventh trumpet. And then in chapter 15, verse 1, John sees seven angels having seven plagues. And these are plagues God is going to pour out on the earth. And so again, it just seems like these are sequential things that are happening. on the earth that God is pouring out one thing after another. And so Chapter 6, look in verse number 1. With all that in mind, let's look at the first few seal judgments. Look in verse 1. And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals. And I heard, as it were, the noise of thunder. Now when you hear thunder, what do you think is happening? There's a storm coming. And when John opens his field, he hears this noise. And one of the four beasts invites John to come and see in verse one. And verse two And I saw and behold a white horse, and he that sat on him had a bull, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer. And so here John sees a white horse. And what we're going to see here is as these seals, the first four seals are open, these are war horses that are coming forth. and are going to bring uh with them, they they symbolize, they they speak of uh judgment that is going to take place on the earth. So here is a white horse. Now, what is the first seal then? A lot of people, a lot of futurists see in this the Antichrist rising to power. Because we see a rider on the horse. Look at verse 2. And I saw and behold a white horse, and him that sat on him had a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering and to conquer. Now again, there are several views of this. What is this? Who is this writer? What is he doing here? Well, it says very clearly, this is the authority, the ability to conquer He went forth conquering and to conquer. Now again a historicist will look at this and he'll say, Well, this represents the period of the Roman imperialism from the death of Domitian until Communists made peace with the Germans in AD 180. So they'll look at it as something that happened in history. And idealists will say, you know, this is our Lord. Riding forth victoriously conquering and to conquer someone. An idealist will look at this and say, that's Jesus, and he is riding forth victoriously, and he's conquering. And what do a preterist do? A preterist will look at that and he'll say, well, here, this horse represents war, and the breaking of the seals means characters for the war are getting into place. There's no action yet There's not going to be any action until uh the seventh seal is opened and then the trumpet is blown. That's when war begins. They're all getting on the stage, they're all getting ready. So this is all preparation and a predator will also say, who's the writer? Well the writer, since everything happened in seventy AD, the writer has to be Vespasian, or Titus, the head of the Roman army. That's what they'll say the writer is What's the future view? Again, there's division on this. Some say this is Christ, and others say this is antichrist. There are some who take a future view and say They see in this, this rider here in chapter 6, verse 1, they see a correlation with the rider in Revelation 1911, Jesus coming forth on a white horse. And they see that as being the same, and so they say, This must be Christ. This is a symbol of his victory. Roman generals, after a victory in battle, would ride a white horse But I don't think that this is Christ. And let me tell you why. He's the one opening the seals, remember? In this. He can't be the writer. He wears a crown. Uh won as a prize. The word for crown is not diadem used for a king. The word is crown, talking about a reward, a Stefano's crown, a reward crown. And the chronology is wrong. Christ returns as a conqueror at the end of this time of tribulation, not at the beginning of it. And so the chronology is wrong. Well sa well since uh it's not Christ, then others would say, well then this is a counterfeit Christ, this is anti Christ. And the Bible makes clear that there's going to be a person who will rise to power. The Bible calls him the man of sin, the son of perdition. He is Satan's superman. He is the devil incarnate. He's called the Antichrist. He's called the beast. 2 Thessalonians calls him the man of lawlessness. You know, the argument is, you know, Satan has always tried to imitate God. Martin Luther called Satan God's ape. Whatever God does, Satan tries to imitate it. And if God had a Christ, then Satan has his anti-Christ, and anti means against or instead of. And so they say, this writer then must be the Antichrist because it fits. We don't see anything in here in chapter 6 that says he is. But it seems to fit the harmony of the rest of Scripture that this must be the Antichrist, and he he has a bow, but he doesn't have an arrow. And so if he has a bow, that's an empty bow, it must mean that he conquers through peace. He comes conquering, but he doesn't do it through war. He conquers through peace. And so this must be the Antichrist here then. Now, let me just say that um You say, Pastor Herman, who do you believe it is? I don't believe it's any of them. I don't believe it's Christ, and I don't believe the writer here necessarily is Antichrist. Here's why. If if the rider here on this first horse is has to be some personality, who are the other three? Who are the riders on the other horses? Who's the rider on the black horse? Who's the rider on the red horse? Who's the rider on the pale horse? I don't think we need to attribute a personality to these riders on the horses. I don't even think that's the intention of John here. I think what these are, or these are war horses. And they are symbolizing war and judgment that's going to come upon the earth. And the white horse is a symbol of conquering through peace. I think the force This this horse, the rider could represent a force. What's the force? Peace. There's going to be a time when a person, someone now, it does fit the Antichrist. It according to a lot of passages. But it doesn't mean that this rider has to be that. We know that there will be a time when the Antichrist will try to take over the world and it will come through peace. But I think it's just simply better not to attribute a personality to the writer because hermeneutically that would force us to attribute a person to all the other writers. And I don't think that's really the intention of John here. I think it's suffice to say that this first horse represents conquering through peace. There'll be a time when someone will conquer through peace, it doesn't necessarily mean that this is the Antichrist or it has to represent the Antichrist. There's a force out about peace. By the way, did you know that there's an organization that has a logo of a white horse? And this is an organization that has set about conquering the nations of the world By means of judicial and political ways. This is the Council on Foreign Relations. This began in 1913. They have a lot of power today. And their symbol of conquering the world through peace is a white horse. Which is very interesting. And the word on the on the under the horse, the banner, is a logo. It's a Latin word, which means everywhere. And uh and so there's a s it's kind of a symbol, meaning uh seeing or being present everywhere. kind of omnipresent. And so it s seems like the Council on Foreign Relations seems to be advertising that they have this kind of omnipresent power And they're attempting to spread peace throughout the world, and their whole goal is to make the world one under one government. A one-world government. So anyway, moving on, we uh we only have five minutes. Can you believe that? I'm only on number one here. Let's look at the second seal of war. Look in verse three. And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, come and see. And there went out another horse that was red, and power was given to him. that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another, and there was given unto him a great sword. So here is the second seal is war is war When the Lamb opens the second seal, world war broke out on the earth. And so a red horse rides Red is the color of blood and fire. It is a color associated with terror and carnage. In the book of Revelation, we have a red horse, we have a red dragon, we have a red beast. And so here is war that takes place during this time. And notice what it says, and power was given to him to take peace from the earth. Notice that this power is granted from him by God. All that happens will be under God's control. God will allow this war. In fact, God's wrath is being poured out during this time. This is not man's wrath or Satan's, as some Bible teachers say. This is God's wrath being poured out on the world. And then it says that they should kill one another. Men will commit murder during this time. Power is given to him that sat there under take peace, and they that should kill one another, and there was given unto him a great sword And so the Greek word here for sword, makariah, refers to a short stabbing weapon used by Roman soldiers in battle. It was also an assassin's weapon. And so here there's all kind of killing going on during this time. And also we s we see then that this is going to be a time of terrible bloodshed. Look at the third seal. Look at verse 5. And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld and lo a black horse, and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand. And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny and three measures of barley for a penny, and see that thou hurt not the oil and the wine. So this third seal here, opened by the lamb, John sees a black horse. Black is associated with famine in Scripture. In Lamentations 5. 10, our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine. And so this is always a part of war. With war, there's famine And so during this time, there will be a time of tremendous famine on the earth. Now again, just doing some research, there have been some incredible famines throughout the history of the world. For example, in the 1690s, there was a famine throughout Scotland, which killed 15% of the population. In 1693 to 94, there was a famine in France that killed two million people. In 1702 to 1704, there was a famine in India that killed two million people And and on I could go. There was a there was a famine in Bengal in seventeen seventy that killed fifteen million people. That's one third of the population. In eighteen forty five to eighteen fifty-seven, uh again uh there was a potato famine in Scotland. The result was two million people um suffered from that and many immigrated. There was a famine in Ireland that killed more than one million people. There was a famine in northern China. uh in eighteen seventy-six through eighteen seventy-nine that killed you ready for this thirteen million people This is incredible, these things. Now I bring up all those facts because again I want to remind you that all of these salmons fail in comparison to what's going to happen during this time. Remember Jesus said these days will be unlike any days. that have ever happened at all on the face of the earth. So what it he's describing here, a measure of wheat, that's basically a quart of wheat, which is barely enough to sustain one person for one day. A penny is a denarius, that's a day's wage. One day of work will be barely enough to feed one person for one day. And so what he's basically describing here is the incredible famine that will take place during this time. And when it says, see that thou hurt not the oil and the wine, in other words, this famine will affect the poor, but oil and wine, that's a lot of people see this as describing luxuries Or those that have, there's those who have and those who don't, there's the rich and the poor. This won't affect the rich as much as it will affect the poor during this time. So there will be famine. And then followed by death. Look in verse 7. And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see. And I looked, and behold a pale horse, and his name that sat on him was death, and hell followed with him, and power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death and with beasts of the earth. This word for pale here, chloros, uh, this is where we get our word chlorine. It kind of refers to a sickly pale uh yellowish green color. And other places it's used in the New Testament talk about green desert vegetation. And so this is kind of the pale green color of death. is what it's talking about here. The rider on the horse is called death. And so this is this this horse and rider represents death. That will take place in a on a huge scale during this time. You know, historians tell us that more people died of a of the uh epidemic of the influenza and typhoid after World War One than died in the war itself. In verse 8, it says that power was given unto them over a fourth part of the earth. One fourth of the earth will die during this Time of tribulation. Now think about that. What's the population of the earth? Well, I asked Siri just before the sermon. And the population as of twenty twenty one is seven point eight billion people in the earth right now. Population. And who knows what it'll be by the time that all these things come. One fourth of the world will die. That's that's incredible numbers. That would be perhaps at that time, maybe even more, two billion people will die. Notice the four ways. The sword, this is again a reference to war. Hunger, this is malnutrition from the famine. Death. This refers to diseases that will cause death, all kinds of disease that will break out. Again, throughout human history, disease has killed far more people than war has. And then beasts. What does that mean? Well, I mean, there's a lot of different ideas on that. I read one where it says this could be referring to rats. Rats are the most deadly creatures to man of all because they carry disease in them. And of course we know that In history, they were responsible for the bubonic plague in years past that killed so many people. They eat food supplies and they spread disease. And these are only the first four seals. There's more to come. Sounds like this would be a good time to be gone. This is a good time not to be here on this. Now we'll pick up, we ran out of time. We'll pick up talking about these other seals, but again, this reminds us of The wrath of God on an unbelieving, sinful world that has rejected the Son of God. This will be God's pouring out his wrath on unbelievers that are in the world. And all of this should cause us to do two things, to examine our own heart, to make sure we know the Lord, that we're ready for the coming of the Lord, because friendly could be at any time. The Lord could come. We need to make sure that our hearts are ready. And then we should be sharing the gospel with everyone that we can. Prophecy should get our feet on the pavement of soul-winning and witnessing. We should be sharing the gospel because we don't want people to have to go through um God's wrath, God's terrible wrath that He will pour out on the world. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. Just take a moment right now and just examine your own heart. And seeing these things should cause us to have a reverence and a fear of a holy God. A God who will judge sin. He'll either judge it through his son Christ on the cross, or he'll judge sin. In a in a way for unbelievers that is horrible We want to make sure that our sins are judged by Christ, that Christ took our sin debt for us on the cross, that we are In Christ, and in Christ there is no condemnation. But the Bible says that those that believe not, that the wrath of God already abides on them. And that's a scary thought. Maybe there's someone in your heart right now that you're praying for. Take a moment and pray for their salvation. Make sure of your own heart salvation that you know Christ. Father, again, as we look at these things, we we see your greatness, we see your holiness, we see a God who Case sin, a God who will judge every sin and sinner, those who will not believe in Christ, those who will not turn to Christ, those who reject the gospel, have a fearful reckoning. And Father, if this causes fear in our own heart, we want to know that we know Christ. We want to make that sure. And then secondly, Father, we want use us, use us as tools, as vessels To bring as many people into the kingdom as we can. May this motivate us to love sinners, to share the gospel. Knowing that a fearful day is coming. May everyone flee and escape from the wrath to come. Bless these words to hearing hearts tonight, Father. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.