Would you take God's word this morning and open to the New Testament epistle of First Peter? First Peter, and we're going to look at chapter two, verses thirteen down to verse seventeen. this morning. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 13. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please? Verse 13 as we'll read a few verses down. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the King as Supreme. or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. For so is the will of God that with well-doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. As free, not using your liberty For a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today as we go into this and consider it. Would you pray with me today? Our Heavenly Father. How grateful we are for the Word of God. Lord, help us to be attentive to it and remind us that part of our worship is how we listen to the word of God and how we submit to it. So bless our hearing today. Help me, your servant, to make clear the message from Scripture. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we celebrate July the 4th, Independence Day, we're reminded that we Americans live in a country that was founded in defiance of abusive government. Ben Franklin one time proposed that on the reverse side of the Great Seal of the United States, there be put the motto: Rebellion to tyrants is obedience to God. Now Franklin was not a Christian, he was a deist, but in that day that sediment, that sentiment, I should say. was something that many committed Christians held to and believed. It seems recently that's been questioned And so the question I wanted you to consider with me on this day, July the 4th, is was the American Revolution a proper resistance? to corrupt authority because this seems to be a question in view with many folks recently. And then more importantly, what is the proper relationship of Christian citizens towards their government? And I want us to consider that. Now remember when Peter wrote this letter, he was writing at a time when a government and society was not very favorable to Christians. In fact, both Peter and Paul would be executed at the hands of the Roman government, a tyrant by the name of Nero. And it wasn't really until the fourth century that Christianity was afforded official legitimacy and protection from the government. But and but Peter has some advice here for the believers that are going through a difficult time and that are facing hostility from society and the government. I think it's something that we need to hear today because we're really going through somewhat at the same time, not to the degree that they went through, but it's practical for us today. Now Peter had just stated that they were Pilgrims. Look in chapter 2, back up to verse 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. Peter told them earlier that look, you know, you have to remember that you're pilgrims in this world. If you're a Christian, if you're a child of God, we live in this world, but our citizenship is in heaven. We're citizens of the kingdom of God. And so we're just passing through here. Now, an idea like that could easily lead someone to conclude that since we are citizens of heaven and we're not really uh citizens of this world in the the literal sense that we have no responsibility to civil government here on earth. They would probably be some people that would conclude that they can disobey human government since we are citizens of heaven and really we're not of this earth anymore when we come to know the Lord. And so Peter is anticipating those kind of thoughts. And those kind of arguments. And what he's going to basically tell the believers here in this passage is that Christians should live as good citizens. And should submit to human government. In fact, the word submit is all over this chapter. It's all over, in fact, this whole letter where Peter is telling them, look, be submissive, be submissive. And when we say submission, we're not talking about subjugation. We're just simply talking about recognizing God's authority in our life and submitting to that authority. That is what Peter has in mind. And also remember that Peter is writing to believers that are under fierce persecution. There's all kind of lies being spread out there about the Christians that Peter was writing to. For example, there were some that said that the believers were uh insurrectionists. They accused Christians of of insurrection. Which was again was just simply not true. Believers were accused of being atheists in the sense that they didn't worship the Roman gods And if you didn't worship the Roman gods, you had to be an atheist. They didn't mind uh them w worshiping Jesus. You just had to put Jesus in with the other gods. And of course the Christians wouldn't do that. They said there's only one God, there's only one Savior, and that's Jesus. So they accused him of being atheists. They accused Christians of being cannibals because they didn't understand the Lord's Supper They accused Christians of incestuous relationships because they went around calling each other brother and sister. They just simply didn't understand what believers were talking about. In addition to that, they accused Christians of destroying homes because back then, when a person got saved, it alienated them from the rest of their pagan family if they didn't receive their Christianity, so they said Christianity is destroying homes. They said Christianity is fostering slave rebellion. Because back then when a slave got saved, they found a new life and a new dignity and a new equality with their brothers and sisters. And Rome looked upon that as fostering rebellion So there are all these lies that were being spread about believers. So what did Peter say? How did he say to respond? Look at verse number 15 of chapter 2. For so is the will of God that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Peter says, You know how you deal with that? You do well. You live honest lives. You live godly lives. You be a model of being a citizen. You submit to authority. And when people s see that, what will happen is it'll put to silence the ignorance of these foolish men. All these lies are out there, they'll fall away. When they see your good life, when they see your honest life. When they see you as a model citizen, and and in the day of visitation, they're going to glorify God. Look at verse number twelve. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that is any lost person, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, They may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation, in the day that they get saved. They're going to thank God for you. They're going to thank God for your life, for your testimony, for how you lived. I remember one time I was I was busy every Saturday in a certain area where we were picking up children and bringing them to church and every Saturday I would go to the same house and there was this one father that was hostile to me and every time I'd come to the house he'd get angry and yell at me. I I don't know why I'm such a nice person, you know. Every black go by every week, sometimes he would use profanity as so hostile. And uh I remember years later one time I was walking down the street in Baltimore and and there he was. He was walking up towards me. And this time he had a smile on his face. He said, I'm glad I found you. I want you to know that I became a Christian. I got saved. He said, when I went to the altar, he said, you want to know the prayer that I prayed? He said, I prayed, Lord, whatever you gave that red-headed young kid, give it to me. Give me that. And that's what Peter's talking about. When we live in a world where Christians are treated hostile. By not only the citizens of this world, but by the government at times. Let them see your good life. Let them see your honest behavior. Let them see your Example as a child of God, as a citizen. And when they get saved, you know what? They're going to glorify God in that day of visitation. So this is our default mode. In fact, you'll muzzle them. That's what he means by put to silence. It's like it's a word that means to put a muzzle on the mouth. You know, you ever see a dog catcher put a muzzle on a dog's mouth? The the most fierce, dangerous dog is helpless when a muzzle is put on. And that's what Peter is saying. When you live the kind of life that God wants you to live, you muzzle the lies and the ignorance of those that are hostile towards the things of God. So with this in mind, Peter is exhorting submission. That's the first thing we see here, the exhortation. Look in verse 13. Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man For the Lord's sake, whether it be it to the King Supreme. This is what we do as believers. We are submissive. The word submit means to put yourself under uh a commanding officer uh with an attitude of submission so we're submitted in our actions and the things that we do the way we live Even though we're pilgrims in this world, we are to be good citizens while we're passing through. And Jeremiah 29, 7 When the Jewish captives were taken to the land of Babylon, they were Nebuchadnezzar came in, destroyed Jerusalem, carried away captives into the land of Babylon Jeremiah the prophet gave a word to those exiles, this is what he said in Jeremiah twenty nine, seven, and seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto the Lord for it For in the peace thereof ye shall have peace. Jeremiah said, look, be good citizens while you're there. I know it's not your home. I know you're living in a pagan land. I know that they're probably hostile towards you, but you seek the peace of that city, you pray for that city. You'd be good citizens. You know, basically he later on said, look, build houses, plant gardens, we're godly families. And do well. That was the counsel. And this is good counsel for us as Christians because again, we're pilgrims on our way to heaven. We're living really in a pagan world. But while we're here, we're to do well, we're to be good citizens, we are to pray for the city, we're to seek peace. We're peaceable people. That's what the scripture says. That means we obey the laws. I know you're not going to like this, but pay your taxes. Calculate them correctly. Obey the speed limit. I I by the way I know there are some Christians who take a constructionist view of that. and they never exceed the speed limit. I take a loose constructionist view. I just get in a fast lane and go with the flow, you know. But if you're getting tickets a lot, you should probably trim the way you drive. I heard of one minister who got stopped for speeding and he he told the officer, look I'm on the Lord's business. And the police officer said, Yeah, well I read the Bible too and the Bible says go out into the highways and bring them in and that's what I'm doing. But we're to be submissive in our actions, but also in our attitudes. That is, we show respect. And Peter said that in verse 17: Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the King. That's our attitude. You say, well what if the what if the king is a scoundrel? Well if you can't respect the leader, respect the office. Respect that position of authority. I know this isn't American tradition. We like to make jokes about our political leaders, portraying them as uh buffoons or idiots, and political satire is acceptable fair. And I have to confess that some of the things that politicians do invite that sort of thing. Even Jesus during his earthly ministry said to Herod, he's a fox. And what he meant by that is he's deceptive, he's sly. So there's a little bit of leeway on that. But the honest principle is that we promote respect. for government authority. We don't have a malicious attitude. Look at verse 16. As free, not using your liberty for a cloak of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. We don't use our freedom for a covering for evil, Peter says. We use our liberty in Christ as servants of God, serving others, not our own self. We are to do that. That's the exhortation. But notice the extent. He says again in verse 13, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. And I want to qualify this. The word ordinance here is a verb that really refers to the activities of God. The ordinances of God which men have put into effect, there's a way we can say that really. That's what he means. Do we obey every law of man? And we'll talk about that. But we're to obey the laws that man has put into place, that are the laws of God, the ordinances of God. And again, that verb is very clear because that verb is used in other places. To talk about God's work of creation or God's work of regeneration. It talks about the things that God has ordained. And if this is of the Lord, if it's a law of God and man puts it into place, we are to obey. And verse 17 kind of gives us the scope. We honor all men. That is, we are respectful and honoring to all people. In the Roman Empire, many slaves were deprived of their dignity as human beings, but believers didn't treat people that way. We honor all men, Peter said. And and that's It's of course true today. Every person deserves respect. Every person was created in the image of God. We may not agree with what others believe or do, but we're to value them as God's creation. But also the Christians, he says in verse 17, love the brotherhood. We love other believers. To God, we fear God. And then to all authorities, we honor the King. We're respectful. The King here just refers to any person who's in charge. We we give them honor. And I know that they're unjust rulers. Back then Nero was on the throne. And so, but still Peter said, just give honor. That's the way we operate as believers. We see the exhortation, we see the extent, and then it gives us the explanation. Why do we do this? Again, it says, look in verse 13, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man. For the Lord's sake, we do it as unto the Lord. We do it unto God. When a believer submits himself to it, he is obeying God. When civil authorities say do this, and it doesn't violate any teaching of Scripture, we do it, we are submitting to the Lord, we should obey. We are to acknowledge that really the authority is God. In his book on a biblical view of civil government, Bible teacher Robert Colbert wrote this: quote: God alone has sovereign rights. Democratic theory is no less unscriptural than divine right monarchy. By whatever means men come to positions of rulership, by dynastic descent, aristocratic family connection, plurocratic material resources, or by democratic election. There is no power but of God. Furthermore, civil government is an instrument, not an end. Men are proximate ends, but only God is the ultimate end. Listen to this. The state owns neither its citizens nor their properties, minds, bodies, or children All of these things belong to their creator, God, who has never given to the state rights of imminent domain. So very true. The state has authority, but it has a limited authority. State is not God. God is the ultimate authority who gives the state this authority, and God is calling us to obey his law. So when a believer obeys, they are obeying ultimately the Lord. We do it because of the Lord's sake, but also because it's the Lord's will. Look at verse 15 for so is the will of God that with well doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. Well doing again, just do good. It's God's will that we live this way, and again we put to silence the ignorance of men when we do this. And also because government is necessary to punish evil. Back up to verse 14 Or unto governors is unto them that are sent for by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. God ordains civil authority government for the punishment of evildoers. That's one of the main purposes of human government. This is necessary Ever since the fall of man in the garden, when man became depraved, the Bible teaches the depravity of man. And what that simply means is that all our sinners positionally, we don't fully live out that depravity. But all are as depraved as they can be positionally before God. And because the heart of man is evil, there has to be restraints against the evilness in the heart of man And ever since the fall, God has placed restraints in man and outside of men to restrain that depravity. For example, God gave man a conscience. Why? To restrain the evil that is in the heart of man. If people work and live, operate according to their conscience, then the evil in them will be restrained. That conscience is that inward guide. The Bible and the Book of Proverbs says it's the spirit of man is the lamp of the Lord. That is, the conscience is that inward light. that tells you what is right and what is wrong. And of course, the conscience isn't perfect. It can be misinformed about what right and wrong is about. Or a person can ignore their conscience or harden their conscience, and thereby the evil of man just uh is unmitigated because the conscience is no longer effective. It's not working. But that's one of the restraints that God gave. Another is family Family is a way that God restrains evil. You know why? Because parents are to teach their children right and wrong. Parents are to teach their children to respect authority. Ultimately the authority of God. But families sometimes don't do that. Sometimes there's a lot of dysfunction in that. But then there's human government. God placed in society, the human government is ordained by God to restrain that evil that is in man. And here again, Peter makes that very clear in verse 14. For the punishment of evildoers, one of the main purposes of government is to punish evil. Paul said this in Romans 13, too: Whosoever therefore resisteth the power or the authority of the government, resisteth the ordinance of God, and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. So the government is to restrain that evil in society. You say, well, what if the government is corrupt? What do you mean, what if? All governments are corrupt. You know why? Because they got sinners working in them. There's no perfect government. There will be no perfect government until the King of Kings and Lord of Lords comes back. That's the only time you're gonna have a perfect king and a perfect government. That's the only time you're gonna get it. Up until that time you've got a human government that is corrupt. And even corrupt human government, however, is better than none at all. What if there were no government at all? What if there were no police on the streets? Or if our government gets so dysfunctional that evil is not restrained, then government is not functioning the way that God ordained it. I remember I was living in Memphis. I was invited to speak at us a lot to these police officers and special meetings and come there and pray over them and kind of function a little bit as a chaplain I guess you'd say for Memphis Police, one of the men who was high up in that department was a member of my church and that's the way that all came about. He would come say, come down and pray with these guys and help me out with this and And uh he trained the police officers in that area. He was very good at it. And when I moved here to Baltimore one day, he called me up and said, Hey, I'm coming to Baltimore. I've been invited to come and train the police officers there in Baltimore. Let's get together afterwards for lunch and I said, that would be great. And afterwards I did get together with him and I asked him, I said, How's it going? How's the training? And he shook it and he said, It's not good. He said, it's not good. He said there's a lot of m police officers that are quitting and the ones that are there are demoralized. He said they feel under attack, on fire from all sides, they don't feel like they have no support, and they're just not really doing their job. They're turning a blind eye. And now we live in a city that's considered one of the most dangerous in the country. I'm simply saying if if there is no if the government's not functioning the way God ordained it to restrain evil, then we're in trouble. God ordained that Again in verse 14, for the punishment of evildoers and the praise of them that do well. It also praises good citizenship. It rewards good citizenship. That's the explanation. That's why we submit to government. That's why we support it. Peter says, that's why you're to be an example, be a good citizen, because God has ordained it for these special reasons. You have to support it. You see. But then let me give you, however, the fourth point, and I really want to speak on this, and that is number four, the exception. We talked about the exhortation, the extent, the explanation, the exception for submission. Because notice again in verse 17 where it says, Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. There's a difference between God and the king here. We fear God And the word fear there has the idea of worshiping God. We worship God for who he is. We honor the king, but we worship God. The emperor deserves appropriate honor, but he's not on the same level as God. If he violates his responsibility, which he's been given by God, then the believer has a responsibility to confront that violation. If one exception is if civil authorities tell us to do something that would violate the Word of God, Then you know what the Bible tells us what to do? We don't do that. We don't violate God's word. Human government has authority, but it doesn't have total authority There's the limitations on all human authority. There's no human authority that is absolutely ultimate. This idea of the divine right of kings, that's a lie. That's false. That's not in Scripture anywhere Rather, Lex Rex was the motto back during the American Revolution. What is Lex Rex? The law is king, not Divine right of kings, but the law itself is king. Peter, the one who wrote this letter, you remember it says uh in Acts 14, 18, when the Sanhedrin came to Peter And said, we don't want you to speak anymore in the name of Jesus. Remember what he said? Whether it's right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge But we cannot stop speaking that which we have seen and heard. In other words, the government came to Peter and said, stop preaching. And Peter said, No, I'm going to obey God, not you. There is a place for civil disobedience. When a law was passed not to pray, Daniel prayed When Pharaoh commanded to kill the babies, the midwives said, we're not doing that. They refused There's a time for civil disobedience, and even then we're submitting we're submitting, but we're submitting ultimately to God and not men. Why did our founding fathers where did our founding fathers get this idea of freedom and liberty? Where did they get it from? There's a lot of ideas out there. I don't have time to get into all of it. Some people say all that came out of the enlightenment of Europe. Or the French Revolution, which doesn't make sense because that didn't happen until after the War of Independence. The American Revolution was based on lawful rights taken from the Bible You understand that? I know you're not hearing a lot that a lot today, but the American Revolution was based on laws and rights taken right out of Scripture. In fact, if it weren't for the Protestant Reformation, if it weren't for faithful preachers of the Word, we wouldn't have the freedom that we now have in America. We wouldn't have it. We wouldn't have the constitution that we have now if it weren't for them. Again, the question, where does government get its authority from? And again, we've already talked about this, but the Bible is very clear. The government gets its authority not from the people. The government gets the authority from God. Paul said that. For there is no power but of God. And the powers that be are ordained of God. It gets its authority from God, and government officials are really God's ministers. Paul said that. They're the ministers of God, dicana, same word used for ministers of the gospel in the Bible. Government leaders are to be servants of God. And when a government makes laws that go against the laws of God and they go outside the bounds of Scripture, that government is in rebellion against God. And that government usurps the place of God and tries to become a God on its own. And that's the pagan view of government. The pagan view of government is the state is divine, that the state has unlimited authority, and that leads to state worship and it leads to tyranny. And that's all based on the idea of evolution. If there is no God, then that's the result of that. And those officials that don't believe in God and want to push God off, it's because they want total authority. They want to act as God. They become like this Congressman Jerry Nadler who said in Congress recently that this Congress is not concerned about the will of God. Well he has no idea where he gets his authority from. Because if you're not concerned about the will of God, you don't have any authority to operate. The biblical view of government is the state is divinely ordained, therefore the state has limited authority. It is an authority Given to them by God in Scripture. And when the state goes outside the Bible or contradicts or makes laws that go against the laws of God, they have no more authority in the life of a believer John Wycliffe was a leading Oxford scholar in the 14th century. John Wycliffe believed that as a result of studying God's Word, that all authority The authority of all leaders comes from God. Now in his time the Bible was outlawed. You couldn't have a Bible. But you know what? You know who John Wycliffe is? He's called the Morning Star of the Reformation. You know why? Because he's the first one to translate the whole Bible into English. You know why he did that? Now again it was against the law to have a Bible, but he ignored that. Here's a minister, a godly man. He ignored those laws and he translated the Bible into English in 1384 And in the introduction of his translation, he wrote these words. Listen to what he wrote. This Bible is for a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. Does that phrase sound familiar? It should sound familiar to you. If you studied well in history, you'll know who quoted who said those words. It was Abraham Lincoln, remember, in the Gettysburg Address? He said that very thing. He failed to cite his source. I guess you could accuse Abraham Lincoln of plagiarism there or whatever. Or maybe he didn't re realize where that came from. But that that quote was taken directly from the introduction of John Wycliffe's first English Bible. And you know why he translated the Bible into English? Because he believed that the people had a right to be governed by the laws of God. Not the arbitrary laws of men, but the inspired authoritative laws of God And the way that we know and understand those laws and God's authority is through Scripture. That's the only way we're going to know. But the people didn't have the Bible. The only way that we can hold leaders accountable is through the Word of God. And John Wycliffe knew this. That's what drove him to translate the Bible into English. It was the desire to hold accountable those leaders who were abusive in their authority. That was his whole motivation. And so he translated the Bible. That's why the government authorities hated him so much. You know, ultimately he was burned at the stake, right? That's why they hated him so much. They did not want to be held accountable to God. But Wycliffe wrote this. He wrote, quote, the king is the servant of God. The royal power is consecrated through the testimony of Holy Scripture. The king must apply his power with wisdom. His laws are to be in unison with those of God. From God's laws derive their authority. And John Wycliffe believed that just like preachers of the church, we're disqualified for mismanagement of finances or or or teaching something that's false or or or immorality that would disqualify any preacher. He believed those same principles apply to civil servants in government that they applied there as well And so he said that government then when they manifests this kind of behavior, we don't have to submit to that. He said he is a power that needs to be restrained, just as if he's some kind of government figure spoken of in Revelation thirteen. We submit to government that is under God, but we don't submit to the beast. We resist the beast. And then he wrote this: If any man on earth or any angel from heaven teaches you contrary to holy writ Flee from him in that as from the foul devil of hell, and hold steadfastly to the truth and freedom of the holy gospel of Jesus Christ. You see, these were the principles, this is why I say without the Reformation we wouldn't have the freedom we have today. These were the principles that drove that, that ultimately drove our founding fathers. to stand for truth and liberty and freedom based on the principles of Scripture. It was historian J. I. Wiley that wrote this, quote, it was under Wycliffe That English liberty had its beginnings. He taught men to cast off that blind submission to the teaching of mere human authority, which is bondage. And to submit their understandings and consciences to God speaking in his word, which alone is liberty. And again, it was these principles that gave birth to the liberty of this nation were really w were now today w it was built upon that very thing. In uh 1876, the American historian and author John Wingate published a book called The Pulpit of the American Revolution. Or political sermons of the period of 1776. And I know I'm quoting a lie, forgive me, but let me just say this, we're almost done. The fathers of the Republic invoked God in their civil assemblies Called upon their chosen teachers of religion for counsel from the Bible. He's saying that the founding fathers of this country, you know what they did? They invoked God. They called upon their pastors, their teachers to help them and give them counsel. And he goes on to say, and recognition of its precepts, they took counsel from the Bible, and recognition of its precepts as the laws of their public. Conduct. They prepared for the struggle and went into battle, not as soldiers of fortune, but Like Cromwell and the soldiers of the Commonwealth, he's talking about the English Civil War, with the Word of God in their hearts and trusting him. He's talking about our founding fathers. They got counsel from their pastors. They stood firmly on the Word of God. They knew that they were going to have to battle against the tyrant, King George III. to get the liberty and the rights that people deserve rights that were grounded in the Word of God. And they went into battle, as he said, not as soldiers of fortune, not because they were motivated by greed, but because they stood firmly on the Word of God. That was the beginning right there. John Adams, the first vice president under Washington, said this: the general principles on which the fathers achieved independence were the general principles of Christianity. I will avow that I then believed and now believe that those general principles of Christianity are as eternal and immutable as the existence and attributes of God. He went on to say, without Christianity, this world would be something not fit to be mentioned in polite company. And that's what he believed. Now I say all that to say that, and we're we're just about done here, but we I think now have a government that in many ways is in rebellion against God. Living in rebellion against God. We have a government that's making laws that go against the laws of God In fact, it's reversed. Now, whereas the Bible says in Romans 13 that for rulers are not a terror to the good works, but to the evil, it's reversed now. Rulers are a terror to those who do good. And not the evil. If you stand for what is right and what is true, you need to be afraid now. And those that they commit crimes and are doing terrible things, it seems like they're just getting a pass. We have a government now that makes it illegal to slaughter innocent babies. We have a president that gives out executive orders, and it's his right to do that, but many of those orders go against the law of God Lifting restrictions on abortion, you can kill a baby in the womb all the way up to its birth. We're allowing transgenders To compete in the sport of their identity. We have biological males competing against women. We have parents and people injecting male hormones in the bodies of little girls. All this under the watch of the government and the approval of the government. We have a government and government ministers today that fail to submit to the authority of the Word of God. To protect the innocent, to restrain evil that's in the heart of man. He said, What are you saying, preacher? Very simple. We need to pray for this country. We need to pray for revival. But with regard to what Peter is telling us here, we need to be good Christians, good citizens. We need to be submissive where we can be as long as those laws are under the authority of God and his word. We need to be peaceful. We need to honor the King, fear and reverence, and worship only God. We will not allow government to usurp the role of God in our lives. So when the government says you can't preach this, we say we're going to preach the word of God. When the government says you can't meet and worship, we say we're going to worship our God. When they say you can't do this, if it goes against the law of God, you know what? We're just gonna stand on the Word of God. And I'm telling you, it may come to a time in our country where it's gonna pay we're gonna have to pay a price to do that. But the spirit that brought about our nation from the very beginning to where we celebrate Independence Day. was based upon the principles of God's Word, and we need to capture that spirit. We need to recapture it. Again, Christians, we are not rebellious people. We're not insurrectionists. We want to live in peace. We want to live in harmony. We want to bless others. We want to be model citizens. We're just not going to let you be God in our life. We're going to worship and honor our God first and foremost. And realize that the government is not an end unto itself. I I'm not running for any office, folks. I just want you to know that. I'm just trying to tell you what the Word of God says and where we are. Well let's let's pray together today. Let's pray Father, we thank you for the Word of God and for what it teaches us. And it's our desire, Lord, to fulfill all what you say here in 1 Peter 2. It's sometimes very hard, Lord, to know the balance. And I'll confess that. It takes great wisdom. We want to be submissive. We want to be model citizens. But there's times when we live in a a country where There's so much abuse of authority that it's hard. It's hard to know where to draw the line. Lord, give us wisdom. But Lord, may we be people that never compromise your word. That love and honor you first and foremost. And may the world look at us and see that. May they see the the good things that the church does, the good things that we do, how we honor Christ, how we love all. We honor all men. We treat all men with dignity and respect. And most of all, we honor you. We keep you first and foremost. And may many hearts turn because of this. May many glorify God in the day of visitation. And Lord, if the day comes where we have to pay a price for standing for the truth, give us the courage to do that. In a way that honors you, in a way that glorifies you. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right, John. Let's stand together.