To the book of Joshua, chapter 23. We're going to close out tonight the series that I've been doing in the book of Joshua. This will be the last sermon. And we're going to deal with some just a few issues in chapter 23 and in chapter 24. And the title of the sermon tonight is The Last Words of a Faithful Old Soldier. These are Joshua's last words that we're going to look at in these two chapters. On April the 19th, 1951, there was an old soldier that said farewell. Some of you here may remember this. You're old enough to remember this event. Having been relieved of his duties by President Truman, General Douglas MacArthur appeared before Congress. Some of you remember those uh faithful words or those um uh eloquent words we could say that he said and just let me quote you uh uh a few of them. He said this in closing, the world has turned over many times since I took the oath on the plain of West Point and the and the hopes and dreams have long since vanished. But I still remember the refrain of one of the most popular baric ballads of that day, which proclaimed most proudly that old soldiers never died. They just fade away And like that old soldier in that ballot, I I now close my military career and just fade away. He said an old soldier who tried to do his duty as God gave him the sight to see that duty. Aren't those eloquent words And um we I well I look at these last few chapters here in the book of Joshua, I see that really it ends on j just such a note. Here we sit see an old soldier who is speaking to the leaders of his country in chapter 23, and then in chapter 24 to the whole country itself, and he's giving his final words before he fades away into history. But he has some things he wants to say before he fades away. And he wants to say them very clearly and very emphatically. In fact, these are very important words for the nation of Israel. And they're also very important words for us to take to heart, those of us who want to be faithful and serve. Now in chapter 23, verse 1, it kind of sums up the context of this passage very well. Look at verse 1. It came to pass A long time after that the Lord had given rest unto Israel from all their enemies round about, that Joshua waxed old and stricken in age. So we come to the context here. Israel has acquired the land, just as God has promised them. Their faithful leader, Joshua, is old and he knows that his days are few. He's preparing to die. In verse 14, he says, I'm going to go the way of all the earth. And so he knows that his days are few. But before he steps off the scene, he has something to say about serving the Lord. In order to communicate in his heart fully what he wants to say, he's going to have two meetings. And as I said before in chapter 23, he's going to meet with all the leaders of Israel. And then in chapter 24, he's going to meet with all the people of Israel. And here this faithful old soldier, before he kind of breaks camp and goes to heaven, he wants to encourage Israel to stay the course for God. Because he knows that those who knew Moses and Joshua, they were all swiftly dying off. That older generation of faithful Jewish people who had seen the mighty works of God and knew the power and the glory of God They were all passing off the scene. But before he dies, he wants to remind those that are left about God And so in these two chapters, and we're not going to deal with every verse because it's too much material, I'm just going to kind of hit the highlights, but in these chapters, we learn some valuable lessons for us. Because I believe that we're living in a day when many have forgotten about the glory and the power of God. I believe we're living in a day when those who have who know about such things are becoming fewer and fewer. The older generation of saints that know how to walk with God. and know how to live by faith and know the power of prayer and the power of God and they've seen the power and the glory of God. It just seems like that generation, it seems to me, from my perspective That a lot of them are passing off the scenes or going to heaven. And there's a concern about the younger generation coming up and taking the mantle. And they need to be reminded of God's power. They need to be reminded of God's glory. Our children need to be exposed to the power of God. They need to be exposed to his gospel and the power of the Holy Spirit. So what we're going to see in these verses is what we need to know about keeping God's work alive. And Joshua's going to share these thoughts. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to see three ways that Joshua will express these thoughts to the children of Israel. And here's the first one if you're taking notes. Write down Joshua, number one, Joshua's concerns. He has some concerns. And these first few verses, as we read them, we kind of read between the lines that he's very concerned. He sees some changes that he does not like. So, like any good leader, he's going to address these things. He feels duty bound to address these issues before he departs Now we preachers, we have the same duty as Joshua. When we see things that concern us or error in the lives of God's people, we are duty-bound to address those things. You say, why? Because God loves his people. And because we love the people of God and we want to see the blessing on their life, that's what Joshua is doing here. Now I think I want you to picture in your mind the setting of this. He's probably meeting with the leaders in chapter 23 at that place called Shiloh. I told you about it before. This was in the center of the Promised Land. The inheritance that was given to the people of Ephraim, they occupied that territory. And in the very center of Ephraim was this place called Shiloh. And by the way, this was Joshua's tribe It was no accident, I think, that Joshua had the tabernacle put in his territory, in the center of the land, where everyone could get to it very easily. Because remember, three times a year they would have to come and worship at Shiloh. And it was an easy place to call people to come together. So there at Shiloh, where the tabernacle was placed, and where it stood for 369 years, I think Joshua has this first meeting with all of the elders and the leaders that are there at Shiloh. I think the family heads are there, judges are there. Soldiers, captains, and other generals are there. No doubt Caleb is there and Phineas and others. And Joshua starts out reminding them of the faithfulness of God. Look at verse 2. And Joshua called for all Israel and for their elders and for their heads and for their judges and for their officers and said unto them, I am old and stricken in age. And ye have seen all that the Lord your God hath done unto all these nations because of you. For the Lord your God it is he that fought for you. I love what Joshua says here. He reminds them, look, it wasn't me that drove out anyone. It was all the Lord who did it. Remember what God has done for you. And so the theme of what he's saying here is the faithfulness of God. He will repeat this three times. He reminds them over and over again of the faithfulness of God. But having done that He shares some concerns. First of all, I think he fears their complacency. Look in chapter 23, look in verse 6 He says to them, Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not aside therefrom to the right hand or to the left. Now here's the first concern that Joshua has, and that is that they continue to obey the Word of God and keep the law of God. He's afraid that they might start taking it for granted. You remember at the very beginning of the book of Joshua, the command that the Lord gave, he said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth But thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Why? That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. This was a command from God to Joshua, and Joshua gave it to the leaders and to the people. Why? Because the key to victory in that land of Canaan was obedience. As long as they were obedient to God, God would give them the victory. But when they stopped obeying the Lord, that's when the problems came. You see, the biggest enemy for Israel was not the Canaanites, the biggest enemy was themselves. When they began to disobey the Lord, then defeat would come. And so Joshua, I think, is beginning to see perhaps a little bit of complacency in relation to the Word of God and the law of God. And let me tell you that backsliding begins in a person's heart when they lose their excitement over God's word. That's when it begins. And so he fears that they might become complacent. By the way, later, tragically, he's exactly Right. Because as you read later on in the book of Judges, they do get complacent about the law, and because they do get complacent about that law, they do disobey God, and instead of having blessings on their life, there's curses that come Because they got complacent regarding God's word. And this is a word for all of us. We can never become complacent When it comes to the scripture, when it comes to obeying God. This is true for any people. This is true for any nation. It's certainly true for any church. I read about an American by the name of Alexander Tyler, uh, when he gave a warning to America when America was just a young nation. In fact, America was only ten years old at the time, and Alexander Tyler Saul the the blessings that God had already given in that short period of time and he made this warning and he wrote these words and it reads more like an epitaph today. This is what he said. He said, the average age of the world's greatest civilization has been 200 years He said, these nations have progressed through this sequence from bondage to spiritual faith, from spiritual faith to great courage, from courage to liberty, from liberty to abundance, from abundance to complacency. From complacency to apathy, from apathy to dependency, and from a dependence, and he said dependency he said again into bondage, and so it's this cycle. And he warned a young nation then. And by the way, we're seeing that come to pass, don't we? It seems like now We have a nation that is complacent and apathetic when it comes to the things of God and the Word of God. And now we go we have a nation that's too living in total dependency. Everybody thinks that They're owed something. And he said, right after complacency and dependency comes bondage. And we're seeing that we're having our liberties taken away. But complacency was the thing that concerned Joshua. And by the way, that's something that should concern us in the church. Let us guard against getting self-satisfied and complacent. Remember the church at Laodicea? The Bible says of them, thou art rich and increased with goods, and they said, We have need of nothing. They thought that they were satisfied with their spiritual life. They weren't pursuing the Lord. They were complacent. And the Lord says they were lukewarm, and because you're lukewarm, I'll spew you out of my mouth. And of course you know that Laodicea was a place that had water piped in, cold water from Colossae, hot water from Heropolis But by the time the water got to Laodicea through those aqueducts, the water was lukewarm and people would spit it out. And the Lord said, That's what the church is like when they become self-satisfied. So Joshua fears their complacency, but also he hears their compromise. Look at verse seven. That ye come not among these nations These that remain among you, neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves unto them. Again, this was another fear and concern that Joshua had that the people of Israel will let go of serving the Lord Yahweh and that they would begin to serve the dead gods of Canaan. He fears that they will compromise And again, this sadly did happen to Israel. Again, you go to the beginning of the book of Judges, you see the concerns that Joshua had, they came to fruition. And again, this is a warning to us. We are to cleave to the Lord, and we're not to have any other gods. Now you say, well, now wait a minute. We're Americans, we can we don't have other gods. Are you kidding? Americans are big bigger idolaters than anybody else. Some people's God is in the parking lot, their car. A God or an idol is anything that you love more than God, you serve more than God, you think about more than God? You depend upon more than God. Some people their God is their money, their possessions, their home, their reputation, their whatever. They have gods, their success, their materialism. And the truth is that we indulge in idolatry Sometimes, and this is even true sadly among Christians in the church, and Joshua gives a warning, don't don't hold on to any other gods. Get rid of all the idols. Don't allow yourself to compromise your your Christian life in any way. So he fears there complacency. He fears their compromise. And then he fears their commitment. Look at verse 8. But cleave unto the Lord your God, as ye have done unto this day. Now it's not that Joshua fears that they will be committed to the Lord. Rather, he fears that they will not please to the Lord as they should. And once again, We see this in the history of the nation of Israel that Joshua was right to be concerned because later on they'll stop cleaving to the Lord. They won't be committed to the Lord. This should be a concern of ours in the church. We don't want people that are less than fully committed to Jesus Christ. That's simple Christianity, folks. Jesus said, He that loves his father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and he that loves his son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me, and he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. Jesus spells out very clearly the guidelines for following him. And Jesus Christ is to be number one. We are to love him supremely. He's number one in our life, and everyone is to see that and know that, not only by what we say, but how we live. Our children should see it in our life. They know that Jesus Christ is number one in mom and dad's life. And nothing comes before their relationship to Christ. That's commitment. That's total commitment. That's simple Christianity, holding nothing back, but being fully committed to the Lord. And so Joshua's concern. So we see Joshua's concerns. Secondly, I want you to see Joshua's challenges. Here's the second part. Now, in chapter 23, when you get to verse 9, And on down, really, from verse 9 on down and on through chapter 24, in this section, Joshua now is issuing challenges. In the rest of chapter 23, he's going to challenge the elders. And again in the rest of chapter 24, he's going to challenge all of the people, all of the nation. And so here we see his challenges. And uh he what he basically he does is he challenges them to look at what the Lord has done and what the Lord is doing. And if they will look at that and consider the Lord, then they will more likely serve the Lord the way they should. If you look at what God has done and what God is doing, then that should motivate you to serve the Lord the way you should. That's the whole point of the challenge that Joshua is making throughout the rest of this. So first of all, notice a challenge concerning the wrath of God. Look at verse 9. For the Lord hath driven out from before you great nations and strong, but as for you, no man hath been able to stand before you this day. One man of you shall chase a thousand, for the Lord your God he it is that fighteth for you as he has promised. Take good heed therefore unto yourselves that ye love the Lord your God. Else if ye do in any wise go back and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, even these that remain among you And shall make marriages with them, and go in unto them, and they unto you, know for a certainty that the Lord your God will no more drive out any of these nations from before you, but they shall be snares and traps unto you and scourges in your sides and thorns in your eyes until you perish from off this good lamb which the Lord your God has given you. And so here he challenges them And really the whole idea it says is this if you serve the Lord, he will bless you. He will continue to drive out your enemies, and one of you can chase a thousand. If you obey the Lord. But if you disobey the Lord, he will chastise you. He will punish you. And really the crux of the matter is in verse eleven. Take good heed therefore unto yourselves that you love the Lord your God. This was a perfect indicator of a nation's love for God. If you love the Lord, then obey him, and he will bless you. But if you disobey the Lord, that's an indicator that you're not loving him. And you will bear the consequences of that. So he gives them a challenge concerning the wrath of God. You don't want to bring God's wrath on you Secondly, he gives a challenge concerning the works of God. Look in chapter 24 now, because now here the scene changes. Remember he was in Shiloh with all the elders and the leaders. Now in chapter 24, he goes to a different location. And this is Shechem. Look in verse 1. And Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and called for the elders of Israel and for their heads, for their judges, and for their officers. And they presented themselves before the Lord. And Joshua said unto all the people, so now here he's talking to everyone. And now, again, the place is Shechem. You say, what's the big deal about Shechem? Do you remember that name? Do you remember some of the things that happened there at Shechem? In Shechem, that's the place that where Abraham was when God promised him that he was going to give the land of Canaan to all his descendants. It was there at Shechem. It was there at Shechem that Jacob built an altar. unto the Lord. Shechem was also the place that was located between between Mount Ebel and Mount Gerizim. And you remember in Joshua chapter 8, right after they had failed at Ai, Joshua brought all the nation to Shechem And he put half of the tribes, six tribes on Mount Ebo, and six tribes on Mount Gerasim. And he was right there in the valley between. And uh scholars have told us that this is a natural amphitheater where people can hear what someone in the valley says and Joshua is there in the valley in the middle and he read the book of the law of God and when he read the curses the people on Mount Evil all said Amen. And when he read the blessings the people on Mount Girasim all said Amen And so here they're back at this very place. All the nation again is assembled there. And it's probably the same exact type of assembly Six nations, or excuse me, six tribes on one mountain, six tribes on the other, and now Joshua is going to address again the nation. And the key word here, whereas before in the first address it was nation and land, the key word here is the Lord. Again, he points to the Lord. He focuses on the Lord. In fact, Actually, it's the Lord who really does the talking. We see the personal pronoun I. Look in verse 3. And I took your father Abraham from the other side. Here's God talking. Through his servant Joshua. It's the Lord that's doing the talking. In verse 3, I took your father Abraham. In verse 4, and I gave unto Isaac and Jacob and Esau. And I gave unto Esau Mount a seer and so on and down in verse 5 and I sent Moses also and Aaron and I plagued Egypt according to that which I did among them. Afterward I brought you out in verse six and I brought your fathers out of Egypt Drop down to verse 8. And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, which dwell on the other side of Jordan, when they fought with you. And I gave them into your hand. Drop down to verse 10 and or verse 12 rather and I sent the hornet before you, which drave them out from before you. And down in verse 13, and I gave you a land So again, we notice here the Lord is again emphasizing his works. And again, Joshua is saying, remember the mighty works of God. Remember what the Lord did, because again, if you remember what God has done and what God is doing, it'll motivate you to serve the Lord the way you're supposed to serve the Lord. And that applies to us today in the church. We are to remember Jesus. We are to remember what he did. Think of his death on the cross. Think of how he loved us when we were lost. Where would we be without Jesus? Where will we be without his grace? Think about how he called us unto himself, how he saved us. Think about how he has forgiven us for all of our sins. Think about how he has picked us up when we have failed And has loved us anyway. Think about how he has promised us a home in heaven. And also think about how he has always met all of our needs And he's been so very faithful. He has never left us. He has never forsaken us. We may have forsaken him, but he has never forsaken us. Think about his greatness, his goodness towards you, and let all of those blessings motivate you to serve the Lord the way God wants you to serve the Lord. So we see a challenge concerning the wrath of God A challenge concerning the works of God, but then a challenge concerning the will of God. Now look at verse 14. Based on everything he's already said, verse 14. Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in truth And put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. Now, what's the key word here now? Serve, serve, serve. It's time to serve the Lord. Remember what he's done for you and then serve him. And we see it over and over again. Look at verse 15. Joshua sets the example. And if it seemed evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your father served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell, but as for me and my house, what Yeah, that's we know that verse. Very famous verse. But this is Joshua speaking to the whole nation. Make your choice, but I've already made my choice. I'm going to serve the Lord as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Now This, I'm sure, resonated with all the people. Joshua made it very clear. There's no neutrality. Make a choice. No choice is a choice. If you try not to make a choice, you've made your choice. There's no neutrality. Either you're for the Lord and you serve him, or you don't. That's it. And so Joshua gives them this challenge. Now look at their response. And by the way, let me just say God's will for your life and for my life is that we serve the Lord. Get busy serving the Lord. He doesn't want you to come to church and like one preacher said, sit, soak, and sour. He wants you involved. He wants you serving. Everyone can do something. Serve the Lord. This is an expression. This is an act of worship. Service in itself is an act of worship because we're thanking God for everything He has done for us. It's an outflow of our appreciation and gratitude for the mighty works that He's done in our life. Now, and by the way, Joshua basically said, it doesn't matter what anybody else does. I don't care what anyone else does. I am serving the Lord. Sometimes people come to church and they kind of follow the crowd. And you know when the people come be complacent they become complacent I was talking to one pastor and the pastor said, You know, I went while I win someone to the Lord, bring them into my church, they kind of follow into this complacent attitude because everyone else there is like that. Don't do that. It doesn't matter what other people do. I am going to serve the Lord. Set the pace. Set the standard. That's what Joshua does. And then notice the next thing, a challenge concerning the wrath of God, the works of God, the will of God. But then the witness of God. Look at verse 19, Joshua says something very interesting. And Joshua said unto the people, Ye cannot serve the Lord, for he is a holy God, he is jealous. A jealous God, He will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins. Now, why does Joshua say that? You can't serve the Lord. Well, I think it was because he was not at all impressed or satisfied with their enthusiasm. He kind of got a half-hearted response. And his response after that was, well, you can't serve the Lord. He may detect he may have detected some insincerity among the response of the people. I mean, he had probably hoped that some of the people would be more enthusiastic in their response. He probably hoped that maybe some of the people would bring forth their idols and smash them and get rid of them. As it's happened in other occasions in the Old Testament. But he's reminding them of this. You can't be half-hearted. You can't have one foot in the world and one foot in Christ. You can't have one foot serving God and one foot serving the gods of the land of Canaan. You've got to fully be committed. If you take the name of Christ, you call yourself a Christian and you live like the world, that's taking the Lord's name in vain. And Joshua is saying the same thing here. And what he means is he didn't he's not saying that God's not a forgiving God. He's just simply saying if they deliberately serve idols, that's a presumptuous, willful, high-handed sin, and in under the law. Such a sin like that, there's no forgiveness for under the law. Such a sin would result in disaster. So notice again the people's response. Verse 21, and the people said unto Joshua, Nay But we will serve the Lord. What was Joshua reminding them of? God's watching you. He's watching you. He knows your heart. He knows whether or not you're sincere. And may I remind you tonight that God is watching you and He's watching me. He watches everything that we do. And we can't have it both ways Remember Elijah on Mount Carmel when he said to the people in 1 Kings 18, 21, How long halt ye between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. And if but if fail, then follow him. Remember this font the response? The Bible says, and the people answered him not a word. They just kind of stared there. Maybe that's the same thing was happening here. Joshua just noticed kind of a blank stare on some people. And he said, you have to make a choice. Many people are like that. So we see then Joshua's concern. We see Joshua's challenge. But then I want you to notice the last thing, and then we'll be done. Notice Joshua's covenant. Joshua's covenant. Look in chapter 24. Look in verse 25. And the people said unto Joshua, The Lord our God we will serve, and his voice we will obey. So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and set them a statue and an ordinance in Shechem. And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law and took a great stone and set it up there under an oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us, for it had heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us, and it shall therefore be a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God. So the last official act that Joshua does as the leader of Israel is Joshua leads them to renew the covenant. With the Lord, this new generation. He leads them to renew that covenant. Now let me just say one thing here. Scholars tell us that the literary form of chapter 24 follows the ancient international treaties between a king and his subjects. They notice that pattern The literary form is the same. It's called a suzerain vassal treaty. Suzeraan king, vassal, subject. This is a treaty between a king and his subjects This is the whole form of this whole chapter. And so really Joshua 24 is a covenant renewal document, they say. Remember the covenant that Israel made at Mount Sinai in Exodus 20, where they said, you know, we will serve our God and God will be our God and we'll be his people, we'll be a light unto the world. They made a covenant there. But that was the older generation. You see, now this is a new generation. And so here's the newer generation, and they're basically doing the same thing. They're making a covenant now with Almighty God, that you will be our God, and we will serve you, and we will be faithful to you. And as a witness to this covenant action, Joshua takes a great stone and he sets it up there in Shechem And Joshua says, this stone here, this great stone, will be a monument. It'll be a witness of a covenant that you have just made and renewed with Almighty God. You know, it seems like every covenant has some kind of a token or a symbol. You know, when a couple gets married there's the token ring. That's a token of the covenant they make. Here Joshua uses a memorial stone that is a token of the covenant that they enter in with Almighty God And so whenever the people of Israel would go to Shechem and they would see this great stone under this tree, they would be reminded of the covenant relationship that they have with Almighty God. That they made a promise to be faithful to him. And so this covenant involved a great stone here. It was a marker, it was a memorial. Now we don't do that today. We don't erect memorial stones whenever we make a decision for the Lord. You know, maybe some people still do that. But do you remember when you were safe? Did you promise the Lord that you would faithfully serve Him? Remember those vows? Those decisions that you made? Have you forgotten that promise? God hasn't forgotten. When you make a decision, then you stick with it. I remember when the Lord was dealing with me when I was a a young man about preaching, and there was a place I would go. where we lived over in the woods and there was a certain tree I would go and pray. It was a nice spot, very peaceful place. And I remember there praying and wrestling with the issue of a call to preach And reading 2 Timothy 4, 2 through 5, preach the word, be instant, in season, out of season. And by that I felt like the Lord was telling me to be faithful to preach the word. That's your calling. To make the word clear, to preach the word. And I remember as a young man, that tree there, I I grabbed a big piece of bark off of that tree. Just to remind me, and I remember writing down the date and the commitment I made to the Lord as a young man that I will be faithful to proclaim the Word of God. I made that commitment before the Lord and I've got that piece of bark. And I've kept that piece of bark all these years. And uh I've kept it on my desk. And every time I look at it, it's a reminder. That's what's going on here. But here's the bottom line. When you make a decision before God, God expects you to honor that. He expects you to keep that. So he erects this big stone. So there's a great stone, but then also this covenant involved some gravestones, we could say, because from verses 29 on down to the end, verse 33, and we'll just touch on this as we close tonight. We see three funerals really, three gravestones, as we close out the book of Joshua And the first one I want to call the gravestone of faithfulness because this is the gravestone mentioned that is of Joshua himself. In verse 29 And it came to pass after these things that Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being a hundred and ten years old, and they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnah Sirah, which is in Mount Ephraim on the north side of the hill of Gaish. And Israel served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, and which had known all the works of the Lord that he had done for Israel. And so here's this first gravestone, and it's a reminder to us of faithfulness. God had used Joshua to bring the people to the promised land. He had used Joshua to lead people in the right way. And his grace stone was a reminder of the faithfulness of God, how God honored and blessed this man who served the Lord. And you know what it reminds us of? That if you're faithful to God and you obey God and you serve the Lord, he will do great things in your life. Great things. And so there's the grey stone of faithfulness. But then secondly, the gray stone of fulfillment. Look at verse 32. And the bones of Joseph with the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem. And a parcel of ground, which Jacob brought of the sons of Hamor, or excuse me, brought of the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem, for a hundred pieces of silver, and it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph. So they're right there at Shechem. They bury the bones of Joseph. You say, is this the same Joseph that was in Egypt? Yes. And hundreds of years before, several hundreds of years before, before Joseph died, he made a prediction. He said to the children of Israel, He said, Look, he said, God is going to bring you out of Egypt. And he's going to take you into the promised land. And when he does, don't you leave me here in Egypt. You take my bones with you. And when you get to the promised land, you bury my bones The Bible says in Genesis 15, And ye shall carry up my bones from thence. And then Joseph died. And he was put in a coffin in Egypt, and they carried the bones of Joseph with them. And now here they're laying him to rest there at Shechem. And if those bones could talk, Joseph would have said, I told you so I told you that God was going to do this. These are the bones or the graystone of fulfillment. And it reminds us that when God makes a promise, when God says something, he will do it Then finally there's the gravestone well to call finality. Look in verse 33. And Eliezer, the son of Aaron, died, and they buried him in a hill that pertains to Phineas his son, which was given him in Mount Ephraim. This last gravestone marks the grave of Eliezer. He was the son of Aaron, the first high priest. His grave is the grave of finality. You say why? Because the death of Eliezer marks the changing of the guard in Israel. This marks the fact that all of the old timers are now gone. All those who came out of Egypt and out of the wilderness. All those who have seen God do mighty deeds. They're now gone. And what is it now? Now it's up to the next the new generation, the next generation, to pick up the mantle of service and to continue on and to do something for the Lord. You know, it's a shame when old soldiers of the Lord pass away. You know what the shame of it is sometimes? Because sometimes there's an empty spot and no one fills that spot in. No one steps up to fill in that role. I know that many of you, and I know I've in my own life have seen many godly old saints. Pass on to be with the Lord, haven't we? We've seen godly saints that are now there in heaven. I remember I was pastoring in Tennessee. uh what comes to mind is there were two older men in particular that had such a profound influence on my life. These men were both over eighty years old. One man was named James Dunn, the other was Les Osborne They both, we had Gro down there and on Tuesday we had a Grow that met in the morning and one in the evening and in the morning. These two men in their mid-80s would go out door to door every Tuesday morning Knocking on doors. James Dunn had a severe curvature of the spine. He could barely walk, but he didn't let that keep him From doing what he felt felt the Lord wanted to do. They were out there knocking on doors. They were such godly men. Les Osborne, uh, he had a son who when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans, his son went down to help and minister to people and while he was there his son was murdered Unless Osborne retained his faith in the Lord. God brought him through that. And he continued being a a life and serving the Lord. And when those men passed away, it left a void in that church that was never filled. You would think a church that large that I had pastor, someone would step in But they didn't. And that's the shame. And here, you know what the message is? It's time to step up. It's time to step in and fulfill those roles. It's a greater shame when people left behind, don't pick up the mantle, and move on Look in Judges real quick. I'm done. I told you I was done a few minutes ago. This time I really mean it. But I'm going to look at these few verses and we'll be done. Look look in chapter one. Now Look at chapter 1, verse 1 of Judges. Just look right over it. It's right there on your right. Now, after the death of Joshua came to pass that the children of Israel asked the Lord, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites? First to fight against them. Who's going to help us now? Joshua said, well, the lead tribe, God said the lead tribe will be Judah. But no one individual ever stepped up. And what we see in the book of Judges is failure. Chapter 1 gives us the death of Joshua because it emphasizes the military failure. after Joshua's gone. And then it's mentioned again in chapter 2 and verse number 6 about the death of Joshua. Look at verse 8. Joshua the son of none the served in the Lord died being 110 years old, and they buried him in verse 9, almost the same verses we already read. But look at verse 10. And also all that generation were gathered under their fathers, and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel And look in verse 11. Here's the sad part. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam. Nobody picked up the mantle. Nobody stepped up. They didn't know the works of the Lord, the Bible says. And so it's a shame when the next generation does not pick up the mantle. We need some people that will say, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And follow the footsteps of Elijah. We need some Elisha's that will say, God, you did it for Elijah, now do it for me. Elisha or Elijah is dead, but Elijah's God is still alive. Joshua is dead. Moses is dead, but their God is still alive. Who's going to step up? Who's going to show the power and the glory? Who's going to pay the price of holiness and sacrifice and service and commitment? And fill in the gap. The God of Elijah is not dead. The God of Moses and Joshua is not dead. The problem was that next generation, there were no Joshua's, there were no Elisha's that stepped up And God is calling all the church today to step up. It's time to step up. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, help us as we read these words, these last words of a faithful man of God, a faithful soldier, warrior, who expressed his concerns. Who gave to his people great challenges, reminded them of the covenant that they've entered into with Almighty God. And Lord, let us be warned by what we see at the end that there were some who basically didn't follow the challenge. Lord, may that never be us. We know, Lord, that you're still looking for people who will be committed, who will say like Joshua, as for me and my house. We will serve the Lord. Lord, let that be us. Let that be our heart. Let that be our spirit. And we pray all this in the mighty name of Jesus and for his glory. Amen.