Carolyn, would you take God's word this morning and open please to the book of Romans, chapter twelve? Romans chapter twelve. We're gonna look at um Verses 1 through 8. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word as we look at this, read this passage? Romans chapter 12, verse number 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. For I say, through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. May God help us to uh hear and understand his word today. Can we uh pray together? Let's vow for prayer together. Father in heaven, thank you again for your word. And Lord, as we come, we pray that you would help us and give us attentive hearts to hear the message of it. And Lord, help me to make the word understandable. um and clear so that we can apply this to our life. So we want to honor and glorify you and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I know that everyone here has heard of Federal Express when it positively has to be there overnight. Now they might want to add to that motto, and you're willing to pay a fortune. Notice these prices going up there for mailing things out. Before there was the Federal Express, there was the Pony Express. The only reason we know about this is perhaps you've seen commercials about it or maybe you've read about it in history. This was a private express company that carried mail by relay on horseback riders. I'm sure you know that The easternmost part of the Pony Express was St. Joseph, Missouri. The western terminal was Sacramento, California. The cost of sending a letter by Pony Express was $2. 50 an ounce. If the weather and horses held out and the Indians held off, the letter would complete the entire 2,000-mile journey in a speedy 10 days. It might surprise you that the Pony Express was really only in operation from April 3, 1860 until November 18, 1861, just 17 months. Because right after that the telegraph line was uh invented and completed between two cities and the service was therefore no longer needed. But it was interesting reading about this. Being a rider for the Pony Express was a tough job. You were expected to ride 75 to 100 miles a day. changing horses every fifteen to twenty five miles. Other than the mail, the the only baggage you could carry contained a few provisions. You could have, you know, your lunch with you, some cornmeal and bacon and so on. In case of danger you had a medical pack that was very small. And in order to travel light and to increase speed of mobility, especially during Indian attacks, the men always rode in church sleeves, even during the fier fierce winter. Now how would you recruit people to do this? This is a hazardous job. So let me read you what a 1860 San Francisco newspaper printed for the Pony Express. Wanted Young, skinny, wiry fellows, not over eighteen, must be expert riders willing to risk daily, orphans preferred. Wow. That was the honest facts about uh that job there Uh this was a hard service. But you know, ironically, despite all this, the Pony Express never had a shortage of riders. In fact, they always had more than they needed for that service. Now the reason I talk about that is I want to talk to you today about service to God. And we need to be honest with the facts about the discipline of serving God. You know, like the Pony Express, serving God is not for the casual person. It's costly. It requires dedication. It requires your life. And God doesn't want just anybody to serve him. God asks for people to serve him who will make him a priority in their life. Let me tell you something, beloved, God doesn't want a life where you just give him the leftovers. God wants you to put him as first place. God wants you to make him a priority. And so serving God isn't a short-term responsibility or proposition. Unlike the Pony Express, God's kingdom will never go under. It doesn't matter how much technology that we discover in the world, the kingdom of God will never, ever go under. There's always a need for people that will serve God. Now the Bible clearly teaches that service to God is expected. When we're saved, we're born again, our sins are forgiven, the blood of Christ cleanses us, cleanses our conscience, gives us peace and forgiveness of sins. We have all of these blessings. And God does all of this according to Hebrews 9. 14 in order for us to serve the living God. That's what he says. God does all of this because in return, what God wants is he wants us to serve him. According to Psalm 100, verse 2, we are to serve the Lord with gladness. That's every Christian's commission. There's no such thing as spiritual unemployment. No such thing as spiritual retirement in the kingdom of God. We're to be faithful, we're to serve God until he calls us home. Which is why God, when he saves you, he gives to every believer a spiritual gift. Do you know you've been gifted by God? You've been given a measure of grace by God so that you can serve Him Paul told Timothy this in 1 Timothy 4. 14, neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, but with a laying on the hands of the Presbytery. God had given Timothy a gift for service and ministry, and Paul was reminding Timothy, Timothy, don't neglect that gift, because he was prone to do that from time to time. to neglect serving, to neglect the gift of God had given him. Two pastors were talking about their church members and what kind of members they had. And one pastor said, I have wheelbarrow saints. They're no good unless they're pushed. Yeah, that hurts, doesn't it? The other pastor said, I have lily saints. They neither toil nor neither do they spin. But a believer that understands their gifting and their enablement from the Holy Spirit will not need to be pushed. They'll want to serve the Lord. As a child of God, that should be your desire. And the Bible gives many motives for wanting to serve God. One is obedience. We just want to obey the Lord. One is gladness of heart. The Bible says serve the Lord with gladness. We should have joy over the prospect that we could actually serve the living God, the one who has saved us. Love. We do it out of love because we love our God I think the greatest motive for service, however, is just simply gratitude. Gratefulness. Listen to what the Prophet Samuel said. He was exhorting people And listen to the words that he said to them. He said, Be sure to fear the Lord and serve him faithfully with all your heart, considering what great things he has done for you. It's a great verse. You know why we serve God? Because we realize the great things that He has done for us. So today I want to talk about the discipline of service. Now, if you have been with us on Sunday morning, you know I've been going through a series of spiritual disciplines. These are habits, godly habits that we need to cultivate in our life if we want to be all that God calls us to be. We talked about the discipline of the Word of God. And the discipline of prayer and the discipline of confession and forgiveness and giving and the discipline of worship But this morning I want to talk about the discipline of service. And I think that the greatest uh set of verses on this is right here in Romans chapter twelve. I think these are the greatest verses on service. I think these are the greatest verses on worship in the New Testament. What I want you to see are three important steps for enlisting in the service of God. Here's the first one if you're taking notes number one. Here's the first step, a total dedication. A total dedication. This is where it begins. This is where worship begins. We like to talk about worship. There's a lot of facets to worship. A lot of people equate music with worship. We love music. We want to sing unto the Lord. But music is not it's not all there is about worship. It's just a part of it. This is what it's about right here. This is where it begins. Look at verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. This is where worship begins. We must surrender ourselves to the Lord fully. Body, soul, and spirit. We give all to him. We give our mind, we give our heart, we give our will, we give all of our the members of our body, we give ourselves fully to the Lord. Notice the request where he says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren. This is talking to believers here in this request. He's talking to God's people. He's not talking to those who don't know the Lord. God wants those who know him to serve him. Why is it that there are over 100 million church members in America, yet it just seems like the nation is in decline, spiritual decline? It's one of two things, either lost church members or those who are truly saved who haven't fully given themselves over to the Lord, completely dedicated themselves to the Lord. Now why should we do this? Because look again in verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. What are the mercies of God? The mercies of God are everything that Paul wrote about in the first 11 chapters of Romans. And what is Romans about? Romans is the sum and substance of all the theology of salvation. He's talking about all the blessings that we get because we are saved, because we're justified, because when we put our faith in Christ, We were given the righteousness of Christ, the imputed righteousness of Christ. All of our sins are forgiven. We have an eternal home in heaven. We have access to God. We have peace. And we could go on. Everything that Paul talked about with reference to salvation, that's all the mercies of God. You understand that, right? You're saved because of the mercy of God. Because of his great mercies to us. What is that worth to you? What is his love, his grace, his salvation, his justification, his propitiation, eternal security, ultimate glorification? What is that worth to you? That's the reason. This is gratitude for what God has done for us. This is the reason. But then the requirement Look again in verse one. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. The word present here, this is a technical word This is a word that was used whenever in the Old Testament a worshipper would come and bring their gift to the altar. They would bring their sacrifice to the altar. They would lay it fully. This was a burnt sacrifice, holy, fully given on the altar. This is the word that was used. They would present it there on the altar. This is what God is asking us. Now, when they did it in the Old Testament. It was normally a dead sacrifice. And so here God, He wants a living, present your body as a living sacrifice. This is the idea of Abraham and Isaac when Abraham presented Isaac on the altar, his own son. And you know that story there in Genesis 22. And Isaac finally understanding what was going to happen. When uh that he was going to be the sacrifice. You ever read that story? You ever get the impression that, you know, if he wanted to, I I think you know, Abraham was well in the age at that time, probably about a hundred years old. And Isaac was this young boy. I don't think a hundred year old man could tie me down if he tried. If I wanted to resist him or outrun him. Isaac didn't do any of that. When he realized that he was the sacrifice, he willingly laid himself down on the altar. He presented himself As a sacrifice there. This is the idea behind the word here. God wants you. He wants all of you. He doesn't want part of you because Jesus didn't give us just a part of himself. On the cross. He gave us everything. And God in return as your service to him, he wants all of you. This is where your spiritual worship begins. You present yourself a living sacrifice. You're living, and yet there are is something that dies when you present yourself to God. What is it? Your own will? Your own agenda? Your own desires, all of that dies. The old person dies. You give yourself fully to God and you say, God, I'm yours. For whatever you want, I am yours. This is worship. When we give ourselves to God. Worship is not just something that we do on Sunday at a public service, although this is very important I can't tell you how important it is for God's people to come together publicly and worship God and encourage one another in the faith. It's important, but beloved, that's not all there is to it. It's something that we do, but it's something that we are. It's who we are. We're living sacrifices. Present as a heorist in Greek. What does that mean? An aorist is a once-for-all action. You do it one time and that's it. You don't have to repeat it. It's done once and that's it. When you present yourself to God, you do it at one time, at one point in your life, you don't have to repeat it again because once you've done it, that's it. You belong to God You give yourself to the Lord completely and you say, God, I'm yours. I don't have to do that tomorrow. I already did it. This is not present tense This is heiress. I did it one time. I made a decision. God, I'm yours. I'm presenting myself as a living sacrifice. And that's it. And you don't look back, you don't turn back, you live up to that commitment. I read where Cortes, when he landed at Vera Cruz in 1519 to begin his conquest of Mexico, he had a small force of 700 men. And in order to motivate them, he purposely set fire to the eleven ships. No turning back, guys. We're moving forward. The men on shore watch their only means of retreat sink into the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico. For a believer, when we present our body a living sacrifice, we burn all the ships. We burn all the bridges of retreat. We say, That's it. I belong to God. And that's it. No man having put his hand in the plow and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. Jesus said it. This is where this is where worship begins. This is it right here. If you come to church and you worship, but you haven't given yourself to God, you're doing your own thing. You're not really worshiping God It begins by giving yourself to the Lord. And another result is this transformation that happens as we renew our minds. Look in verse 2. And be not conformed to this world. But be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you might prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. This is a result We are transformed as we are renewing our mind. We're beginning to be able to discern what is good and pleasing, what is God's will. And we renew our mind through the Word of God The world is always on the outside trying to conform us and squeeze us into its mold. There's this ungodliness in the world that's trying to squeeze us and make us like it. But on the inside we have the word of God that is transforming us. And it begins when we renew our mind And it's this internal force of Scripture and God's Word that is conforming us to the image of Christ. While the world is trying to conform us from the outside, the Word of God is transforming us from the inside to be more like Jesus Christ. That's one of the transformations that takes place when we present ourselves to God. Now most people don't tell out for God because they fear what God might ask them to do. I'm just afraid of what God might have me do. You know, and people ask, you know, what does all this have to do with my spiritual service? You know, well, first your spiritual service, it's an outcome of your worship. You can't really serve God if you haven't given yourself to Him. Your service is an overflow of you fully giving yourself to the Lord. It's not a replacement for your worship, it is an extension of it. You understand that? It's an extension of your true worship to God. So that means that everything that you do is an act of worship to Almighty God because you've given yourself to Him. When I preach every sermon I preach, everything I do for God, it's an act of worship. to the Lord. Even this morning what I'm doing, it's an act of worship. Uh helping out a brother in me, that's an act of worship. Ushering and and and serving in that way, passing a plate, or helping at the Lord's Supper, or teaching a Sunday school class, or You know, encouraging another believer. Everything that we do is an act of worship to God because worship is not just what we do one time on Sunday. It's who we are. And once we've given ourselves fully to the Lord, that means everything we do from there on out is an extension of our worship to God. And so that's where it all begins. There can be no genuine effective service unless, first of all, we offer ourself as a living sacrifice to God. I can remember this in my own life. When I was newly saved, I came here to grace. Pastor Johnson was thundering the Word of God like he used to do every Sunday. And my dad was saved under Pastor Johnson's powerful preaching. I just remember as a teenager watching my dad. um get saved. And I can honestly tell you, I knew the old John Harmon. And after he got saved, the new John Harmon was not like the old John Harmon. I saw the power of the gospel. I saw what happened when my dad responded to the word of God and God saved him and I would walk by his room and see him on his knees with his Bible open every day. And I thought, who is that guy? Who was that guy? That was a transformation. I saw the power of g of the gospel before I ever heard it And so my dad, thank God, he was not the kind of man that said, you know, Jerry, I'm going to let you choose whether or not you want to come to church with me. My dad was not that kind of person. My dad said, get ready, boy, you're going to church. That was my invitation. Get ready, you're coming. Now if I complained, I say, I want to do this, I want to do that, my dad was just say, look, you're coming to church, you're either coming Willingly or unwillingly, but you're coming. You're either coming with no pain or you're coming with pain. So I'm glad he was that hard nose about it, because I did come to church and I did get under the gospel, and I did as a teenager gave my heart to Jesus Christ. And from there on out, I began to grow somewhat as a Christian. But I remember very specifically in my life when I was 15 years old, um we uh the uh teenagers were we're going to camp. And uh old yellow van. Um some of you might remember. We've had several of those old vans. By the way, pray for our teenagers. They had a wonderful expedition last night. the bus broke down on the way, you know, back from Hershey Park. But uh we had it's a new bus and, you know, with a brand new battery, but you know, sometimes, you know, young people, you just have to go through those things. Especially in a Baptist church. It's just all part of it. I remember we had this yellow van that would break down at times, you know. But we were on a trip. I was going to camp, Christian camp for the first time, sitting in that yellow van, and I just remember this so vividly. That on the way up, this was like about a three or four hour ride to camp, I was sitting in the van, I was reading my Bible, I was reading the book of Joshua And I just remember reading that passage in Joshua where in Joshua 1. 5 where God says to Joshua, As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. I will not fail thee, I will not forsake thee. And for some reason, and I know you've you've had this experience before, where verse of scripture kind of jumped off the page, it kind of jumped into your heart. And that's what happened to me at that time. And I remember very specifically at that moment, I prayed and I said, Lord, I give myself wholly to you. I'm presenting myself to you. Whatever you want me to do, I'll do it. You just let me know, Lord, what you want. I'm yours now. I just remember that experience. And it wasn't long after that that God began to reveal to me what I should do. Um, you know, this is uh several buildings ago when we were over here in this other building. And uh but we had just started a Christian school when Pastor Johnson came to me one day and said, Jerry, I need a I need a janitor around here. I need someone that will clean the church. Get the church ready for the school and do all that, you know, mop and you know whatever. And I said, uh, yeah, I'll do it. Now he paid me, this is my first job. I got fifty dollars a week. I remember that. Fifty dollars a week. I thought I was the richest guy in Baltimore, you know, as a teenager. And but really I was. I mean I loved coming to church. I was always around here I seemed like I was always just serving and it was a joy just to be around Pastor Johnson and do whatever he wanted. I learned so much just by watching him and seeing what he did in ministry. And then I remember one day he came to me and he said, How would you like to preach? And I said, What? Said, yeah, why don't you we ha you know preach to this group of students here, you know. Well, that was my first sermon and I studied very, very hard for it. And uh I had pe pages of notes. The only problem is when I got up there I I forgot how to read, you know, from my first sermon. I I uh the the I think the sermon lasted three minutes long. It was a terrible sermon. And I I felt like, this is really not what God's calling me to do, I don't think, you know. But then I had another guy come to me, a man, and he said, Hey, uh, this is a man from another Christian school, and he said, Hey, I hear you preach. Yeah. He said, I know I heard you preach, uh you know have you have experience preaching well. You know, I've got three minutes experience So why don't you come down to my school and why don't you preach to the y to the students there? And um so I did. And I think the Lord blessed it that time. I was a little bit better. But and then God began to show me, hey, maybe this is what you should be doing. I remember cleaning this church, and when nobody was here, Pastor Johnson would leave his Bible and his notes on the pulpit. He did that seemed like every Sunday. So while I was cleaning the church late Sunday night where everybody was gone. Pastor's Bible was still there, his notes were still there. So I would repreach the sermon that he preached that day with his Bible and notes. And uh some of the best sermons I ever preached, nobody was there to ever hear them To an empty auditorium, you know. But I just remember God at that point, beginning little by little, I had this hunger for the word. I had this hunger to make the word of God clear to people. And then God really burned in my heart the fact that the Bible is the Word of God. This is the inspired and errant word of God. And he gave me this solid conviction that what the church needs is they need the Word of God. And that was really what inspired me. And so little by little God began to make clear, hey, take and preach the word, make the word of God clear. And here's the point that I'm trying to make. That all came after I said, Lord, I'm giving myself to you. I think the pattern normally is that once you say, God, I'm now yours, I give myself fully to you, and you really mean that, I think that what will happen is God will then begin to reveal to you what He wants you to do for Him. The area of service. I think God will just begin to put those things in front of you. And you'll begin to see some of those needs. You know, I think sometimes people they come to me and go, Look, just give me a list of things to do. Well I can do that, but I would really like for you to go to God and say, God, what would you have me do? And then keep your eyes open and be alert because The desires you have, the holes that you see, maybe here even in this church, they can be filled by you if you see that need and you're willing to jump in and you're willing just to serve. You know, God's a whole lot better at doing that than I am. He has he's the one who gifts you. He's the one who made you. He will put those desires in your heart, the things that he wants you to do. But the first there has to be this total dedication of yourself to the Lord. And I think that once you do that, God opens up the doors. And God says, here, do this. Serve me this way. There has to be a total dedication. But here's the second thing I want you to see in the passage. There has to be a thoughtful estimation. Look at verse number three. For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God has dealt to every man the measure of And what Paul is saying here is that once you've made this total dedication, you need to have a thoughtful estimation and evaluation of yourself. And I think this is sometimes where many Christians go wrong when they're assessing their service. We have to have a proper attitude and don't think in exaggerated terms about yourself. Don't think about yourself more highly than you ought to think. I think Paul may be addressing a problem with some of the believers at the church there, at the church of Rome. Maybe some thought more highly of themselves and they were clamoring maybe for things that perhaps God had not called them to And they needed to first of all really understand the gift and the measure of what God has given them. You know, you want to see a frustrated Christian? It's a Christian that is trying to do something that God never intended for them to do. They're trying to tackle something that God didn't really gift you for that. He really didn't wire you for that And you're going to be very frustrated if you attempt to do things that God never really called you to do. But if he's called you to something And he's gifted you for that thing. When you find it and you start doing it, the opposite will happen. There's going to be real joy. There's going to be a real sense of satisfaction. Because you're doing the thing that God Called you due. And this is why you have to think correctly. Look at the verse 3, which says, Through the grace of God given to me to every man that is among you, not to think. Look at the word think there. That's fur from Froneo And it's uh it's a word that has the idea of thinking through something more highly than he ought to think. Hooper Ferneo. This is to think of yourself in exaggerated terms. Paul's saying, don't overestimate yourself Don't exaggerate yourself in what you can do. This is the person who might think he's the next great this, that, or the other. You know, in Galatians 6. 3, Paul says for if a man think himself to be something when he's nothing, he deceives himself. And so we have to think correctly. And I think Paul had to deal with this problem at the church at Cora. And part of the problem was they were abusing their spiritual guests, and some were clamoring for The best gift, the showy gifts, the ones that got the most attention, those are the ones that they were going for. And Paul says, look, you know what? We don't get to choose our spiritual gift. God is the one who gives us that. And we have to find out what that is and then serve according to that. That's a Paul uh problem, excuse me, that Paul had dealt with. And so don't think of yourself more highly. And then on the other hand, don't think of yourself more lowly than you ought to. But look what he says in verse number three. But to think soberly according as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. So there on one hand we can think of ourselves more highly than we should. There is the other hand we can be more lowly. I call this superficial humiliation. Don't depreciate the value of your gift with a false humility. Let me tell you something. Everybody is somebody in the body of Christ. It doesn't matter what your gift is, if God's given that to you, then you are valuable in the body of Christ and using that gift that God has given you, whatever that gift may be. And this is where Paul uses the illustration of a body. We're to think in terms of sober realization, find our gift, and then do that thing that God has called us, because again, in verse 3, Paul said, For I say by the grace of God given to me I'm telling you, because I am who I am only by the grace of God. I mean, Paul understood his gifts, and he understood that whatever he was able to do for the Lord, it was all according to The gift that God had given him. 1 Corinthians 3. 10, Paul said, This, according to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I've laid the foundation and other builds thereon. Paul understood what he could do and what he couldn't do Paul understood. He didn't have a superficial humiliation. He didn't say, oh, you know, I'm really nothing. I don't really have a lot. No, Paul said, you know, I'm a wise master builder. I know how to go in. I know how to lay a foundation. I can preach Christ. And once that foundation is laid, there's someone else that can come in behind me and they can build on that foundation. Some will come behind me and build on that. And one man waters, another man sows, another man waters, but it is God who gives the increase. He understood that he had a part. Paul's part was not to stay at a place too long. There are some men that are gifted to stay long. at a church and take it to different levels. There are some who go in and they lay a foundation and they're there for that time and then someone else comes in behind them. And then there are some that can lay the foundation and stay there. And then there are some who may be a bridge to others. We're all gifted and wired differently in the kingdom of God. We just have to realize how God has given us this grace. But Paul would say this. He said, I know this, I am what I am by the grace of God. Whatever I am, it's all by God's grace. And if you're in the body of Christ, you're valuable in what you do. So there has to be this total dedication of yourself to the Lord. And then there has to be this thoughtful estimation of what you can do and how God has made you and what your gifts are and you pray and God will show that to you. He'll open the doors of And then finally, number three, there's a truthful participation. After that, then you go and you serve in the body of Christ. Look at verse 4. For as we have many members in one body, all members have not the same office Now Paul's using an analogy of the body. Just like a body has many members, and yet it's one body Even so, the body of Christ has many members. There's diversity, but yet there's unity And the body is one, and every member in your body is important. And in verse four, what it uses the word office, that's praxis, means function. Every member has its own function. Its own function. And by closing, let me just show you this. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 real quick. I'm going to close with this because we're getting close to the end. But let me just show you this. Paul uses this analogy in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. talking about a body. And notice what he says in 1 Corinthians 12 about the diversity of gifts. Look at verse 12. 1 Corinthians 12, 12. Talking about the body of Christ. For as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one, so also is Christ. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free. We have been all made to drink into one spirit. Isn't that a great passage there It doesn't matter where you are, where you're from, or what your ethnic background is, when you come to Christ, we're all one in the body of Christ. There's total equality, there's total oneness in the body of Christ. And yet there's diversity in a sense in the way that he's made us to function. In verse 14, for the body is not one member, but many. For if the foot shall say, I'm not of the hand, I'm not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? You ever have a member of your body not cooperate? Your foot not cooperate? Sometimes that happens to me when I get up in the morning. Foot's not cooperating here. Paul's just you know he's kind of using this analogy. You know, what if the foot said, oh, you know, since I'm not the hand, I'm not gonna do anything. I'm not that important. I mean I'm not really seeing that much. I'm just an old foot, a smelly foot. I'm not the hand. I'm not out there seeing, you know, you can't see my feet, but you can see my hands here You know, if the foot said I'm not of the hands, so I'm not of the body, no, that's that's not true. You're very valuable as the foot. And look in verse number 16. And if the ear shall say, Because I'm not the eye, I'm not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And verse 17: if the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? And it's a whole we're hearing where we're the smelling. You say, oh, this sounds kind of ridiculous. Well, Paul means for it to sound ridiculous. You know why? Because there were people in the church at Corinth that were thinking that way. And Paul wanted to show them how ridiculous that kind of thinking is. What if your body, what if the members of your body acted the way some of you members of the church act? We have a dysfunctional body, if you took those attitudes. And the whole point is everybody You've been gifted differently, but you've been brought to the body of Christ to serve a function, find that function and use it and serve to the glory of God. Let me tell you something. I believe it's God who adds people to his church. And if God has brought you here to Grace Bible Baptist Church, He's brought you here to serve a function. And if you're not serving that function, then we're going to be dysfunctional. Whatever that thing that God has called you to do. And I'm going to tell you something right now, I'll just be real honest here. I don't want to make anybody mad, but I think that COVID has caused a lot of bad habits for church people. I think it's brought a lot of bad habits. I think I think people are now using it as an excuse for I that's I can't. No. Let me tell you something, folks. I and believe me, I'm I'm sympathetic. I know People that have struggled with it and have gotten it and and and we've had family members die. I I understand all of that. But you know what? It's time now to move forward for God. God does not want us living in isolation. You give yourself to the Lord, you dedicate yourself to the Lord, you serve God Don't do anything foolish or stupid. Be wise. Be careful, especially. And again, please hear me. Especially if you're senior saints. I understand the medical issues, and you have to be extremely careful. I'm not saying that I'm saying use wisdom, use judgment, be careful, but don't let those things keep you from serving God the way God has called you. Because getting up out of bed every day is a risk. There's a risk with living every day. You can't remove that. And I'm going to tell you something, folks, COVID's not going anywhere. It's here with us. We have to learn to function and don't let it keep us from being everything that God has called us to be. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I just pray that your word would strengthen our hearts I thank you, Lord, for this body of Christ that you have here at Grace, these wonderful saints that love you, that desire to please you And Lord, it's a privilege just to be able to preach the word to people that love Christ and love his word. And I just, Lord, I just pray that you'll help us. We have challenges in this world in which we live today. We understand that. And Lord, we don't want to be foolish and unwise in the way that we live our life. But at the same time, Lord, we also don't want to stop doing the things that you've called us to do. So give us wisdom. Help us. Lord, we know that you call all of us to serve and to worship. This is our reasonable service. Because of what Christ has done for us. And so, Lord, help us to worship and to serve the way you've called us to. And Lord help us to live in faith and trust you, to do all that we know to do, to do all that we can do, but yet to live in faith. And to be fruitful as a believer. And to show this world what real faith is, to be a testimony to that. And so, Father, I pray for the growth of your church, for the service of your people, for your glory. And then I pray, especially if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ as their Savior. Oh, how I pray that the Holy Spirit would so move in their heart that they would come to Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to talk to you for a minute. You may not be a member of this church or a part of this church. You may be just visiting. And you may never have really fully in your own mind embraced the gospel of Christ. And truly in this message today, I spoke to the church. primarily. But I want to tell you something, friend. Jesus Christ came and died for you. He took all of your sins upon himself at Calvary so that you could have eternal life in heaven and be saved. And friend, if you're here today and you want to be forgiven of your sins, you want to have eternal life, salvation is just a prayer away. It's reaching out in faith. Saying, yes, Jesus, I trust you. I know you died for me. Please come into my heart. Please save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Now, when we dismiss this service, there's going to be ministers up here in the front. If you want to know more about how to become a child of God, we have people here waiting to talk to you. We we have nothing against giving public invitations. We do it here at Grace. We've limited some because of the COVID here lately, but It doesn't matter whether you're seated in a pew or you're walking down an aisle or wherever you are. It doesn't matter where you are. What's important is that you give your heart to Christ. Is that you repent of your sins. Really, you can't give anything until first you come and you repent of your sins and you say, Jesus, save me. Reach out in faith. Reach out in faith and say, Jesus, save me. And folks, he'll save you. And if you want that, we want to encourage you along in your Christian life. Father, bless your word to every heart here. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.