And I invite you to take your Bibles out. Open please to the book of Colossians. As you know, on Sunday night we've been preaching through this epistle, and really we're coming to the end of it because we're in chapter four. And tonight I want to deal with chapter 4, verses 2 down to verse 6. These are a few verses, but they have a great truth for us tonight. So look in Colossians chapter 4, and look at verse 2, and follow along as I read these verses too. Tonight. Verse 2, continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance To speak the mystery of Christ for which I also or am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom towards them which are without, redeeming the time. Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man. Now, no doubt you've heard the expression talk is cheap. But here the Apostle Paul is going to show us that talk is not cheap. It's never cheap. In fact, talk is very important, it's very powerful. Words and speech are more powerful sometimes than we think. It's been said that for every word that Adolf Hitler wrote in his book Mein Camp or My Struggle, one hundred and twenty-five people Died during World War II. And so speech is a very powerful thing. Speech is something that is given to us by God. It's a gift given to us by God, and we're stewards for how we use it And uh would to God that all of us used our speech in a way that showed the glory of God and the preeminence of Jesus Christ. Now remember our theme, and actually the theme of Colossians really it's not a theme that we came up with. It's a theme that we've seen that's so very prevalent in the book of Colossians, and that is the theme of the preeminence of Jesus Christ. And remember, we've been looking at that whole thing. Now you remember that the book of Colossians really divides itself neatly between doctrine and duty. In chapter 1 and 2, Paul lays a strong doctrinal foundation. In chapter 3 and 4, he tells us what we ought to do, our duty, based upon that doctrinal foundation. Chapter 1 and 2 is very doctrinal. Chapter 3 and 4 is very practical. Well, Chapter one and two is what we ought to believe, and Chapter three and four is how we ought to behave. And so Remember also the outline for Colossians. Let me remind you about this. Chapter 1 is the preeminence of Christ declared. Paul in chapter 1 talks about the preeminence of Christ in the gospel, in redemption, in the church. In his own ministry, he showed the preeminence of Christ. In chapter 2, the preeminence of Christ is defended. Paul defends the the preeminence of Christ against all the false doctrine that was seeping into that church. And then in chapter 3 and 4, the preeminence of Christ is demonstrated. And you remember we looked at how we are to demonstrate the preeminence of Christ in a few areas. First of all, in our warfare against sin, we saw in chapter three that we are to mortify sin in our life That we are to wage war against sin. We're a new man in Christ because of our oneness with the Lord Jesus since we're raised with Christ. And we're seated with Him in heavenly places. We're to seek those things above. We have that oneness with Christ, and therefore we mortify sin. Also, we demonstrate it in our wedded life, and our relationship to our spouse Wives are supposed to submit. Husbands are supposed to love their wives and not be harsh with them. Children are to taught to obey. And parents are taught to not provoke their children. to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Now the preeminence of Christ is also, as we saw, demonstrated in our workplace. Wherever the Lord has placed you, wherever you may be employed, you are to show the preeminence of Jesus Christ. We saw that in chapter three at the end where it says servants in verse twenty-two, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh. And then in chapter 4, verse 1, masters give unto your servants that which is just and equal. And so we're to have a relationship on our workplace as if we're showing forth the Lord Jesus. We're to treat our workers as if they were the Lord Jesus. We are to treat our masters. As if we're obeying the Lord Jesus. So we're demonstrating the preeminence of Christ in every relationship in every area of our life. Now we come to the point to where Paul's going to address another area And that is, we now are going to talk about how we demonstrate the preeminence of Christ in our words, and the words that we speak. Now, if you notice in these verses, three times speak Speech or speaking is talked about. Look again in verse number three, where it says, with all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ. There he talks about speaking. Look at verse number four. That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. And then look down at verse number six. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt. And so three times we see the word speak or speech And so the idea then is very important as Christians how we use our speech, how we use our mouth, how we use our tongue. Did you know doctors can measure your physical health by looking at your tongue? You ever go to a doctor and they say stick out your tongue? Why do they do that? Because a doctor by looking at your tongue your tongue can pretty much get a general understanding of your health. If it's coated, you probably have a fever. If it's yellowish, you probably have a problem with your digestive system. And so on, they can tell your basic health by looking at your tongue. But did you know that the great physician, Jesus, can tell your spiritual health by your tongue? by the speech that you use. And so, in fact, James has a lot to say about the tongue. James says the tongue, it's like it's compared to a bridle and a rudder. It's compared to a fire and a poisonous animal. It's compared to a fruit tree or a fountain. And all these pictures tell us that the tongue has power to direct, the tongue has power to destroy, and the tongue has power to destroy. There's great power in the tongue or our speech. Someone has given the acrostic to an undisciplined talker, they give them the acrostic harm, hit and run mouth. Hopefully we're not like that, a hit and run mouth. And so it's very important. You say, why is it important? Well, it's important because of ministry. Brother, if you ever want to be used in the ministry, you have to be able to have a good use of your speech. In fact, James says, My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. What James is saying, listen, don't be anxious. to stand and be a teacher because you know why? Did you know that they're going to receive the greater condemnation? Did you know when it comes time for judgment that when you're judged and I'm judged, I'm going to be judged a little bit more severely, you say, why? Because I have to stand and teach The Word of God, and I want you to know that I have to give an account of everything that I say. And so there's the greater condemnation. And so James says, don't clamor for this teaching. You better make sure that the Lord has put you there. William Barclay said this. He must have every care, talking about the teacher, that he's teaching the truth and not his own opinion or even his own prejudices. It is fatally easy for a teacher to distort the truth and not teach God's version. And that's so true. That warning we need to take to heart. It's important because of maturity. Did you know that James says if you can speak the truth without offending others, you have become a perfect person? And when he says perfect, he doesn't mean sinless. He means you've reached a stage of maturity when you're able to speak the truth. In such a way where you don't bring great offense. And friend, there's an art to that. Now we know that some truth is just going to offend. It doesn't matter how easily or graciously we may say it. But friend, now listen, I don't mind offending a person because of my position. I just don't want to offend someone because of my disposition. position. I want to be careful in the way that I speak. The Bible says the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. The word strive there is matromai. We'll get the word matra man Can't be a macho man always daring someone to knock, you know remember that commercial with a battery on the guy's shoulder, I dare you to knock it off. You know, I dare you to knock this chip off my shoulder. You can't have that attitude. But you have to be gentle And so it's also important because of mastery. That is, if you want to have moderation in your life and self-control, it starts with our speech Now, by the way, you know there were people in the Bible that had a problem with this. Moses. The Bible says this right down Psalm 106, verse 32. They angered him at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their safes. And then it goes on to say, because they provoked the Spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips. Moses had trouble with it. Sometimes he got angry and spoke. Isaiah said this, Woe is me, for I'm a man of what? Unclean lips. He had a problem with speaking pure words. David said this in Psalm 39. He said, I will take heed unto my ways that I sin not. with my tongue. He said, I am determined that I am not going to sin with my mouth. And then he said this, while I was musing the fire burned. That is, something made him angry And then he said, then spake I with my tongue. And then he wrote this in Psalm 141, set a watch, O Lord, before my mouth. And keep the door of my lips. Lord, I put an angel to guard my mouth. You know, I wish that my mouth had a control-Z function. You say what's control Z? Those of you that know that are on computers and you're computer literate, you know that if you do something on your computer or you type something and you want to immediately erase it because you didn't like it, you want to undo it, you hit Control Z, and you know what? It takes it away. It's as if it was never happened. That's a little free computer lesson for you out there. I wish that my mouth had a control Z function. So because there's been times when I've said something where I immediately wish that I took that back. I wish I was able to hit control Z as if it never happened. But friend, we don't have a control Z on our mouth. And when we speak something, it's going to have an effect. No wonder David said, Lord, set a watch. over my tongue and uh at the door of my lips. Someone wrote, a careless word may kindle strife, a cruel word may wreck a life. A bitter word may smite and kill, a brutal word will accomplish nil, but a gracious word may smooth the way, a joyous word may brighten a day. A timely word may lessen stress. A loving word may heal and bless. Now with all that in mind, I want you to look at this passage Because what I want you to see with me tonight are just three important ministries of speech. Three ways that we can use our words and our tongue to demonstrate the preeminence of Jesus Christ in our life. So if you're taking notes, write down number one. We demonstrate the preeminence of Christ by number one, speaking words of worship. Speaking words of worship. Now look down in verse number two. Continue in prayer and watch in this in the same with thanksgiving. Notice the highest use of our speech is to pray. You can use your speech in no greater way than to talk to God. And so Paul here talks about prayer as the very first way to use our words. And we need to pray, beloved. Did you know someone said the church is the only army that marches on its knees? And we march forward in prayer. Now Paul here, he's asking prayers from the people of God. He's saying, Pray for me. Paul was a mighty apostle, but he wasn't too proud to say, I need your prayers. And some and if someone like Paul needed prayers, how much more do we need the prayers of God's people? Now notice the praying. First of all, our praying must be faithful. Look again in verse 2. Continue in prayer. Look at that word continue. It means to be busily engaged in, to persist in, to give constant attention It was a word that spoke of an army that was continually attacking a city. They were persistent in attacking that city. They wouldn't stop. And that's the idea here with prayer. Devote yourself to prayer. Be faithful to prayer. Continue to pray. Don't stop. How many of you don't raise your hand? You've prayed for something and you've prayed, and there just doesn't seem to be an answer. You know what God's Word says to you, don't stop. Just be faithful. You say, I'm praying for someone to be saved, and I've been praying for years. Good, don't stop. Just keep on praying. I read where George Mueller, the great man of faith, he prayed. For 40 years for a person to get saved. And after 40 years of praying, you know what? That person got saved. So you just continue in prayer. Don't pray just when an emergency comes. That's not the way we're to live We are to pray continually, friend. We need to because we have to withstand this world and its fallenness, and the only way we can do that is through prayer. The constant pressure that we face demand That we pray. Someone said prayer should be the breath of our breathing, the thought of our thinking, the soul of our feeling, the life of our living, the sound of our hearing, and the growth of our giving. If you read the book of Acts, you're going to find they continued in prayer. Paul said to Timothy, Timothy, I exhort that first of all there be prayer. First of all, not last of all. Sometimes we look at prayer as a last resort, friend. It's not a last resort. It's the first resort, and it's everything in between. We pray And so we should be, our praying must be faithful, but then also notice our praying must be watchful. Look again in verse 2. Continue in prayer and watch in the same. Now what does that word watch mean? It means stay alert. Stay alert in prayer. It's the same word Peter used when he said, be sober, be vigilant for your adversary, the devil, is like a roaring lion. Walking about. Let me ask you a question. If you met a if you were in a jungle and you knew a lion was out to get you, would you be alert? Yeah, I remember one time we went on a safari when I went trip in Africa and we were headed to a a certain place and we happened about fifty yards away to see two lions with a big furry mane under a tree. I want you to know, friend, I was alert after that I was pretty alert. And it and Peter is saying the same thing, but Paul is using that word to talk about prayer. When you're praying, stay alert. Now you know why we need this? Let me tell you why. Because it's been my experience that when I get on my knees to pray, all of a sudden I'm s I start thinking about all the things I need to do. In fact, the devil will be there to remind you of all the things that you need to do. He will offer you a to-do list. And your mind will be thinking about, man, I've got to do this and I've got to do that. And before you know it, you say, you know what, I don't have time to pray. I've got to get busy. Or here's the opposite. Rather than your mind getting so active, your mind will do the opposite. And you know what? Sometimes when you're praying, you'll start to get drowsy and you'll fall to asleep. Now, friend, that's not the spirit moving upon you and taking you away to a spiritual world. You just went to sleep. Just like the disciples did in the garden. When Jesus saw that, what did he say? Watch and pray. Be alert when you pray. God wants us to be alert. Friend, if our prayers are drowsy, they're not going to reach heaven. We've got to pray with everything we have. And so we've got to be alert and we've got to watch and pray. You see, if there's no fire on the altar, the incense is not going to make it to heaven. And so there has to be some fire to our prayer. So our praying must be faithful. It must be watchful. Notice also our praying must be thankful. Look again in verse 2. Continue And watch in the same with what? With thanksgiving. That is, friend, just that's such an important part of prayer. praying. That we come to God and we're thankful to the Lord. The Bible says, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Listen, don't just go to God and ask for things and never be thankful. How would we feel if our kids always came to us asking for something and they never thanked us for what we've already given them? That's kind of selfish. And a lot of times we treat God that way. Listen, we ought to go into the throne of grace or to the throne of grace with thanksgiving in our heart, being thankful to the Lord. Now, Paul mentions thankfulness a lot in this epistle. In fact, let me show you a few verses. Look in chapter 1, look at verse 3. Notice this again. We give thanks to God and the Father. Look in chapter 1, verse 12. Giving thanks unto the Father. Look in chapter 2, look in verse number 7. Rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith as ye have been taught, abounding therein with Thanksgiving. Abounding with thanksgiving. Look in chapter 3. Look at verse number 15. Notice what it says there. And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also you're called in one body, and be ye Look at verse 17. And whatsoever you do in word and deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father. And all the way down here to the verse that we just read. Verse Verse number two of chapter four. Be thankful. Now, friend, remember when Paul wrote this, where was he? He was in a Roman prison. In a Prisoner. And you know what? The fact that he wrote it from a prison makes it all the more special. No matter what circumstance you're in, friend, look at what the faithfulness of God. Listen, we have so much to be thankful for So our praying must be with uh faithfulness, we must be faithful, we must be watchful, we must be thankful, but also write this down, our praying must be purposeful. Purposeful. Look at verse number three. With all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance. Now Paul's very specific here in his request. He's saying, I want you to pray for me, but what I want you to pray is I want you to pray that God will just open up a door of utterance. What did Paul want? He wanted more opportunities. to share the gospel. And so he's very specific in his prayers. You know, too often our prayers are vague in general. Lord bless these men missionaries. We need to be a little more specific than that. How about what if your children came to you one day and said, Dad, I just need you to bless me? Well what do you mean by that, son? What do you mean you want me to bless you? Can you be speci I I don't know that I just want you to bless me. Well I need to know specifically what you mean by that. Now God he already knows what we need, but friend, he wants us to say it specifically. You know why? How are we going to know when God answers that prayer if we don't ask specifically? And so come very specifically. That's what Paul does. God wants to give to us He's not reluctant. He wants us to come. He wants us to be specific. He wants us to ask big requests. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee, Bring His grace and power are such that none could ever ask too much. Richard Trent wrote this: prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance, it's laying hold of his willingness. And friends, so when you go to God, be specific. So, how do we demonstrate the preeminence of Christ with our words? Words of worship. In praying, be faithful, be watchful, be thankful, be purposeful. Now here's the second thing. Write this down. We demonstrate the preeminence of Christ with our words by speaking words of witness. Speaking words of witness. Look at verse number three again. Withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds. Now Paul, remember he writes this letter from a prison in Rome. And notice again his request. I want you to pray that the Lord would open up a door Of utterance, to speak the mystery. Now, what's the mystery there? Now we already saw this, and we don't need to take time to go over it in depth. But the mystery is the idea of the Gentiles being added into the church Or having the gospel spread, not only to Jews, but to Gentiles as well. And in fact, that was God's plan from all along. When God blessed Abraham, he blessed that family, that Abraham would be a blessing to all of the world. This was in the Old Testament, it was somewhat hidden, but it's God's will that everyone hear the gospel And so really the mystery is simply the gospel of Jesus Christ. You know what Paul's praying? I want an opportunity To preach the gospel more, to share the gospel more. Now Paul's in prison, but he hadn't asked them that they would open up, they would pray that the doors of that prison would open up. No. He was asking that the door of ministry would open You see, it was more important to Paul that he'd be a faithful minister than he'd be a free man. He was more concerned about the gospel spreading than anything else. else. And so he says, pray for me. Now Paul, he wanted to present the gospel in three ways. First of all, courageously. Look again at the end of verse 3. For which I am also in bonds. Paul said, the gospel, the mystery that I want to share is the reason I'm here. It's the reason I'm in bonds. And the idea is I don't want this imprisonment to hinder me from being bold. to continue to share the gospel. I want to use this full, this, this, this prison, this imprisonment for a full opportunity to share the gospel. Now you remember that we learned a little bit about Paul's imprisonment and when we were studying Philippians. You remember how that in the book of Philippians, Paul was there in prison. And by the way, it was the same imprisonment. This is another prison epistle. Paul wrote from that prison the book of Philippians, he wrote the book of Colossians, he wrote the book of Philemon, he wrote the book of Ephesians, and so in this same prison, he's writing all of these letters Now you remember the church of Philippi, they were concerned because they first of all they didn't they couldn't find Paul, but finally they located him in a Roman prison. They were wondering why would God put his greatest preacher in of prison. Look back and just turn back a few pages left, about three pages. Go back to Philippians chapter 1. Let me remind you. about this. Look at Philippians chapter 1. Look at verse number 12. Listen to what Paul says to the Philippians. Chapter 1, verse 12. But I would that you should understand, brethren That the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. You know, Paul is saying, don't worry about me. In fact, the gospel is spreading more from this prison. Than if I were out of prison. The gospel is going places because of me being in this prison that it would otherwise never go Look in verse number 13. So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. That word for palace, Praetorian, is talking about the Praetorian guards that were chained to the Apostle Paul. They had six-hour shifts. If you're a Roman soldier, if you're one of the elite Praetorian guards of Caesar, you were assigned to Paul, you would stay chained to him for six hours. Let me ask you a question. How would you like to be chained to Paul for six hours Six hours. I'm telling you, you talk about an education. And what was happening? These men were being chained, and Paul was sharing the gospel with them, and they were getting saved. And now the gospel was reaching into the upper echelons of the Roman government. And otherwise it would never be able to penetrate there God was using Paul's imprisonment to do that, and Paul was saying, I want there to be more opportunities To share Christ. Look at verse twenty, chapter one, Philippians, according to my earnest expectation and my hope that in nothing I shall be ashamed But that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. to keep magnifying Christ. Even if it means I have to die. Even if it means if I have to stand before Caesar and give an account for the gospel and I'm put to death. If that helps Christ to be magnified, well I'm ready for that Whatever. As long as the gospel continues on. He wanted to share the gospel courageously. But then secondly, clearly, go back to Colossians. Let me show you another thing. Look in verse 3 again. With all praying also for us that God would open us unto us the door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bond. Look at verse 4. That I may make it manifest. Look at the word manifest there. An interesting word. To make visible, to make clear. And it's where and it's the word fenero or uh feneo, or we could shorten it to thane, the word fane. Now we hear that word in some of the English words that we use. For example, how many of you ever heard of the word cellophane? Cellophane. We know what that is. Plastic wrap, right? Clear, transparent wrap. You know, supermarkets, when they got really big They would sell meat, but they would wrap it in brown paper and they found out people weren't buying it because they wanted to see the meat before they could buy it. And so they wanted something that could preserve the meat, and something that people could see, where they could see the meat, and so the scientists came up with an idea. He took a uh a cellulose fiber and he made a transparent plastic out of it and he took the word uh cell and then added the word thane, cellophane Because people could see right through that plastic. And he took this Greek word here, which means to manifest. Or to make clear. And Paul is saying, listen, when I share the Word of God, I want it to be clear. I want it to be crystal clear. And friend, that ought to be the goal of all of us. When we're sharing our faith, when we're sharing the Word of God, we want to be crystal clear in what we say. I know that for my own self, I don't always accomplish this goal But I know that when I come to the pulpit, I strive for clarity. You know why? Because if you don't understand me, friend, I'm not going to help you. If you don't understand the word of God, you're not going to have anything that you can take with you If you don't understand the word. In fact, Paul uses this same argument in 1 Corinthians 14 when he's talking about edifying the church, and he's talking about the gifts in the church, and he said this if a trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who's going to prepare himself for battle? If you don't understand what's being said, it's not going to bless you, it's not going to help you, it's not going to edify you. And so Paul says, I want to be clear. One preacher said this: I use big words to disguise my ignorance. If I can use a word that nobody understands, chances are people at least think I know what I'm talking about. Friend, but if you don't understand what's being said And so Paul said, I want to speak the word courageously. I want to speak it clearly. And then also I want to speak it correctly. Look again at verse 4. That I may make it manifest as, watch this, as I ought to speak. to speak. And he's referring there to the mandate, to the God ordained method of just simply presenting the gospel. Paul said, I just want to do it the way I ought to do it, the way I should do it. And what is that? Just to make it clear and believe and have confidence in the message itself. There are certain people out there that feel like the gospel needs our help. We have to water it down because it's too offensive. We have to make it a little bit more appealing. And so therefore we try to change it just a little bit to make it a little more acceptable. Friend, that's not your job or my job to do that. We don't remove the cross or the offense of the gospel. Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation. Salvation. I just believe in the power of it. Paul said this in 1 Corinthians 1. 17, for Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel. Not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none of fact. Paul said, I you know, I can get up there and I can be very oratorical And I can spellbind you with my rhetoric, he said, but you know what may happen? The message of the gospel might be lost in all that. I'm going to tell you something. God doesn't need orders. He just needs clear preachers of the word Because the word will do the work. And so Paul said, I want to preach the gospel in a way where I don't hinder it. I just make it so very clear and straightforward that people are going to get it. They're going to understand it. Let me give you an illustration. You're here in Colossians. Look over on to the right. It's probably right there in front of you. 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 1. 1. Might be on the right-hand side or just one page over. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. Listen to what Paul says here. Look at verse 1. For you yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain. Paul's remembering when he went to that city originally You remember what happened to Paul, look at verse 2. But even after that we had suffered before, we were shamefully entreated, as you know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention. He said, what happened to Paul? You remember what happened to Paul and Philippi? He was sharing the word and people got angry because people were getting saved, and the next thing you know, they get angry at Paul and they throw him in prison He was shamefully entreated. And you remember that prison must have been named Sing Sing because Paul and Silas sang that night. And you remember there was an earthquake And more people got saved. And finally they said, Paul, just leave. And he was shamefully entreated. And when he left Philippi, he went to Thessalonica. And Paul said, you remember, but look at verse 3. For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in gall. Paul said, look, when I came to you after I preached to Philippi I came and I I presented the gospel and I didn't do it. Our exhortation was not of deceit, and the word deceit here means error. I didn't give you error or nor uncleanness. That has to do with the motives. I didn't come to you with the wrong motive or guile. That has to do with the idea of to bait a hoof, to use trickery. Paul said, when I came to you and I gave you the gospel I didn't come with the wrong motive. I didn't come bringing error. I didn't come to to trick you into getting saved, to bait a hook that I might reel you in. I didn't use any kind of salesmanship or trickery in the way that I gave the gospel In fact, look at look keep reading. Look down there in verse number four. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which tries the heart. Paul said, I just preached the gospel in a way that was pleasing to the Lord. I wasn't trying to please men. I was trying to please the Lord. And verse 6, nor of men thought we glory. He didn't do that. But Paul said, listen, I was ready to impart not only the gospel of my own life to you. Paul very lovingly, very clearly preached the gospel. Look at verse 13. Look at this verse here. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye receive the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you. believe. Paul said, when I gave you the word, I had confidence that I was giving you the word of God. It wasn't the word of man, it was the word of God which effectually works. Let me tell you something, beloved, I believe in the power of the Word of God. Word of God. I believe in the power of the gospel. And I believe if we just make it clear, God's going to honor it. He's going to bless it. You know why? It is the power of God. And so that's our responsibility. Paul said, I want to speak courageously. I want to speak it clearly. I want to speak it correctly. I don't want to hide it in a bunch of oratory. I just want to give it to you with a sincere heart, and God will use it. Now let me give you the last thing. We show the preeminence of Christ by speaking words of worship, speaking words of witness, but then write down number three, speaking words of wisdom. Words of wisdom. Go back to Colossians. Now look in look at verse 5. Walk in wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming the time. Let your speech be always with grace seasoned with salt, that you may know how ye ought to answer every man. Now here Paul is going to talk about, first of all, our life. You see, our life gives credibility to our words. Let me tell you something, friend. If we're not living what we speak, we're not being effective. And Paul says, first of all, you need to walk in wisdom. You need to show forth the fear of God in the way that you walk. And so, first of all, he says, walk in wisdom. Show righteousness, he says especially in verse 5, towards them which are without. Paul is concerned about the testimony of those who are lost. When he says those who are without, that means those who are outside the grace of God, those who don't know the Lord, those who are lost. You need to be concerned about your testimony towards those who are without. Let me tell you something, friend. Did you know that the world is watching you and watching me? They're watching Christians. Some of them are watching for a reason to be critical. But they're watching. And Paul says, you need to be careful. About your testimony towards those who are lost. I know the minister that um His name was Dr. Will Hawton. He pastored Calvary Baptist Church in New York. And then later he served at Chicago's Moody Bible Institute as the president. And when one time when he took a church, someone in that church hired a detective. To investigate his life. And he didn't know it, but he was under investigation. They were watching everything about him. And that detective later came back to that man and he said, I want you to know I've examined In this man's life, and I find no fault in his life. He's a blameless man. And later on he found out about that. Now I read that story. You know my thought was that someone investigated my life. Could they say the same thing I hope so. I hope so. Let me ask you, if a private eye investigated your life, what would they find? As we, you know, this expression we heard before, if you were accused of being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict you? If if if that was the case. And so friend, but I want to tell you this. We ought to live a blameless life. Now, we are going to make mistakes, but our desire, our goal is to live a life that's pleasing unto the Lord. And Paul said, You ought to be careful. Towards those that are without. You know, walk in wisdom. And then it says redeeming the time, that is taking advantage of every opportunity. This is a commercial term, and it pictures the Christian as a faithful steward, knowing an opportunity when he sees one. Now some of you ladies, you know a bargain when you see one, don't you? I mean, you know, you come home with all this stuff and your husband says, Where'd you get this? Oh, there was a bargain. I had to get this before someone else did. We don't know when we're ever going to use it, but you never know. It was a bargain. I jumped on the opportunity. That's the idea behind this word here. Listen, when you see an opportunity, you seize it And this is in reference to the gospel, redeeming the time, taking full advantage of the opportunity, walk in wisdom, and then he says, talk with wisdom. Look in verse 6. This is the last verse. Let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt. And so he says, use gracious words. When especially in reference in the context here, speaking to those who don't know the Lord, use gracious words. You say, what's gracious words? It's just words that are the words of God You see, the more you walk with the Lord Jesus, the closer you are to Jesus, the more grace you're going to have in your life, and it's going to come out in your speech The Bible says of Jesus, write down Psalm 45, too, a messianic psalm saying about Jesus, grace is poured into your lips. In Luke chapter 4, when Jesus spoke, the people were marveled. At his gracious words, does your words minister grace to those who listen? But now notice the next part of verse 6. Let your speech always be with grace. Watch this. Season with salt. Now for us, we don't understand that too much. in our day. But did you know that in the ancient world salt was highly valued? Highly valued. In fact, the Greeks called salt theon, or they called it divine. And the Romans had a little jingle they used to use about salt. They used to say there's nothing more useful than sun and salt. And did you know that Roman soldiers were given rations, salt rations? In fact, the word salary, the Latin, is from the Latin salaries, and it means salt money. That's what the word means. You know why? Because Roman soldiers were paid in salt. And if you were a Roman soldier and you weren't doing what you were supposed to do, if you were derelict in your duty, you were said not to be worth your salt. That guy's not worth his salt because he's not doing his part. That's where we get that expression from. And so I say all that to let you know that salt was incredibly valuable In the ancient world, and Paul says, let your words be seasoned with salt. Now let me tell you a few things I think that means. Our words should have a purifying effect. You know why? Salt is used to purify. Romans saw it as something that was the most pure thing that the earth gave. Did you know that in ancient days newborn babies were given a salt bath because it was supposed to purify that child. The Bible speaks about that in Ezekiel chapter 16. You remember Elisha threw salt into the waters and healed the waters. And so, friend, all that to say that our words should have a purifying effect. Let me tell you something. If you're a Christian, your words should not be corrupting. They should be purifying. They should purify people around them. But also they should have a penetrating effect. A penetrating effect. You know, salt penetrates everything. And I think that's the idea here. Our words should be memorable. They should penetrate. Let me read you an interesting story. Woodrow Wilson, you might remember that name, but he was our president at one time. He said this He said, I was in a very commonplace. He said, I was sitting in a barber chair when I became aware that a personality had entered the room. He said a man came quietly in upon some errand, just as myself, to have his hair cut, and sat in a chair next to me. He was in a barber shop. All of a sudden a personality came in. sat down next to him. And he said, every word the man uttered, though it was not the least didactic, showed a personal interest in those who served him. And he said, before I'd gotten through with what was being done for me, I was aware that I was attending an evangelistic service. He said, because Mr. D. L. Moody was sitting in that chair. next to me. He said I purposefully lingered in that room after he had left and noted the effect that his visit had upon that barber shop He said when after he had left, they spoke in undertones. They didn't know this man's name, but they knew something had happened there that elevated their thoughts I felt that I left that place as I should have left, a place of worship. He said, my admiration and esteem for Mr. Moody became very deep. Indeed. And I thought about that. You know what? That should be said of all of us. Wherever we go. Our word should elevate that place. Our words should have a penetrating effect and then a pleasing effect. The soul adds flavor. And our words should add flavor and delight, but then a promoting effect. You know what salt does? It promotes thirst. You know, I I learned this when I was a little boy. My parents would take me to my great-grandfather who had a dairy farm in Winchester, Virginia And I noticed that on that dairy farm they had these big white blocks of salt. I noticed those cows coming up and licking that salt, and I asked one time My great grandfather, why do they do that? He said, well, because that salt makes them thirsty, and if they are thirsty, you know what? They're going to drink more water. If they drink more water, you know what? They're going to give more milk. That made sense to me. And friend, the idea is salt makes thirst. And our words, listen, our words should make people thirsty for Jesus. Jesus. They should make people thirsty for the things of God. And so how do we demonstrate the preeminence of Christ in our words? Speaking words of worship Speaking words of witness, speaking words of wisdom. Now here's what I want you to do. I want you to make a decision right now, tonight, that my words are going to promote the preemption. of Christ. My words, my mouth, my tongue, I'm going to dedicate it to show the greatness of Jesus. The greatness of Christ. It reminds me of the story of George Beverly Shea. When he was a young man, he was an insurance man, and uh a big nationwide group asked him to join them And they gave him a piece of music to learn. And he went home and he took that piece of music and he saw a line in there. It was a line that a Christian shouldn't say. And George Beverly Shea said, you know what? I can't do this. And so the next day, he said to the Lindbury singers, he said, Thank you. But no, thank you. He said, I've dedicated my mouth to Jesus Christ, to showing the greatness of Jesus Christ. No wonder when he sings, I'd rather have Jesus. People are blessed. I want us to do the same, to dedicate our words, our mouth to the Lord Jesus, to making known the greatness and the preeminence of Jesus Christ. Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, help us. To give every fiber of ourselves to you. Every part of us, every member. But specifically, Lord, tonight, for this passage that You've given us our mouth, our tongue. We want to dedicate to you that we would show forth the preeminence of Christ with our words. That we're Wherever we go, Lord, we'll elevate the place. We'll speak gracious words, seasoned with salt, purifying words, penetrating words. Pleasing words, promoting words, words that show forth, Lord, your greatness. Lord, may that be our decision tonight. May that be And with heads bowed and eyes closed, how many will say that's my prayer tonight? I'm lifting my hand to God. That's my prayer. Father, help us now. Help us. And use your people, Lord, as we leave this place to go Forth like an army of people ready to speak about Jesus to a lost and dying world. And Lord, we pray this for your glory's sake, and we pray in Jesus precious