Now would you take God's word please and open to Revelation chapter fourteen, we're going to pick up where we left off studying the book of Revelation, and the title of the sermon tonight is The Coming In Time Harvest. You know, while Carol and I was over in England, we uh spent a few days in a bed and breakfast in a small town in Devon, England. And this was a bed and breakfast owned by a farmer, and while we were there Uh he began to harvest his grain. And that was just right outside the window. We could look out and see those big old fields. And he began with a big old harvest machine to harvest the grain that was there. And uh it was just uh uh something to see that taking place there at that time. And I bring that up because here in Revelation 14, what we're gonna look at tonight from verses 14 down to verse 20 is a picture of a This is the the illustration, this is the metaphor that is used by John here to speak about the judgment. Actually, this is a vision that he sees at that of a judgment that is going to come. And really what Jonas sees here in these verses are two different harvests. There's a harvest of grain. And I think this is referring to the time when God at the end will harvest the earth and will discern between those who are saved and those who are lost. And then there will be a harvest of of a vineyard of grapes And I think this could uh be a preview of Armageddon. So the message for tonight is that there is a coming judgment that is uh yet to be coming to this earth, and already the fields are white unto the harvest. They're ready for the reaper. Jesus said this in Matthew nine, verses thirty-six down to verse thirty-seven, that the harvest is plenteous. And so I want to remind us all, dear friend, that in just a short time, God is going to thrust his sickle into the harvest field. uh called the earth, and gather w God will gather the the golden wheat and bundles and place them in a celestial barn, and he will gather the wheats out of the field, and he will place them into a furnace of fire. Now the question that everyone must ask themselves as we look at a passage like this in Scripture is, are you wheat or are you tares? Are you saved? Are you absolutely certain about that God is going to gather grapes, cast them into the wine press, and then uh will trample them under his feet. Again, this is a picture of God's Severe judgment. There is a judgment day to come. We don't like to speak about the wrath of God. We like to think about the love of God and the mercy of God and the comfort of God. This morning I I preached about the comfort of our great God and the mercy of our God. But beloved, the other part of the nature of God is He's a God of wrath. He's a God of judgment. And this is what we see here tonight. There is a judgment day coming and we must be ready I love the story of Sam Jones, the old Methodist preacher. One day he came home and his wife said, Sam, you need to go down and visit the sheriff. He's on his deathbed. And Sam said, Well, you know, he's never really believed in God and he said he's not afraid to die. She said, Yeah, but you just need to go and see him. And so he went down. And he went to visit the sheriff there in his bed. And he said, Sheriff, uh, are you afraid to die? And he said, Sam, I've always told you I'm not afraid to die. And then Sam Jones said he got down close and whispered into his ear and said, But what about the judgment? And he said when he said that he s he shot up in bed straight up. And he said, oh my, I forgot about that. I forgot about that. Let's not forget about the judgment. Well this passage here tonight will not let us forget about the judgment and the way John sees this in this vision is a time of great harvest. So I want you to see three solemn portraits that we see here. In Revelation fourteen of the end time harvest, John is going to paint this portrait for us. First of all, if you're taking notes right now, number one, the Lord of the Harvest. We could say the Lord of the Great harvest. Look at verse fourteen. And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And we see here then Jesus coming on the clouds. Now th there are some who would take this and say, well, this is not Jesus and his second coming. This is actually a picture really, as I've told you before, there are some who interpret Revelation as being already history. They say, well, this was Really, this depicts the judgment of God upon Jerusalem in seventy A. D. They argue that since Jesus is seated on the cloud that it's not his second coming. Now those who interpret the Bible with a futurist understanding or a historicist or the idealist view of Revelation, they all agree together that this is really speaking about the second coming of Christ and the picture of his final judgment that will take place at his coming. But again, those who are preterists say that the language here is figurative In fact, we have said this before that they look at Babylon as Jerusalem. Look in chapter 14, back up to verse 8, where it says, And there followed another angel saying, Babylon has fallen, has fallen the great city. Because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. They look at that, they say, Well, Babylon there is really Jerusalem. This is talking about the fall of Jerusalem. And uh and so therefore this is God's judgment. And Jerusalem indeed was instruc uh destroyed by the Romans in 70 AD. There's no question about that. But the problem is, is the judgment language that we see. Look at verse number 10. The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation And he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. Look at verse eleven, and the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever And they have no rest day nor night who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name. Now if this is referring to something that happened already in the past where J Jerusalem is judged, then we have to look at the language where it says that those who worship the The beast and his image. That's they say is Nero, and this is the judgment on Jerusalem. Well then the question is, what does it mean when it says the smoke of their t torment ascends up forever and ever, and they have no rest day nor night? Is Jerusalem still on fire today? I've been there. I didn't see it if it was. How does this language Uh m what is well how do we are we to take this? You know there are some people that want to describe hell and say hell is not forever. Hell is just for a time. This is called the annihilationist view of hell. And that is the view that a person will go there and they'll spend some time there, and after a while they'll be destroyed, they'll be they'll perish They will be annihilated, but they will not spend eternity in hell. And and they basically say the language that speaks about the smoke rising up forever and ever, well, that's figurative language. We can't take that literal. Well that's the same argument that's used here with the the preterist view about the smoke of their torment ascending up forever and ever. And the point that I'm trying to make is if you take that view with this passage You really present a whole lot of interpretive issues and problems when you take that view. But I believe this is referring to the second coming of Christ and the end-time judgment that he will bring. And so John presents the second coming of Christ in very uh realistic terms, and with Christ will come judgment. Oh how different the second coming of Christ will be than his first j uh coming. The first time Jesus came, he came as the merciful Savior the next time he comes, he will come as the judge who will bring wrath and vengeance on those who do not believe. There are many people living today in sin and they scoff at the idea of the second coming of Christ. They laugh at the idea of a judgment. They might laugh at the idea, but you can't laugh that fact away. You can't take it out of scripture. They can scoff they can scoff at it, but they'll never scoff it away. It's still here in the book of Revelation because the Bible says, forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. It may not be settled in some universities. It may not be settled in some colleges or seminaries, but it is settled in heaven. And the stars may fall. And they may crumble to dust and empires that will cease, but the word of the Lord will stand forever. God's word will not And so we see the certainty of Judgment Day, it is true because God's word is true. The Bible says God has fixed a day in which He will bring judgment into this world. I don't know the exact day that that's going to be, but we know it's coming because the Bible tell tells us that it's going to come. And John's vision here, he sees that day. He sees Jesus coming in judgment. He sees him as the Lord of the harvest. One person wrote this, and I dreamed that the great judgment morning had dawned and the trumpet had blown. I dreamed that the nations had gathered to judgment around the white throne. From the throne came a bright shining angel that stood on the land and the sea, and swore with his hand to heaven that time was no longer to be. Then all what a weeping and wailing As the lost were told of their fate. They cried for the rocks and the mountains. They prayed, but their prayer was too late. Sometimes when we take we talk about the second coming We are happy about it. We're joyful at the thought of Jesus coming, and rightfully so if you know the Lord Jesus, but I want to tell you it's going to be a sad time for some people. It's going to be a time of judgment for some. Now, notice some things about the Lord of the harvest. Notice the title of his identity. We see where it says in verse 14, I looked and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud, one that sat like unto the son of man. The phrase I looked and behold kind of introduces a new subject here. And what caught John's attention there was a white cloud. And I think this is an image that's drawn from Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 and 14. John saw uh Jesus sitting on the cloud. The title here is The Son of Man. This is Jesus coming to establish his kingdom in fulfillment of the prophecy of Daniel. The brilliant white cloud I think symbolizes the glory and the majesty of Jesus when he comes. The Reaper is sitting because he's waiting for the proper time. to begin reaping. And this reaping will f will be followed by Christ's return to establish his kingdom. And so the description of Christ as one like the Son of Man, this was one of the favorite titles that Jesus used to use during his earthly ministry. He referred to himself many times as the Son of Man. And this is because this captures the idea that Jesus became a man. He emptied himself. And that in that he took upon him the form of a servant. When we say Jesus emptied himself, we don't mean that he ever stopped in any way being God. But what he did was he set aside the privileges that he had of being God. And the way he emptied himself was not by anything that was taken away from his nature, but was what was added to him was humanity. What was added to him was becoming like a man. And in that way he humbled himself, and the Bible says he was found in fashion as a man. And when he stepped out of the beauty of heaven and he took upon him the robe of flesh and became a man, this b I think gave him The ability and the right to judge man. And I think this is the idea here behind this title, The Son of Man. We saw this morning We looked at we we referred to Hebrews chapter two, verse sixteen, for it says He took not upon him the nature of angels. When Jesus came he was not a angel an angel, but he took on him the seed of the seed of Abraham And it says, Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren. And so since he became of the seed of Abraham, the Son of Man He has the authority to execute judgment. John 5. 27 says this, and hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of Man. Now this is the last time in Scripture that we see this title given to Jesus. And it really is a contrast between the first time that we see this title given. The first time we see it in the Gospels, he's called the Son of Man. He had no place to lay his head. Here he's called the Son of Man, but now he's about to take possession of the entire earth. What a contrast that is here. The merciful high priest who who knows the weakness of man now becomes the vengeful judge who knows the wickedness of man. And he will come So there's the title of his identity, but also think with me about the token of his authority. Look again at verse 14. And I looked and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown. There's the token of his authority. He has a crown. This is a symbol of sovereignty. Again, he is the Lord of the harvest. The word for crown here is not isn't is the crown is the word diademma, and this has the idea of or excuse me, it's not the word diademma, it's the word Stefanos, that's what I mean to say. This is not the idea of a of uh necessarily a kingly crown, but a crown won by victors in a war or in an athletic event. And so it pictures the Son of Man as the one who will triumph over all of his enemies. But then we also see the tool of his severity again in verse 14. And what does he have in his hand? And in his hand, a sharp sickle. Now again this is the awesome picture that John is describing of of judgment. A person with a sickle in their hand. Now you know what a a a sickle is. Um you know it you it's it's the instrument that's you know as a wooden pole and a sharp curved blade on the side. You use two hands and you kind of swing it through uh the uh the harvest and the blades will cut the grain of stalks to ground level. And so it's a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ ready to use that sickle to mow down his enemies and to judge. And so again, this is a sobering picture. that John is giving us. Here the Lord of the harvests is about to run his sickle through the earth and cut down man and judge. Now Joel talked about this right in your margin, Joel 3. 13. Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Come get you down, for the press is full, the facts overflow for their wickedness is great Notice also verse 17 here of chapter 14, because we see another angel with a sickle. Verse 17, another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. Now, the angel here, of course, now this is not the Son of Man, but an angel. This is the fifth one mentioned here in chapter 14. But he came out of the temple in heaven. He also has a sharp sickle. And this should not surprise us that we see here an angel as well taking part in the reaping here Uh the Bible says this, the but that the Son of Man will be assisted by the angels in his final judgment. Matthew 13, 39. The enemy that sowed them is the devil, the harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels. And then again in chapter 13 of Matthew verse 49, so shall it be at the end of the world. The angels shall come forth. and sever the wicked from among the just. And again in 2 Thessalonians 1:7, and you who are troubled rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. And so we see here then number one, the Lord of the harvest, the great harvest. But then number two, I want you to think with me about this, the labor of the harvest. Look in verse 15. And another angel came out of the temple crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, thrust in thy sickle, and read, for the time is come For thee to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe. Now, as I told you, here we see two great harvests. There is the harvest of grain. And we're going to see the grain being harvested, and then there's the harvest in the vineyard of grapes, the grape harvest. So verses 15 and 16 refer to the grain harvest. And I think this is a picture of when God will harvest the people at the end time, and he will make a distinction between those who are true and those who are not. Now we see the ripeness of the harvest. Look in verse number 15 again where it says, Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the time is come for thee to reap For the harvest of the earth is ripe. And the Greek word here means dry. And when a field is overly ripe, what it does is it it dries up. And then it literally turns from a golden color to a white color. I was telling you we were in a bed and breakfast and looking out into those fields, and I can I could bear witness to that. They weren't really golden fields, they were white fields. They were ready to be harvested. And this is the expression that Jesus used when he said, the fields are white unto harvest. And so the there was the ripeness of the harvest. And so this passage, I think, is in fulfillment of what Jesus talked about. in Matthew 13. In fact, why don't you take a moment and turn there? Because I think we see here something that will help us and we're talking about this time of harvest. Look in Matthew chapter 13 and look down in verse number 24. And look at the parable here that Jesus is going to give. Now Jesus is teaching parables of the kingdom. Remember I told you before that a parable is simply uh a story. Sit down next to a spiritual truth to help us understand that spiritual idea. In fact, the word parable comes from two words. Para means with bully, to cast down, or we could say beside the para means beside, you know, a paralegal is someone who works beside a lawyer. you know, um parable is a saying that set beside, cast down beside a earthly s uh a spiritual truth, we could say it's an earthly story, cast down next to a spiritual truth to help us understand. the spiritual reality. And this is what Jesus did many times in his earthly ministry. He taught parables here in chapter 13, and he's going to impart some spiritual truth. How will God distinguish between true believers and counterfeit Christians at the end? Well, Jesus uses this story of a farmer getting ready for a great harvest, and we see this. So first what we see is what I call the sowing. Look at verse 24. And another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. Verse twenty five But while men slept his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and he went his way. And so What we see here is uh first of all the sowing. In order to get a good harvest, you have to know You have to you have to have good seed, right? You have to sow good seed. And so we see the sowing. But what we see in verse 25 is what was called oversowing a man's field. In this day, if a man had an enemy Uh one of the things he would do to get back at him was he would oversow a man's field and he would ruin the man's harvest. One commentator wrote this quote, oversowing another gr of grain crop with wheat was a common enough act. uh that room that uh acts excuse me that a law had been made against it, it was almost certain it was almost certain way to ruin one's neighbor. Because it rendered his crop useless and thus nullified his chief source of income. And so what he would do, a person would do, is he would go in and see this field and he would sow tares in among the wheats. And that's what happens here in this parable. This man has an enemy. Then he comes in in verse 25. He sows tares among the wheat, and then he goes his way. And then we see the next part of the story, not only the sowing, but the growing. Look at verse 26. But when the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. Now after the field begins to grow, in this parable a servant notices something. He notices that among the wheat there are tares that are growing. And notice in verse number 27. And so the servants of the household came un and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath it tears? And he said unto him, An enemy hath done this And the servant said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? But he said, Nay, lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. So in this parable, the man's enemy sowed tares in his field, and tares really refers to Darnell. It's kind of a wheat-like plant. that that is uh you uh uh that is useless. It has no gr grain in it. It closely resembles wheat In fact some some call it imitation weed and it and a seed head was when a seed head was mature, um It basically really produced no fruits. Until it was fully mature, it was impossible for a person to tell the difference between tares and wheat. What was the difference between tares and wheat? When wheat is fully mature, then what will happen is that the head of the wheat will bow down because it has fruit. It has grain in it. But the terrace has no fruit in it, none whatsoever. And so until the wheat or the tares are fully mature, you up it was impossible to tell the difference between the wheat and and the tears. And so when the servants come to the owner and say, would you have that we go out and we we we just pull out some of the tears From among the wheat. Should we do that? And he said, no, don't do that, because in doing that, what you might do is you might inadvertently pull out some of the wheat instead of tares. So what does he say? Look down at verse number twenty-nine. And he said, Nay, lest while ye gather up the tares, ye read up also the wheat with them. Look in verse 30. Let both grow together until the harvest And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them, but gather the wheat into my barn This is the third stage. We talked about the sowing and the growing. The owner says, No, let them just grow together. Let them all all that grow together in the field, but in the time of the harvest, we'll be able to know the wheat, the true wheat from the tares. You know, the Lord of the harvest is able to distinguish between the two. You know, it's not our job to go around and say who's tares and who's wheat. You know, a lot of times people like to do that. They like to go around and try to figure out who's a real Christian and who's not. But you know what? You and I, we don't have the ability to make those judgments. Now we we do judge people, their works, and but the key is we're to examine ourselves. I'm not to examine others, I'm to examine my own heart. to make sure that what I have in me is the fruit of true repentance and faith in me. And I can tell that by the things that I do. There's the outward evidences that show that I'm a true believer. And what is it? It's fruit in my life. Do I have the fruit of a Christian? Do I have the fruit of a true believer? That's for me to examine. But God hasn't called me to go around and examine others and say, you know what, you're not real. You know what my job is as a pastor? My job is to plead with you to make sure you examine your own heart to make sure that your calling is sure. The Bible says, 1 Peter says, give all diligence to make thy calling and election sure. You make sure that you know, you examine your heart. But I want to tell you, only the Lord of the harvest knows those who are real and those who are not. And so um we see here then that the Lord of the harvest in the end will know the difference. Now, what does all of this mean? We don't have to wonder because Jesus will give us the interpretation of this parable. Look down at verse number 36. And Jesus sent the multitude away and went into his house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field. Verse 37, and he answered and he said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man. Jesus is the one sowing the good seed, sowing the word. He is the one who uh puts his people into the field of this world Those that are truly his, children of God. Jesus is the sower there. The good seed are the children of the kingdom, but the tares are the children of the wicked one. The enemy that sowed them is the devil, the harvest is the end of the world, and the reapers are the angels. And so, you know what the devil likes to do? He likes to mix in Tears among the wheat. That's what he likes to do. He likes to put in into the wheat field, into God's church. Sometimes he'll mix in the tares. And they these are people that might look like Christians, talk like Christians, walk like Christians, but ultimately they are not true believers. And the lesson is that everywhere Jesus plants good seed, the devil plants tares those who are not real. So we always have to be careful about that. We always have to know that it's impossible to try to again for us to tell true wheat from the tares today. But we also have to realize that among the the weak there's always going to be terrors. You know. That's why some people when they you know as as a pastor you want to see more people come into the church. And uh sometimes when people come into the church they get offended by other people in the church. And they they leave and they also be s they say something like, Well, you know, uh y you got some people in that church that are really not uh really all that good. Well, you know, yeah, that's true. Um not everybody in here is perfectly sanctified. You know, we all have issues. We all have problems. Stop judging the church by the people you see. Judge your life by the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at him. Don't look to people. There's always going to be tears among the wheat. And the devil's going to make sure of that. But I want to tell you, in the time of the harvest, God will determine those who are true. and those who are not. That time is coming. Look down in verse number 40. As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire, so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of Man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of the kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity. And he shall cast them into a furnace of fire, and there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. There's going to come a time when the reapers will bind up the tares, he will cast them into the fire, and in that time of judgment, I think there's going to be a lot of people that will be surprised At those who are not there in heaven, at those who are not real. They'll be gathered together, cast into the fire. And there'll be those that are gods, those that are the righteous. The Bible says they shall shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their father. It's a fearful thing, if you ask me. You know, one of the one of the heaviest burdens I carry as a pastor is to make sure that all the people that are that are under my charge Truly understand the gospel and have truly repented of their sin. They're not just going through the outward motions, but there's been a true, genuine faith and repentance in their heart. And and again, how do we know that? It's the fruit. Again, the only way you can tell wheat's from tares is when they're fully mature, wheat always produces fruit. And for those that are truly children of God, there's going to be the fruit of righteousness in their Life. Notice I didn't say works because there's a lot of people that can do a lot of good works that are not truly God's child. But is there the fruit of righteousness? Is there that Christ-likeness? Is there that inward change of heart? Is there that desire for holiness and righteousness in a person's life? Is there the desire to grow more to be like Christ? Is there the striving against sin in your life. You know, the paradox of the Christian life is this the more we know of Christ, the more joy we have. But also the more we mature, the more we understand how sinful we really are And there's that constant paradox, I call it. I grieve over my sinfulness, I grieve over my selfishness, I grieve over my my pride. But at the same time as I grow to learn Jesus more, I rejoice over Christ. Martin Luther one time said, when I look at myself, I can't believe that I'm saved, but when I look at Christ, I can't believe that I'm lost. And I feel that all the time. When I look at my own life, I wonder how I could be saved sometimes. But then when I look at Christ and know that all my hope is in what Christ has done, I say, how can I ever be lost? Because all of my hope is in Christ and the righteousness of Christ. And so there's that constant paradox in the life of a child of God. But notice again, the sons of the evil one, they can imitate children of the kingdom, but they cannot produce true righteousness. Jesus said in Matthew 7, a rotten tree cannot produce good fruit. And again, the language of the parable here confirms this. Notice that they're called stumbling blocks in verse 41. They that offend, that's the word there, scandalizo, that causes people to stumble. Why does Satan put tears in the church? He wants to cause others to stumble He calls them those who commit lawlessness or do iniquity in verse number forty one. The wheat he calls righteous in verse forty-three. And so character and behavior are what separate the wheat from the tares, and in the judgment the difference will be fully manifested. at that time. So we see the Lord of the harvest, we see the laborer of the grain harvest. But then number three, the lesson of what I call the grape harvest. Go back to uh Revelation chapter 14 and let's look at the next part, verses 18 down to verse 20. This, I think, is a picture of what is coming, the event coming that is called Armageddon. And John watching another angel appears, the sixth one in the vision. Look at verse 18. Another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire, and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharpsickle and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth For her grapes are fully right. And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great wine press of the wrath of God. And the wine press was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs. And so we see here again, uh John watches an angel appear. But from the altar, and I think this is the altar that is associated. And now I think here this is the answer. Because leaving the same thing, I think that's a good idea. He called with a loud voice, that is the urgent voice, to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, put in your sickle now. Put in the sharp sickle and gather the clusters from the vine of the earth because her grapes are ripe. Notice the emphasis on sharp sickle. Again, this is an answer, I think, to the prayers of the saints. There's a time of reaping judgment that now comes. Again, it's ripe on the judgment, the word ripe. Here is something fully in its prime. That is it's a picture, I think, here, of the wickedness that had been taking place on earth that has been fully ripe now. The juice of wickedness is ready to be harvested by God. And again, what is this a picture of? I think this is a picture of Armaged Armageddon. What is Armageddon? That's the time when the Antichrist who is drunk with power will gather a contingent of all the armies of the earth and they will come against Christ at that place called the Valley of Jezreel. that place that Napoleon said was the greatest natural battlefield on earth. Armies from all over the world, two million from the East itself. And the purpose is to fight against God. The purpose is to fight against the ancient people of God, the Jews. They want to break God's cords. They want to throw off all restraint and all uh accountability to God. But the Bible says you remember Psalm 2, he that sits in the heavens will last. So we see the ripeness of the vineyard in verse 18 The vineyard represents the armies of all the nations that will gather. Joel prophesied this. Write down Joel chapter 3, verse 12. Let the heathen be awakened. And come to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about. Verse thirteen, Joel three, put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe Come, get you down, for the press is full, the fats overflow, for their wickedness is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. And so the sickle is being thrust into the harvest. Again, this symbolizes God's judgment on the nations. on all the people that come against uh God and his people. And this will occur in the valley of Jehoshaphat, adjacent to the city of Jerusalem. It is there that all the nations will come. to fight and they will be defeated. Notice the righteousness of the wine press. We see here where it says that in verse 20, and the wine press was trodden without the city. A wine press is a place where grapes were put into a kind of a hewed-out rock, it looks like a pool, and people would just get in and stomp on those grapes, and the juice would flow into the winepress. I think the wine press here is a symbol of the righteous wrath of God. You know, we we sing a song, you know, the battle hymn of the republic. I think don't we we bring that hymn out and dust it off every July fourth or something, don't we? And we and we sing that song. This was that was a song, uh a little bit of background on that. It was written during the time of the Civil War by a lady named Julia Ward. And uh She wrote it because she was talking about Christ's appearance, his second coming on earth, to do justice against those who were oppressing others. It's really a hymn about the justice and righteousness of God in judging those who are causing others to suffer or be oppressed. And so we sing the song My Eyes is seeing the glory of the coming of the Lord. He is trampling out the vineyards, what? Where the grapes of wrath are stored. And so she refers in that song to this very scene here in Revelation about the justice and righteousness of God in judging iniquity. We also see this in Revelation 19. Look in Revelation 19 real quick. Look at verse 11. I think this is kind of a parallel here. Revelation 19, verse 11 And I saw heaven open and behold a white horse, he that sat on upon him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he does judge and make war His eyes were a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns, and he had a name written that no man knew but he himself. And he was clothed in a vesture dipped in blood, and his name is called the Word of God And the armies which were in heaven followed upon him, white horses clothed in fine linen, white and clean, and out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations And he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God. And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. So here are the clothes of Jesus are red with blood from his enemies. How bad will it be? Well we saw already The uh ripeness of the vineyard and the righteousness of the wine press, but now the redness of the field. Go back to Revelation. 14, look in verse twenty where it says that the wine press was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the wine press, even under the horses' bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs Well, blood will flow like a river. How much blood? 16,000 fur furlong, that's 200 miles. A horse's bridle that's about four and a half feet deep. Now, I think that what's happening here is that this is hyperbole that's being used here. I don't I don't take this to be literal. You know, we take something literal unless you know there's something within the text itself that would seem to indicate that this is not to be intended to be literal. If we took this literal, I don't think, you know uh uh uh you know w you do you do all the math on how much blood this would be. Um it really that's kind of an an impossibility. And so r really I think what This is is this is an expression about the carnage that will take place during that time where hundreds of thousands and millions will die. In other words, this will be staggering. It'll be a bloodbath. Armageddon will be really not a battle. It'll be a slaughter. When those that come against the Lord Jesus will be judged during that time. All those that rebelled against God, all those that refused to repent. All those that refuse to heed the warning of God and turn their heart to him and repent, they will Face the fierce judgment of Almighty God. And again, I think this is a fulfillment of Psalm 2, where it says, kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish from the way. For his wrath may soon be kindled. But then it goes on to say, how blessed are all those who take refuge in him So really the world consists of two groups of people, those who take refuge in Christ and those who will receive the wrath of God. Because they have not truly repented of their sin. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. What we see here again is a fearful picture of judgment, of wrath from a holy, righteous God. That will take place when our Lord Jesus Christ comes again. So may I ask you a question: Have you taken refuge? And the Lord Jesus Christ. And are you sure of that? Are you sure of it? Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, as we look at this passage again, it's a sobering picture. Lord, while on one hand we rejoice of all the blessings we have. Lord, of knowing you. And Lord, as we study this book, we see so much that will be laid up for the children of God For those that are yours, the blessings that we have waiting for us. And Father, we rejoice in that. The hope of heaven grows in our heart as we study these things. But then, Lord, on the other hand, our hearts are broken when we think of those who do not know Christ and how fearful it is to fall into the hands of a holy God that will pour out wrath on the unrepentant. So Father, while on one hand we rejoice, on the other hand, we we fear And Lord, we pray for the souls of those who are lost who don't know Christ, that they would come to know him, Lord. Lord, may this picture in Scripture, may it again remind us of your holiness, of your justice, that you're a God who will judge all sin, not one half of one sin will ever go unpunished. And may we also rejoice that, Lord, you're a God who is merciful to those that truly turn to you. And so, Lord, help us. Let this let this uh Motivate us to always be ready to share Christ and to pray fervently For those around us in our family, those in our circle of influence who do not know Christ, Lord, may we pray fervently for their salvation. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you just to take a minute. I want you to think about this time of judgment. It's hard. I mean even with this these portraits that John painted of the of the harvest, the the Lord of the Harvest. The Lord of the great harvest, the Lord of the gr the labor of the grain harvest, how there's going to be a time when God will separate the wheat from the tares And the lesson of the great grape horror is that is that God is a God of wrath. He's not a God to be trifled with. And all those that are his enemies will suffer his vengeance. Think about that. And I don't know about you, but friend, I the older I get, the more I fervently pray for the salvation of souls. Especially those that I know, people that I know that do not know Christ. You just take a moment, right? Maybe there's someone in your mind right now, someone you know that does not know Jesus. Just take a moment and pray for them. Pray for God to turn their heart. Pray for God to bring true repentance. Pray for God to give us a harvest of souls that will know Jesus. Ask God to make you a channel through which the gospel can flow and people can come to know Christ. Father, may it be so. Lord, please use us. You've left us here for that very purpose. To be used to spread the gospel. And so Lord, help us to see many come to Christ. Lord, lay them on our heart and Lord Don't let us rest until we see them come to the kingdom. May we pray fervently and without ceasing for those who do not know you. And may we always be ready to share the glorious gospel, the simple gospel with those around us, Lord. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.