And I want to talk this morning about the power of effective prayer. That song perfectly fits with the message today because we're going to talk about prayer. Now throughout our study in James, we have seen that James is emphasizing practical Christianity. And he forces to ask ourselves the question, is my faith a real faith? Is it a living faith? And how can I know that my faith is real and genuine? And James gives us one test after another to examine ourselves throughout this letter. How do I respond to trials? How do I deal with temptation? Am I a hearer of the word only? But do I apply it? Am I a doer of the word of God? Do I show partiality or do I practice real love? Does my faith demonstrate good works? And on we could go. Do I have control of my tongue? Do I live in submission to the will of God? Now James is closing out this letter And he's going to deal with the issue of effective prayer. And the question we ask ourselves as we come to this passage is this: Do I practice effective prayer in my life? Do I have an effective prayer life? You could tell whether your faith is real by your prayer life One of the m most frightening sermons I ever read was by Jonathan Edwards. In fact, every time I read Jonathan Edwards, I feel like I need to get saved. Uh he's so s fearful and some of the things, the propositions that he makes. But one of the sermons that he preached was hypocrites deficient in the duty of prayer. And the whole point of the sermon was if you don't have a prayer life, he basically said stop Flattering yourself and you may leave off the hope of having true salvation. You're not a child of God if you don't pray And you don't seek the face of the Lord. That was such a sobering warning. But there's a sense in which James is telling us that as a child of God we should have an effective prayer life Now, James was a great pastor. He didn't just write and preach. He also practiced this thing of prayer. In fact, one of the nicknames for James was O'Camelnees. And they called him that because he would go into the temple and he would kneel down and he would pray for long hours and it developed knots on his knees as a result of the long seasons that he spent in prayer. And so he was a man who believed in prayer and he practiced effective prayer in his life. And this is the challenge for us today. I want us to examine ourselves in this matter of prayer as we go through these verses together. And there are just two things I want to show you here in the sermon today, just two major points. First of all, we're going to talk about the exhortation that James gives us, and then secondly the example First of all, the exhortation for effective prayer. Seven times in this section, James mentions prayer. And we have to be honest with ourselves as Christians. Perhaps this is our weakest point in the church today, in America, the church at large. Or maybe in our own life as Christians, we're not as strong in prayer as we need to be. Yet it is our source of power. A. C. Dixon said this, when we depend upon organization, we get what organization can do, and that's something. If we depend upon education, we get what education can do But if we depend upon prayer, we get what God can do. And that's something else. And so we need to be people of prayer. The church is the only army that marches on its knees. So James gives us several scenarios here as he exhorts us to effective prayer, four scenarios where it's needed. First of all, in seasons of suffering, look in verse 13. Is any among you afflicted? There's the first thing. Afflicted has the idea of hardship, troubles, distress. James is saying, if anyone is suffering hardships and troubles, let him pray. That phrase there is an imperative. It's not a suggestion. It's a command. God says, if you're going through trouble and affliction, pray. And not just one prayer, it's present tense. Let them continually pray. If you're in a time of affliction, we love the song Sweet Hour of Prayer. There's that one line that says, in seasons of distress and grief. My soul has often found relief. And that's so very true. Praying in times of trouble can do one of three things for us. First of all, uh it can remove the trouble. Sometimes God will do that if you're going through Affliction, sometimes when you pray, God will remove it. But then secondly, when God does not remove it, he will give you the grace to go through it. And endure it. That's what prayer does for us. Remember, Paul had the thorn in the flesh three times. He said, Lord, take this thorn. And the Lord said, No, I'm not going to take it from you. Because my grace is sufficient for you. He didn't take the thorn, but he strengthened Paul. And through that, whatever the problem was, the power of Christ was seen in Paul. Because people knew it wasn't just Paul that was able to do this, and the same will be true in our lives. Prayer will help us go through the problem. But thirdly, prayer will help us to submit to the sovereign plan of God. Sometimes God will bring delightful providences into our life when he does wonderful things. Sometimes God in his wisdom will bring dark providences. And sometimes in those cases it's hard for us to submit to some of those things. We say, God, why? Why am I going through this? And there's a part of us that resents maybe some of the trial that we're in. But what does prayer do? Prayer helps us to submit freely to God's wise providences, knowing that the Lord is accomplishing something. And so we submit to it. So in seasons of suffering But also another scenario in seasons of singing. Look again in verse 13. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms. Now the word Mary here, of course, means cheerful, happy. These are people who rejoice in the goodness of God in their life. They rejoice in the blessings and the Delightful providences that God gives. We all know that God blesses us so many times. And so our hearts are merry. Now, sometimes we just think prayer is different from praise, but no, it's all the same When we pray, we are also giving thanks and praise to God, aren't we? We're expressing our gratitude for all that the Lord has done. Some people try to divide that up, but I think it's all worship It's all personal worship. Praise is a form of prayer. Look at the word praise there. It's from a Greek word cello, which means to pluck a stringed instrument. So it has the idea of worshiping through singing and praise. And again, this is a command. God says we are to praise. Let him sing Psalms. And so God wants us to sing. Several things we learned from this command. God wants all his people to praise him. You know, worship is not a spectator sport. You understand that, right? Sometimes we get the idea of just a handful of people singing and the rest listen. No. All the singing here is designed to encourage you and inspire you to sing and to praise the Lord. So that everyone is doing it Singing and praising to the Lord. And so I'd like services that have a lot of music like we heard this morning. Hasn't it been beautiful to hear those songs and to hear this song sung. We are all to praise the Lord. And when we come to church, we bring our praise to God. The Bible says that in Psalm 95, too. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving. Let us make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. And so, and also another thing, it's unto God. It's not under man. This is not a performance. We don't perform in church. We do what we do under the Lord. It all points to him. It all is about praising him. And I don't know about you, when I hear someone saying praise to God, that blesses me. That encourages my heart. When I see God is getting the honor and God is getting the worship and God is getting the praise, it's not about pointing to the person, the performer, but it's pointing to the Lord. It honors God. That inspires. That edifies. And that's what it's all about, friend. So in seasons of suffering, In seasons of singing, but also in seasons of sickness. Look again in verse 14. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church. And let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Now we see here, first of all, what I want to call the problem. This person is sick. The word sick here literally means wheat It can mean mental weakness or even a troubled conscience. That has caused some people to think maybe this is talking about a spiritual weakness rather than a physical weakness, but the context really determines what the word means And notice in this verse here that this sick person calls for the elders of the church. This suggests that this person can't come to the elders. The elders must come to him. And so this is a person who is bedridden Or a person who has a serious illness that's drastically affecting their life where they need to pray. The word for sick in verse 15 where it talks about save the sick. That's a different word than in verse 14. In verse 14 it can mean weak, but in verse 15 it has the idea of a physical illness where that you are immobilized. You really can't move. And so I think this is referring to being physically ill here, not spiritually. And also, notice that the passage mentions the anointing of oil. We see that in the in the New Testament, sometimes with reference to physical sickness in Mark 6. 13. And they cast out many devils and anointed with oil many that were sick and healed them. So the problem then here is a person who is really sick, physically ill And notice the proposal? They are to call for the elders of the church. Who is that? Simply the leaders of the church? The pastor and the leaders of the church. Now notice here that the person has to call for the pastor and let them know. You know what that means? Pastors are not omniscient. We have to know. You know, sometimes people get upset, well the pastor hadn't called on me. Well, we didn't know. You have to let us know. And so they call for the elders of the church. And by the way, notice they're calling a person who's very busy. This shouldn't be for just trivial sickness. This should be a serious issue. This should be a serious matter. The Bible tells us in Galatians 6. 2, we're to bear one another's burdens. We have no problem helping to bear another's burden. But it also says in Galatians 6. 5, every man shall bear his own burden. The word for burden air is a load that only you can bear. Sometimes you have to bear the burdens that you have. God wants you to bear them and not someone else. This burden gear that we're talking about is a burden that you can't bear on your own. You need help with it So notice the procedure. In verse 14, they're called for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Now what does it mean to anoint with oil here? Again, there are several interpretations as to this. There are some who think this is just practical medicine. Oil was a a medicinal remedy that healed wounds. You remember the story of the Good Samaritan? The man who fell among thieves was hurt and he poured wool uh oil in his wounds And he got better there. Some people also believe that oil was used sometimes as an internal medicine to help stomach ailments. And so some people uh think of this as a practical medicine here is what he's referring to. I don't think that's the correct interpretation. I think that uh the sickness that James is talking about here demands more than just oil Or having pouring oil in the wounds. So I don't think that this is what it's talking about. The other thing is I don't think God wants his pastors going around rubbing saints down with oil. Which you would have to believe if you took that interpretation That's not what this is talking about. The context again of the passage suggests that the cure for this illness is prayer. Prayer is the cure. And so, this oil then is symbolic. It is a symbol of the Holy Spirit of God. Just like in the Old Testament when a person was anointed with oil and the Holy Spirit came upon that person and enabled them to do whatever task. The Lord called them to do. Even so here, the anointing of oil is a symbol of the Holy Spirit who will come upon the sick person and do what is necessary to help them in that time of sickness It's done in the name of the Lord because true healing comes from God. God is a healer. The Bible calls him in the Old Testament Jehovah Rapha. The Lord our healer. And isn't it wonderful to know, according to science, it teaches us that there are healing properties that God has put within the human body? Isn't that wonderful to know that God has placed even within the body some abilities so that we can overcome illness? We have an immune system. We have white blood cells. The ability of the body to heal. The former Surgeon General of the United States, C. Everett Coop, was talking about healing And let me just read you what he says. I think it's very interesting. He was a surgeon. This is what he wrote. He said, I don't know how many operations I actually performed in my surgical career. I know I performed 17,000 of one, 7,000 of another. He said I practiced surgery for 39 years, so perhaps I performed about 50,000 operations I had a successful reputation. Patients were coming to me from all over the world. And one of the things that endeared me to the parents of my patients was the way my incisions healed. He says, no one likes a big scar, but they are especially upsetting the mothers when they appear in their children. He said, so I set out early on to make my scars small, as short, as thin as possible. These were called invisible scars. They became my trademark. But then he asked this question, was I the healer? He said, I was the one who put the edges together, but it was God who coagulated the serum. It was God who sent out the fibroblasts out across the skin edges. It was God who had the fibroblasts make collagen And there were probably about 50 other complicated processes involved about which you or I will never know. But did God come down and instruct the fibroblast to behave that way? He says, in a sense, he did. He did it through his natural laws. Just the way he makes the grass grow, the rainfall, the earthquake. The question then is not, does God heal? Of course he heals. But there are sometimes, and by the way, thank the Lord for good doctors, good nurses, good hospitals, technology that helps us. These are gifts from God to us. These are gifts of God's common grace to a fallen world that needs the help. And God has given these people ability to tap into some of the secrets of creation. Some of the things that God has placed into the human body to aid us in our healing, and we're grateful to God for that. But there are times when doctors fall short. They've done all they can do And there are times when the natural laws are not enough. And there are times when the the physical body can't overcome an illness on its own, or with the help of doctors. In times like that, God has to step in supernaturally if he wants healing and if we want it. And so in this case, we see the prayer in verse 15, the prayer of faith. shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he had committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. When the elders of the church come and pray, they are to pray in faith. And so here's a sick person Everything else has failed. They call in the leaders. That person is anointed with oil. And the Bible says we pray the prayer of faith Now what is the prayer of faith here? Is this some kind of special prayer? Some argue that this is a prayer of faith and a special subjunctive assurance that God might give the pastor or someone else there that God will heal That may be. But I think when James says the prayer of faith, he's simply saying we pray in faith. And I think he's qualifying what he had said earlier. Go back to James 1, verse 8. Look at this real quick. Notice where it says that when we pray in James 1, um, actually verse 6, James 1, 6. When he says, When we pray, but let him ask in what? Faith. Nothing wavering, for he that waverth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed, for let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord If you pray with doubts, you're not going to receive anything. When we pray, we pray in faith, knowing that God, who is merciful and powerful, is fully able to heal. Supernaturally heal. If he so chooses to do that. Now it's easy to misunderstand this verse, however, because some think that everyone should be healed as a result of this. And those who have faith, when you pray, if they have faith, then they're healed. But if they don't have enough faith, then they then God won't heal you. But if you have real faith, then God will heal you. And so I think there's a bit of a misunderstanding here. This is not what James is intending to say. A few things to consider. First of all, God does reward faith, there's no question about that, right? We see that in the New Testament. Jesus did perform miracles for people to reward them of their faith. But many times we see in the gospel Jesus healing people who really didn't have faith In fact, they couldn't exercise faith. Remember when Jesus raised the dead? That dead person couldn't exercise any faith. And then also when he delivered demon-possessed people, they didn't have the possibility of exercising faith. He healed people who couldn't ask for help. on their own. In fact, Jesus performed some miracles, not because of the people's faith, but because of their lack of faith, because he wanted to inspire them. to believe on him. And then later Jesus would say, if you don't believe my words, believe the very works that I do. Believe on me for the things that you see me doing. And so he did things to provoke faith and give them faith And then sometimes Jesus healed simply because he has compassion. He's a compassionate Savior. But we have to remember this, that people who have great faith sometimes don't get healed. And we see this as well in the Bible. A person may be a person of great faith, and they ask for healing, and the Lord. says no. We already saw the illustration of the Apostle Paul, where Paul said, Lord, take this from me, and the Lord said, No, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to let you go through that. Many of Paul's friends, like Epaphroditus, were sick, and Paul, he didn't heal them. And epaphroditus remained sick. We heard in the song just a minute ago, we are taught to pray, thy will be done. And sometimes it's God's will to bring healing supernaturally, and sometimes it's not. We have to submit to that will, whatever it may be. And that's where prayer helps us. It helps us to submit to that. In the book of Acts, Peter was in jail, and the early church prayed, and God miraculously delivered Peter out of jail. Remember the prison gates opened up automatically, no one was there, and Peter was delivered, and he came and he knocked on the door. And the lady answered the door and and and uh Peter said, let me in. And she said, We're praying for Peter to get out of prison. Don't bother us. And there was Peter knocking at the door. Great, great miracle. But then James was put into prison. And the early church prayed for James to be miraculously delivered out of prison. And James wasn't delivered. James was beheaded. Did Peter have greater faith in James? I don't think so. This was according to the will of God. True prayer is the echo of the eternal purpose, says Spurgeon. And so we have to submit to the will of God. And so sometimes God will heal, but other times God, it is not his will to heal And it is wrong for a faith healer. We see a lot of that going on today which is not according to the scripture. And again, I believe that God is a healer. Because I see so many times when a person will go to get a healing and a person they pretend to heal this person and later on they find out it's not, and the person says, Well, it's because of your faith. Your faith. See Everett Coop again wrote a story of a man who went to be healed. He was a man who had a problem seeing. And as he said, when he got on the platform when with the TV lights. And the the large print bible the man could read and the faint healer ripped off his glasses and stomped them and broke them and said, Pop you can't see anymore, but now you're gonna you don't need these glasses. And he could read a large print bible in the light that he had But when he went home, now without glasses, he couldn't even find his Bible. And he went back to the healer and said, What happened? And the guy said, Well i if you didn't it's your faith is a problem. You don't have enough faith or the healing would have stopped We never see that in the New Testament. We don't see that kind of thing. James is saying sometimes the Lord heals and he does it miraculously. Sometimes he doesn't heal And we should accept that. But we also know that when we do exercise faith, God sometimes will honor that. I've had the privilege to go to people who have been on the bed of affliction, anoint them with oil, and watch the Lord raise them up. I've also gone and anointed people with oil and prayed over them, and the Lord didn't raise them up. They have gone home to be with the Lord. That was you could say the ultimate healing. But we have to be submissive to that. And this is what James is saying here. But notice also what he says here in verse Number 15. The prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise them up, and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Well, what James is implying here is that there's a possibility that sometimes a person's sickness might be related to sin. Sometimes. Now in Jesus' day they over-spiritualized illness. They said all illness was due to sin. And the reason you're sick is because of sin. And they believe that in Jesus' day, remember The disciples asked Jesus about a man born blind. They said, Who sinned? This man or his parents? And Jesus said, Neither. He's sick that the works of God might be manifest. He's sick for the glory of God. God's going to use this to glorify himself. And that's why sometimes God will allow his saints to go through illness, because through that God can get glory through your life. Today in the West, we de-spiritualize illness. We say no sickness is related to sin. And we go to the opposite extreme. And the truth of the matter is, not all, maybe even not most, but some sickness is related to sin. And the Bible teaches about that. Jesus said, your sins are forgiven you, and then he healed the crippled man in Luke 5. 20. He said to the man at the pool of Siloam, Stop sinning lest a worse thing happen to you. He did that right as he healed them there. Now stop sinning. And Jesus related it, his sickness to his sin. Paul warned the Corinthians that the reason some of you are weak and sickly, and some have died, is because of your sinful attitude as you approach the Lord's Supper. It was God's punishment to that church for that. So we know that that is true, that it happens sometimes And so there are times when there has to be the confession we have to deal with sin. Look what he says in verse 16: Confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you might be healed. And so in times of suffering and sickness, and it may be that as a person who may be struggling with sin in their life You need to go to someone who you can trust, who's spiritually mature. You need to be careful when you confess your sins to one another. Be careful you're not confessing it to the wrong person. Someone spiritually mature that will love you and keep confidence and will pray for you and will help you and will be accountable and a partner to you to help you overcome the burden of sin in your life And will help to restore you to the place where God wants you to be. We need to collectively together help one another out and love each other in that respect. So here James is giving an exhortation. Exhorting us to pray. Now let me give you the example. Let's go to the next part. The example of effective prayer. Look in verse 17. Verse 16 says, the effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Verse 17, Elias, or that is Elijah, was a man subject to light passions as we are And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. So not only does James give us an exhortation, now here he gives us an example. And the Jewish audience to whom James was writing knew who this was. They knew Elijah the prophet. He was one of the most famous prophets in the Old Testament He doesn't really have to elaborate because the people that he was writing to understood and they knew. They knew that there was a time when God used the prayers of Elijah. In a great way. He was a man of effective prayer. And let me tell you what it was. It was a time in the history of Israel when they were turning away from worshiping Yahweh as their only God. And they were turning to Baal. They were living in the in the land of Canaan. They had been canonized by the culture of the realm. And many were turning from Jehovah God, turning to Baal. In fact, they officially replaced the worship of Jehovah with the worship of Baal in Israel. It was one of the low points in the history of Israel. And then onto the scene comes this prophet Elijah. And he confronts this sin. In fact, his name was appropriate for his ministry. Elijah means Eli, my God, Yah, Yahweh. My God is Yahweh. And he says this to all these Israelites that are worshiping Baal. And by the way, Baal was depicted in these early statues as a God having lightning bolts in his hands. He was called the rider of the clouds. He was the one considered to control the rain. The worship that they had in that day of Canaanite gods was in relation to the four seasons. And so when it was a rainy season, Baal was on the throne, so to speak. And Elijah came along and he said, You think he's the one that controls the rain? You think he's the one that's in charge? And so Elijah prayed. And guess what? It didn't rain for three and a half years. You know why? He was sending a message to all of Israel. Baal's not the one up in control up there. It is Jehovah God, the God of Israel. And the reason it's not raining is of the punishment to you who think that Baal's in control and you've turned away from God And then you know this kind of culminates on that Mount Carmel experience where there's 400 prophets of Baal and Elijah and they build the two altars. And Elijah says, you know, let the God who is really the God answer by fire. By the way, that's a lightning bolt. Baal was depicted as having lightning bolts in his hands. Okay, let's see if Baal can throw down one of those lightning bolts. If he's God. And you know the story. The prophets of Baal march around the altar, they shout, they cut themselves, nothing. And Elijah's over there making fun of them. Maybe he's asleep. Shout louder, maybe you need to wake them up. Nothing happens. And then Elijah prays, Lord, show them that you're God, and boom. Firefalls, licks up the altar and the water that was poured on the sacrifice. Why? Because Jehovah is God. He's the only God. So he prays and there's no rain. And right after that episode, Elijah said, Okay, get ready. Now it's gonna rain. And the Bible says he prayed fervently, and you know what happened? He looked out over the horizon, and there was a cloud. Wasn't big, but it was getting bigger. And Elijah told everyone, get ready, it's gonna rain. And it began to rain. And and the whole here's the whole point The prayers of this one godly man, the effective prayers, turned the nation back to God at that point because they realized That Yahweh is God. And here's what James is saying. You can have a prayer life like Elijah. You can have that You don't have to be an Old Testament Elijah, but you have to be like him in some ways. Notice the integrity of Elijah. Look again in verse number 16 effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man. Look at the word righteous. You say, well I pray, but God doesn't answer. Maybe it's because you've got sin that you haven't confessed The Bible says God's hand is not shortened that he cannot save, neither his ear have he that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God. That has to be the prayer of a righteous man. Notice the identity. He was subject to like passions in verse 17. Elijah was a man subject to like passions. You know, James is just simply saying, you know, he was a son of Adam, he was human, just like all of us Sometimes we have a tendency to relegate biblical people to have some superhero type status that we could never attain. But that's not true. He was a man just like us with a fallen sin nature. But he prayed. And God heard him. You don't have to be Elijah to have your prayers answered. But you have to pray like Elijah did. And God will hear. I remember when I was in seminary, going I was pastoring a little church out in a rural area. I told this before, but it matches so much here in this part of the sermon. I remember that there's I was doing a funeral, and by the way there was a drought that summer, and for weeks it hadn't rain, and the farmers in that rural community depended upon their crop. for their income of course and they were really in danger of losing everything. And I did a funeral and the funeral director put me in the hearse and we were driving to the graveside and he was a farmer and he was a part-time funeral director. And I remember he asked me this question. He said, Preacher, are you in touch with God? I said, well I think so. I'd like to think I am. He said, well I'm de I need something for you. I said, what is it? He said, I need we need rain. He said I've asked all these other preachers in the county for rain and they haven't come through for me. He says, so we're gonna find out if you're in touch with God. We need rain, we need it now, we need it tomorrow, we don't need it next week. I want you to pray for rain And then we'll see whether or not you're really in touch with God. No pressure or anything. I said, well I'll do the best I can. So I prayed, I said, Lord, please help these farmers. Please give them rain. I never forget the next day it was just a deluge. It rained and rained and rained and rained. And that guy, next time he saw me, he thought I was Elijah the prophet Do you know what the truth of the matter is? Look, we don't know if God was answering my prayer or all the other prayers that have gone on before, but I'll tell you this one thing, God answered prayer, right? But here's the point. You don't have to be Elijah to have your air your prayers answered. But you have to pray like Elijah. And he prayed, he was a righteous man. And notice the intensity of Elijah. The effectual, fervent prayer, effectual as energy. He prayed hard. If you're reading the Old Testament, you'll see the fervency in his prayer. Someone said cold prayers always freeze before they reach heaven. So there has to be effectual prayer. Fervency. Spurgeon said prayer without fervency is like hunting with a dead dog. You have to have fervency. And I saw this in my ministry when I was young, pastoring my first church. We had Dr. J. Harrell Smith come and preach, a great preacher. He was going to preach that night in our church a famous sermon, God Three Deadlines. I picked him up at the hotel. At that time he was eighty years old. He had white hair. He looked like an Old Testament prophet to me And I remember as I drove him to the meeting, he said, Brother Jerry, you drive. I'm going to pray. I said, okay. And he prayed so fervently. For that drive. He was sweating profusely. But and I had the AC on, I cranked it up. He was sweating. He had prayed fervently. No wonder that night sixty some odd people got saved. The effectual fervent prayer. Of a righteous man availeth much. And that's the point that James wants you to see. You can have an effectual prayer life if you'll pray like Elijah. You don't have to be Elijah. But you can be like him. If you confess your sins, if you pray fervently, God will hear you. And God will do great things in your life if you'll do that. That's his whole point here. And so I want you to take this as a challenge. I want you to make a decision today to be a man or a woman of prayer. to confess whatever sins we have to the Lord. I want us to get our hearts right. Can you imagine with all the people that are in here that if we became people of effective prayer, what God can do? Not only here in this church, but here in this whole community, here in this whole city. Our nation needs revival. And it's going to start in the church. It's going to start with the people of God who get serious and will lay hold of God in prayer. Let's bow for prayer today. Let's bow for prayer. So Lord, we thank you for this wonderful example that you give us of Elijah. Lord, help us to follow in that example of effective prayer. May we determine here today by your grace To say, I'm going to be a person of prayer. May we be honest. Say, Lord, I've been weak in this. Not where I need to be. But Lord, I want to be a person of prayer. And maybe here this morning, this is what God is speaking to you about. Maybe the Lord is challenging you. And he's saying to you here this morning, call unto me. Call unto me. And I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things. Some of you may have a burden, and God's waiting for you to call upon him to relieve you of that Some have a great challenge in front of you, and God's waiting for you to call. Some have wayward sons and daughters, and God's waiting for you to call upon him. Burdens, and God says, call unto me. I may say that's my desire to be a man or a woman of prayer. And by the grace of God, I'm making a decision today. I'm going to do that. I'm going to be a person of prayer. God bless you. I'm going to follow this pattern of Elijah. And fervently pray. How many say, I've got a burden today and I need God to work in my behalf? Would you lift your hand and let me pray for you? God bless all of you. All of you. Put your hands down. If you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, this is the first prayer you need to pray. Lord. Be merciful to me as sinner and save me. You get on praying ground by trusting Jesus as your Savior. And in a moment, we're going to have an invitation and we're going to ask you To make a decision. If you're not saved, to come and confess Christ. And if you're hearing you're a child of God, maybe you just need to come to this altar and make a decision to be a person of prayer, or maybe you need to bring a prayer burden. I don't know, whatever the Lord is speaking to you about, I want you to do. Let's all stand together. Our ministers are going to be here in the front. If you have a prayer burden or a need you want to bring into the altar, you come. Or maybe you just need to come and say, God, make me a man or a woman of prayer. This is an important matter, folks. This is where God works. And we need his power in our life.