Take your Bibles out tonight and open please to the book of Joshua, chapter number 10. Joshua chapter 10. And while you're finding that, Joshua 10, let me ask you a question. Have you ever said this or heard someone say it's been a long day? Well, we know what that means when someone says it's been a long day. Now we understand that that's not literal because uh no one has more hours in a day than anyone else. We all have twenty-four hours in a day But when we say it's been a long day, we mean that it seems like it was a lot longer than 24 hours, maybe because of some problem that you had or some difficulty in the day. But I want to show you a passage of scripture that teaches us that there really was a day in history that was longer than 24 hours. It literally was a long day. In fact, it was the longest day It was longer than 24 hours. As a matter of fact, it was almost 48 hours. And it's recorded for us here in the Scripture. And beloved, it's also recorded in the skies. This is a miracle that God has placed in the heavens. It's a day when the sun stood still, and it's recorded here in Joshua chapter 10. Look in chapter 10. Look down to verse number 12. And let's start there. Then Joshua spake to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel And said in the sight of Israel, Son, stand thou still upon Gibeon and thou moon in the valley of Ajelon. And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Isn't this not written in the book of Jashua? So the sun stood still in the midst of the heaven, and hastened not to go down about a whole day. And there was no day like that, before it or after it, that the Lord hearkened unto the voice of the man, for the Lord fought. for Israel. Now here in rec in recorded in Scripture is one of the greatest miracles, I think, in all of the Bible. Now, of course, critics don't believe this story. They think the Bible is filled with fables and myths. But as one country preacher said, these people are myth-taken when they think the Bible is filled with myths. These stories are real and they're true. But no story, it seems, in the Old Testament has been as ridiculed. or has suffered as much abuse as this story of Joshua's long day. There are some out there that say this this uh proves that the Bible isn't filled with true stories, it's got fables in it. And I say it's the exact opposite. This story actually upholds the scripture. And authenticates the scripture. The problem is there are some people, and sadly even some Christians, that do not believe in a miracle-working God. But we have a God who can do great miracles. C. S. Lewis wrote this. He said, the mind which asks for a non-miraculous Christianity is a mind in process of relapsing from Christianity into mere religion. I don't want mere religion. I want real Christianity. And real Christianity includes a God who can do miracles. There is nothing too hard for God. There is nothing impossible with God. Robert Dick Wilson was a former professor at of Hebrew at Princeton Seminary, and he came to Chapel one day to hear one of his students. This student had graduated. and was in ministry for 12 years, and he had been invited back to the chapel service to speak. This student's name was Donald Gray Barnhouse. Perhaps you know that name. And as Donald Grave Parnouse was speaking in chapel, Dr. Wilson, his Hebrew professor, was sitting up front listening to him preach. And when it was over, Dr. Wilson came up to Dr. Barnhouse and said, I I I always come to hear my boys preach in chapel. He said, I want to find out if they believe in a big God or they believe in a little God And Donald Gray Barnhouse said, well what do you mean by that? He said, well there are some men who believe in a little God, they're always in trouble, and they their God can't do miracles, and he can't take care of the inspiration and the preservation and the transmission of Scripture. He said, and their ministries reflect that they believe in a little God. He said, but then there are men who preach a big God. And their ministry will show it. And he said, I want you to know I'm glad that you preach a big God. This is a God who can do miracles. And I just want to go on record and say tonight that I believe in a big God. I believe in a God that can do anything. So I want you to notice with me in this story three perspectives on Joshua's long day. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, the miracle of the long day The miracle of the long day. Let's look at the miracle. First, there's a what I want to call a fearful problem. Go back to chapter 10 and verse 1. Now it came to pass when Adonai Zadak, king of Jerusalem, had heard how Joshua had taken Ai And had utterly utterly destroyed it, as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king, and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them, that they feared greatly because Gibeon was a great city. as one of the royal cities, because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty. Wherefore Ad Adonai Zadak, king of Jerusalem, and Hoham, king of Hebron, and Piram, king of Jormut And unto Japheah, king of Lachish, and Deber, king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me and help me that we may smite Gibeon. Where it made peace with Joshua and the children of Israel. And so what's going on here? Well We see a confederacy taking place. These five kings of the Amorites all come together because they heard of what Gibeon did. They heard of how Gibeon made a treaty With Joshua and Israel, and if you were here last week, you might remember that story how how the Gibeonites came to Joshua and they pretended to be from a far country And they deceived Joshua and the elders, but nevertheless, they made a binding agreement. And when these kings find out about it, they come together in one mighty southern confederacy And they decide to attack the city of Gibeon. Now these Gibeonites, these they're they're afraid now Because this mighty force is coming down on them. And so I want you to see not only a fearful problem, but notice a fulfilled promise. Look in verse six. And the men of Gibeon said unto Joshua unto the camp of Gilgal, saying Slack not thy hand from thy servants, and come up to us quickly, and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the mountain are gathered together against us. So they call for help And they asked Joshua, get here quickly and help us out. Now, you have to admire Joshua here. He could have said, Well, you know, here's my chance to get out of that agreement that I made with these Gibeonites. I can just let them be slaughtered by these five kings And that whole episode is over with. But Joshua doesn't do that because he gave his word, and Joshua is a man of integrity, and so he decides to help And he gathers together his forces. Notice next the fierce plan. Look in verse 7. So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor, and the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear them not. For I have delivered them into thy hand, there shall not a man of them stand before thee. And Joshua therefore came unto them suddenly and went up from Gilgal all night Now Joshua is there in Gilgal, and no doubt he gets his plans from the Lord, because he's learned about going into battle without s first consulting God. And so verse 7 says that they ascend up into the hill country. This has been a hard march. They literally had to ascend 4,000 feet upwards over 20 miles And so you can imagine these men, these this army, and they are they are marching, and the Bible says in verse 9, they march all night. Now remember in chapter 9 it says it was a three-day journey to Gibeon from Gilgal But here, these soldiers now make this march in one night. Man, they had to be running all through the night to get there. And so the idea is for Joshua to have a surprise attack against this Confederacy of Canaanite forces But notice again in verse 8, God gives Joshua a promise. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear them not, for I have delivered them into thine hand. There shall not a man of them stand before thee. Does that promise sound familiar? Doesn't that sound like what God told Joshua in the beginning in chapter one, there shall not a man stand before thee? And then I've already given it into your hand This is a God God again reaffirming his promise, I've delivered them into your hand. And so what happens Look in verse ten. And the Lord discomfited them before Israel and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth up to uh Beth Horan, and smote them unto Azekah and unto Makeda. And it came to pass as they fled from before Israel and were in the going down to Bethoran that the Lord cast great stones from heaven upon them. unto Azekah, and they died. And there were more men which there were more which died with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword. And so next here is what I call the furious pursuit. He takes them by surprise. The Lord gives them victory. Here the Southern Confederacy of soldiers and kings Realize they're defeated and they run from the battle. And they begin to run downward, this high road that leads swiftly down into the central hill country. They took this road and they're running now from the battle because God has given Joshua. and his soldiers the victory. And the Bible says that as they're running, here's the first miracle that happens in this story in verse 11, God rains down huge hailstones upon this fleeing enemy I want to tell you the the miraculous thing to me about this is that God is hitting the enemy with hailstones, but he's not hitting any of the Israelites with hailstones. You ever been in a hailstorm where you're not getting hit and everyone else around you is That's what God was doing for Israel. All these other men were getting hit. This also tells me another thing, God's a pretty good aim, isn't he? When he throws a hailstone at you, you're gonna get hit. That's what happens here in this story. It's an incredible thing. But then notice the next thing, not only a fearful problem and a fulfilled promise and a fierce plan and a furious pursuit. Notice a faith-filled prayer. Look in verse number 12. Then spake Joshua to the Lord In the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, Son, stand thou still upon Gibeon, and thou moon in the valley of Agilon Now what happens here? Joshua realizes that here is an unprecedented opportunity to smash the Southern Confederacy of kings and open up the land of Canaan for all the children of Israel. And what's happening, however, is that he's losing daylight. And it's very possible that some of these soldiers and kings can escape under the cover of darkness. In fact, let me read to you what one commentator wrote. He puts a beautiful picture in this. He says, picture the scene that must have greeted Joshua as he crested the ridge of Bethorah. Before him, as far as his eyes could see, was masses of the panicked armies being pursued by his own soldiers. Over the slopes above the plains, there was a great cloud from which hail was falling To his right, the sun was beginning its long afternoon descent towards the Mediterranean. Joshua must have realized two things. First, this is an opportunity to destroy this Confederacy. And then he also realized if he could destroy them now, the Southlands would be open. At the same time, he must have recognized that the day was escaping. When the sun set, fighting would cease. There was not enough time before sunset to achieve total victory. And so what does Joshua do? I can just picture him as his his heart fills with faith, and at that moment when faith is welling up in his soul, he utters a prayer. And what is the prayer? Notice again in verse 12. Notice at the end of verse 12, he's talking to the Lord. Joshua spake unto the Lord and said, Son, stand thou still upon Gibeon and thou moon in the valley of Azulon. And the Bible says in verse 13 that the sun stood still and the moon stayed until the people had avenged themselves upon their And verse 14 says, And there was no day like that before it or after it that the Lord hearken unto the voice of a man, for the Lord fought for Israel. What an incredible miracle. What an incredible thing. The miracle of the long day. Now, let's look at it from another perspective. I want you to write down number two the mystery of the long day. The mystery of the long day. You say, why do you call it that? Well, because this passage has been fiercely debated. It's been debated by scholars, it's been debated by theologians, it's been debated by preachers. And the question is, what happened here? Is this literally a long day or is this figurative? And so the debate is centered on that one question, what happened? And there is, first of all, a philosophical debate, and there are some who say, well, you can't really take this literally for a few reasons. And this is the arguments they give. They say, well, the text says the sun stands still. And they argue and they say, everyone knows it's not the sun that moves, it's the earth that revolves. And so they say, we can't take this literal therefore. How do we answer that? Well, if you want to get real literal, the sun actually does move. In fact, all of God's created universe moves. The sun moves at a tremendous rate of speed. And Joshua said to the sun, stand still. Actually, the Hebrew reads like this, Son, stop acting. Sun cease acting. And really this the sun's gravitational pull is what causes the earth to what? To rotate. It's the sun's gravity. And so by speaking to the sun, Joshua was actually scientifically correct since the sun controls the earth's revolving. So I mean if you want to get real literal here, Mr. Scientist Joshua is being literal. He's speaking to the sun. But here I think this is the best answer. Joshua was using the language of observation. Just because a writer of Scripture uses the language of observation, it does not mean that the Bible is scientifically inaccurate. Let me ask you a question. How many have ever heard of the Chicago Statement of Biblical inerrancy? This is a wonderful document. This was a document that was written by a bunch of uh conservative preachers and theologians who got together in Chicago and they wanted to uphold the inerrancy of scripture and they came up with 19 articles uh that that uh where we stand on inerrancy with regard to the scripture. Let me read to you what one part of this article says. It says, we deny that inerrancy is negated by biblical phenomena such as observational descriptions of nature. That's an important statement in that document because you know what it says? It says when a writer of scripture uses observational language to talk about nature, that never negates inerrancy. In fact, do you know that people today still use the language of observation? You listen to your weatherman tonight, and you know what? He'll say tomorrow the sun will rise at So and so. And the sun will set at so and so. And after he says that, I want you to call the news station. I want you to call him a liar. I want you to say, sir, that is scientifically incorrect. The sun does not rise and set. How many will promise to do that? Okay, nobody, good. Because we know that we still use the language of observation today. We wouldn't say that that was scientifically inaccurate Well, then they say, well, we can't take this literal because this is against the laws of nature. Friend, there's no such thing as the laws of nature, only the laws of God. God doesn't operate according to the laws of nature. Nature operates according to the laws of God. And God can do whatever he wants In fact, in order to have a law, it presupposes that there is someone who has the power to make that law and enforce that law And that someone then also has the power to amend it or to abolish it. And that someone is God. God can do whatever he wants. And besides that, you can't use the laws of nature to explain a miracle. A miracle, by their very definition, defy the laws of nature. Well they say, well we can't take this literal because if someone if something like that would happen, it would be affect uh it would be an effect worldwide. It would impact the whole world. Others would have recorded it. Well, I'm glad you bring that up because you know what? Others did record it Did you know it's an indisputable evidence from modern science, the science of ethnology, that such an event occurred as Joshua records? In ancient Chinese writings, there's a legend of the long day In fact, there's a man by the name of David Nelson who informs us of this fact. He says Chinese history speaks of a king named Yao, declaring that in his reign the sun stood uh s still so long above the horizon that it was feared that the world would have been set on fire. And he fixes the reign of Yah at the time of, guess what? At the same time as the time of Joshua. There's another book written by Emmanuel Vilikovsky. The book is called Worlds in Collision. And what he does in this book is he assembles Ancient traditions of a long day. And what he finds is there's traditions like this in the Mexican history There's traditions like this by the Incas of Peru, by the Babylonians, by the Persians. They all record an extra long day Herodotus, the ancient historian, recounts that one day while he was in Egypt, the Egyptian priests showed him in their temple records a day which was twice the natural length of any day that had ever been recorded. The Polynesians have a legend of a long day. Even modern astronomers like Sir uh Edwin Bell, the British astronomer, found that there are twenty-four hours missing in solar time. Now, this is that's the philosophical debate. But there's another big debate, we could call this the theological debate And this is a debate by commentators and theologians, and they debate how we are to interpret this. For example, let me give you some different ways that they like to try to interpret this. First of all, there's the poetic you And in this argument, they say that these words are poetic. They're figurative instead of literal. This is poetry instead of prose. And Joshua, in a poetic way, was simply asking God for more strength. Joshua was saying, God, help us to do two days' work in one day. And he was using beautiful poetry to do it Well, let me just say, first of all, at the end of verse 12, Joshua does use Hebrew parallelism to make this prayer. But just because he uses a little bit of parallelism doesn't mean that this is not a literal event. And so uh Verse 13, the very next verse, is straightforward prose. It's very literal. The sun stood still and the moon stayed. And besides that, I don't think this general Joshua is up on a ridge quoting poetry while his army is fighting I just don't think that's what's going on here. This was a prayer. It was a prayer request in the heat of battle. And it was a prayer that was very eloquently placed, very brief and very concise. But it's exactly what Joshua wanted. And besides that, the hailstones were not figurative. The hailstones were not poetry. The hailstones kill. Poetry doesn't kill. At least some poetry that I know doesn't kill. The hailstones do. And so that just doesn't make sense. Well then there's another view that they say, well, this is a mirage. Simply a reflection a refraction of the sun's rays in order to give more light of the day. Well, again, as we had already seen, this was an event that had a worldwide impact. This was recorded all over the world. That doesn't make sense if it was a mirage. And besides that, write down Isaiah 28-21 because this Very thing is mentioned in Isaiah twenty-eight twenty one, or for it says here, for the Lord shall rise up as in Here Isaiah is referring to this event and listen to what he says that he may do his work His strange work. And the word for strange is something that is unique, something that is unheard of, that has never happened before. It doesn't sound like a mirage. That's the power of God. Now, there's another view that they say, well, this was an omen. Joshua was asking for a good omen. In fact, uh he was praying for a good omen for the Israelites and a bad omen for The Canaanites. Now, this approach considers the context of ancient Near Eastern culture where they looked at the sun and the moon and the stars and how the sun and moon lined up, and to them it was a reflection of omens And so there are some that take this and say Joshua was asking God to give Israel a good omen. He was asking to give the Canaanites a bad omen for the sun and moon lining up the way it did. That would discourage the army as they were retreating. But again, friend, this is just simply pure speculation. There's nothing in the text of Scripture that supports that at all. And then there's another view that says, well, Joshua is simply asking for a release from the heat of the day. He just wants, you know, he wants God to kind of give him shade. And then an answer to that prayer, God sent the storm with the hailstones. Well, there's a problem with that view, and that is the hailstones came before Joshua's request here in the story. Besides verse 14 again says that this is something that happened as never happened before, ever before, nor afterwards. Doesn't sound like refreshing from the sun. And then number five, here's another view, and that is the earth stopped revolving. They say, well, you know, here's the view. Well then what ha the way we take this then is the earth simply stopped its revolving. Now think about that. What happens? What would happen if the earth stopped revolving? Did you know that the earth revolves at the equator? If you're standing at the equator, it revolves 1,035 miles per hour at the equator. Now think about this. If you were on the hood of a car and that car was going 1,000 miles an hour and that car suddenly stopped on a dime, what would happen to that person on that car? I hope it's not you What would happen to that person on that car? They would just fly off, right? So think about it. If the Earth is revolving at a rate of a thousand miles per hour and suddenly the Earth stopped. That would mean there would be huge consequences, cataclysmic consequences, earthquakes and and tidal waves and and and so on. And so you say, well, what happened? I think we have to let the Bible tell us what happened. What happened? Look at verse 13. And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed upon the people. until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is this not written in the book of Jasha? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven. And watch this at the end of verse 13. And hastened not to go down about a whole day. That is, it didn't hurry. So using the language of observation, it looked like the sun stood still. But the Bible says it just didn't hasten to go down. It slowed. It moved abnormally slow. It crept across the sky. Moving lethargically. It slowed down. Tremendously. So I believe this is exactly what happened. The earth slowed and it's revolving. You say, how did God do that? I don't know. He's God. He can do whatever he wants. He's got the power to do whatever he wants. And the final analysis again, you can't use the laws of nature to try to explain a miracle. Just free yourself from thinking you have to do that. You don't need to explain a miracle. You just have to say this is this is what the Bible says. And you have to you either believe it or you don't believe it, but you can't use natural laws and scientific observation and investigation to uphold or disprove a miracle. You don't need to. Give you an example. What if there were some scientists at the feeding of the 5,000? They were there and they said, we're going to take some of this fish and some of these loaves and we're going to test it. You know, the fish and the loaves that Jesus multiplied suddenly And and they interview the people and say, how did it taste? And you know, did you feel full? And how how soon were you hungry afterwards? And you can do all the scientific analysis that you want to, but none of that is going to explain how Jesus did that miracle. You either believe it or you don't. But it's interesting to me that there are some people who will believe their newspaper, but they won't believe the Bible. Let me read you a an article. On May the seventh, nineteen seventy-three, the Dallas Morning News reported, quote, a giant storm on the sun last year. This is the article probably slowed down the spinning of the earth for one rather long day. According to the two scientists, they say this happened on August the 4th, 1972. And they go on to explain the length of a planet, its rotation, is is according to the sun's gravitational pull and that storm on the sun then clause the Earth to slow its revolving fractional fractionally. And there are some people that will read a story in the paper like that and believe it, and yet they won't believe the Bible when God says this happens. But from Joshua's vantage point, using the language of observation The sun stood still. God answered his prayer, and God did an incredible miracle. So there's a philosophical debate. There is a theological debate about as to what happened here, but then there's also an astronomical debate by professors. Well, let me just say this. Did you know that by studying the heavens, astronomers can prove the validity of Scripture? There are certain facts in this passage that you can pull out. For example, in verse 12, it says the sun was over Gibeon. In verse 13, it says it was in the midst of heaven. It says the moon was in the valley of Agilon. And so lining those up Astronomers can can find out what degree that the city of Gibeon is on the globe. And they can also see find out find out that the moon, where it was in reference to Gibeon And this is what they call a gunsight pass where the sun is at its zenith and the moon is setting at the meridian of the earth. And astronomers tell us that this position is reached just once every lunar cycle. So with astronomy and chronology, they can roll back the days and they can tell you what day this fell on The Chaldeans keep records from lunar eclipses, and if you use the Chaldean record and count forward, you come to July 22nd on a Tuesday. If you take modern records, our records, and count back, you come to July 22nd, but you come to a Wednesday. Now the important thing here is that the date is the same, but the calendar day is different. There's a day missing. And God has written it in the stars forever. And by the way, as common knowledge, astronomers will tell you that. Any serious astronomer will tell you there's a day missing According to Bernard Rahm, Professor Pickering of Harvard Observatory has traced it back to the time of Joshua. And besides Josephus, the Jewish historian, this is what he wrote. Now the day that was lengthened at this time and was longer than ordinary, it is expressed in the books laid up in the temple. That is, he was talking about the temple in Jerusalem. That this miracle was written down and put in books and placed in the temple back in that time. Now that's the mystery of the long day. We looked at the miracle. And we looked at the mystery and the debate that's out there about this. But let me give you the third point. The message of the long day. That you say, when all this information that you've given us, this is pretty cool, but how does this apply to me? I'm just trying to make it through the week. I'm just trying to I'm just trying to make I just need strength to make it through this day. Well, friend, let me give you number three the message of the long day. Because there's a practical message in this for us. For you and for me. And I want to show you what it is. You say, what's the message? The message of the long day is simply this. God fights for his people. God gives victory to his people. God is the source of our victory. All of our victories come from Him. Like I said before, victory is our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. Remember, I told you I'd like to give you one big idea in a sermon. I'd like to give the sermon in a sentence. So here's the sermon in a sentence. And it's this, the Lord gives victory, showing that He alone is Almighty God. That's what this whole story tells us. Notice the promise of victory again in verse 8. This is what I call the promise of victory. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear them not, for I have delivered them into thine hand. There shall not a man of them stand before me. God's word is reliable. His promises are true. If God tells you something, he is going to do it. Even if he has to move the heavens and the earth to do it. God will do it. Why did God perform this great miracle? Because he promised Joshua not one of them will be left standing at the end of the day. And Joshua said, Lord, we need more light. And God said, no problem. And God stopped the sun and the stars in their courses, and God did whatever he needed to do to fulfill his promise to his. servant. Again, I tell you that God will move heaven and earth to keep his word. His promises are true. The Bible says heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. That's why I have no patience with these so-called ministers who question the Bible. Who questioned the scripture? I have no patience with those who will attack the Word of God. But you know what? The Bible's like an anvil and their attacks are like hammers. Those hammers wear out, but the anvil is still here. None of those attacks will ever stand. There's the promise of victory, but then there's the position of victory. There might be someone here tonight and say, Well I I wish that God would fight for me the way he fought for Israel. Well he will The question is, who where are you? You have to position yourself for victory. You say, how do I get God on my side? That's not the question. The question is, how do you get on God's side? Remember in Joshua chapter 5 when the divine warrior showed up and Joshua said, Whose side are you on? He had his sword drawn. This is the divine warrior. This is the Lord Himself. And the question is not whose side are you on? The question is, are you on my side? I didn't come here to take sides, Joshua. I came here to take over. And the question is, are you on my side? The question tonight is, are you on God's side? Because when you get on God's side, those who fight against you fight against God. And God will always give victory, the position of victory. But let me show you something else. This is what I want to call the posture of victory. Look down at verse number 16. It says, but these five kings fled and hid themselves in a cave in Makedah. So these kings run from battle and they hide themselves. Joshua finds out about it. In verse eighteen, Joshua says, Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave, and set men by it, for to keep them. And so they roll stones on the cave These men are trapped in there. They go out and continue the battle, and then later Joshua comes back. Look at verse 22. Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave and bring out those five kings unto me out of the cave. And verse twenty-three and they did so and brought forth those five kings unto him out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem and Hebron and Jarmut and Lakish and Eggline. Verse 24 And it came to pass when they brought out those kings unto Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel and said unto the captains of the men of war which went with him, Come near and put your feet upon the necks of these kings And they came near and put their feet upon the necks of them. Can you imagine that? Joshua rolls back the stone, brings these five Vanquished kings, defeated kings out, lays them in the dust. And then he says to his men, his captains, and his mighty men, Come by here, put your foot on their neck. Can you imagine that? Just picture that in your mind. They come by one at a time, put their foot down on the neck, you know, wave their hand at victory, you know. All of them come by. And why? Why does Joshua do that? This is an object lesson for all of Israel. This is Joshua in essentially saying, this is what the Lord is going to do to all your enemies. Look at verse 25. And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed. Be strong and of a good courage, for thus shall the Lord do to all your enemies against whom ye fight. This is what God's going to do to all your enemies. And so here's the posture of victory. They've got their foot on the neck of these kings. And by the way, there's a great picture in this. You see, our Joshua is named Jesus. You know what he does to Satan? He lays them low in the dust. And you know what he says to you and I, the Christian? Come here, put your foot on his neck. Put your foot there. Why? Because this is this is your victory. You've been given victory. You don't need to worry about your enemy because God has already given you victory. This is the posture of complete total victory. Write down Romans 1620. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet. The Bible says. God will brew Satan under your feet. So the next time the devil tries to scare you, just picture in your mind him laying in the dust and your foot on his neck. Because you say, how can we do that? Because Jesus Christ, our Joshua, has given us the victory. He's already defeated. And this is the posture. of a true child of God. You're more than conquerors through him that loved us. So we see the promise of victory, we see the position of victory, we see the posture of victory. Let me show you one last thing and we'll be done, the preview of victory. Notice what Joshua does to these kings next. Look at verse 26. And afterward Joshua smote them and slew them and hang them on five trees And they were hanging upon the trees until evening. And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun that Joshua commanded and they took them down off the trees and cast them into the cave wherein they had been hid And laid great stones in the cave's mouth which remain until this very day. And so Joshua hung them on a tree. And he laid them in a tomb. Now, the Jewish people hung their enemies on a tree to show that they were cursed by God And this is according to the command that in Deuteronomy 21, 22, if any man commit a sin worthy of death, he shall be put to death, and thou shalt hang him on a tree. Now When I read this, I can't help but think of another king who hung on a tree. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. He hung on a tree. You see, now wait a minute, Jesus never committed any sins. That's right, he never did. He was the sinless Son of God. He did nothing worthy of death. But friend, he took all of my sins. And he took all of your sins. And the curse that belonged to us, the curse of the law that comes upon those who don't obey the law, was placed on Jesus. And in fact, the New Testament writers are very specific to use this phrase of a tree when they talk about Jesus taking the curse of our sins upon himself. The Bible says in 1 Peter 2. 24, who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree. Paul says in Galatians 3. 13, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. Listen, being made a curse for us. Because it is written, cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. Don't you see, friend, this tree here imagery reminds me of Jesus hanging on a tree for us. Taking the curse of sin for us. Paying the penalty, purchasing our redemption And in fact, even when I I look at the titles and the names of these kings, I can't help but think of Jesus. Look at verse 3. You know the name Adonai Zadek, you know what that means, Lord of righteousness This man is the King of Jerusalem. There's only one real Lord of righteousness who's the King of Jerusalem, and that's Jesus. The Bible says, if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Jesus Christ the righteous. And one day he will come as king and he will reign from Jerusalem on the throne of David. He will reign as King of kings and Lord of Lords. Did you know the name Hoham is the name of the other king, which means alas he crushed. And that reminds me of Jesus, the king who crushed Satan at Calvary. Pirom means to divide or to separate. Jesus is the real King who divides, who separates. You see, friend, because when you choose to follow Jesus, you know what? That means you have to separate from the world. Jesus said, I didn't come to bring peace on the earth. I came not to send peace but a sword. Because when you choose to side with Jesus, you automatically will divide from other things and other people. Japha means exalted or high, and that reminds me of how we must exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. As Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. And then Deber is the Hebrew word, which actually means word. Jesus is the king who is the word. He is the word of God. And God spake to us through him. And then they laid these kings in a tomb, and the Bible says they're there unto this day. Jesus was laid in a tomb, but guess what? He didn't stay there. Three days later he arose. People go over to Jerusalem to look at the empty tomb. They pay money and stand in line. You know what? To see what do they want to see? To see absolutely nothing. Because there's nothing in there. Because Jesus came out of that grave. All of our victory comes from him. All of our victory. He conquered sin. He conquered death. He conquered Satan. All of our victory comes from Him. It comes from the power of the cross and Jesus Christ. So my question to you is this. Are you walking and living in the power of the cross, in the power of the Lord Jesus Christ? Now this is a long day, it ended eventually. The sun did set, and the day was done. And I want to tell you, this long day called life that we're in right now, one day it's going to set on your life. One day the sun will go down, your life will be over, it'll be done. And so I want to ask you, are you ready for that? Are you ready? The only way you can be ready is to know the real King of righteousness, and that's Jesus Christ. One song says, life's sinking sun is sinking low, a few more days, and I must go. To meet the deeds that I have done where there will be no setting sun. Are you ready for that time? Let's bow for prayer tonight. Lord, we we are just so in awe of your works, the things that you do. And that they're recorded for us so that we can rejoice in your mighty hand. And we can know, we can have assurance as we walk away from a passage like this that we have a God who fights for his people. Who grants us victory? Father, help us to realize what a special position we have to be in Christ. And may we walk in victory. May we claim the victory that is ours, that has been given to us by our King. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.