All right. Good to see you here tonight. And I invite you to take God's word and open to the book of James. As we've been looking at James here on Wednesday night as of late. And I want you to go to chapter 1. And tonight we're going to look at verses 19 down to verse 27. Verse 19 down to verse 27. Let me read a few verses here of this. Verse 19: Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Now, I heard about some scholars that were having a debate. About four of them were together and they were debating over uh which version of the Bible was the best version of the Bible. And uh we scholars do that from time to time. One scholar was talking about the King James Version and the beauty and the majesty of that version how it was translated when English was at its zenith and the reverence of the majesty that it brings to the Lord. And then another one was talking about the literalness of the American standard and how he liked to flow from verse to verse. Others were pitching in and giving their arguments for their uh their version. And one scholar said this, he said, Well, I like my mother's version the best. And they said, Did your mother translate a version Of the Bible? He said yes. The living translation. She lived every day the verse verses of scripture, every verse. She lived it out every day of her life. I think that the perhaps the most influential Bible that the world will ever see, because the world, those who don't know Christ, don't really pick up the Bible So really the most influential version of the Bible that the world will ever see is your version of the Bible. And it's the version that they see in your life. We could call it the living Bible or the living translation. You yourself are a living translation of the scripture. And so peop when people see your translation of the Bible What do they see? That's the most important issue that James is focusing on and hearing these verses here. He's going to talk about what I call the third test of being a genuine believer. Remember that James is writing to people and he's telling them about Authentic Christianity. Don't tell me that you're a believer. Show me that you are a believer. Remember, we said James is the show-me book of the Bible. And the first test that he gave us was how do I respond to trials When a trial or a test comes my way, how do I respond to that trial? And the second test we looked at last week was how do I resist temptation when temptation comes Uh what do I do with it? Where does it come from and how do I handle it? How do I overcome temptation? And now here he's going to kind of give us a third a test or measure of our Christianity, and that is how do I receive truth or how do I respond with truth in my life? This is one of the most reliable evidences of genuine salvation. Do you have a hunger for the Word of God? Now, when a mother has a new baby, she doesn't have to teach that baby to be hungry because that comes very natural, right? Newborn babes have a natural desire for milk. That's what Peter talks about when he says, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. One of the evidences of true salvation is that you're going to have just a natural hunger, a desire for the Word of God. I remember that when I got saved as a 15-year-old I still remember my mother buying me a Bible. Uh that that was my first Bible. I actually I probably had one earlier on from uh you know church when I was small, but really after salvation My mother buying me this Bible. That's the one that I really remember. And I remember having a voracious appetite just to read the scripture. And I remember the first book of the Bible that I read through was the book of Matthew And I was captivated by the beauty and the gentleness of Jesus Christ in the Gospel of Matthew. So that's going to be a natural thing with someone who has a new life. You're going to have that hunger for God's word. Jesus said this, if you abide in me and my word, excuse me, if you abide in my word, then you are truly my disciple. Genuine discipleship is evidenced by your relationship to the Word of God. I think that sometimes as Christians we need to do a periodic inventory to determine uh what is my level of hunger with the scripture. Am I someone who uh loves God's Word? Do I desire the Word of God? And more importantly than that, do I Now this again, this is the issue that James is going to talk to us about here. And really there's two major ideas in this passage I want you to get. The first one is a proper reception of the Word of God. We're going to talk about that. And then secondly, we're going to talk about a proper reaction to the Word of God. So first of all, let's talk about a proper reception Look at verse 19 again where he says, Wherefore, my beloved brethren. Now remember the word wherefore, that's kind of a transitional word, right? So we automatically look back to what and it kind of summarize what's already been studied or talked about and you know you have to follow James logic here. Because we're going to go through times of trials Because when the trial comes, it's possible possible for us to grow bitter instead of growing better. Because when we are tested, Satan will try to tempt us. Because when we have been made new creatures and we experience the transforming power of the Word of God, wherefore My beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath That's the idea. Because of everything that's been said before, then you have to be ready to listen. Notice he calls in my beloved brethren. I love that expression. James truly loves these believers. And that's another thing. You're going to love God's people. James is a good pastor. He loves these people. And you know, a few things can make a teacher's work more effective than genuinely loving the people that you are teaching. Someone said people don't care what you know until they know that you care. And here is James. He calls them the beloved brethren. And notice he's talking about how do you receive the truth. There are several things that have to be. First of all, write down a committed ear. Look what he says in verse 19. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear. The idea is readiness and eagerness to listen. Now in any field of knowledge, we learn by listening. Isn't that true? When we come to church, you're going to learn as well as you listen. The listening part is up to you. And by the way, remember that in James' day, uh it wasn't like today. Today we have copies of the Bible everywhere. We are so blessed to live in this age where you can pick up a copy of Scripture. In fact, you can download copies of Scripture on your mobile phone now. And it can be someone reading it to you all day long. You know, we are so blessed. But in James' day, few believers had a copy of the scripture. So they were absolutely completely dependent upon listening when they went to God's house and they heard either the scripture read by someone. were ex read and expounded by someone. And so they had to learn to listen well. And if they weren't swift to hear They could get easily left behind or they could be stunted in their spiritual growth. You know, psychotherapists tell us that listening is probably the most simple and effective technique for helping troubled people. I know sometimes in counseling someone will come by and they'll want to talk to me and they'll want to tell me all about going on in their life. And I'll sit there and I'll listen for about an hour. And after an hour is over, they'll say, Preacher, thank you so much. You've helped me so much. I haven't said a word. I haven't done anything. But you know, listening helps people. It does a lot of good. And so Uh we have to be swift to hear, James says. Think about it. Poor listening is responsible for a tremendous amount of waste in education. It can cause trouble in marriages, it can cause trouble in families. A lot of times what what what we call a rebellious teenager is simply a teenager that has parents that simply do not listen. They will not listen to them. And again, it's the reason that Christians don't grow spiritually. Write down James 5 verse 11 The writer says, Of whom we have many things to say, hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. The writer says, I'd like to really share with you some more. I'd like to give you more the depth of the word, but You're dull of hearing. You're not going to listen. You know, sometimes people will leave and say that preacher was dull. But the Bible doesn't talk about dull preachers. It talks about dull listeners. I'm not boring. You're boring. All right, you have to be ready to listen. Paul said to Timothy, the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust will they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Beloved, God has not called a preacher to give them what they want to hear. God has called a preacher to give them what they need to hear And what we need is the Word of God. So James says, be swift to hear. But here's the second thing. Not only a committed ear, but a controlled tongue. Look what it says again. Be swift to hear, slow to speak. Now I think there are two ideas behind this, and that is when you're slow to speak, that kind of goes along with good listening. You know, some people can't listen well because they can't wait to say what they want to say And they're not really listening to you because they're ready for you to get done so they can say what they want to say. Because they're so quick to respond, quick to uh want to say something You know, in Jewish wisdom literature, someone who was always anxious to speak was considered to be unwise or even a fool. Write down a few verses here. Proverbs 1019, in the multitude of words there woneth not sin. But he that refraineth his lips is wise. Proverbs thirteen thirteen He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life, but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction And then Proverbs 17, 27, Whosoever restrains his words has knowledge. And he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. And so one person said, God gave you two ears and one mouth, therefore you ought to listen twice as much as you speak. But I think there's a second idea here. Where it says, be slow to speak. And that's the idea, you've got to be careful what you say. You know, and by the way, James will talk about that in chapter three. He said, look, don't be anxious to be a teacher because you understand that those who teach the word are going to come under double condemnation. Do you know in the day of judgment I'm going to receive a greater condemnation, or I should say a greater judgment A more severe form of judgment, because I'm going to be judged by the words that I spoke when I'm teaching the Word of God. Words matter. And so we have to be very, very careful in that. So there's a committed ear, there's a controlled tongue, but also write down a calm spirit. Look again in verse 19. Let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath. Slow to wrath. And there are basically two Greek words for anger. One is thumas And that's kind of an explosive outburst. This is someone who just, it's very easy for them just to fly off the handle, fly into a rage. You know, they got the personality of a double barrel shotgun with a hair trigger. You ever see someone like that? The least little thing sets them off That's the idea of this word here. There's another Greek word which is orge, and it has the idea of an inner resentment, something that is seeding up It takes a little time there, but it's inwardly, it's growing until finally it's revealed. This is the word that's used here that James is talking about. You need to be slow to wrath. And really in the context, he's really speaking about in context of the word of God being given. You know, sometimes people Can come to church and hear the word and leave angry. I know that's never happened to anybody here. But sometimes people can get genuinely angry. at what you say. Now let me just say this, let me qualify this. I I love all of you all. I love preaching to you all. It's a joy and an honor to be able to do it. I never come up to the platform with an idea that says, you know, old brother so and so is going to get it tonight. I never come with that spirit. I never preach it to any one person, partly because when I study the word, it hammers me. I'm the one it need I feel like I need to get my heart right. I need to repent. I'm constantly repenting in my study of things that I need to take care of in my own life. So I never come up to the pulpit and say, I tell you what, bless the Lord, this person really needs this. I'm not here to make you angry. I'm here to just simply give you the word of God, and hopefully that word will be a blessing in your life. But having said that There are times when the Word of God will confront us in things in our life. And if we're not careful, we can get angry over what we're hearing. And that's what we need to be careful of. That's what James is talking about. Don't be hostile. And don't get quick to be angry about things. You may hear something that challenges a presupposition in your belief. That happens. I remember going through seminary, going through systematic theology and so on, and different things that would uh would surface in the course of the lecture or teaching that would challenge cherished things that I had presuppositions or beliefs about where I had to go back to the scripture and search it for myself and and get uh God's clarity in what the word of God was saying. We always have to be ready to submit to the Word of God and what it says. And anger can short circuit sanctification in our life. Because look what he says in verse 20, for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. Now the the wrath that he's referring to here is uh is our wrath, and that when he talks about the righteousness of God, The righteousness that he's referring to is not a reference to God's character, but to the righteousness that God requires of us. As believers now who have been declared righteous legally, now we have to work out that righteousness. We have to live in practical righteousness. And if we are angry all the time That doesn't work the righteousness of God in our life. Sometimes I'll counsel believers that are, they come in angry They're angry at this or they're angry at that. They're angry maybe at a a family member, they're maybe at a a fellow believer of circumstances in their life And I have to remind them that you know what? When you're angry like this, this works against the righteousness of God in your life. That's why you have to be careful about that. There are times when the Word of God is going to reprove you. In fact, Paul said to Timothy, reprove, rebuke, exhort, preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season. You preach the word when it's popular, or you preach the word when it's not, and you know what'll happen? There'll be reproof. There'll be rebuke Those things just naturally happen. The Word of God does all the work. In fact the word for reprove there may have told you this before in the Septuagint. Which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. The word is the word that's used to speak about a woman who gets sick. You remember in the Old Testament, if a man had a spirit of jealousy about his wife, he was suspicious about the faithfulness of his wife They would give her a test. They would go to the tabernacle. The priest would take water. He would take dust from the tabernacle floor, put it in the water, mix it up. She would have to drink it. And if she got sick, and the Bible says from the inside, she got a disease, then she was guilty. But if she didn't get sick, if she was well, then she was declared innocent. The word that speaks about that woman getting sick is the same exact Greek word that Paul is using When he said to Timothy, preach the word, reprove, or we could say it like this, preach the word, make sick. In fact, I think I may have told you before, people have actually, not here, but in other places where I preach, when I'm people are leaving, I've had one person in particular I remember came by and said, I just want you to know you make me sick You make me sick. Now, I wish I had thought about this verse when that happens. I wish I would have said to them, you know what, this thank you so much. Thank you so much for that because that's exactly what I'm supposed to do. I'm here to make you sick, you know But if you preach the word, God's Word does the work. Not me. I don't go to church to make people sick. I simply try to give the word. But James says, look, you need to be calm, a calm spirit Be slow to wrath. Be ready to receive the word. But here's the fourth thing. Not only a committed ear and a controlled tongue and a calm spirit, but a clean heart. Look again, look at verse 21. Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls And notice where he says lay apart all filthiness. This is an interesting word, and it simply means to put off. And James is using a metaphor that Paul used in Colossians When Paul talked about putting off and putting on, James is doing the same thing here. He's saying, look, if you want to receive God's word, you have to put off Some things. Strip it off. Lay off. Like taking off clothes. And notice the word filthiness. This speaks of dirty clothes, of moral defilement. And that's the idea. Take off these dirty clothes. And he's communicating the idea of sanctification. You know, when we get saved, we still have sometimes on the filthy garment of our sinful past. And James says, take that off. Put it off. And then notice in verse 21 where he says, and then receive with meekness the engrafted word. And so here's the thing that we need to learn from this. When it comes to learning scripture, we need more than just the normal ways that we learn. We learn by reading. and by logic, seeing the flow of logic in the passage. We learn by observation, by the empirical ways in which we learn, seeing, hearing, and so on. But if that's all you have, you're never really going to get to what the truth says. There's a sense in which we receive the word, because there's a sense in which God, through the Holy Spirit, imparts it to us. And it goes way beyond just the typical ways of learning. You get a you get an illumination from the Holy Spirit You get a gift, as it were, from the Holy Spirit when He is able to open your mind and your heart and your eyes, and guess what? You're able to see truth that perhaps someone else can't see You know, I all through seminary, there were many guys that were a whole lot smarter than me, but for some reason God blessed in the sense that I was able to see certain things. Not that I'm any better, I'm not. I'm not any smarter. Remember what Jesus said to his disciples? Listen to what he said in Matthew 13. To you it has been granted to know the mysteries of the kingdom. Now he was saying that in contrast to the Pharisees and the scribes. The Pharisees and Scribes of Jesus' day were the most educated, the most intelligent people, perhaps in all of Galilee and Judea. And yet they weren't able to grasp what Jesus was saying. These educated PhDs couldn't grasp the simple truth that Jesus was giving. And yet, here's a group of fishermen. A some blue-collar workers that didn't have a big education, and maybe they weren't all that smart. And yet they were able to grasp the truth. You know why Jesus said it like this? He said to them, Blessed are your eyes because they see, and your ears because they hear. You're able to get it. They're not getting it, but you, you're blessed because you're able to get it. And you see, here's the point, beloved, unless God the Holy Spirit communicates it to you, you're not really going to get it. And that happens as we lay apart the filthiness of the flesh, as we lay apart sin in our life. Sometimes people come to church and say, I didn't get anything out of that. Well, were you ready to hear? Did you lay apart the sins in your life? Were you ready to receive what God had for you? That's the question that you should ask. Paul said, We haven't received the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit of God, so that we might know freely, things freely given to us by God. In other words, Paul is saying, you know, it's not the spirit of wisdom of the world, is how you learn scripture and truth, it is the spirit of God that gives that to you. The spirit which is of God. So that's the proper reception of the word. Now let me talk to you about number two. the proper reaction to the word. Now here's where James really gets down to brown to brass tacks. Hearing is important. So important. But if all you do is hear, it's not going to do you any good. If it stops just with your hearing And this is the whole point of the passage. The whole point here is if you're a hearer only and not a doer, what you've done is you've deceived yourself about whether you're really genuinely saved. Look at verse 22. But be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. So if you are just a hearer, and you're not a doer, James says, you're deceiving yourself. True, genuine Christianity is not in how you listen, but it's more in what you do about what you hear. That's the whole point. So notice what I want to call, first of all, the exhortation. And here's what James is saying. Look, be a doer. Be a doer. As a matter of fact, the word here for hearer, which says if you're be not hearers only, this is uh a word that is translated in some texts as auditor. Because you know what an auditor is? You know, uh I know in seminary sometimes a student will want to audit a class. And you know what auditing class is? If you've been to It's a graduate level or even uh undergraduate level, you know what that means. An auditor, an a person who audits a class is someone who goes to class, just simply listens, and they don't take any of the tests Or the quizzes or the exams, they're coming just to listen. That's it. They don't want to be tested. There's a lot of Christians like that. They just want to be auditors in the Christian life. They want to just listen. They don't want to go anything beyond just listening. They don't want to be tested about what they're hearing. They just want to listen. And this is the word here. James says, look, you, as a true believer, you're not just a hearer You can't audit to the Christian life. There's no way to do that. You have to be tested. And the mark of genuine Christianity is being a doer or obeying. Or putting into practice what you have heard. Remember, John said this in 1 John 2, 3, and 4. These are some of my favorite verses in the New Testament with respect to this idea of genuine salvation. Again, I some people come to me and they'll say, Can you tell me whether I know I'm really saved? Give it to me in one word, and I always say it's obedience, because John says, Hereby we do know that we know him. Here's how you know If you're really a believer, if you really know the Lord, if we keep his commandments. That's the sign. If you're obedient. Obedience is the mark. And the question then is: Am I a doer? Am I doing what the Scripture says? Am I applying what the Scripture says in my own life? That's the whole point. Now, so we see the exhortation. James says, be a doer. If you're just a hearer, if you're just here to audit, then you've deceived yourself. But now I want you to see the illustration, because James, again, who is a master illustrator, and we see this many times in his letter, will use an illustration to drive home his point. Look down at verse 23. For if any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, He is like unto a man beholding his natural flit face in a glass. So he's making a point here, and he's going to use an illustration of the mirror. And he's comparing God's word to a mirror. That's what he means by glass. Now, the mirrors of that day were nowhere near like the mirrors that we have today. The mirrors that we have today are amazing. uh for being able to see yourself. But the mirrors back in that day were w they would always give you an impression of a person that was um somewhat distorted. It was always a distorted foggy somewhat image. You could see some things, but the details were very difficult. They were normally made of bronze and they were polished to shine as much as they could. And by the way, the mirrors that they had back in this day, we hang our mirrors on the wall. Back in that day, they would just lay their mirrors down on a table. So a person would sit down and they would look down, just like us when we're reading the Bible, right? We just lay it on the table and we look down. And so this is what James is saying. God's word is like a mirror. And when you look into a mirror, what it does is it reveals your outward man, your outward condition. But when you look into the Word of God, what does it reveal? It reveals your inner man. It reveals your inner Condition. And another point that James is making here is this: that a mirror has the power to reveal, but a mirror does not have the power to change. You know, you get up in the morning, you look in the mirror. How many of you talk to your mirror and say, mirror, mirror on the wall? Can you please help me if at all? to change what I see in this looking glass and and so on. I I could I could keep wanting to make up a poem, but I'm not gonna do that. Um you don't talk to the mirror. The mirror can't do anything for you except just reveal What you look like, what you really are. The issue is what are you gonna do about this knowledge that you just received about yourself? You have to do something about it. And this is what James is talking about here. God's word is like a mirror. When you see yourself, when you hear, and it reveals to you knowledge, that's a good, that's necessary. But if you don't do anything about that, then it's not going to help you. And so James uses two people looking into the mirror in verse 23. He talks about here's a man who looks at his image in a glass, verse 24, for he beholdeth himself And he goeth his way and straightway forgetteth what manner of men he was. Here's a person who looks into the mirror, he sees an image, but he doesn't really look hard at that image He's not very s serious about what he sees. He's kind of careless in the way he looks in that mirror. He doesn't really care about that image because how do we know that? Well, because in a very short while he's going to forget what he saw. He's going to forget what he looked at. And so he doesn't take it very serious. They for and that's what he says, they forget what they see. In verse 24, he beholds himself. And he goes his way and straightway forgets what manner of man he was. They're a forgetful hearer. Some people come to church, they hear the word of God. God's word reveals things to them about their inner man, their soul, or maybe you're reading and it reveals something. But you don't really do anything about it. In fact, you'll walk away from it and you will forget very shortly what God through the Holy Spirit just showed you That's being a forgetful hearer. That's being a careless listener. How many people when they leave church on Sunday morning, an hour later, they're not even thinking anymore about what they heard? They're not really doing anything about it. But now here's a second person. In verse 25. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty. And continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Here's another person who looks in the mirror. And his whole attitude is different. He's looking into the perfect law of liberty. Why does James call it the perfect law? Because God's word is perfect and the law of Lord is perfect. The Bible says converting the soul And unlike the mirrors in James' Day, that would give a distorted, somewhat foggy image, God's Word doesn't do that. The mirror of God's word gives you an accurate, true picture. That's why it's a perfect law of liberty because what you see in there is not distorted in any way. It's what you really are. And where it says he looks into the perfect law of liberty, the word for look here is different in this verse than in the previous verses. The word here, peracupto, It's talking about studying something very, very intensely. You're not just giving a casual glance. You're investigating it In fact, this is the word that was used when Peter looked into the empty tomb and he studied what he saw there. Same word is being used here. So here's a person who has a heart that's much more sober-minded about the Word of God, much more serious about what they are learning. And they are not a forgetful hearer. In fact, what they do is, it says in verse 25, he's not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work. And what's the result? This man shall be blessed. In his deed, the blessing and the power comes when you apply it, when you do it That's where the power comes. I remember in the book Real Salvation by R. A. Tory, he was talking about when he was a theology student in the university, and D. L. Moody, the great evangelist, came by to preach in chapel. And Tori and some of his friends went to hear him. And uh D. L. Moody was not a very educated man. But he had the power of the of God on his life. And they listened to him and they all agreed that there was something powerful about him. There was a success a success about his life. that was incredible. And after the service they went up to DL Moody and they said, listen, can you tell us, can you share with us the secret of your power and your success in ministry. And D. L. Moody said to those young ministry students, he said, look, you come back tomorrow night. Um when I'm preaching again, and I will share with you after the service the power or the secret of the power. So the next night they met with the evangelists. And you know what? He read a few verses of scripture and he said, now I want you to go and do it. They kind of looked at him a bit dumbfounded. What? I just want you to do it. Do what it says. You want to know the secret of power and blessing? That's where it is. The secret of power and blessing is doing it. Just do it. Do what it says. And that's exactly what James is saying. This man shall be blessed in his deed, in the doing. Now let me give you the application. We see the exhortation, be a doer, we see the illustration of the of the mirror, but then the application, and James is going to end by uh give us some concluding thoughts about this by giving some uh application about how to apply the truth and look down in verse number twenty six if any man among you seem to be religious and brighteneth not his tongue But to see with his own heart, this man's religion is vain. James said, you want to know whether your religion is real, whether you're really applying truth? Well It's measured by the words that you speak. That's one way. One way you apply the truth is to change the way you talk. If anybody thinks they're religious and they don't know how to control their tongue, then that man's religion is vain. One way you apply the truth is it should change the way that you speak to people. The way you talk to others. But then there's not only the words I speak, there's the widows I serve. Look at verse number 27. Pure religion. And undefiled before God and the Father is this. To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction And to keep himself unspotted from the world. So here's another thing that James says. You want to know whether you're really applying the truth. It could be measured by the way that you treat others around you that are very needy. Now, back in James' day, the most needy people were widows and orphans. There was no life insurance welfare programs to support them. The most needy people in the first century were widows and orphans. And James says, you know, if you want to know what real religion is, of genuine salvation, it's revealed in the way you reach out to the most needy people around you. Because if you're ministering to those that are needy, that's real religion. That's pure rel undefiled religion in the sight of God. And by the way, the Bible has a lot to say about that. You read the Old Testament. Moses' law about how to treat the widow and the orphan. And Paul gave the command to Timothy on how to behave in the church. Timothy Make sure you pay attention to the needy in the church, to the widows and to the orphans. And so there's the words that I speak, there's the widows that I serve, but then also There's the wickedness I shun. Look at the end of verse twenty-seven, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. You will shun the world and sin in your life That's all part of applying the truth. The words I speak, the widows I serve, the needy people around me, am I seeking to serve and help them? Am I shunning wickedness? in my life. Is that all part of the way I'm living out the scripture? So, with all that, how is your translation of the Bible coming? How is your living translation? The Bible that people will see, you living out, how's that coming? That should be the thing that we focus on as we seek to Please, Lord, let's bow for prayer together. Father, we're so thankful for your word. We're thankful that, Lord, in your wisdom and grace, you gave us the inspired, infallible, authoritative word of God. What a gift it is. But Lord, if all we do is just hear. And it's important to hear. But if it if our Christianity stops short of is just hearing, Then our religion is vain. Then we're deceiving ourselves. So I pray that tonight, Lord, we will take spiritual inventory of our own life. And ask ourselves this question, am I a doer of the word? Am I living it out? Am I seeking to Do what the word of God says, is my life characterized by obedience. Lord, I pray that we'll be thorough in our own self-examination. May we not come to the place in our life, or maybe even after death, where we hear the words of our Savior saying, I never knew you. Never knew you. May that never may we never hear those words. May we take a thorough and clear spiritual evaluation of our own life and may we have absolute certainty That what we have is the real thing, like James says. Don't just tell me, show me, show me your faith. Father, we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.