Lord, would you take your Bibles this morning, please? Open to the book of John, chapter four, the Gospel of John, chapter four. I began a series called Worship Matters, and I am continuing that series this morning. And we come to an important passage with respect to worship here in John chapter 4. I want to talk about the nature of true worship. The nature of true worship. There's a danger in worship, and that is that uh we can say the right words. We can follow the right order and believe the right doctrine and yet have no heart in what we do. There's also the opposite extreme, that is, you can feel deeply, you can express passion And yet you could be disconnected from the truth. Jesus is going to tell us here in this wonderful passage, I think one of the most important passages in the New Testament. on the subject of worship. He's going to tell us what real worship is. And the whole story here in John chapter 4 is the story of the woman at the well. Let me give you a little context into this before we talk about worship as Jesus teaches us here. The popularity of Jesus was growing. When word of this reached the Pharisees, they were growing in their hostility towards Jesus. And Jesus, not wanting to have a premature conflict with the religious leaders, decided to leave Judea where Jerusalem was and so on, and traveled north back into Galilee where he had ministered. The custom was when you travel that path, you have to pass through Samaria. Samaria is kind of the buffer zone between Judea in the south and Galilee in the north. But most Jews when they made this journey they would go around Samaria. They wouldn't pass through it. They would take a circular route around, go up through Perea and come around. But that was a much longer journey. And why would they do this? Well because the Jews had such a disdain for the Samaritans. They would not even go through their country. However, Jesus ignored that totally, and he felt the need to go through Samaria. Look at verse number four of chapter four where it says of Jesus and he must needs go through Samaria. Jesus had a divine appointment there. The word needs, day, and the Greek DI, normally that talks about divine necessity. And Jesus knew that he had appointment there, he was going to speak to a woman. Jesus was always fulfilling the mission of his Father always committed to doing the Father's will. And by speaking to this Samaritan woman, he's demonstrating that salvation is not just for the Jews, it's for everyone. Even the outcasts, even those who were despised, like this Samaritan. And why were they despised? Well, because they were half Jew and half Gentile. The Samaritans were Jews who intermingled or intermarried with the Assyrians, and because of that, the Jewish, from the Jewish perspective, the Samaritans were not considered the covenant people of God. And that's why most would avoid going through Samaria. They would go around Samaria, because the Samaritans were viewed as being ceremonially unclean. So for Jesus to go through Samaria was one thing, but to actually stop and speak to this woman, this is shocking in that culture. Another thing that separated the Jews from the Samaritans was their competing worship. Jews worshiped at the temple in Jerusalem. The Samaritans worshiped at Mount Girizim. They built their own temple there at Mount Geersam and they worshiped there. They rejected a lot of the Old Testament. They only accepted the first five books of the Old Testament. They had their own version of that text called the Samaritan Pentateuch. To Jews, this was false worship. This was outright heresy. So that's another reason why they despised the Samaritans. But Jesus comes through Samaria, and look at verse number five, as he was passing through verse five, then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sikar, near to a parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son. Joseph. There at that place was a well that Jacob dug. And that well is still there, believe it or not. Think about it. It was dug by Jacob. That was two thousand years before Jesus, and now two thousand years since Jesus, that well is still there. producing water. You can go and see it today. Amazing. But Jesus is at the well here. Look in verse number six. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore being wearied with his journey sat thus on the well and it was about the sixth hour. Jesus had just had a long journey, about twenty miles walking through difficult terrain. He was weary, and he sat down at the well. It was a sixth hour the Bible says. That's about twelve o'clock noon. It's really hot at noon. And he's thirsty. So the stage is set. Jesus was at the right place at the right time for divine appointment with this Samaritan woman. And from this appointment, from this conversation, we get some really wonderful lessons about true worship. And I want to give them to you this morning. Here's the first one. Number one, the people of true worship. The people of true worship. Only the redeemed can worship God truly. True worship is not about your nationality, it's about whether or not you are redeemed. Because only those who are truly redeemed can really worship God. Now Jesus we see here, first he's a loving witness. This is a lesson about evangelism from Jesus. He initiates this conversation. And by the way, if you're going to witness to someone, you're going to have to initiate it. They're not going to come ask you. Right? I don't have lost people come to me saying, hey, how can I be saved, Pastor? That just doesn't happen. And so look at verse 7 and 8. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water, and Jesus said unto her, Give me drink, for his disciples were away unto the city to buy meat. And so the Sir Samaritan woman comes to the well. Normally women didn't come to the well at that hour of the day. Normally they were there early in the morning, but she was probably there at this hour because She was an immoral outcast and she didn't want to uh be subject to the scorn that she would probably get every day from the other women at the well. And so she comes at that hour And Jesus asked this woman for a drink. Now again, this is shocking because in that culture it was a breach of social custom. Men did not speak with women in public, not even their wives. Nor did the rabbis associate with women, especially immoral women. And again, Jesus is violating the custom where Jews had nothing to do with Samaritans. Again, he he ignored all of that. The fact that he would speak to her Was shocking. And she expresses that. Look at verse number nine. Then saith the woman of Samaria on him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me which in a woman of Samaria So it's shocking that he would talk to her. And it goes on to say, for Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. So again, Jesus is shattering all the barriers. He's willing to talk to her. Even more shocking is he's willing to drink from her vessel which would have been considered, again, ceremonially unclean. No Jew drank from a vessel of a Samaritan. In fact, the word for dealings there in verse number 9 is the same word used uh to speak of you is the word used to speak of utensils or to s or to use the same utensils. Jews didn't drink from a Samaritan vessel. They didn't eat Samaritan food from Samaritan plates. Again, Jesus ignores all of that. I mean he has sent his disciples to town to get Samaritan food and bring it back and eat it Jesus could not be defiled by Samaritan utensils. He was the holy Son of God. He touched lepers, and he touched the dead to raise them, and he was not defiled by any of that. But we see Jesus the loving witness, but then also Jesus speaks to her of the living water. Look at verse number 10. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me drink, thou would have had asked of me And he would have given thee living water. She uh is surprised that Jesus asks her, and uh Jesus says, Look, if you knew who it was that you were talking to, you would ask water from me. And Jesus is using a metaphor here when he speaks to this woman. Of course the water is he's speak he's speaking about salvation. He's speaking about eternal life. If you really understood who you were talking to, you would be asking f uh from water from me. Um so he kind of turns the tables on her. You're the one that's thirsty. You're the one that's unsatisfied. If you knew who you were talking to, you'd ask water from me. Now in many cases when Jesus spoke in metaphors like this to the people, at first they just didn't get it. They didn't latch on that he was speaking in the spiritual realm And John chapter three we see the same thing. Nicodemus comes to Jesus and Jesus says you have to be born again. And Nicodemus is like, What? How can I enter my mother's womb a second time to be born? He didn't get that Jesus was speaking in the spiritual realm, and so it is here with this woman. She doesn't grasp at first that Jesus is speaking in spiritual realities. So look at what she says in verse eleven. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the w and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou that living water Yeah, how are you gonna give me water you don't have anything to draw? That well was a hundred seat deep. And you'd have to draw it out And she says, Are you greater than our Father Jacob who gave us this well? I mean, our father Jacob, he had to dig the well. And uh And you have nothing to draw from, are you greater than Jacob that you can give water without digging it or drawing it out Well, the answer is yes, he is greater. He is greater. But Jesus will give her the real meaning of what he's talking about. Look down in verse Verse number uh thirteen. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drink of this water shall thirst again But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst, but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into eternal life You drink the water that I give you, this is the water of salvation, this is the water of eternal life. You take a drink of this water, you won't be thirsty ever again. You'll be completely satisfied with that And still she doesn't seem to really get it. Look at verse 15. And the woman said unto him, Sir, give me this water that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. Well, I'm really tired of coming to this well every day. It would be great to have this water where I wouldn't have to come here and do this. Please give me this water where I don't have to thirst again. Now, what Jesus will do from here is He will do two things. He's going to manifest two things, reveal two things, and that is first of all her sin and who he is. Her sin and who he is. And look at verse 16. Jesus said unto her, Go call thy husband and come hither. I'll give you this w living water, but I first want you to go get your husband and and bring him back And uh and I'll talk to you about this. And she says, you know, I have no husband. Um call thy husband hither. And the woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast said, Well, I have no husband, for thou hast had five husbands. And he whom thou thou hast is not thy husband, in that thou sayest truly, Wow, there's a revelation. I don't have a husband. Yeah, you're right, you don't. You've had five, and the one you're with now is not your husband You talk about probably her jaw dropping at that moment right there. What is he doing there? He's revealing, first of all, that she's a sinner. And you can never really come to the water until you first realize that you're a sinner. But there's a second thing that he will reveal, he will reveal who he is. You can't be saved unless you truly understand who Jesus is. You have to know who he is. So look down at the next verse in verse number 19. And the woman said unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet, our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship Now there are some scholars and commentators that think that when the w woman here begins to talk about worship and about Jesus being a prophet, that she's trying to change the subject. She's going to talk about the proper location of worship. And later she will talk about the coming Messiah In fact, look down in verse number twenty-five, just drop down there. The woman said unto him, I know that the Messiah cometh, which is called Christ, and when he has come, he will tell us all things. We know the Messiah is going to come. He's going to be the revealer of all things. Why does she say this? Is she changing the subject here? No, far from it. And verse 19, when she says, you know, I perceive you are a prophet, you have this prophetic knowledge, that was the expectation of the Samaritans for the coming Messiah. They believe that the Messiah coming would be like a prophet. Scholars agree that the Samaritan expectation focused more on the prophet role of the Messiah, whereas the Jews focused on the Messiah being more the son of David, the king. The Samaritans believed that the coming Messiah would be a revealer of all things. In fact, there is an early Samaritan writing that describes a figure called the Tahib, the restorer, and according to Samaritan tradition, the Tahib would restore true worship. He would act like a prophet. Like unto Moses, and he would know all things. That's why she brings this up. When Jesus reveals this supernatural knowledge about her past life, In her mind, she's wondering about him. Is he the Messiah? And then later on she brings up that the Messiah, we know that the Messiah is going to come, and when he comes, he's going to reveal all things And Jesus reveals his identity. Look down at verse number 26. And Jesus said unto her, I that speaketh unto thee am He. Literally, I that speaks to you, am. I am. He is the I am of the Old Testament. Well, we know that she will come to faith in Christ and she will believe. How do we know that? Well drop down to verse number 39. And verse number forty. And notice what it says, and many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman which testified, He told me all that I ever did So when the Samaritans were coming to him, they besought him that he would tarry with them, and he abode there two days. The Samaritans again believed that when the Messiah comes, he would restore true worship, he would have prophetic knowledge, he would know all things And this woman says, this is him, this is the Messiah, and everyone there, they believe. This is why she makes the point about worship. Because she was wondering, and Jesus again reveals himself. In essence, Jesus teaches that true worship is not about a location, it's not about Gerison, it's not about Jerusalem, it's about salvation. It's about knowing him. It's about understanding who he is. Only those again who are saved can truly worship. There are a lot of people out there that are religious. They go through all kinds of rituals and services, but they truly don't know Jesus Christ, and so therefore what they're doing is not real worship. It starts with knowing Christ. That is the foundation upon which worship is based. It is redemption in Jesus. Which leads us to the next point: the pursuit of true worship Look at verse number back up to verse number twenty-three. The pursuit of true worship. But the hour come if he responds to this woman when she talks about the location for worship in verse 23. Jesus says, But the hour cometh and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. Listen to this next phrase, for the Father seeketh such to worship him The Father seeketh such to worship. I want you to think about that. You know what the Father is seeking? He's seeking true worshipers. The word seek here carries the idea of an intentional pursuit. God the Father is seeking true worshipers. Jesus came into this world, the Bible says, to seek and to save that which was lost. And here in verse 23, John tells us the purpose for that seeking. It is revealed. Why? Because God wants worshipers. He wants true worshipers. The Father sent the Son into the world to seek the law so that those people would become true worshipers of Him. In other words, the primary reason we're redeemed is not to escape from hell. It's a great benefit, don't get me wrong But that's not the primary reason that we are saved. The primary reason we're saved is not so that we can enjoy the manifold blessings of God, even though, again, that's wonderful. Thank God for all the blessings. But that's not the primary reason for us to be saved. We have been redeemed so that we might worship God and He will get the glory that he deserves. That is the purpose. Ephesians 3 21. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Any personal blessing that we get as a result of worshiping God, that's the divine response to true worship. You want to be blessed today? You worship God in truth, and you will receive blessing from Him. But this is the whole purpose of evangelism. Paul said it in Romans chapter 4 1 verse 5 for obedience to the faith among all nations for his name's sake. Why we do evangelism? Because we want people to obey the gospel so that when they obey the gospel They come to know Christ and God, and they do it for his name's sake. They worship him. Because God is seeking true worshipers. So our salvation is first of all for God's benefit. Not our own. God is not searching for talent. He's not searching for performance. He's searching for people that will truly worship Him. That'll truly worship him. It's like this in Psalm 16, you've heard me quote this before. I've set the Lord always before me. He is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. That is, here's a man who is determined to worship God. God is before him. He is the adoration of his heart. All of his affections are set upon God. And he won't be moved from that. And in response to that, he says this, therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. That's the result of truly worshiping God. What's the result? Your heart is filled with joy and peace and And the glory of knowing Christ, praising his name, that's the return that you get from worship. And by the way, let me just ask, what is true worship? Worship here, in chapter four, we see this word worship used nine times in the passage. It's from a Greek word pros. Canuo. Pros, which means toward, canoe, to kiss. So literally to kiss towards. And in the ancient world, this is this was a a expression of reverence, of adoration. Or uh along with that, bowing prostrate before a king, that perhaps may be kissing uh towards the bottom of his robe. That's the idea here. It was a sign of honor. It's an expression of submission, of devotion. You know what worshiping God is? Worship is the response of the whole person, the mind, the heart, the life, to the worthiness of God. It is our adoration and awe of the greatness and worthiness of God. And it's a it's expressed through our reverence, through our submission, through our adoration, through our obedience to Him. And again, this is what God's looking for He's looking for true worship. Because guess how everything how guess how it's all going to end? It's all going to end in heaven, and guess what we're going to be doing in heaven? We're going to be worshiping God in heaven. The Bible says this in Revelation nineteen one. And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven saying, Hallelujah, salvation and glory and honor. And power unto the Lord our God. And it just goes on and on. And it talks about the 24 elders and the beasts falling down and worshiping God over and over again and saying, Hallelujah. That's eternity. But let me tell you this, before creation there was worship going on in heaven. Before we were ever brought forth into this world. All the angels in heaven worship him. They did it all before time. Listen to this passage in Job 38, verse 7. When the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy, talking about when God was creating this world Who was present there watching? The angels were there doing it. And you know what they were doing? They were praising God. They were worshiping God. All the way in eternity past, angels have been worshiping God. This is what we're going to do in eternity future. And right now we're kind of getting ourselves ready for that. Right. So God right now is seeking worshipers today. He wants true worshipers. In the beginning he had Adam and Eve, but they were created for worship, but they allowed sin to enter in, and since that time uh man has failed at being a true worshiper, and that's why Jesus came to restore man to the place where he can once again truly worship God. Because this is what God wants. This is why you're here this morning. At least it ought to be the reason you're here. Because God seeks true worshipers. But let me give you the third principle here. We see the people of true worship, only the redeemed, the pursuit of true worship worship worship, God seeks worshippers, but number three, the principle of worship It must be done in spirit and in truth. Again, look at verse 23. But the hour cometh, and now is when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. Now again, remember the Samaritans believed that when the Messiah came, he would restore true worship. And that's perhaps why the woman asked Jesus this question about worship. She was looking for the proper method of worship Is this the right way to worship? Our fathers worship at Mount Hirazim. She only saw two options. She only saw the Samaritan way of worship and the Jerusalem way of worship. So, which one is the right method? And Jesus corrected her by saying, Neither of those is the right way. Neither of those is the right way to worship. The other method is the divine method, the method that God prescribes, the kind of worship that God the Father accepts. What was the Samaritan style of worship? Well, that was done in ignorance, that is to say, it was done without truth I mean the Samaritans, their spiritual knowledge was limited since they rejected most of the Old Testament. They had Passion, they had enthusiasm in their worship, but they didn't have truth. They didn't have information. They worshiped in spirit, but they didn't worship in truth. That's why Jesus said unto her in verse 22, Ye worship, ye know not what? Your worship is not guided by truth. D. A. Carson wrote here that the Samaritan worship was deficient because it was cut off from much of God's revelation. They had enthusiasm, they had passion, but they didn't have truth. But then there's the Jerusalem style, the Jewish style. The Jews had the opposite situation. They accepted all the books of the Old Testament. They were Orthodox. They had the truth. But they lacked heart. They lacked spirit. When the Pharisees gave gave alms, they did it to be seen of men. It was all an outward performance. It didn't come from the heart. Jesus called them hypocrites. He called them phonies. He said they were they were phon Whited sepulchres filled with dead men's bones. None of that was acceptable to Christ. In Mark 7 6, Jesus told the Pharisees and scribes, he said this, rightly did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. Yeah, it's all outward. You give me lip service, but your heart is nowhere near what it should be Jesus compared the whole nation of Israel to a fig tree that had big, beautiful leaves, but it had no fruit. Looked good on the outside. It just didn't have any real depth of fruit about it And we see this a lot in the Old Testament where God rejects the worship, the heartless rituals that the Jews did. In in fact, in uh Jeremiah chapter six verse twenty, God said that your burnt or offerings are not acceptable. Nor your sacrifice is sweet unto me. You're performing the ritual, but none of that is acceptable to me. In Amos 5. 21, God said this: I hate, I despise your feast days Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs. How would you like that to be said of our worship? Wow, what an indictment. I hate to hear you sing. Just take it all away. It's just noise. You're just going through the motion. You have no heart in what you're doing. And so it's unacceptable to God. So, in other words, the worship that occurred at Mount Girzm was this enthusiastic heresy, and the worship that was offered at Jerusalem was this empty orthodoxy. with no heart to it. And Jesus rebukes both styles. And he said, God is a spirit, verse 24. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. The two enemies of true worship are Gerizim and Jerusalem. Sincerity, enthusiasm, and passion are important, but it has to be based on truth. And truth is foundational. It has to you have to have truth there. You can have all this emotion and passion without that truth. And so we still see the the two extremes today. One is where it's all passion, no truth. One is where it's all truth and no heart, no passion, and we see this even today. We see worship services today where people get all stirred up And they they're all emotional and there's all kind of wildfire going on and even the music is designed to get you worked up into your emotions and you and you get all worked up and you leave and that feeling goes away You don't really have any substance of truth to it. You have a lot of heat, but you have no light. And then we also have the opposite. We have churches where the orthodoxy is correct, the order is really, really strict and and and and you know according to scripture and we know the right doctrine and we know the right words but there's no heart in it. It's just all cold. Someone said Baptists are so inhibited it's hard to tell they're inhabited. There's no there's no heart in what you're doing and what you're saying. This is light without heat. And that's not acceptable to God. God wants those who will worship in spirit and in truth. What does it mean to worship in spirit? The word spirit here in verse 24 is talking to the about the human spirit. It refers to the inner man. It refers to the affections of our heart. True worship is not first external, it is internal. You bring your worship with you in your heart. It's not a matter of being in the right place at the right time with the right words, right clothes, the right formality, the right music, the right mood. All those external things that can all be there and you they're not ri- have true worship. Worship takes place on the inside. It starts in your heart before God. Paul understood this in Romans 1. 9. Paul said this: the God whom I serve with my spirit I serve, and the word for serve a true, a word for worship. I worship God with my spirit. I give him all of my heart. Passion in his worship. David worshipped God as spirit. In Psalm 45, verse 1, David said, This, my heart overflows with a good theme In Psalm 103 he said, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. That's worshiping with spirit. Again, it's not about rituals, it's not about costumes, it's not about atmosphere or special locations. Stephen Sharnock wrote this, without the heart, it is no worship. It is a stage play. It's acting a part without being that person really which is acting by us, a hypocrite in the notion of the word. It is a stage player. We don't want to come across that way. We don't want that to be our heart. It has to be from the heart. One man, Andrew Minar, wrote this. He was talking about a Lord's Day service and he wrote this in his journal. He said, During the day and every service, I felt myself strengthened and upheld by the Lord's presence in spirit more than usual. These were moments of great nearness. And that's honestly what we should experience when we come to God's house. A sense of the presence of the Lord, the nearness of the Lord, and you know why? It's because our focus is on Him, our attention is towards Him, and we're worshiping Him for who He is. And in response to that, God blesses us. He gives us his presence and his peace. What does the Bible say? Draw nigh to God and he will draw nigh to you. We can have an overflowing heart and worship in the Spirit. You say, how do we do that? Well it has to be by the Holy Spirit. I don't know about you, but I know that without the help of the Holy Spirit, I really can't worship God the way I'm supposed to I can't. It's a spirit that enables us to worship God. It is a spirit that produces in our heart that desire to cry out, Have a Father. It is the Spirit who helps us to pray. Sometimes we don't know what to pray for, and the Spirit guides us in that. It is the Spirit that fills our heart with joy and worship because the Bible says when you're filled with the Holy Spirit, what will be the result? You'll sing to yourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing will be really easy when you have the Holy Spirit working in your heart. The Spirit reveals Christ. Jesus said that when the Spirit comes, he shall guide you into all truth and he shall glorify me. So if in a worship service there's a lot of emotion going on, but it doesn't point to Jesus Christ, that's not the work of the Holy Spirit. Because the Holy Spirit points people to the beauty of Christ. It points people to Christ and reveals Christ. The Spirit gives us understanding of God. If we worship in the Spirit, we have to have the help of the Holy Spirit, but we also have to have an undivided heart, a united heart. Like David when he prayed in Psalm 86, verse eleven, Unite my heart to fear thy name. The problem that a lot of people have when they come to church is they come with such a divided heart, they can't focus on God for one hour. They're worried about someone in who parked next to them who might put a scratch on their car in the parking lot. And our heart and it's just a myriad of things. That divide our attention take our attention away so that our heart is not united in seeking God. You have to have a united heart and you also have to have repentance. Because you can't come into the presence of God and worship him when you're holding on to sin in your life. And you have to be willing to open your heart up to say Search me, O God, and know my heart and see if there's any wicked way in me and lead me in the way everlasting. There may be some sins I don't even know about. The Holy Spirit work and show me And you have to come with that repentant spirit. And if you come dependent upon the Holy Spirit with an undivided heart and a repentant spirit, you know what? God will bless you. He will respond to that. That's worshiping in spirit. But then what's the other part? What is it to worship in truth? They that worship God must worship in spirit and in Truth. Worship has to be governed by the Word of God. This Samaritan woman, she had sincerity, but she was in error. Jesus said, you don't know what you worship. You don't know what you're doing. Sincerity is not enough. It has to be truth. Jesus linked true worship with truth. There's an inseparable link. You can't truly worship God outside of the truth of God's word. You can't do that. Worship is not merely an emotional exercise of music and spiritual words that induce a kind of certain feeling. It is united to truth. So we have to beware of passion without principle. That's why it's so important that we get into God's Word. That we this is why I preach God's word. I I try to tell you what God's Word says because if you understand what the Word of God says and it tells you about the greatness of God, then you'll worship God correctly God wants us worshiping according to what Scripture says. There's a lot of worship going on out there, and it's so foreign from what the Bible says. So foreign from what Scripture teaches. John Stott in his book Between Two Worlds says it well. He said, Word and worship belong inseparably to each other. All worship is an intelligent and loving response to the revelation of God because it is the adoration of His name. Therefore, acceptable worship is impossible without preaching. For preaching is making known the name of the Lord, and worship is praising the name of the Lord made known. So these two are together. And 1 Corinthians Paul rebuked the church at Corinth because they were given to enthusiasm. They were given to ecstasy in the church, but they were not worshiping according to truth. And Paul had to rebuke them. And Paul had to bring them back in to the scripture. It was purely emotional activity. But what is true worship then? It is when the spirit and truth come together. When spirit and truth meet. That is the worship that is pleasing to God. Your worship is the heartfelt response to the truth about who Jesus Christ is, to the truth about who God the Father is. And so that's why we have to know the truth. When the Word of God dominates your life, your praise is regulated and your worship is conformed to the divine standard. That's why it starts with understanding the word of God. The psalmist said this in Psalm 47, verse 7, Sing ye praises with understanding. With understanding. So there's no other choice that we have. Jesus does not allow us to choose. It's not spirit or truth, but spirit and truth. Those have to be united together. The truth will ignite the mind, the spirit will ignite the heart, and worship becomes vibrant and it is deep. Truth is the rails. The spirit is the engine. Without the rails, the train derails. Without the engine, it never moves. So we have to have both of these things together. And that's the worship that God accepts. So let me ask you a question. Is your worship accurate or is it cold? Is your worship passionate but ungrounded? Or is it both in spirit and in truth? Let's bow for prayer together. The Father is seeking true worshipers. True worshipers. And you may be here today, and you maybe you're here and you've never truly come to know Jesus Christ as your Savior. That's where it starts You have to come to know Christ. You have to be a Christian. And the way you do that is by recognizing that you're a sinner In need of salvation, recognizing who Jesus is. He's the one who gives the water of life. Take a drink of that water, you'll never thirst again. It is water that springs up into eternal life. So how do I do that? You just reach out in faith. Say, Lord Jesus, I believe you are the Savior, the Son of God. And Jesus, I'm asking you now to save me. I know I'm a sinner. I know I need salvation. And I'm thirsty. And I'm reaching out to you today. Give me this water, like the woman of Samaria said. Give me this water. Just pray that. Lord, give me this water of eternal life. Save me. So that I'll never thirst again. And if you pray that and mean it, friend, we want to pray for you. We're going to have that moment of invitation here Ministers in the front. You come if there's something that we can help you with or if you want to come and know more about how you can be a child of God. You do what the Holy Spirit tells you to do. Let's all stand together and we're going to sing this hymn together. We're going to sing two stanzas of it.