Amen. Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the Gospel of Matthew. We're going to spend the rest of the service just looking at the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 27. We won't look at the whole chapter. Uh we're going to just look at the part where it's dealing with the resurrection. Verse 57 of Matthew chapter 27, and we're going to look at uh the following verses with this. I call this the lie that proves the resurrection. There's no way to overemphasize the importance of the resurrection. It's the resurrection that sets Christianity apart from all other world religions. It demonstrates that indeed Jesus was the Son of God. And therefore he's the only way to heaven. The Bible says in Romans 1. 4, and declared to be the Son of God with power by the resurrection from the dead. But the resurrection also demonstrates that Jesus had power over death in the grave. It also demonstrates the fact that his sacrifice on the cross was acceptable to God the Father. Because God the Father resurrected him. The Bible says in Romans 4. 25, he was delivered for our offenses and was raised again for our justification. Now this is why the doctrine of the resurrection is under such attack. People like to make up lies about the resurrection. They like to kind of s uh formulate theories and lies about uh whether Jesus really came out of that grave. For example, there's the swing theory. This is a theory that said Christ never really died. that on the cross he simply uh became semi-conscious because of the loss of blood. But when his body was taken to the tomb, the smell of the spices and the coolness of the tomb caused him to revive So therefore he never really resurrected because he never died to begin with. That's one lie made up. Do you know Roman soldiers they are pretty uh pretty good at what they do, is especially those who were in charge of crucifixions. And if and if they botched the crucifixion, what that meant was that it meant their own life. Besides that, the Bible tells us in John chapter 19 that the soldiers when they came to the victims of the crucifixion, they would break their legs. Why would they do that? Because when a victim was crucified, in order to breathe, they would push up. in order to get breath. And if they wanted them to die quickly they would go by and they would take a club and they would break their legs. They would break the femur bone so that they could no longer push up and breathe and so therefore they would die quicker. But the Bible says that when they went by to break the legs, they had seen that Jesus had already what? Died. He already died. So therefore they did not break his legs in fulfillment of the prophecy that the Bible says none of his bones will be broken. But they did take a spear and they thrust it into his side, and the Bible says, out came water and blood which according to the Journal of the American Medical Association proved death. So the idea that Jesus was semi-conscious is laughable. No beloved, he died. Then there's another theory called the the no-burial theory. This is the theory that Christ was never put into the tomb, so he wasn't there on Sunday. Obviously the grave is empty if he was never put in there to begin with You know, what they would do to crucify victims in that day is they would just discard their bodies in some pit. But the problem with that is why would they guard the tomb if there was nothing in there? Why would they do that? And then here's one of my favorites, the hallucination theory. Everybody thought they saw Jesus after his death. They were simply hallucinating. They didn't really see him. It was pathological. They wanted to see him so badly that they thought that they saw him. Well, then you have 500 people with a hallucination. Hallucinations are normally individual and private. That's not spread around 500 people at once. And over 40 days Which the Bible said Jesus appeared. Making up lies about the crucifixion is nothing new. We see this here in the Gospel of Matthew. Look at Matthew chapter 28. Look at verse number twelve. And when they were assembled with the elders and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, verse thirteen, saying, Say ye, his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Matthew records the first lie ever told about the resurrection. This is the most famous lie, and the one that is believed by most who want to deny the resurrection. And it was a lie that was spread abroad, that the disciples stole the body away. And we all know how lies spread quickly. Someone said a lie runs around the world while the truth is tying its shoes. And this was a lie that was commonly reported. It was reported in Matthew's day. Matthew wrote this gospel at about 63 A. D. This is 30 years later. This lie was still pretty popular among people back then. We know that it was common in the first century because an early church father, Justin Martyr, referred to this in his book when he was defending Christianity. He said, You Jews selected men, sent them into all the world Proclaiming that a certain atheistic and lawless sect had arisen from one Jesus a Galilean deceiver whom we crucified But his disciples stole him at night from the tomb and deceived men by saying that he's risen from the dead and ascended into heaven. He's referring to that lie that they made up that was still popular even in his day. And this lie became so popular that it was known as the Tolod Yeshua. That was the lie that people embraced back then and and there are still people that embrace it today. Now Matthew in this gospel account seems particularly concerned with disproving this lie. Because what he's going to do here in this narrative is he's going to point out some facts that took place on that first resurrection morning that really disprove this lie that was spread by the people, the Jewish people back then that did not want to receive Jesus as the Messiah. Let me give you three facts that he gives us here in an air. The first fact is the burial was granted. Go back to chapter 27, look at verse number 57, and notice what it says there. And when the even was come, there came a rich man of Aramathea named Joseph. Who also himself was Jesus' disciple. How do we know the disciples didn't steal away the body? Because it was the disciples, the followers of Jesus, that buried him. If they were going to steal away the body, this would have been a good time to do it. And what we have here in this account is a man who comes forward, a man by the name of Joseph of Arimathea. Several things about him, he was rich, and that one fact there It's a fulfillment of Bible prophecy because it says in Isaiah chapter 57, verse 9, that Jesus made his grave with the wicked. He died between two thieves, and with a rich man in his death He his grave was assigned with the wicked and he was had was with the w rich man in his death. The fact that a rich man came for the body of Jesus and then took Jesus and put him in his own newly hewed out tomb was the fulfillment of Bible prophecy. He was obviously a man of prominence. Only someone like that could demand an audience of Pilate that late in the evening after Jesus was crucified. And get that audience. He was a member of the Sanhedrin according to Mark chapter 15, verse 43. But most importantly, he was a disciple of Christ. And he came and he made a plea for the body. Look at verse 58. And he went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus, and then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered. He requested the body of Jesus. The Gospel of Mark tells us that Pilate was surprised that Jesus had already died. And uh Pilate agreed to release the body to Joseph of Arimathea. Notice the preparation. Look at verse 59. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth. And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewed out in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and John 19 tells us that there were others there that helped him. One of them was Nicodemus, the one who came to Jesus at night in John chapter 3. He also was a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And when the Jews would not embalm bodies, what they would do is they would take ointment, they would take long strips of grave cloth, they would dip it in ointment, and they would wrap the body. Sometimes they would use as much as a hundred pounds of ointment And that was to offset the decay, the stench of decay, and they would come by again and again and put more ointment on until finally after a long period of time uh when the body had fully decayed they would take the bones and put it in an ossuary a bone box that was their process of after death of course Jesus wouldn't need all of that because we knew after three days he was coming out of that grave. But nevertheless they prepared the body. Look in in verse 60 it says he put it in his own tomb. This again, he rolled the stone to the door. This is the burial of Jesus. This is theologically important, not a minor issue. This was proof that he died. And a fulfilled prophecy, Jesus said, as Jonah was in the whale's belly, three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. If there is no burial, there can be no resurrection. But he did die. He was buried. And notice verse 61. And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. They were watching this whole thing. They knew exactly where the grave of Jesus was. And this is important because there's another theory out there that says the disciples went to the wrong grave that Sunday morning. They went to a grave that was empty already. It was not the grave of Jesus. No, they knew where they were going These two Marys were right there. They saw exactly the grave. They were the ones that were going to come back later on. They were eyewitnesses indeed of Jesus. Burial and they knew the exact location. And so here's the first fact that Matthew points out. Look, this is what happened His body was granted. Joseph Arimathea asked for it. His body was prepared. It was laid in the grave. He did die. He was buried. Here's the second fact: the body was guarded. The body was guarded. Matthew gives us another important fact. The tomb was guarded. Now the Pharisees were very worried about what would happen next. Look in verse 62. Now the next day that followed, the day of the preparation, the chief priests Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said while he was yet alive, after three days I will rise again. They were concerned because they remember what Jesus said. They remember they that Jesus said, I'm not going to give you any more signs except this one sign, that as Jonah was in the heart was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. This will be the next sign that you'll see that I really am the Messiah, the Son of God. Now they were concerned about that. They didn't want the disciples coming and stealing away the body, saying that Jesus resurrected. Look at verse sixty four. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead, so that the last error shall be worse than the first. Look We don't want them coming and stealing the body away and then telling everybody that he rose again. Boy, we'll have a real problem on our hands if that happens. So please put a put a watch there. Put some guards there. We remember the words of Jesus. Please put a watch there. And so Pilate did exactly that. Now, just kind of a by the way, some people say, how can it be three days and three nights? If it was Friday through Sunday. So you have to remember that. You know, a lot of times people have a problem with that. And so part of Friday would be a day to night, Saturday a day to night, early Sunday morning would still be considered day and night because any part of a day and their reckoning was considered a day and a night So they were particularly concerned that on the third day the disciples would steal his body away. So Pilate grants them that request. Look in verse 64. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch. Go your way, make it as sure as ye can. Now They give him he gives them the watch. A watch is sixteen Roman soldiers. Bit of an overkill here. Sixteen Roman soldiers. Think about that. I mean that's that's pretty secure. Sixteen soldiers and not only that they put a wax seal across the stone which would be a you know a long cord with a a wax seal in the middle that had the seal of the government of of the Roman Empire on it. That was kind of a psychological barrier so no one would come and break that seal and get into that tomb. If they did that, that meant certain death. But the idea that the disciples would sneak past sixteen Roman guards, break the seal, and get the body of Jesus out of there, that's laughable anyway. Because the Bible says in John chapter 19, where were they? They were hiding in a room. They were afraid. They're not going to go out, they're not going anywhere. They were locked away for fear, the Bible says. So Pilate gives them this watch. Sixteen soldiers guarding the tomb. So the idea that the disciples stole the body away, that was just laughable. The burial was granted. The body was guarded. But then here's the third fact that Matthew gives, the bribe was given. You want to know exactly what happened on that first resurrection morning? Well, Matthew tells us. Look in chapter 28, look in verse 1. And in the end of the Sabbath. As it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. And behold, there was a great earthquake For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door and sat upon it And his countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow. And for fear of him the keepers did shake and become as dead men. So this is what happens on this miraculous resurrection morning. The two Marys come to the tomb early Sunday. These were the same ones that saw exactly where the burial was. They're there at the break of dawn. This was probably about 6 a. m. Luke tells us in Luke 24, 1, they were actually bringing more spices to the tomb. And as they were on their way there, what is it? There's an earthquake. By the way, if you were here with us on Good Friday, we talked about another earthquake that happened precisely at the moment that Jesus died The miracle was in the timing of that earthquake. And now here we have another earthquake that happens when Christ comes out of that grave. There was an earthquake, a great earthquake. The earthquakes in the Old Testament, especially the timing of them at precise moments, demonstrated the supernatural work of God. There was this earthquake. And then an angel comes and rolls back the stone, Matthew says, from the door in verse number two. The gospel of Mark tells us that when the Marys were coming to the tomb, they had these spices, and all of a sudden it dawned on them, wait a minute, who's going to move the stone away from the door? This was a huge stone it weighed several times it would take a group of men to roll that stone away. They were wondering on the way to the tomb who's going to roll away the stone. Not a problem. Because by the time they got there the stone was already rolled away. And it's important to note that the angel rolled away the stone not because Jesus couldn't do it. He rolled away the stone simply to demonstrate that Jesus wasn't there. That stone was not a problem for the Lord Jesus. He was already gone. The angel rolled away the stone to show that there was no one there. And when the ladies saw that, the Bible says they rejoiced. They saw the stone was moved. They saw the Jesus was gone. It was empty. The Bible tells us in Luke 24, 9 that they returned and told the disciples what they saw. And you know what the disciples said? We don't believe you. That's a Harmon paraphrase of it. They they said, you know, you're you're telling us tales, you're telling us stories. That's what the word that was used there in the Greek. Idle tales, they believe them not, the Bible says. And Peter and John ran to the tomb to see for themselves. What was there? And and John could outrun Peter, so he got there first. Got to the tomb, simply kind of peered in. Peter, being bold and rambunctious, he just burst into the tomb when he got there. And they saw that the grave clothes were still there, folded neatly. Jesus made his bed that morning? How did you leave your bed? It's as if his body had gone through the grave close. And all again, this was all why does why does Luke point this out? This is proof of non-theft. If you're going to steal a body, why would you why would you bother to fold the grave clothes and put them in place? So he wasn't there. And the Bible says as Peter peered into the empty tomb. He was Thumazo, he was amazed, he marveled at what he saw We see the reaction of the soldiers. They were overcome with fear. The Bible says they were they did shake. The word shake here is the same word used for earthquake, seismic. They were Terrified. They were paralyzed with fear. They became like dead men. The women were filled with joy. And went on to report it, and then later on in verse 9, there's worship. Look at verse 9. And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, Oh, hail! And they came and held him by the feet and worshipped him. And then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid, go tell my brethren, that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. And so That's what happened. But now what happened afterward with the soldiers? Here's the thing that Matthew wants you to see here. Notice verse 11. And when they were gone, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed unto the chief priest all the things that were done. Think about that What did the Roman soldiers do? Well, after they were able to regain their composure composure, they went back into the city and they reported to the chief priests, these were the this was the Sanhedrin. Why did they go to them? Well, because really they were the delegated authority over these men to do this job of watching the grave. And by the way, if you're a Roman soldier and you, you know, you you're watching a prisoner and that prisoner escapes That means certain death for you, especially if that prisoner's dead. And that prisoner still escaped? Not a good record. So they tell the chief priests, Now put yourself in their shoes The response of the leaders. Here are these Jewish leaders, the Sanhedrin, who were denying that Jesus was the Messiah. They kept saying, Show us a sign, show us a sign. All the miracles that Jesus did wasn't enough. What he said wasn't enough. Nothing he did was enough for them. Not even the miracles at the cross was enough. The darkness for three hours, the earthquake. None of that seemed to be enough. And now here Our sixteen Roman soldiers that come back to the religious leaders and they give them their report of what happened. Now, if you're them, what would you say? We've been wrong on this. I mean, 16 Roman soldiers are all reporting the same thing that his grave is empty, the stone was rolled back, there was an angel from heaven, scared us to death. He's gone. He's resurrected. You would think at that point they would say, man, we're wrong. We believe. We were wrong. We repent. We confess our sins. We believe. This was the sign that he talked about. And sure enough, he did it. We need to let everybody know Jesus is the real Messiah. Was that the response? No. Look in verse number twelve. And when they were assembled, the word assembled there is the actual idea of a official meeting. They called a meeting of the Sanhedrin. They brought everybody together with the elders and had taken counsel. They all came together and they made a resolution. They made a decision. What are we going to do about this? I mean, here we have the report of these Roman soldiers that told us what happened. They really only have two choices. They can go out and tell the people the honest report of what happened, or they can cover it up. They can cover it up. We can't have this guy resurrected re resurrecting on us because that would devastate our whole religious system. That would h cause us to have to believe that he is the Messiah. We would have to admit that we've been wrong the whole time and and we wouldn't need to believe on him. They don't do that. They called together an assembly, they make a resolution, had taken counsel, and watch this, and gave large money unto the soldiers. Saying, say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Can you believe that? They convened the Sanhedrin, they passed a resolution. What was the resolution? Let's just bribe them. Let's give them big money. Agura. Silver. Money talks. These rulers who bought off Judas Iscaria for thirty pieces of silver had to pay a whole lot more to these soldiers, sixteen of them. The Bible doesn't give us a number, it just says large money. But the price really didn't matter. They were willing to pay any price to perpetrate the lie about the resurrection that his disciples stole the body away. They couldn't afford to let that truth get out that Jesus really did come out of that grave. So There was the bribe. There was the deception. Verse 13. Just say this. Here are religious leaders telling people, just just lie. Tell this lie. His disciples came by night and stole him away while he slept. And look at verse 14. And if this come to the governor's ears Don't worry about him. We will persuade him and secure you. Listen, if all this gets back to Pilate and the Roman officials, look, don't worry about them. We know how to take care of them. Well we'll cover for you. Don't worry about that. So what was the response of the soldiers? Look at verse 15. So they took the money and did as they were taught. Interesting word, the dash co. They were taught how to lie. I can just imagine these religious leaders saying, look, here's how you lie. Let us teach you how to do this. If they say this, you say this. They say this, you say this. Here's how you cover, here's how you lie. Just do this. They did as they were taught. By these religious leaders. Matthew says, and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. This is how the lie got out. This is what happened. This is the response of the soldiers. This is the report of the lie. And now Matthew writes this gospel in 63 A. D. , roughly 30 years after the event, and the lie is still out there. And by the way. People are still lying. Still out there. You know why? Because people do not want to believe. So any lie will do. And so the problem w with that is this well first of all Matthew is showing here the hard heartedness of those religious leaders who did not want to believe that Jesus was the Messiah. And really he's showing really that the apostasy of Israel at this point was was was final and full. But this lie, in a crazy sort of way, proves the resurrection. Because you only lie when you want to do what? Cover up the truth. You only lie when you want to cover the truth. And the truth is, Jesus came out of that grave on the third day. And the truth is, Jesus is Lord. He's Lord. That's the truth. And this is how it affects you. The Bible says this in Romans ten, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth The Lord Jesus, and shall believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Saved from what? Saved from divine judgment Saved from eternal hell. Saved from punishment. That's how you get saved You believe that Jesus is the Son of God, He is the Lord, He died on the cross, He took your sin debt, He went into the grave and came out on the third day He died for your sins. He was buried. He rose again. He is Lord. You are saved by putting your faith in what Christ did, the risen Christ. And you have a choice. You can either believe the lie Or you can believe the truth. But friend, I say with every fiber of my being, Jesus Christ is Lord. He is the Lord. He came out of that grave. He is your only hope of salvation. Your only hope. And if you haven't put your faith in him, I plead with you. Make Jesus your Lord and Savior. There was a scientist from Canada by the name of G. B. Hardy who was searching for answers in true religion. And he wrote a book about destiny. Countdown a time to choose what the name of the book was. And in the book, he asked two important questions. First question, has anyone cheated death? Second question, is it available to me? And he went on a search and found the tomb of Buddha was occupied, the tomb of Muhammad was occupied, the tomb of all other religious leaders, they were all occupied, but the tomb of Christ is empty and has been empty since that third day. This was a profound discovery for him. And then the second question he asked was, is it available to me? Did someone cheat death? Yes, Jesus did. Is it available to me? And the answer to that is also yes. Because he lives. If you put your faith in him, guess what? You will live also. Jesus said, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believeth thou this. I believe it, and I pray that you believe it, and that you'll make Jesus your Savior and Lord. Let's let's bow for prayer. With heads bowed and eyes closed I just want to ask you, friend, are you certain of your own personal salvation? Have you put your faith in Christ? Do you believe that He died and rose again? The Bible says, again, if we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord, believe in our heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. And friend, if you haven't, put your faith in Christ and Christ alone. Faith and nothing else. Not faith plus works, not faith plus you trying to be good. No. Our goodness is filthy rags It's faith in Christ alone and what he did. Faith alone. In Christ alone. From that salvation. Would you just reach out in prayer right there? You can pray right where you are. You can just say, Lord Jesus, I confess you as Savior, and Lord, I believe you came out of that grave. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. Come into my heart and save me. Lord, you are my only hope. Of salvation. Friend, pray that, mean it. Jesus will save you. If you have, let us know. We want to help you. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart here today. We pray in Jesus' wonderful name.