Take your Bibles, please, and open to the Book of Proverbs, the Old Testament Book of Proverbs, chapter 31. This is a passage that gets a lot of attention on a day like this. the Proverbs 31 chapter. You should know it very well. And I just want to just give you some basic things out of this chapter. And to honor our mothers that are here today. This is good that we have this day to honor moms. The Bible says to give honor to whom honor is due. I heard about a little boy who forgot his lines in a Sunday school presentation. His mother was sitting on the front row. She was trying to prompt him and uh mouth the words, but he still didn't get it. Finally she whispered and said the line, I am the light of the world And he said with all his might, My mother is the light of the world. You know, in a lot of ways, that's very, very true. Just write down 1 Timothy 2 verse 14. The Bible says Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in transgression. Verse 15, notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing. If they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. Now what was Paul teaching there to Timothy? He's basically saying there's a sense in which womanhood has a stigma attached to it. How? Because it was through a woman that the fall of the human race took place. And Paul is saying that that stigma that is attached to womanhood because of the fall is removed. How is that stigma from womanhood removed? Through motherhood. It's removed, it says, She shall be saved, that is womanhood, woman shall be saved, not saved by from sin, but that stigma, her reputation, her honor Is saved how? In childbearing. If they continue in faith and charity and holiness. And what Paul is saying is that motherhood exalts womanhood. That's the whole principle there. We live in a in a liberal world today that has a tendency to downgrade a woman who is a mother and say that being a mother is a second-class citizen, that's exactly the opposite of what the Bible says. The Bible says being a mother exalts womanhood and really provides salvation to the human race. Did you know that moms are the salvation of the human race? You say, how so? If they bear children that honor the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at it again. Or 1 Timothy 2. 15 says, if they continue in faith and in charity and in holiness with sobriety. So with all that in mind, I want you to look in Proverbs chapter 31. And I want you to look at this because this is exalting motherhood here. And uh, you know, a lot of times when we look at Proverbs 31, we have a tense and you think of verses ten down to verse thirty-one, the virtues of a uh a a godly woman or the virtuous woman, and that really is the focus of this chapter. But what we often overlook is the voice behind the chapter. uh the voice of the mother instructing the son. And that's really what Proverbs 31 is about. The real woman of Proverbs 31 is not necessarily the virtues that are listed, the woman with the virtues in verses 10 to 31, it's really the mother who is teaching the son in this whole chapter. This whole chapter is about a mother who is giving life lessons to her son. And really that's what motherhood is about. This mother will diligently, skillfully teach lessons. to her son that he needs to learn. This is the only place in the book of Proverbs where we hear the voice of a mother, independent of the father. teaching and instructing and giving great wisdom. And again, that's that's motherhood. How many of us have been blessed by what our mothers taught us? The instructions we learn from our mother. And that's what this is about right here. So I want you to see four ways this mother instructed her child. First of all, if you're taking notes, write down her maternal instruction. Look at verse number one. The words of King Lemuel. Here's a man who's reminding us about what his mother taught him. The prophecy That his mother taught him. Now who's King Lemuel? Well honestly, we're not really sure. There's an ancient Jewish tradition that identifies Elemuel as King Solomon And that could be true. If that's true, then the words are the words of Bathsheba, his mother. Lemuel simply means beloved of God. And this could be a pet name that his mother had for him. And so there's really no way to be sure. Lemuel may be a lesser m member of the royal family, whoever he was, he was well known enough to the Jewish people to uh accept his writing. And so he's recounting things that his mother taught him. Look at the word prophecy there. It just simply means instruction. These are the instructions, these are the things my mother taught me. And again, this is where mothers make their greatest contribution to the world, to the kingdom of God, by teaching children the word of God. Teaching children about the Lord Jesus Christ, pointing them to the Lord Jesus. And so there's a sense in which he's telling us things that he learned at his mother's knee when he was just a child. And when he was growing up. Notice she teaches him kind of with authority. Verse 2, what my son, what the son of my womb. There's kind of a ring of authority here to these words. How many of you know that a mother's voice has some authority with it, right? I mean I still obey my mother's voice. And uh I was reading a story about the former president George W. Bush And his wife was actually telling the story, his wife Laura, former First Lady. They went to visit uh his mother and father, uh who was at one time president, George H. W. Bush And they were visiting their house and they spent the night and the next morning the President, George Bush, got up and he went down early for coffee, sat down on the couch, put his feet up on the table, and he heard a voice of his mother, Barbara, was saying, Get your feet off that table. And the former president, his father, George H. W. Bush, said, For heaven's sake, Barbara, he's President of the United States. And she said, I don't care whether he's president or not, she's still gonna listen to me. I don't want his feet on my table. And Laura Bush said he took his feet down because even presidents have to obey their mother Authority. And that's what we see here, the authority of this mother. Let me tell you something, moms. You have in your voice that you teach your children an authority that comes from nowhere else, but from a mom, there's something unique about that authority, and we listen. Now She teaches him authoritatively, but also correctively. Look again in verse 2. What my son, what the son of my womb, what the son of my vows. And so this is kind of an incredulous statement. We would say it like this, what are you doing? You ever say that to your child? What are you doing? You know, here's a mom that's taking advantage of a situation where a son needs instruction. And let's just face it, children need constant instruction. They need to be taught. They need to be corrected. And so she's teaching him correctively. Son, what are you doing? The Bible says the rod and reproof bring correction. That is speaking and spanking. You know, the rod is spanking, reproof, that's speaking. Children need both of those things. I know we grow up in a world that says you shouldn't spank your children. The word rod is a word that just means the end of a branch. It's a twig, it's a switch I thought my mother invented that switch. But it comes right out of the Bible. To use that switch when necessary. Speaking and spanking, giving correction. The Bible says that foolishness is bound in the heart of the child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from them. Wise is a mother that knows how to use that rod and to use it in the right way. She speaks to him correctively, but also intimately. Look again in verse 2. What my son? What the son of my womb? Notice she calls him the son of my womb. That's an intimate phrase there. And it emphasizes her tender love. While she's correcting him, she does it very lovingly, very intimately. She reminds him of her love. and her gentleness and how she carried him in her womb. And she also says, Son of my vows. This is the same word used When uh Hannah talked about giving her child Samuel to the Lord, she made a vow, that Lord, if you give me a son, I will give him back to you. So obviously this mother here has perhaps made the same kind of a vow to the Lord. A son of my vows. I vowed you to the Lord, and I'm responsible to the Lord to teach you and train you and bring you up. in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And again I say that the greatest blessing that this world has today are mothers who teach their children the Word of God and teach them the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You say, well, I I've done that with my child, and my child has gone astray. Well you just keep teaching and never give up, never. When I was preparing for the sermon, I read an illustration about this. Some of you may be familiar with a Baptist pastor by the name of John Piper. He's a very well-known Baptist preacher, has written several books A very godly man, but he had a son who became a prodigal. He walked away from the faith that his father and mother taught him. And for the next four years of his life, he just he lived an immoral life. He went around drinking. And of course his parents were brokenhearted. They were baffled. And after four years of being a prodigal, he came back to the Lord. And he reunited with his parents. And then he, based on his experience, he gave some advice to moms and dads That may be struggling because you may have a s a child that's a prodigal. And this is what he wrote, I thought it was very very interesting He said this, first of all, and this is from the words of Abraham Piper, the one who was the prodigal who has now came back. He said, if your son is not a Christian, he won't act like one. Don't expect them to be Christ-like if they're not a Christian. It's hypocrisy if he does. The most dangerous problem is unbelief, not partying. He says, no matter how your child's behavior proves his unbelief. Always be sure to focus more on his heart sickness than on its symptoms. Focus on the heart sickness. And then he writes this: welcome them home. If he has any inkling to be with you, don't make it hard for him. Obviously, there are instances when parents must give ultimatums, but these will be rare. He writes this, if your daughter stinks like weed or an ashtray, spray her jacket with Febreze, change the sheath when she leaves, but let her come home. If you find out she's pregnant, then buy her folic acid, take her to the 20-week ultrasound, protect her from Planned Parenthood, and by all means let her come home. If your son is broke because he spent all the money you lent him on loose living and liquor, then forgive his debt, as you have been forgiven. Don't give him any more money, but let him come home He goes on to say, point them to Christ. This is from a prodigal. Keep pointing them to Christ, because their greatest need is Christ. And when they see the beauty of Christ, they'll forsake all those other things. And that's the key right there. Moms, here's the exhortation. Just keep pointing your children to Christ. Let them keep pointing them to Christ until they see the beauty of Christ. Just keep at it. That's her maternal instruction. But here's number two, her moral instruction. Look what she says. She's teaching them now. Remember, this is a young man who's going to be a king, he's going to be a leader, and she's trying to prepare him for this. And notice what she says in verse number three Give not thy strength unto women Nor thy ways to that which destroys king. What's he warning him about? She's warning him about an immoral lifestyle This is a pitfall, she says, especially if you're a leader. And throughout the book of Proverbs, there are warnings about the consequences of adultery and immorality. And she warns them that immorality, adultery will destroy you. The word destroy here, very strong word in the Bible, to blot out, to extinguish It will bring shame upon you. This is not for you if you're going to be a leader. It's not for you anyway. Even if you're not for anyone to commit this sin, it will bring destruction. It will bring you down. It brings with it all kinds of consequences. Sometimes I'll tell men, if you're tempted in this area of adultery, immorality, just read the book of 2 Samuel. That will cure you. You say why? Because if you read 2 Samuel you read the life of David and you see it kind of has an upward motion at the beginning of the book, there's Triumph after triumph and blessing after blessing. God just keeps pouring out the blessings on David, and you reach a climax until you get to 2 Samuel chapter 11, and there you have David's sin And then what happens? The whole book swings. And then the rest of it is tragedy after tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. And in the end, you realize it wasn't worth it. Never is. And here she's warning her son, don't Don't do this. This is her moral instruction. Mom, teach your children to hate sin and to fear the Lord. That's the lesson. Number three, not only her maternal instruction and her moral instruction But number three, just write down her monarchial instruction. She's teaching him to be a monarch, a king. So we see her monarchial instruction. Look at verse number four. It is not for kings, O Lamuel. It is not for kings to drink wine, nor for princes strong drink, lest they drink and forget the law and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted. And she's just saying, look, if you want to be a good king, you have to abstain from alcohol. Don't drink. A true leader will abstain from wine and strong drink. I wish I could preach this to every senator and congressman, those who claim to be leaders. Stay away from this. As a social drink, it's a curse. It's not becoming. It's not appropriate for a leader to drink. This is what this mother is teaching him. Look, if you're going to be a king, stay away from that. Stay away from that stuff. Why? Because in verse 5 it says, lest they forget the law, lest they drink and forget the law and pervert the judgment of God. It can lead to further sin. You could forget the law. You have an obligation to live according to the law. It could cloud your judgment. It could cloud your reasoning. It could cause you to pervert judgment. Referring to someone who would take a bribe or be extorted in some way. And so the first principle she's teaching him here is that you have to control yourself. And don't do this thing here. It was said of Alexander the Great, he was able to conquer the world, but he died an alcoholic death at age 33. He couldn't conquer himself. And yet he seemed to be able to conquer the world. So she says, Don't don't drink. Don't do this. It's not for kings to do this, but also be compassionate. Look in verse 6. He says, Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts. Now she's saying alcohol and strong drink as a social drink is a curse, but as a medicine, it could be a blessing. If someone is dying, if someone is ready to perish, You can give them that. It could be a help as a medicine. Let it ease the pain of those that are on their deathbed. And we said this is what happens today. We have doctors who know how to give out prescriptions that are very merciful to a person that is in pain and they may be dying and they need help or some perhaps someone has had a a terrible thing happen in their life and such grief that they can't handle it and they need some help medically. Caring doctors know how to prescribe these things to help people get through. And it may include alcohol or some kind of substance that will help them. And this is just simple compassion. She says, just have compassion on those that are hurting. Compassion on those that are grieving. That's what a real leader does. But also protect the weak. Look in verse 8. Open thy mouth for the dumb and the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction. Open thy mouth and judge righteously and plead the cause of the poor and the needy. She's saying, look, speak up for those who cannot speak up for themselves. If you're going to be a leader, help out those that are victims of circumstances, those that are oppressed. Those that are being hurt by this world, run over by the mechanism of this world, make sure that you judge fairly. Make sure that you help the poor and the needy. Help those that are weak. That's her monarchial instruction. But here's the last thing. We see her maternal instruction. She teaches them authoritatively, correctively, lovingly. For moral instruction, she says, don't be immoral. Make sure that you stay away from that sin. For monarchical instruction, she says, don't drink, but have compassion on the poor. Here's the last thing Her marital instruction. Her marital instruction. Now, from verses 10 on down to verse 31, this is the big bulk of the chapter of Proverbs 31. And uh this is the part of it really that gets all the attention. And what's she gonna teach him now? She's gonna teach him how to find a good wife. That's what this is all about. Son, here's how you find the right wife or a good wife. Now I tell young people, the two most important decisions in your life are these. Number one, to receive Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. That's number one. And if you're here today and you've never received Jesus into your heart as your Lord and Savior, that's the most important decision of your life. You know what? That's what your mother wants you to do if you haven't done it. To receive Jesus. You know, the desire of my heart, and I know my wife's heart, first and foremost, is that all of our children know the Lord Jesus and they love Jesus And they simply honor Him with their life, love Him, walk in His ways. That's the greatest desire of our heart. And I know you mothers feel the same. How many of you say Amen to that? Amen. That's the greatest desire. We pray for that. We long for that more than anything else. So that's the biggest decision of your life. The second most important decision of your life is who you will marry. That's the next decision. And she knows that this is very important. And so she's going to tell him how to find a good wife. Because it's not easy. Look at verse 10. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. This is hard to do. So son, I want to tell you how to do this. And she begins to teach him about the qualities that you want to look for in a good way. She teaches him cautiously. She teaches them carefully. And she's very skillful here in the way that she teaches her son. Because you know what? Proverbs 31, verses 10, on down to verse 31, you know what this is in Hebrew? This is called a Hebrew acrostic. You say, what is that? Simply means that, listen, there are 22 verses from verse 10 down to verse 31. There are 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet. We have 26 in the Hebrew alphabet. There are 22. And she goes through the Hebrew alphabet from A. Or Aleph, which is the first Hebrew letter, all the way to Tav, which is the last Hebrew letter, 22 letters, and she, and every verse begins with that letter in the alphabet. So she's going through the alphabet. And she's naming qualities according to that letter. It would be like if we did it today, a mother would say, okay, here's A. First of all, she has to have a good attitude. You know, if you want to get a good wife, make sure she has the right attitude. B. She has to be um beautiful. Inwardly You know, really Proverbs 31 is not about outward beauty. It doesn't mention it anywhere. It talks about inward beauty. In fact, she says her price is far above rubies. You know one thing about a ruby? A ruby gets its beauty from inside. You know, a diamond, you have to take a diamond and put it in the right setting. You know, you have to get that black velvet setting and put the diamond on and then the outward circumstance makes the diamond sparkle So a diamond is dependent upon outward circumstance to make it beautiful, but not so with a ruby. A ruby has a beauty from the inside. And this whole chapter is focusing on inward beauty. So she's going through the alphabet A, B, C She has to have character D. She has to delight in, you know, and so on. Well, this is what's happening here in the Hebrew. She's just going through the alphabet. And she's saying, here are the virtues of the woman. This is the kind of person that you want to marry, because this is a very, very important decision. Now she's already warned him about uh who to stay away from. In fact, if you go through the book of Proverbs, there are all kinds of warnings about the strange woman, the odious woman, the whorish woman, the contentious woman, and so on. And here's the virtuous woman And she's saying, son, here's what you want. And so she just goes through from A to Z so that he will get the right kind of a woman. And so she's teaching him. She's instructing him. And she's she's being very thorough. And I you know what, we don't have time to go through this. You could spend weeks on this. In fact, we're already out of time here. But sometimes you need to have a chance just to read through these things. She talks about her the character of this woman as a wife. Just we'll look at a few things real quick. Look in verse 12 or verse 11. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her. So that he shall have no need of spoil. She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life. That you know in the ancient world, a wife was not treated as God intended. You read the Bible, God in the scripture exalts women. The Bible exalts womanhood. Unfortunately, all through the world, that hasn't been the case with societies. And in the ancient world, they weren't treating women the way they should have. And many times, in arranged marriages, husbands and wives were not very close. And sometimes the husband couldn't trust the wife. And so if he went on a long trip, he would lock up all his valuables so she couldn't get to him. But here's a woman where the husband, he trusts her completely. The heart of the husband, safely, the Bible says, trusts in her The equivalent today would be, guys, if you go on a two-week business trip, you trust your wife with a checkbook and all the credit cards while you're gone. You trust her. Because she's a wise woman. She's loyal to him in every way. And so he These passages talk about these verses talk about her character as a wife, her commitment as a homemaker, she's committed to the home, her compassion as a neighbor, she gives to the poor, and so on. And it talks about also her communication as a teacher. She's a very gifted teacher. Look in verse number 26. She openeth her mouth with wisdom. And in her tongue is the law of kindness. She's a great teacher, a great communicator. And her commendation as a woman in verse 27, she looketh well to the ways of her household. That is, she's constantly surveying over her household. She's looking to her family, her children, and her children's children. She doesn't eat the bread of idleness. She is constantly busy doing the right things and in her children in verse twenty eight and twenty-nine will rise up and will call her blessed. And in verse thirty one, give her the fruit of her hands And let her own works praise her in the gates. That is, her husband praises her right there in the gates and tells everyone what a wonderful, godly, virtuous Wife I have, who's a good mother to all of my children. Again, it's not outward beauty here that talks about, it's inward beauty. Now let me finish up by saying this. Some people say, well this is an ideal that we can't meet up to. Well, no, that's not true. This mother's not teaching about a woman that nobody can find, that doesn't exist. This can be very real. In fact, in the Hebrew Bible, it's different from the English Bible. In our English Bible, the order of books after Proverbs is the book of Ecclesiastes. But in the Hebrew Bible, the book that follows Proverbs is the book of Ruth. And Ruth is called a virtuous woman. So imagine that. You're reading Proverbs 31, who could find a virtuous woman? And then the very next book is Ruth, where it says, here's a virtuous woman. And it's like God is saying, Here, here's the description. And here's somebody like that, right here. And here's the story of her life. So this is real. And this is how you find a virtuous woman. And so today we set aside this day to honor mothers who teach their children, who invest in their children, and give them valuable life lessons, without which we would be lost. We would be lost. Where would we be without the instruction of our mothers? And we honor them today. We do what Proverbs 31 says. We praise her in the gates. We shout praises because motherhood is one of God's greatest gifts to humanity. And we dare not take it in vain. Let me just read this one thing and I'm done I was again studying for this sermon and I came across this article and I thought it was appropriate. Here's a man that writes about Mother's Day. This is what he writes. He says, a few years ago, I somehow ended up by buying two Mother's Day cards He said, I sent one to my mother, and because I keep a three-year calendar, I filed the other one away in the May section of the next year. Sadly, my mother died shortly after that first card. Now I have a greeting card that I can never deliver unless he says the U. S. Postal Service can find a way to get it to eternity. And then he says this, the more I've reflected on this undeliverable card, the more I've realized how it mirrors so much of my life We run into situations where we realize we can never again do what we intended. No matter how much we may want to, we can't hold on to the past. He says a loved one dies and we grieve that we will never hear their comforting, loving voice. Disease creeps in and robs us of the ability to do what we once enjoyed. An accident occurs, and in the blink of an eye We lose some function that we took for granted. And then he says this, My mother is gone. And the most fervent prayer won't bring her back. But what prayer will do, though, is help me to remember that life is short. And I need to live a long life of love while I can. I'm reminded that I should be grateful for whatever I have now, because it could be gone before I open next year's calendar. So he says, so love now. Enjoy today. Be grateful this instant. Squeeze every drop of joy from each day. Pray hard and love deeply. And if you can, send your mother, your mom, a Mother's Day card. And love her. And don't take it for granted. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, we thank you for this beautiful chapter. And reading through it, I'm reminded of the godly, virtuous women that you have placed in my own life. And how thankful I am for them. Where would I be without my mother's instruction? And many here can say the same. So today, Lord, with all our heart, we thank you and praise you. For the gift of womanhood, the gift of motherhood, and how it's uh blessed our lives beyond words And we're reminded, Lord, of the great love that they have for us and how that love models the love of our Savior Jesus Christ, who came into this world and lived a perfect, sinless life And at the end of his life, he didn't, no one took his life, but he laid it down for us that we might have salvation, that we might have eternal life. And this is the heartbeat and prayer of every mother that their children would know the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here today that does not know him, That today they would be the answer to their mother's prayers. That they would come to know Jesus today if they haven't already. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, I'm going to give you that opportunity right now. It's no accident that you're here It's no accident that you're under the sound of the Word of God. It's no accident that today the Lord is once again reaching out his hand to you, inviting you. Don't take this opportunity for granted, friend. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. So if you're not absolutely certain that you're a child of God today, would you be willing to pray right there where you are? And just pray this prayer in your heart. Just say, Lord Jesus, I know that I'm a sinner. And I know that I need to turn from my sin and turn to you. And I realize you are the Savior of the world. That you came into this world as the virgin-born, sinless son of God, and you took my sin dead upon yourself on the cross. And today I recognize that. That you're the only way, the way of salvation. And today I turn to you with all my heart, and I put my hand of faith in your hand. And I ask you to save me, Lord Jesus. Forgive my sin, save me. Would you pray that? Would you just say, save me, Lord Jesus? Save me. And he'll save you, friend. This is the longing of every mother that their child would be saved. And if you're here today and you are a Christian, you know the best way we can honor our mothers is to live the kind of life that they taught us to live, to live for Jesus. And to give thanks to them and honor them in the way that we live. Father, bless these words to every hearing heart today. And again, we want to honor our mothers. Thank you for them. Thank you for what they've done in our life. Thank you for the gift you've given us in them. And we pray this in Jesus' wonderful, matulous name, Amen.