Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Old Testament book of Joshua, chapter 24. Joshua chapter 24. And we're going to look at just a few verses here in Joshua chapter 24. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I just want to read a few verses here with you from Joshua 24. We're looking at verse 26. And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God, and took a great stone and set it up there under an oak. That was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us. For it heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us. It shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God. So Joshua let the people depart, every man unto his inheritance. Thank you so much. You may be seated. This is God's authoritative, inspired word. May we listen to it this morning with reverence. One time while I was in England, I was walking through an old church cemetery, and I was as I was walking along, I was reading some of the memorial stones, and one moved me very deeply. It was the gravestone of an 18-year-old airmen who died during World War II. And the parents wrote the tribute on the on the memorial stone and it said this, to the world he was only a part. To us he was all the world. And that I thought was so beautifully written. And it really sums up family love. Sums up the love and admiration we have for all those who died. defending our country, giving their life for our freedom. I've been to Arlington Cemetery, National Cemetery, and I've seen the The stones there have been there several times, and today we remember and honor uh our men and women of the military who died and uh fighting for our country. But we also want to learn from them, and we want to make sure that their death is not in vain. In the book of Joshua, we see some gravestones and memorial stones. In fact, the whole book of Joshua opens with a funeral, the death of M Moses, and then it closes with three funerals or three burials We could also call this the military book of the Bible. The whole book is about military strategy. It's all about fighting your enemy. It's all about winning victories. And it's also about laying to rest soldiers who fought a good fight. The book of Joshua is really about memorials. Did you know that there are nine memorials in the book of Joshua? Nine times when memorial stones were set up. in order for people to remember. And I want to focus on one memorial stone that we just read about here in chapter 24. Verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. Joshua set up a large stone and he set it under an oak that was by the sanctuary of the Lord, it says, that is, it was by the tabernacle. So every time people pass by this Tabernacle, it was a reminder of the covenant that they made with God. Look again at verse 27. And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us For it had heard all the words of the Lord which he spake unto us. So stones had ears. Joshua said this stone heard all the words of the Lord. Some stones listen better than people. It heard all the words of the Lord Joshua said, and it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest you deny your God. Joshua saying, look, this stone, whenever you see it, it's a reminder, this stone was here when we made we rehearsed all the words of the Lord to you And by the way, the spot there was Shechem. Shechem was really a holy place to Israel because that was the first spot that Abraham landed when he first came into the promised land, their father Abraham. And also it was a place where it was located, Shech was located between and a valley between two mountains, Mount Ebal and Mount Girizam And you might remember that ritual that Joshua had the people do where half of the tribes of Israel were on Mount Ebal, half were on Mount Girizam When Joshua read all the blessings, all those on Mount Girason said, Amen, Amen, Amen. When when Joshua read all the curses for disobeying the law, all the people on Mount Ebul said, Amen, Amen, Amen. One big huge object lesson which said, If you obey God's words You'll be blessed if you don't, you'll pay a price for it. So Shechem was kind of a holy ground for the people of Israel And this is why Joshua sets up this memorial here. He wants the people to remember. He wants them to remember all of what God did that brought them to this point in their history. This is why God sets up memorials. You know why? Because we are people that are prone to forget. We forget. So we need reminders. We need memorial stones. Today we honor the memorial stones of those that have died in service of our country. We should never forget what they did for our nation. And also we look at these memorial stones here in Scripture and remember the works of God, remember the acts of God. And and really it's all one. We remember that it was because of the sacrifice of brave men and women that we have the freedom that we have today. But all that was done in service to God Because God's providential hand is what made us the country that we were and are today. It was the cause of the blessing of God. And this is what Joshua is doing. Joshua is saying to the people of Israel, look, I don't want you to forget that the things that you inherit in the promised land, all the blessings that you have, are because of what God has done. And we could say that as Americans, can't we? The blessings we have is because of what God has done Now, we're a nation not like Israel. Israel was a covenant nation. They made a covenant with God at Mount Sinai. Therefore, they had a special relationship with God. They were a theocracy. As Americans, we are not that kind of a nation. We're not a a theocracy. We're not like Israel in that respect. But you would have to be blind to not see the providence of God in raising up America And putting America on the stage of world history at this particular time. And we see it as the works of the Lord And so it's proper that we have memorials. It's proper that we remember, because what we're doing is we're giving praise to God, we're giving thanks to God for all the works that He has done. for us to give us the freedoms and the blessings that we have today. Joshua said, look, these memorial stones These memorial stones will speak, they will say, don't forget. Don't forget. And that's the message. Don't forget. God. Now there are three things that we see here that we must not forget. First of all, don't forget his gracious providences. God's gracious providences. Go back to chapter 24. Go back to verse number two. And just look at a few verses here. Joshua said unto all the people, thus saith the Lord God of Israel. Your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood, that is the other side of the river. In old time, even Terah, the father of Abraham, the father of Nakor, and they served other gods. And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood And led him through all the land of Canaan and multiplied his seed and gave him Isaac. And I gave unto Isaac Jacob and Esau, and I gave unto Esau Mount Seir, verse five. I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt According to that which I did among them, and afterward I brought you out. And I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and ye came into the sea. And then on we could go. Look in verse eight. And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, which dwelt on the other side of Jordan, and they fought with you, and I gave them into your hand that you might possess their land, and I destroyed them before you. You notice a common pattern there? This is God speaking here. Speaking through his prophet, God said, This is what I did. I took, I gave unto Isaac, I sent Moses, I brought your fathers, I brought you into the land. I defeated your enemies. This is the works that I have done. May we never forget the mighty works which God has done. and establishing us as the nation that we are. Just like Israel was not to forget the mighty hand of God that brought them into the promised land. We as Americans likewise should not forget the providential hand of God and establishing a certain kind of nation. Did you know that America could have been a a Muslim nation? Did you know that many centuries before Christopher Columbus The Muslims sent a fleet to discover what was on the western side of the Atlantic. They sailed through the Mediterranean westward through the gates of Gibraltar out into the Atlantic Ocean. They were on their way to found and colonize America. But a great storm arose before them when they were far beyond the Straits of Gibraltar, and the entire Muslim fleet sank into the depths of the sea Because it was not God's will or providence that America should be founded and colonized by Muslims America could have been a French nation in sixteen oh six, fourteen years before the pilgrims landed at Plymouth, the French made an attempt to colonize New England. Under the leadership of the Montse, they made three attempts. On the first two attempts, their ships were driven away from the coast. by strong winds. On the third attempt, the ships were destroyed on the treacherous shoals of Cape Cod. The monst was killed. Had they succeeded, America would have been a type of government and religion that the French had, but that was not God's providential will. that America be that kind of a nation. And did you know that when the pilgrims came to America, there was only really one place on the whole eastern coast where they could land and survive? And uh even though it was far north and it was cold, and a few times uh history records it they got into the boat and tried to sail further south, but the winds would drive them back. So they settled there at the place called Plymouth Rock. And what had happened there providentially was there was a tribe of fierce Indians that had they all been alive, they surely would have killed the pilgrims. But a a plague had hit that tribe, and every one of them were killed by a plague Just before the pilgrims arrived. So when they got there to the shore, they found storehouses full of grain that would get them through the winter, and an Indian that could speak English and give survival strategy. names Quanto. Do you think all of that was an accident? That that's what they found there. And the pilgrims who landed here were Bible-believing Christian Puritans. Uh William Bradford, who was the uh the governor of the Plymouth Colony, uh it is said, and I learned this studying Hebrew in seminary, I didn't know this, I was moaning and groaning on half to learn Hebrew. And I read where that William Bradford on the way over in the Mayflower was doing Hebrew exercises. Put me under conviction there. He loved doing Hebrews. One historian read said this, Bradford was driven to study Hebrew in order to catch a glimpse of Israel's past, a past which he wished to recreate in the new Plymouth. And so he studied it. In his book by Cotton Mather, uh he summed up the Puritans coming to America. He said it was to establish a new Zion. It was thought that the city on a hill was a refuge for the saving remnant. Which would re remain as God's kingdom on earth. They were coming to America looking to establish a Christian colony, one that was devoted to keeping the precepts and principles of the Word of God. That was the very foundation. In England, in New England, the Puritans compared themselves to the ancient Israelites. They called Boston the Jerusalem of this land. They called themselves Christian Israel. England was the land of Egypt. King James was Pharaoh, and the Atlantic Ocean was the Red Sea. And the Indians were the Canaanites. Everyone in New England, Puritan colonies, was required to go to worship and to hear the word of God preached. Do you think all that's an accident? No, that's the providential hand of God that established all of this. And we see also God's providence in conquest. We're honoring Warriors, we're honoring fighters who gave their life for our freedom. They were all a part of God's hand in giving us the nation that we have. From the lowest private soldier from the very first war fought on American soil until the most recent death of a soldier today. We honor them all. But we also recognize they were God's servants working to do his will for this country. Army of Great Britain was the most powerful military army in the world at that time. And did you realize that when General Washington was put in charge of the Continental Army here in America, that what he had was a bunch of frontiersmen with rifles and farmers with pitchforks. Very undisciplined, ragged group of guys. And the big question was, how in the world was he going to be able to take this roughshod group of frontiersmen and farmers and forged them into an army to fight against the greatest military power in the world at that time. That was a formidable task And I'll tell you one of the things that was used was the prayers of George Washington as he prayed for his army, as he prayed for his task. Every once in a while I hear a historian say, well, Washington was a deist. What's a deist? That's someone who believes in a uh a God that's out there but doesn't really have fellowship with them or anything. Kind of a errant view Well, let me just read you one prayer from George Washington and you judge for yourself whether you think he was a deist. Here's his prayer. Oh eternal and everlasting God. I presume to present myself this morning before thy divine majesty, beseeching thee to accept of my humble and hearty thanks, that it hath been pleased thy great goodness to keep and preserve me the night, and pass me from all the dangers. poor mortals are subject to, and has given me sweet and pleasant sleep, whereby I find my body refreshed and comforted to the performing of the duties of this day, in which I beseech thee to defend me from all perils of body and soul. Direct my thoughts, words, and work, wash away my sins in the immaculate blood of the Lamb, and purge my heart by thy Holy Spirit from the dross of my natural corruption That I may with more freedom of mind and liberty of will serve thee, the everlasting God, in righteousness and holiness this day, and in all the days of my life. Increase my faith in the sweet promises of thy gospel. Give me repentance from dead works. Pardon from my wanderings. Direct my thoughts unto thyself, the God of my salvation. Daily frame me more and more into the likeness of thy Son Jesus Christ. That thy live that my living I will live in thy fear and dying in thy favor. I and Sound like a deus to you? There's a man who knows Jesus, a man who understands his task. And it was his prayers, I believe, that got our country through that time. And God providentially moved. You know, there are so many stories. Washington's army was surrounded on land by the British. The British fleet lay off shore Surely they would be destroyed the next morning morning. The British saw the predicament it was in. They determined the next morning they would go and they would destroy this little army and the war would be over. And that night Washington determined that he would round up every rowboat he could and let his army slip away by water on the under the darkness of night. And his general said, You don't have enough time. It's gonna be late. They're gonna see the army on the water. They'll blow them away. And Washington prayed and he rounded up the rowboats And he got the army in those rowboats and he got them out there on the water, slipping them by, and of course the sun began to break at dawn. But a thick fog rolled in And the British couldn't see him. And Washington was able to slip away, he and his army, without notice during that time. And then his army was trapped in Trenton. And uh again The British said, you know, the next morning we'll defeat him. It was late at night. The next morning they were gonna really get hammered by the British Army, but that night a cold wind blew in and the round froze and Washington was able to get his army artillery and his army out of that position again. Do you think all of that is an accident? It's not And then there's a story of Washington's army when they retreated out of Philadelphia into Valley Forge. One historian said you could track the army by the bloody footprints left in the snow because his army was so ill-equipped. so ill prepared for the winter. Many of them died there in Valley Forge, but what was left were hardened soldiers. And whereas before Valley Forge, uh the American soldiers would run off the battlefield at times. But after Valley Forge, they never ran off the battlefield again. In fact, it was the British that were running off the battlefield because God had forged a strong army Partly because of the prayers of George Washington, faith in what God's plan was, we should never forget that. We should never forget. Never forget his gracious providences. But also his guiding precepts. I want to show you one other thing. Look in look in Joshua chapter 23 and look down in verse number six to verse eight. Just back up one chapter. The scene of this speech is to the elders and the leaders. It's probably at Shiloh where the tabernacle is located, but look at verse 6. Joshua's warning, be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that was written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not aside therefore therefrom to the right hand or to the left, that ye come not among these nations These that remain among you, neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves to them, but cleave unto the Lord your God. as ye have done unto this day. And here's Joshua with the officers and the elders and the soldiers, and he's saying to the people through them, Cleave to the Lord. Don't forget God. Hold on to God. This is a warning. Why? Well, he was afraid of complacency. He's basically saying, beware of complacency. Don't forget the word of God. Remember what Joshua said earlier? This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, don't stop talking about it, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, and then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Hold to the word of God. Hold to the scripture. That was the warning. And God was saying if you don't do that, you're going to come under a curse. Well, I believe the same is true for our country. I believe that God has blessed our country in many ways because it was a nation founded upon the precepts and principles of the Word of God. But we have gotten away from that. We've walked away from that. Beware of compromise. That's what Joshua is saying in verse number seven. That you come not among these nations that remain among you. Don't mention the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them. Let me just say this. In this country, we are to worship one God, the true and living God. That's it. You say, how can you say that? I can say that because this is what the Bible says. And the Bible says that every nation in the world should worship the one true and living God. All others are false gods. We better not forget that. It was the the true and living God that gave us the country and the nation that we are. We better not forget him in order to be politically correct. Listen, our government is responsible to to govern under the will and word of God. That's where government gets its That's where it gets its its authority from. It gets its authority from God. But we have forgotten the principles of God's word which made us great. Now I know that there are some out there that say, why you Christians always think that you know Christianity had anything to do with the founding of this country? They say, you know, if you read any history books, you'll find that Christianity was not involved in America's founding. Not any more than any other religion. I wonder what history books that you're reading. Uh sure there are so many revisionist historians out there. But the question is, are we a Christian nation? Well, it depends on what you mean by Christian nation. If you mean by Christian nation that everyone is a Christian, then we're not a Christian nation. But if you mean by Christian nation that the founding fathers and the principles which founded this nation were Christian, then the answer is yes, we started out as a Christian nation. We did The legislature of New York declared in eighteen thirty eight, This is a Christian nation, quote. Nineteen nine hundredths, if not a larger portion, of our whole population believe in the general doctrines of the Christian religion. Listen to the Supreme Court. It was the Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court in the year 1892 that declared, in the court's opinion, the United States was a Christian nation. In seventeen seventy six, a left. Do you think that would be passed today? You have to be a Christian before you can run the office. In 1777, the Continental Congress voted to spend $300,000 to purchase Bibles for the distribution of Bibles to the people of America. 94% of the writings of the Founding Fathers of the United States contain quotations from the Scripture. And on we could go. We were founded upon the principles of the word of God. The Mayflower Mayflower Compact stated that they came for, quote, the glory of God and the advancement of the Christian faith The Plymouth Charter says the colony was established, quote, to advance the enlargement of the Christian religion and for the glory of God Almighty. Did you know that before the men who signed the Declaration of Independence signed, they were called to a time of prayer? And fasting before the God of the Bible. They prayed and they fasted before they signed. And on we could go talking about this. But now we live in a country where we have people that govern that don't care about the will of God. Like the Congressman Jerry Nadler, who said one time, this Congress is not concerned about the will of God. And when you have people like that, you know that we're not on good ground here. And I've told you before I was asked to go pray in the uh state capitol in Annapolis to lead the Senate in prayer. And I had to submit my prayer to them before I could actually go there and pray. And when I had on the there praying in the name of Jesus, they called me on the phone. At this time we were emailing. When I submitted my prayer, they called me on the phone and said, uh Reverend Harmon, you can't you can't mention Jesus' name. You can't mention Jesus' name. We've come a long way, haven't we? Where you now you can't even mention the name of Jesus as you're praying in a state capitol. And I want to tell you, any other kind of prayer that's not in Jesus' name is a farce. It's hypocrisy. And you're I'm I'm more afraid about offending my God than offending you. But that's where we've come. And you say, well, separation of church and state, separation of church and state. Really? You know, that's that phrase does not appear in the Constitution. That phrase first came about because Thomas Jefferson wrote a letter to the Danbury Baptist Association promising them that he would keep the government out of the church, not the church out of government. If there is such a thing as separation of church and state, it's a one-way street. The founders never intended that Christianity should be separated out of government Because it was started on Christianity. Think about this. Our first president, George Washington, took the oath of office. He put his hand on the what? The Bible. And then after he kissed the Bible, after he was sworn in, he held a two-hour worship and pray session in Congress. That was the first official act. How did they determine to open up sessions of Congress? Prayer. Who would lead those prayers? Chaplains. How would they be paid? Tax dollars. Does that all sound like they wanted to keep Christianity out of government? From the very beginning. John Quincy Adams, the sixth president of the United States, said this the highest glory of the American Revolution was, what do you think he said, secure our independence? Get rid of the Stamp Act or the T Act? Dissolve the bonds of parliament and government. Is that the highest ideal here? Is that what we're shooting for? No. He said the highest glory of the American Revolution was this It connected in one indissoluble bond the principles of civil government with the principles of Christianity. That was the purpose of all of this. To bring together the government and Christianity. This is all the work of the providence of God. Let me give you one final thing. You know what the stones say to us? They say, don't forget his gracious providences. Don't forget his guiding precepts. Don't forget your godly promises. Notice in chapter 24 of Joshua, look at verses 14 and 15, and notice what it says here. Now therefore, fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your father served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt, and serve ye the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom you will serve, whether the gods which your father served, they were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Emirates, in whose land ye dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Joshua says you have to make your choice. You have to decide. Who are you going to serve? Joshua said, my decision is already made. As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. So what are we to do? How how are how do we make sure that the sacrifices that people made For us. Don't go to waste. Don't go in vain. You want to know the best way? Serve the Lord. Serve the Lord. Because it was his providential hand that brought us to this point. He used heroes, soldiers, to win us our freedom, to keep us keep our freedom That was all his providential hand, and the best way to make sure that their sacrifice was not in vain is to serve the one true and living God, not false gods. Serve the Lord. This is what Joshua is telling the people here. I want to challenge you about serving the Lord. Are you doing that? Will you be willing to say, like Joshua, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord? May this be your determination. Now one other thing, Joshua dies. Look in chapter twenty-four, look down at verse twenty-nine. It came to pass after these things that Joshua The son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being a hundred and ten years old. And uh So we see a soldier here that passes off the scene, served the Lord, and he kind of passed off the scene here. And you know, again, the book of Joshua here is about soldiers who served well, who died in serving, and now we give them honor. Joshua died. And for a time, you know what happened after that? The people didn't serve the Lord. They went right back into paganism. What a shame if you go to the book of Judges and you read chapter one and chapter two. The death of Joshua is mentioned two times and and Once in chapter 1, once in chapter 2. It's mentioned in chapter 1 to talk about after Joshua's death, there was a military failure. In chapter two, it's mentioned to show that after Joshua's death there was a great spiritual failure. You know what happened? The next generation did not pick up the mantle And they did not carry on the way they were supposed to, the way they were expected to, and because of that Israel lost their way and became an apostate nation. I tell you what, friend, I have a deep fear in my heart that we have a generation that has not remembered God. That has not remembered his providences and the sacrifices that others have made to get us to this point. And if we get to that point where we forget that, we are in trouble. We're in trouble. We better remember, we better pick up the mantle, and we better move on and serve the Lord faithfully. And that's what I want you to decide to do. To say, as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. I uh I can't Preach a sermon like this, to be honest with you, without thinking about Pastor Johnson. He served in the military faithfully. Then he switched armies. He got into the Lord's army. And he was a splendid soldier of Jesus Christ. And you know what? He was always challenging us. Serve the Lord. Serve the Lord. Be faithful. Serve the Lord. You know what? We're the next generation. I don't want the mantle to fall to the ground. I want us to be faithful and serve with all of our heart because God is worthy. of all of our dedication and devotion because of what he has done for us. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, dear friend, do you know Jesus as your Savior? This is the most important thing, and I don't want to go through a service or a sermon without mentioning that wonderful name of Jesus. Who is the Savior? If you talk about sacrifice, there was no sacrifice greater than the sacrifice of Christ. You talk about bloodshed. There was no blood more precious than the blood of Jesus that was shed for you on the cross to pay for your sins, to wash away your sins. Just like the prayer I read to you from our president, first president, George Washington, where he prayed, Wash away my sins in the immaculate blood of the Lamb. That's such a beautiful prayer. And that's what God wants to do for you. He wants to cleanse you from your sin. And He wants to give you eternal life. He wants to give you salvation. He wants to forgive you And if you've never been to Jesus for salvation, would you come today? You can do it right there where you are. Come by faith, as it were, to the cross. And say, Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. And I know you died for me. Lord Jesus, forgive me. I repent, I turn from my sin, I turn to you. Save me. Lord, I believe. I believe I confess you as Lord right now. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, I want to help you along in your Christian life. Let us know so we can encourage you in the faith. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart today. For your honor and glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen