Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, the book of Ephesians, chapter number one, and we are in a study in Ephesians, and we're going to look this morning from verse seven down to verse 12 of Ephesians 1. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word, please? Stand for the reading of God's Word Verse 7. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded towards us in all wisdom and prudence. having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he has purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. That we should be to the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Pray with me today. Father, thank you for the joy of worship. And Lord, thank you that we can come to your word and learn and get instruction for our soul and be fed in our soul. So, Father, would you please help give us ears to hear and help us to understand the wonderful truth of your word for your honor and your glory? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I want to talk about the believer's treasure. This week I read about a modern-day treasure hunt that lasted about ten years. I was surprised to learn about this because I thought, has anyone actually ever found the treasure chest? We talk about that. But yeah, this actually happened. A man by the name of Forrest Finn, he was an author and a dealer in Southwestern United States. His his life really reads like a character out of an Indiana Jones movie. He grew up hiking and camping in the Wells of the Rocky Mountains. Uh he was a fighter pilot. He later became a archaeologist. He found archaeological finds all over the world from the Philippines even to on the deserts of New Mexico. But as Forrest was approaching the end of his life, he began to experience some severe medical conditions. And he wanted to leave a legacy other than some of the books that he had written. And so he had an idea. He gathered up a small chest, about ten inches by ten inches, and he filled it with gold coins and precious stones and other valuable artifacts. He then carried it out into the wilds of the Rockies and left it there and walked away. He then crafted a poem that contained all the clues necessary to find this hidden treasure. And he invited everyone to join in the chase for the gold. Whoever finds the treasure chest gets to keep the treasure that was estimated around $7 million. And Forrest also added clues and hints along the way. He even wrote a book, his memoirs, called The Thrill of the Chase, and in that book he left clues about where the treasure chest could be found. All one had to do was to read another poem that he wrote about it, read the poem which had clues, decipher the poem And find out where X marks the spot. Yes, X marked the spot where the treasure lay. For over ten years the treasure hunt was on. Thousands tried to find the treasure, but they were unsuccessful. Others began to even doubt whether it was really real, that maybe it was just a joke. Until June of 2020, a 32-year-old medical student read the poem. He was able able to decipher the poem, and he found the treasure chest. The mystery was over. He found it. And much to the surprise of Forrest Finn, who was still alive at the time, and confirmed that exactly that was the treasure, and he indeed did find it. Well, the book of Ephesians is all about a treasure chest that was left for you to find. The problem is that many believers still haven't found the chest. Now you don't have to decipher a poem in order to find the treasure that you have, but you do have to know the Word of God. And the mark that you need to look for is not an X, but a Red Cross. Because all the treasures that you have start at the cross of Christ. They are in the Lord Jesus Christ. Because all of our spiritual treasures are in him. Now this is what Paul is reminding the Ephesians about when he wrote this letter. And really what he's doing here, as it were, is he's kind of opening up the treasure chest and he's saying, Look, do you realize how rich you are? Do you understand the treasures that you have if you are a believer? So just imagine with me a treasure chest, and written on the side of that chest are the words, in him. That's the name of the treasure chest in him because all of these spiritual riches, all of these treasures are in him. That's the theme of the letter of Ephesians. Look at verse number three. We looked at this last week. But blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. All spiritual blessings. Someone asked me, have you received the second blessing? Yeah, I got the second blessing. In fact, I got the third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth and the seventh and the eighth. Because all spiritual blessings are in Christ Jesus. And you get them all when you come to know Jesus Christ as Your Savior. This is the theme of the book. Now, the problem is we're not aware of everything that's in our treasure chest. Some people even don't don't even know that it's there. That's why Paul is focusing on this. And Paul uses over and over again this expression in Christ or in him. In him. That I told you last week, I'll say again, this expression in him is the sum and substance of all of Paul's theology. And when Paul looked at humanity, he saw only two groups, those that are in Adam and those that are in Christ. So this morning, you're either in Adam or you're in Christ. If you're in Adam, you get everything that Adam passes down. What does he pass down? Death, the guilt of sin. uh alienation from God, all those things. We don't want that. But if you come to Christ and God takes you out of Adam and He places you in Christ, you get all the treasures that come with being in Christ Forgiveness. We'll talk about some of his treasures. I don't want to get ahead of myself. But you are accepted in the beloved, the Bible says, and you are enriched in so many wonderful ways. You have holiness in Christ, you have eternal life, you are adopted into the family, you have peace, all manner of blessing, every spiritual blessing. Paul says, come from being in Christ. In fact, the Bible says you are complete in him. Sometimes Christians say, I just don't feel complete. I feel like there are missing elements in my life. No, you're complete in Christ. You just don't know what's in the treasure chest. You have to dig out that treasure and apply it to your own life. Now, so this is what Paul's doing. He's opening up the treasure chest. Remember I told you, look at verse 3, the beginning of verse 3, and all the way down at the end of verse 9 14. That is one long sentence in the Greek. Paul's just describing the treasure one after another, and this, and that. Paul's like the little boy. Someone asked the little boy, said you said to the little boy, do you know how to spell banana? The little boy said, Yeah, I know how to spell it. I just don't know how to stop. B-A-N-A-N-A-N-A-N-A-N-A-N-A Paul's spelling out the treasure for us here. He just doesn't know where to stop. He doesn't know where to put the period when he starts talking about everything that you have in the Lord Jesus Christ. So we're going to look at just a few of them. We can't go through this whole sentence today, but I do want to look at a little bit of it with you. And I want you to see a few artifacts that are in Your treasure chest. That I hope that you'll value. Here's the first one. In him we have redemption. In him we have redemption. Look at verse seven. In whom, that is, we could say in him, in Jesus. We have redemption through his blood. And what we'll see as we study the book of Ephesians is that Paul is going to use some theologically rich words. to describe our salvation. Every believer should understand these words. And here's one of them, redemption. This is from a Greek word which means to ransom. It has the idea of setting someone free. It also implies paying a big price to set someone free. Costliness. To obtain freedom. That's the idea here. That's what the word actually means. So think about with me the purchase. You see, this word was used in slave markets of the ancient world. A slave was for sale, but was powerless to liberate himself because he was under the bondage of a master. And he could never pay the purchase price for his freedom. The price was too high for that poor slave to ever be able to pay. The only way that that slave could get his freedom is if someone wealthy would come along Someone that had the ability to purchase his freedom. And again, this is what the Greek word here means, to purchase and to set free by paying a price. So in order for a slave to be redeemed, someone had to be wealthy. They had to be willing to do that. And friend, that someone was Jesus Christ for you and me We were slaves to sin. What about the price? He purchased us. What did it cost him? Well, think about the price in verse 7. In whom we have redemption through his what? His blood. We were slaves to sin. He purchased our freedom by paying the highest price, his blood. When man first went to the moon, one of the astronauts got off and walked around. And later when he came back he was interviewed and they asked him, When you were walking around on the moon, what were you thinking about? And he said, I thought that the machine that's supposed to take me back to Earth was built by the lowest bidder. Well, I want to tell you that your redemption was not purchased by the lowest bidder. Your redemption was purchased by the highest bidder at the highest price ever. We were redeemed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the blood of Christ doesn't take us from the moon to earth. It takes us from earth all the way to heaven You can know that you're saved, you're redeemed because of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. The only way sin can be paid for, the only way that it could satisfy God's holy wrath For sin could be satisfied, the Bible says was through the shedding of blood. Hebrews 9. 22, without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. So the price for redemption was the blood of Jesus Christ. And by the way, when the Bible uses the word blood, it's one word that stands for all that took place at the cross of Calvary. All the suffering that Jesus did. His death on the cross purchased our salvation. All of the animals sacrificed in the Old Testament all pointed forward to what Jesus Christ would do on the cross. Those Old Testament sacrifices couldn't pay for sin. They could only put f point forward to the one who would come and pay the purchase price. Hebrews 9. 12, neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. So the question is, have you been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb? And do you value this treasure, this treasure of redemption? I fear sometimes That as Christians we forget how precious it is to be redeemed. How wonderful this treasure is that we have been bought with a price. Here's a second treasure. Not only in him we have redemption, but number two, write down, in him we have remission. Look again in verse 7. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. Now, again, the word here, forgiveness, is a very rich word. It really means remission. Or we could say it means to send away. Or another way we could say it is dismissed. God has dismissed our sins. Our sins are gone. I like what the psalmist wrote. He said in Psalm 103, verse 12, As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgression from us. What does that mean as far as the East is from the West? Well, this is a reference to the scapegoat used on the Day of Atonement. Did you know that every year on the Day of Atonement, the High Priest would select two unblemished goats, sacrificial goats One of those goats was slain, his his throat was cut, the blood was drained into a bowl. The priest would take that bowl, he would go into the holy place, he would walk past the the menorah and the table of showbread. He would walk past the altar of incense. Right behind the curtain there was the uh Holy of Holies. In the Holy of Holies, there was the Ark of the Covenant. On the top of the lid of the Ark of the Covenant, there was the mercy seat right between the two outstretched wings of the cherubim. He would sprinkle that blood on the mercy seat there. And he would walk back out. And then he would con he would lay his hands on the other goat, and he would confess the sins of the nation, of all the people on the head of that goat. That was called the scapegoat. And then that goat was led away. He was led out of the eastern gate and he was would be be led westward. Walking westward, westward, westward, all the way out into the desert. God is separating our sins as far as the east is from the west. And that goat was led all the way out into the wilderness, and tradition says he was pushed off a cliff, or he was never ever seen again. Why? Because the goat was sent away. He was dismissed. He was taken away. And that's a beautiful picture of what God does with our sins. Our sins are literally sent away. They're dismissed. God forgives us for all of our sins. What an incredible blessing that is. Jesus came to be the scapegoat that took away our sins. He separated them as far as the east is from the west. All of our sins are forgiven, past, present, and future. Don't take that for granted. Don't think that, you know, God's grace has a limit, that there are certain sins that God says, okay, that's it. I'm not going to forgive anymore. No, he just his grace is is incredible. His forgiveness is according to his riches. God never runs out of the riches of his grace or the riches of his forgiveness. But again in verse 7 we see it's according to the riches of his grace that we are forgiven. If you were to go to a multimillionaire and ask him to make a contribution to a worthy ministry and he gave twenty-five dollars He would be giving out of his riches. And a poor person could give $25. He would be giving out of his riches. But if you ask this multimillionaire to give to a worthy ministry and he gave $100,000 or $200,000, he would be giving according to his riches, not out of his riches, but according to his riches. This is how God forgives us. It's according to the riches of his grace. He lavishes upon us his forgiveness, where sin abounds. Grace does much more abound. So in him we have the treasure of redemption. In him we have the treasure of remission. But here's the third Thing that Paul points out. In him we have the treasure of revelation. Look at verse 8. We're in he has abounded towards us in all wisdom and prudence. Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he has purposed in himself, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth. Even in Him. Part of our spiritual riches is God giving us spiritual understanding and revelation. Let me tell you something. If God doesn't open your eyes to understand the truth, you're not going to get it. God has to reveal it. You know, there's few things in life that give me more joy than studying Scripture and God opening my eyes to see spiritual truth. There's such a joy that comes with that. God revealing to you something that you weren't able to really grasp before. Like you heard about the man who sat up all night wondering what happened to the sun and finally it dawned on him? You know what? Until the sun, S-O-N Arises in your heart and reveals spiritual truth to you, you're not going to understand it. You're not going to get it. So part of your spiritual riches, Paul says, is revelation. God gives us wisdom. He gives us insight. That's the word prudence there. He gives us the ability to comprehend his spiritual truth. It's not a matter of your IQ, it's not a matter of your grade point average. It is a matter of the Holy Spirit. Giving you revelation, opening your eyes to see some things, things that other people do not see. Notice again in verse number 8 where it says that, verse 9 rather, where he calls it a mystery, having made known unto us the mystery. You see, it's a mystery to the world. Verse 9, the word mystery mysterion, it means something that is a sacred secret, something that has been hidden. Something that the lost world, the unbelieving world, is unable to understand it or comprehend it. Again, it's not a matter of IQ or ability because we live in a world today Where the humanity loves to boast about their wisdom and knowledge. We have an explosion of knowledge in the world today. We have the internet, we have computer technology, we have scientific advancement, we even have now artificial intelligence. You don't even have to think anymore, it does all your thinking for you. And so the world today loves to boast in its technology and its science, but Paul says it like this, ever learning. But never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. How is it that we can be so technologically advanced and yet not comprehend the truth? Not really get it, not really understand it. As intelligent as this world is, it is still sinful and depraved and corrupt. In fact, the more intelligent man becomes, the more depraved He becomes. He acts out the depravity on new levels. Someone said this is a generation of guided missiles and misguided men. You know what the world, there's something that the world just can't figure out. There's something that they just can't put together that will help them. I read that in 1959 there was an accident at the Oak Ridge Atomic Laboratory in Tennessee. A door exploded. a dwarf to a processing cell in that laboratory, and it blew open and one fifth of an ounce of plutonium was spread into the air. One fifth of an ounce. You know what they had to do at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, because one-fifth of an ounce of plutonium got out into the air. Everybody that was within four acres had to turn in their clothes to be decontaminated. Everybody had to take special medical tests to see if they were vulnerable or contaminated. All the buildings were washed. All the roofs were resurfaced. The surrounding lawns were dug up. And you know, overturned. Then they took a chisel and they chiseled off 100 yards of the road all around. All the buildings were repainted. The reactors were shut down. The processing plant was closed. It costs hundreds and hundreds of thousands of dollars to decontaminate all the area all around Because they were so afraid of that contamination of that radioactivity. But you know what? Let me tell you something. Would to God that we were as afraid of sin. As we were afraid of that kind of contamination. Because I want to tell you something. It is sin. Sin is what's breaking this world apart. That is the problem. Sin is tearing everything apart. Sin is dividing this world. Sin is corrupting man and everything. You say, what's the mystery? That's the mystery that you can't figure out. That the problem of this world and where the solution is. We see the it's a mystery to the world, but notice it's made known to the believer. Look in verse number nine. Having made known unto us the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he has purposed in himself. Watch verse ten, that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together one in one all things in Christ, both with her in heaven Which are on earth, even in him. The word made known here means the cause to make known. God has caused you to understand this The unbelieving world is looking around in confusion, saying, boy, what is this world coming to? But the believer says, the world is coming to Christ. Christ is the center. This world and all that is in it will one day come under the the Lordship of Jesus Christ. In verse 10, where he says that in the dispensation of the fullness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ. This is what God has revealed to the believer. This is the mystery known to believers, unknown to unbelievers, that when the time is right, God will bring all things in heaven and in earth to a fitting conclusion in Christ. Who will be the head and ruler of all things? That's the whole point. This is what the world doesn't get. Friend, it's all about Jesus. It's all about Jesus. All of God's purposes are centered in Christ, and we get to be a part of that. Why were we adopted? Why were we accepted into the beloved? Why were we chosen in him before the foundation of the world? Why was the precious blood of Jesus Shed for our sins. Because while sin is tearing everything apart in this world, God in Christ is going to unite it all back together. He's going to bring it all back together. Again, we live in a world of discord. We live in a world of tension. We live in a world of frustration and pain. We live in a world that is at war with itself. But one of these days God is going to take all the broken pieces of this world and He's going to bring them all back together and unite them in Christ And every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. That's God's plan. That's what the world doesn't get. That's what they don't see. The paradise lost in Adam is restored in Jesus Christ. Everything will be in tune with Jesus Christ Uh, you know, what if I had a hundred pianos in this room and I try and I tried to tune these pianos to be in harmony with each other and I went around one at a time. You don't want me doing that. But I would never be able to tune them all to be in total accord unless I took one tuning fork and I tuned each piano according to that one tuning fork. Jesus Christ is the tuning fork of the universe. And everything that is out of tune is all going to be brought back into tune in harmony with Jesus Christ. Heaven and earth are going to be in harmony. Man and God are going to be in harmony. The spiritual material world is going to be in harmony. The animals and humans are going to be in harmony. Men will be in harmony. Our own bodies will be in harmony. Everything will be gathered together in Jesus Christ. And we will know life as God meant for us. to know it. And God is working towards that one purpose. That is his c complete ultimate goal. And where it starts is first of all to make sure you know that you are in Jesus Christ. Christ. Because when you're in Christ, He's the center of all things and God's going to bring everything to him There's no way that the world can figure that out with philosophy and all their intelligence and all their technology and all that. They can't see it But God, through the revelation of the Spirit, has torn the veil away from our eyes. And you know what we see? We see the beauty of Jesus Christ. We see that He is all in all. Christ is all. And so we bow to his lordship. In him we have redemption. In him we have remission. In him we have revelation. But here's the last thing here: In him we have riches. We have riches. Look in verse eleven. In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own Will. We have been chosen and predestined according to God's plan to receive an inheritance which we will possess in full when we stand before Him in heaven. That expression, we have obtained an inheritance, that's one word in the Greek. It's a compound Greek word. And notice it's past tense. In the Greek, this is aoris passive indicative. In other words, it's past tense. It's like we've already had it. You say, well, if I had this inheritance, how come I don't have it? It's future, yet it's given here in the past tense. Why does Paul give it in the past tense of this future? Well did you know that Greeks when they were writing about something that will happen in the future and they knew that it was so certain, so sure That it was going to happen, they would use the aorist passive. They would use past tense to speak about something that's going to happen in the future to demonstrate how certain It's going to be. Your inheritance, you know what? You already have it in your hand. You have an inheritance. That's what Paul's doing here. He's saying it's so certain. You've already received it You've got your inheritance. You don't need to, you know, do anything. It's already yours. I heard about a man worth twenty million dollars who died and left everything to his only his um descendant was a young nephew. However, no one knew where the young nephew lived, and the lawyer traced him to Colorado, but there the trail ended And so he knew of a detective agency and he he called them and he asked them for help. And the head of the agency said, You know what, I'll put my best detective on this case. She is sharp, she is young, she is opportunistic, she is aggressive, she will find your man. Three weeks later, this detective called the lawyer and she said, I found your man. He said, Great, when can we meet him? She said, right after our honeymoon. That's one way to get an inheritance, I guess. However, you don't have to use trickery to get yours. Because you already have your inheritance. It's already yours in Jesus Christ. It's so certain as if you already have it. You have it in Christ. Nothing will prevent you from receiving your inheritance. Now why does God give us these things? Why does Paul open up the treasure chest and show us just some of these incomprehensible blessings? We're looking at verse number 12. That we should be to the praise of his glory who first did in Christ. So that God should be praised. So that we would praise his name. So that we would glorify his name And once you place your trust in Christ, you are given the treasure map of God's Word so that you can find this treasure chest of all these blessings you have in Christ. And when you begin to look into your treasure chest and pull out one after another after another, your response should be, Praise God. Thank you, Jesus, for all that I have in Christ. You may be sitting here saying, I want in on that. Well, the good news is you can get in on that. But notice verse 12, it says that those who first trusted in Christ. You have to first trust in Christ. Now, in Galatians 1, we see the sovereignty of God in salvation, where it says that we're chosen in Him before the foundation of the world. And certainly the Bible teaches the sovereignty of God in salvation, but it also teaches the responsibility of man. In fact, every time I see in Scripture where the sovereignty of God is emphasized in salvation, not very far away I also see the responsibility of man also being upheld and emphasized. Sometimes it's in the same verse, sometimes in the same chapter Yes, we are chosen in him, but you have the responsibility to put your trust in Jesus Christ. Someone says, I don't know whether or not I'm chosen. Let me tell you something, friend. Do you want Jesus? Then you're chosen. If you want them, you can have them. Spurgeon used to say it like this: Are you hungry? Well, here's the table. It's fully loaded with bread. And there's a sign on the table that says, Come and dine. Come and dine. If you're hungry, come and get it. If you're thirsty, here is the water of life. Drink freely, the Bible says. Just come and drink. Don't worry about that, whether or not you're chosen, it's it's a foolish man who starves to death because I'm he says, I'm not sure if I'm chosen to eat. No, the table's fully loaded. It's here. If you want it, it's yours. And the Bible says that you must first trust in Christ And when you do that, friend, in him you have redemption, you have remission, you have revelation, you have riches in the Lord Jesus Christ. Some of you don't realize you have it. But you do, you're rich in Christ. Story is told about William Randolph Hearst, the late newspaper publisher. He loved to collect great works of art. And one day he was reading in a newspaper about a priceless, valuable piece of art. And uh he he determined that he needed to add that to his collection. So he sent his agent abroad to locate and purchase this priceless treasure. And after months The agent finally returned to William Randolph Hearst and he said, I've got good news. I found this priceless treasure that you've been looking for. He said, Great. Where is it? He said, It's in your warehouse. You already bought it. You've had it all along. You just didn't know you had it. Many Christians are like that. They're out looking for treasures in the world. Only To realize later, you already have that treasure. It's in Jesus Christ. You just need to find your treasure chest. And God wants you to know. He wants you to use the treasures you have in Christ. And he wants you to praise Him for it. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, friend, are you certain that you are in him? That you're in him? You're either in Adam or you're in Christ. The Bible says, in Adam all die. In Christ all are made alive. So I would ask you, friend, where are you? Do you know Jesus? And if you are in Christ and you're sure of that, have you found your treasure chest yet? You have to study the map, the map of the Word of God, and it tells you. The treasures that you have. It also tells you how to use them, how to apply them to your own life, whatever spiritual need you have. Christ is sufficient for that need, friend. Christ is all in all. He's all in all So today I just invite you, if you're not certain of your salvation, I invite you, and in fact, the Bible commands you to believe. To repent, to put your faith in Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross. And you do that by reaching out in faith. And an expression of faith is prayer. Pray. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need you. Please come into my heart. You died on the cross. Your precious blood was the purchase price for my redemption. So I ask you to save me and give me remission, forgive me for my sins, and open my eyes to see the truth and the beauty of Christ. And I want to be a part of these spiritual riches. Reach out and tell him You believe. Lord, I believe. Lord, I receive you now. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. And if you're a believer, friend, ask God to give you wisdom and prudence and revelation and understanding all of the treasures that you have been given in Jesus Christ. Father, again, thank you for the blessings we have. May we use them, may we apply them. May we praise you with all our heart. We pray in Jesus wonderful name