Bibles tonight and would you open please to the Old Testament book of 2 Kings? As you know, on Wednesday night we have been going through uh 2 Kings and we're going through just uh story by story. chapter by chapter, making our way through the uh the book. And tonight we come to verse 20 down to verse 27. This is kind of a A footnote to the story that we looked at last week, which was the healing of Naaman the leper. And uh look at verse 20. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, Behold, my master has spared Naaman, the Syrian. And not receiving at his hands that which he brought, but as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. When uh they were excavating Pompeii, that's the city that was uh destroyed by a volcano, the volcano Vesuvius, when they were excavating They found a body of a woman that had been embalmed in ashes there. This is what they found. Her feet was turned toward the city gate as she was trying to escape the city. But her face was turned backward towards something that lay beyond her outstretched hands. And what they found was that her fingers were reaching out for a bag of pearls. And the writer goes on to say maybe she herself had dropped them as she was fleeing for her life. Maybe she had found them where they had been dropped by another. But be that as it may, though death was hard at her heels, and life was beckoning to her beyond the city gates, she could not shake off their spell. And so she died right there. Um, it wasn't uh the volcano necessarily that killed her, it was her greed. Greed actually cost her her life. Now, the Bible has some strong warnings about the sin of greed. We look uh we live, excuse me, in a world today that doesn't really look on greed as a sin. In fact, there are some that look at it as a virtue. And you've heard the expression, I'm sure, greed is good. That's the mentality that's in direct opposition to the scripture. One of the commandments that we know of the Ten Commandments is thou shalt not covet. And in the New Testament, Paul gave Timothy this warning. He said this in 1 Timothy 6 9. But they that have the desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. And in the moot many foolish and heart hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil. It's not money that's the riddle of evil, it's the love of money. It's wanting it, it's desiring it. There are many people that are poor that have the love of money And they're greedy. And maybe that's the reason why some of them can't really uh make it because they're they don't really God can't really trust them with riches. But it's the love of money that's the root of all evil. And Paul goes on to say, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Now, this story here illustrates that very verse that Paul wrote to Timothy. Here is a man who started out well in the faith, but he fell under the judgment of God. He was the servant of Elisha. He got to see a lot of great things. He got to see the miracles that Elisha did under the power of God. He saw people raised from the dead. He saw miraculous things that Elisha had done. Gehazi, the name of this servant, had every spiritual advantage that a man could have. But he had a problem, that is, he was greedy. He wanted to get Rich. In fact, the very name his name Gehazi means that very thing, avarice or greedy And because he wanted to get rich, he did exactly what Paul warned Timothy about. He fell into temptation and a trap and the many foolish and hurtful desires. So let's look at this story because we know that all these stories here in the Old Testament, we're going through here in Kings, all of these have been examples to us of something. Examples of things that we have to deal with in our own life. And now we come here to this next story and let's see what we can learn from this. Now remember the context. Remember last week we looked at the story of Naaman. Naaman is a leper. And he wants to be healed. And so he hears that there's a prophet in Israel by the name of Elisha that could help him. And so he takes the trip. And remember, go back to chapter 5, verse 5. As he's taking this trip. He brings with him a lot of money. In verse 5, it says he departed and took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand pieces of gold and ten changes of raiment Uh this was a vast sum. In today's prices, this will be well over a million. Uh someone said he took his entire investment portfolio with him to Israel. He wanted to he wanted to make sure he was going to get help. And that's the way they operated back then. That's how pagan religions operated. Pagan priests would charge for their services. And Naaman Knew he was going to be asking for a huge request. He wanted to be healed from his leprosy. He was thinking somehow in his mind that he could pay for it, but we know that the grace of God You can't pay for that. You can't buy that. It's free. And sure enough, we saw that Elisha gave him some instructions, and he followed those instructions, and he was healed from his leprosy And then he goes right back to Elisha, and his heart was so filled with joy, and he's so grateful that he offers a reward to Elisha. And what does Elisha do? He turns it down. He says, I don't want that. I don't want your money. And so Gehazi hears this. Look in verse 20 of chapter 5, in contrast to Elisha saying, No, I don't want your any reward. It says, But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, Behold, my master has spared uh Naaman this Syrian and not receiving at his hands that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. So it started in his heart. And he He goes after this huge reward because his heart was filled with greed. And as a result, it brought down a curse upon him, and it brought down a curse upon his house. So I want us to look at five dangers of greed, and we each one of us need to look inside our own heart. Because let me tell you something, there's no one here that doesn't struggle with this. All of us struggle with sin in our life And so we need to look at our own heart as we look at this story. And I want you to see the dangers of it. Number one, if you're taking notes, greed can cause us to forget God. Again in verse number 20, the response of Gehazi is really incredible when you think about it. Notice he says, you know, my master has spared this Syrian. That's almost like he's talking down. This pagan Syrian, you know, Elisha spared him, but I'm gonna get him, I'm gonna get some of that reward for myself. And so verse 20 really tells us what Gehazi was thinking in his heart. This is what was in his heart. Now, why did Elijah, why did uh the Elisha, why didn't he take the money? Why did he refuse that? Well, it doesn't really tell us here in this in the scripture why. I think there's a little hint of why in verse number 26. Later on, he'll rebuke Gehazi and say, Is it time to think about, you know, receiving money and garments and olive olive uh yards and vineyards and You know, in other words, he's saying, you know, this is not the time to be thinking about that. In other words, Elisha was concerned about God's glory. Here's a pagan Gentile coming to the God of Israel for help. And he heals him of his leprosy, which is a miracle. And he doesn't want Naaman to think that the the gifts and the grace of God are chargeable. That you get it through money. He doesn't want to leave that impression. You see, Elijah is more concerned about the glory of God than anything else. He's concerned about the name of God. And so He doesn't take anything. But Gehazi, he chose greed over God. He's not concerned about God's name. He's concerned about himself. Now, this whole attitude that Elisha has, we see this in the New Testament. I think of the Apostle Paul in the New Testament in 1 Corinthians chapter 9. He is talking about uh the reasons why he refused to take money. Did you know that there were times in the Apostle Paul's life where people wanted to give to him and he refused to take it? And sometimes he was even criticized for it. And Paul explains his whole reasoning behind it. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, the first part of the chapter, he talks about that he has the right to take financial remuneration for spiritual ministry. But then in the second part of the chapter, he explains why he refused. And this is what this wasn't the first time that Paul did that. He did the same in in the uh to the church of Thessalonica. 1 Thessalonians 2. 9, for you remember, brothers, our labor and toil. We work night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. And ye are witnesses of God also how holy and righteous And how blameless our conduct was towards you. Paul said, We came among you. We didn't take anything from you. Again, Paul, he's getting the gospel out. This is brand new to some of these Gentiles. He's starting churches. He doesn't want any of them to think that the gospel is chargeable. And so he labored without taking anything. He worked with his hands. He preached the gospel. In 2 Thessalonians 3 8, he said, Nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you. We worked our own job And we we took care of ourselves because we didn't want to be a burden to you. We didn't want you to have to take care of us. And again, he says, I don't want anyone to think that the gospel is chargeable. And so that's the way Paul lived. He didn't want to hinder the gospel. That's what he said in 1 Corinthians 9. He said, I don't want there to be a roadblock in the gospel. He said, you know, he didn't want the people to be to think he was motivated by money. And so he refused. He was more concerned at that stage about the glory of God than anything else. And so I think we see the same here with Elisha. He refuses to take any financial remuneration from Naaman. Elisha wants this Syrian military officer to know that God's grace is free. He wants to present the right view of the true God of Israel, Yahweh. That he's a loving God, that he's gracious, that he's compassionate, and that he doesn't need man's gifts, that he gives freely. But Gehazi is the total opposite. He totally forgets God. He forgets God's glory. He forgets God's name. He's only concerned about himself. So here's the first danger. Greed can cause us to forget God. But here's number two. Greed can cause us to throw away any restraint of the depraved human heart. Look again what he says in verse twenty. He said, Behold, my master has spared Naaman the Syrian in not receiving at his hands that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth I will run after him and take somewhat of him. Now it's incredible to me that he says, as the Lord lives, I'm going to get some of that. You say why? Because as the Lord lives is a is an oath where you use God's name. So he's swearing by God's name to do something that is a sin against God. That's why this is incredible to me. This is this phrase as the Lord lives, it's used a lot in the Old Testament. It always has to do with an oath or a promise. We would say today, I swear, or I I'm uh as the Lord lives, uh I or I'm gonna do this, you know, it's whatever it costs me, I'm gonna make sure that I get this done, no matter what it takes. And here he is using the Lord's name to do something evil. This dishonors God's name. This is blasphemous. This shows his determination to get it at any cost. Never mind that it's the wrong thing to do. Who cares? Here's the opportunity and he's going to take it And so greed demonstrates the depravity of the heart. It causes him to throw off all the restraints, and it causes him to go after this. And again What we see here in verse 20 are is what is in his heart. He's not saying this out loud. He's saying it to himself. He's saying it in his heart. And beloved, that's where sin starts. It starts in the heart. Jesus said this in Matthew 7, for from within, out of the heart of man, cometh evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting. Wickedness, it all starts in the heart. Remember what Paul said when he was battling with inward sin? He said, you know, but sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. He says, For apart from the law, sin lies dead. In other words, he was fine until someone put a law in front of him, and the law was Thou shalt not covet. And when he read that, all of a sudden it provoked some in inward desire to to to do that very thing. Such is the sin nature. The sin nature is provoked by outward laws. And when uh uh when Gehazi was told, you know, we're not going to take anything, there was something in him that says, you know, I'm going to get at that. There was covetous that moved in his heart. It starts on the inside. And the Bible again warns about this. Sin starts from within. Let me tell you something. If we're going to defeat sinner in our life, we have to win the battle on the inside. Where no one else sees. That's where the battle has to be fought. Remember what James says? He gives us the anatomy of sin, when lost has conceived, it brings forth sin. And sin when it is finished brings forth what? So there's lust, there's the outward enticement, then there's the inward desire, and when those two things meet, when lust is conceived, it brings forth sin. The parents of sin are inward lust and outward temptation, and they produce the child called sin. And sin when it's fully mature, what is it? It's death. Someone said this is the devil's LSD, lost sin, and death. And if we're going to defeat sin, we have to defeat it on the inside. We have to win that battle from within. We have to do what the Puritans called mortify that is put to death these sinful desires. And how do we do that? How do we put to death sinful desires? Well let me just tell you one way. You focus on Christ You focus on him. Write down Colossians 3:1. If then ye be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ sits on the right hand of God. Set your affections on things above, things above Not on things on the earth. For ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. You know what he's saying there? Focus on the fact that you are one with Christ. Focus on what Christ has done for you on the cross, and understand that now that you're saved, you're one with him. When Christ died, you were with them and you died, and now that you died, you died to sin. So therefore sin is no longer your master. You understand that you don't have to yield to those inward desires? You understand that you have the power to say no to those inward lusts because sin No longer has dominion over you. You have a new master. That master is Christ. You focus on him. Remember, you're one with him. And in fact, you should seek things that are above because Christ is already there. He's seated on the right hand of God. And guess what? You're seated with him because you're one with him. Paul said, if ye be risen with Christ, that we can say it like this, since you are risen with Christ, seek those things which are above. So focus your attention on Christ. And when you do that, sin dies. And so remember that you're seated with Christ even now. Christ is seated in heaven places. You're so one with Christ that in the mind of God you're already there with Him. You're one with Him. And that idea, that understanding helps to kill sinful desires in your heart. In the House of Representatives, did you uh I don't know if you watched the uh speech last night. All the Democrats sit on one side of the House. All the Republicans sit on the other side of the House. One congressman once said this. He said, where we sit determines how we stand. You know what, as a Christian, I'm not seated on either side of that aisle, but I'm seated with Christ in heaven. And because that's true, it helps me to stand here. in this world against sin and against the things of this world. Since I'm seated with him, I can stand against the world here. That's the idea. But let me let me just give you a third thing. A third danger. Greed can cause us to forget God. Greed can cause us to throw away any restraint of the depraved human heart. We have to put to death. those sinful desires. Number three, greed can cause us to lose our integrity. Because look down in verse number 21. Notice what happens next. So Gehazi followed after Naaman, and when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him. And he said, Is all well? Verse twenty two And he said, All is well. My master has sent me saying, Behold, even now there c there become to me from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. Give them I pray thee account of silver And two changes of garment. And so here's Gehazi, and what happens now is that Green turns him into a liar and a deceiver. He was a faithful servant of Elisha, but now he's losing his integrity. He's losing his reputation. He runs after Naaman. Naaman sees him running. It says in verse 21, he lighted down from the chariot, literally In the Hebrew it says he fell from the chariot, which is the idea, he jumped off because and he was alarmed, he thought something was wrong, and he asked the question, is oh well And Gehazi makes up a story. He tells a series of lies. Here's the first lie. He says, my master sent me. That's a lie. Elijah had nothing to do with this. Then he fabricates this whole story. There are two sons of the prophets who came in. Boy, they have financial need. And the story was designed to appeal to Naaman's sympathy. And would you please just give a town of silver and two changes of garments? And notice that his request was not to ask for too much. He didn't want to raise name and suspicions. He didn't ask for gold, but just one town of silver. That's about seventy-five pounds of silver. He asked for two garments, and uh this was just enough to satisfy his greed, but not enough to stir up suspicion. And Naaman is taken by the story. So notice in verse 23, and Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him and bound two talents of silver in two bags. with two changes of garments and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bare them before him. And so it says in verse 23, he urged him You can just imagine Hazi play acting. Oh no, one is enough. Oh, okay. Well if you insist, two's fine. And he takes the two talents. And what we see here, I think there's an intended contrast between the greed of Gehazi and the generosity of Naaman. Gehazi was trying to cash in on God's work. Naaman, in contrast He has just come to faith in the living God. He's just been cleansed. And you remember from last week, he just made the declaration that I'm going to worship Yahweh only. He is my God. He's the only true God. He has come to faith in God. And what we see in Naaman is a grateful heart, and he gives out of a generous, grateful heart. So Gehazi is trying to cash in on God's work, and Naaman is giving out of a generous heart. He's a rich man who just gives because he's so grateful to the Lord. And not only does he give, but he he kind of gifts wraps the items. It says in verse 23, he bound the two talents of silver in two bags. He gives them the two changes of garments. He lays them upon two of his servants. He even had two of his servants carry it for him. And so this is uh this is just a very gracious thing that he's doing here. But I want you to see the second lie that Gehazi tells. Look down at verse number 24. And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand and bestowed them in the house. And he let the men go, and they departed. So here these two talents of silver these servants are carrying 150 pounds, a lot of weight The value of the talents was about ten thousand dollars in today's money. Back for back then Gehazi would never need to work another day in his life. And these servants are carrying it, and just before they get to the hill that is outside of Samaria, the word for tower is really the word for Hebrew word for hill. And so just before they get to the other side of the hill, Gehazi says, You know what, fellas, I don't need you anymore. Thank you very much. I'll take it from here And he takes the the two bags and he puts them in the house. You see, Gehazi is now covering up what he was doing. You know, actions can tell lies as much as words. And he didn't want anyone to see him coming with these two men into the city of Samaria. He didn't want to run the risk of having these foreigners be seen with him. And so he takes the money and he hides them in the house. And here's the third lie. Look down at verse number twenty-five. But he went in and he stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no nowhere, no whither, nowhere. This is the third lie. I didn't go anywhere. He now lies to Elijah. Why did Elijah ask? He already knew where he was, as we're going to see. Why did he ask? Maybe he was giving him the opportunity to confess and repent. Gehazi now is faced with a choice. He can either tell the truth and confess and do what is right, restore his integrity, or he can hide his sin. And he chose money over a good name. Proverbs 20 verse 22 verse 1 says, A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. Don't yield up your good It's amazing how greed will cause a person to throw away their good name and their reputation. Dr. Ken Trivet tells this story. He says this, quote, on the night of November 16, 1930, Mrs. Henrietta Garrett, a lonely 81-year-old widow, died in her home in Philadelphia. and unwillingly started the most fantastic case of inheritance litigation in history. She failed to leave a will, or no will was found to her for her $17 million estate. She had expertly handled her financial affairs since her husband's death, but she died here without a will. And although Mrs. Garrett at the time of her death had only one known relative, a second cousin, and less than a dozen friends, attempts to prove relationship to her and claim a part of her estate was made by more than 26,000 persons from 47 states, 29 foreign countries, and represented by more than 3,000 lawyers. In their efforts to obtain her estate, there were those that committed perjury, faked family records, changed their own names, altered data in the family Bibles. concocted observ absurd tales of illegitimacy. As a result, 12 were confined, 10 received jail sentences, two committed suicide, and three were murdered That's an incredible thing. We read things like this and we say, man, that's unbelievable. But such is the depravity of human nature. Gehazi chose money over a good name. And by the way, he wasn't fooling anyone because look at verse 26. He's exposed in verse 26. And he said unto him, that is, Elisha said unto Gehazi, Went not my heart with thee when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee. Gehazi, don't you know that I I was there with you? What did he mean by that? My heart went with you. Here God gave Elisha, the Old Testament prophet, a word of knowledge. God revealed through the Spirit what was going on. The Spirit of God revealed this to Elisha, everything that Gehazi did. You know, it's a lie from the devil that you can sin and cover it up and get away with it. God's going to uncover everything, either now or later. The Bible says this, but be sure your sin will what? Find you out. That's right. Every time I think of that verse, I think of the story my mother told me when she was a little girl and she lived out in western Maryland. Uh she lived on a big old farm and her grandparents lived on that property with her family. And her grandmother asked her one day to take a large sack of beans to the barn, which was a long distance away And my mother says that she began carrying that sack of beans down to the to the barn like she was told. And it was such a long way. And in between the barn and the house, there was a pond And my mother said, You know what? She's not gonna remember this sack of beans. I don't know why I'm doing this anyway. So so she threw the whole sack of beans into the pond. And they sunk all the way to the bottom and you couldn't see anything. And she thought, that's it, that's over with. And one day her grandmother said to her, Did you put that sack of beans into the barn? And she said, Yes, I did. Yeah. And she said, Well, I can't find them. And then a little bit later, she saw her grandmother standing by the pond. And she called for her to come. And my mother mother went over and stood next to her and she said She pointed to the pond and she my mother looked down into the pond and there are hundreds of bean sprouts coming up out of that pond. And then my Her grandmother looked at her and said, What did you do with that sack of beans? And then my mother, when she would tell me that story, she would always end up by saying, Jerry, be sure your sins will find you out And that's so very true. Gehazi was not getting away with this. God knew exactly what he was doing, and he created a real problem for himself. But here's the fourth thing I want you to see. Greek can cause us to forget God. It can cause us to throw away restraints. It can cause us to lose our integrity. But also it can cause us to value temporal riches above earthly, or excuse me, temporal riches above spiritual rewards. Look what he says again in verse twenty six verse twenty-six the second part of the verse. Is it time to receive money and to receive garments and olive yards and vineyards and sheep and oxen and men servants and maidservants? Notice that when Elisha rebukes Gehazi, he said, Is it time? Is it time to be focused on this right now? Again, the issue was God had just healed Naaman, this pagan general, and he had come to faith in a true and a living God. God was sending a message to um Naaman and all those that would see this of his grace. And so for Gehazi to do this at this point, it was it was a disgrace to the name of God. His focus should have been on ministry and getting the glory of God out, and for others to know about this great God of Israel. Verse 25 really exposes the heart. Um excuse me, verse 26 I should say exposes the heart of Gehazi. His eye was on luxury, his eye was on all these temporal riches. And the problem is, is he put them above earth eternal rewards. Now, beloved, we need money to live here in this temporal world. What does the Bible tell us? If we don't provide for our own, then we're worse than what? We're worse than an infidel. And so God holds us accountable to take care of our family. And furthermore, God blesses those who work hard. He does those who do good do good business and work hard and do right, God honors them and he blesses them. And so riches can be a sign of God's great blessings. But on the other hand, the Bible also tells us that We are to focus first on the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these other things will be added unto us. And so there's a balance there, isn't it? There's a tension there, and all of us have to deal with that. We want to do the best to provide well for our family. We want to give to others. We want to give to the Lord's work. But on the other hand, we can't be focused so much on riches that we value temporal riches above earthly or earth eternal, excuse me, eternal rewards. And so that's the that's the tension there. That's the thing that we have to be careful of. So let me just give you some questions that we can ask ourselves. And these are from Stephen Cole. I'm borrowing these questions from him and his book on Greed. But or on on uh money he says this. He says, Do I view my money and possessions as mine or God's? That's something we need to ask ourselves. We know that God owns all things and he entrusts things to us for a time. Number two, if if I knew that I were going to die in one year, would I do anything different in my management of God's resources? Would I buy this item? Would I buy would I do that? Would I spend more on this? Number three, why do I want more money? This is a question about motives. Do I want to provide more adequately for my family? And this may be very legitimate, especially now when everything seems to be going up, prices on everything are raising We need to make more to help take care of our family. That could be a very legitimate desire. But if I want more just to have bigger and better things, I might be careful that I may be drifting into Greed. Am I more concerned about making money than I am about my eternal destiny? And then number five, what is the source of my security? Is it money or is it God? Is my security in God? And then number six, how do I mourn the loss of money and things? You see, my level of grief when I lose something is directly proportional to my emotional attachment to that thing, writes Stephen Cole. And number seven, do I cling to my things or am I generous and ready to share? Number eight, do I compromise godly character or priorities in the pursuit of making money? And then number nine, am I prone to get to get rich quick schemes? I mean, are you drawn in? When the Powerball gets to s you know several million, you tempted to buy that ticket to get rich quick. Do you dream of winning publishers, clearinghouse, sweepstakes? Am I in bondage to credit cards and debt? That could reveal the idea that we're believing the world that says you have to have these things before you'll be happy. So those are questions that we need to ask ourselves and examine our own heart. So let me give you the last lesson tonight. Greeting calls us to forget God. It can cause us to throw away restraints. It can cause us to lose our integrity. It can cause us to value temporal riches above spiritual reward. And here's the last thing. Greed can cause enormous suffering and sorrow. Because look what happens in verse 27 at the end of this story. The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman shall cleave unto thee. What a harsh judgment. The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee and unto thy sea for ever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. Gehazi went after Naaman Silver and ended up with his sickness. He wanted to do anything he could to live in luxury, and he ended up living his life in leprosy. And not only that, if he ever got married and was going to have children, that that they would also be recipients of the same thing. This is a this is a serious judgment from God And it illustrates how God hates this sin, and it's something that we need to make sure that we're dealing with in our own heart. Now, in closing, let me just say this. Whenever I go through a story of the Bible, whenever I'm studying, I always ask the same question. Why is this here? Of all the stories, of all the details that could have put been put in about this whole miracle episode in the life of Elijah, why does God add this one little aftermath story of Elisha's servant being greedy and running after money and pocketing it for himself and God's judgment coming upon him. Why is that even here? Because there's nothing in the Bible that is there without a clear purpose. There's nothing in the Bible that is incidental And remember the purpose of the writer of 2 Kings, who is he writing to? He's writing to Jews that are in exile. They're there because they had sinned against God, because they worship false gods, right? Because they committed idolatry. And yet here, what this story, what it basically to me is saying is that the idolatry that that we need to be aware of is not just with respect to false gods like Baal and Ashtareth. And Dagon and Molech, some of the gods that the ancient people worshiped rather than the true God. But there's one God that we really need to be afraid of, or one idol that we need to be afraid of above all others. And you know what it is? It's money. We need to be careful that we don't make that an idol. We need to be careful that we don't replace God with money. Jesus said this in Matthew 6 24: No man can serve two masters, for he that he will hate the one and love the other. Or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. And in this day here in America, we don't we don't have to worry about people worshiping Baal or some of these old gods, but we certainly do have to be careful about money and using that as an idol. And so we need to examine our own heart, and we need to make sure that we worship God alone, that we use whatever resources that He blesses us with for His purposes. And that we worship God alone. We worship God, and we are good stewards of all that He entrusts to us. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, I pray that as we look at this story that we will be warned. This is something, Lord, that all of us in our own heart we have to we have to deal with. We all have uh things in our life, Lord, sins and things that we need to mortify. We have this sin nature, Lord, that we wrestle with. And so many times, Lord, if we're not careful, we can be drawn away of our own lusts and enticed, as James warned us. And so, Lord, help us to keep our focus on you. Thank you, Lord, for blessing us. Lord, we live in a blessed country. And in truth, Lord, we're all rich, all of us. You give us so much, so freely, so graciously. And Lord, help us to remember that all of these are gifts from you, that you entrust to us, Lord, that you're the one who gives us this ability. But Lord, I pray that you'll help us as we guard our hearts, that we don't look at these things as things that we trust in. Or that they become idols in any way. Lord, deliver us from the greed of Gehazi. Give us a heart like Naaman. This man who loved the true and the living God, this rich man who was so gracious and generous. After coming to true faith and the true and the living God, that He was willing to give so much to be a help. Father, give us that kind of a heart, a heart of true worship. And we thank you, Lord, again, for all of your blessings. With heads bowed and eyes closed, let me just say this, friend. The most important thing that we can do to guard our hearts is to make sure, first of all, that we know Jesus. What made Naaman so generous was that God in his grace cleansed him. And he found in God all that he had been looking for. He understood that there was only one true God. All those false gods were empty in vain. And he began to worship the one true God. And may I tell you, dear friend, there's only one Savior, that's Jesus. There's only one Lord, one faith. And that's the faith of the gospel, one Savior. And if you're here tonight and you've never trusted Jesus, I would encourage you right now to pray a prayer. Say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me. Come into my heart. And you know what? He'll save you. And you know what the Bible tells us to do after that? Seek Him and seek first the kingdom of God. And you know what? He'll take care of all these other things. All these other things will be added unto us. As we seek him and we seek the kingdom. Father, again, bless your word to hearing hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.