Well, if you take your Bibles, open to 1 Peter chapter 3, as you know, I'm going to kind of finish the sermon I started this morning, and uh hopefully I'll finish it. I will finish it tonight. Uh we'll after all everyone's off tomorrow, so we can stay till midnight, right? I mean, is that okay with everyone? Just kidding. First Peter chapter three. And look again at verse 18. For Christ also as once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, which sometime were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water. Now what I want to do is just kind of make this passage clear. Hopefully you'll have an understanding of it when we walk away. As I was telling you this morning, this is one of the most difficult passages in the New Testament to really interpret and to get understanding from. I learned that in seminary when uh I was telling you this morning when our professor, Dr. Easley, showed us that there are basically six different interpretations to what this means. Who are the spirits in prison? Why are they there And also w with reference to the the uh the reference to Noah and the Ark and saved by water, what does that mean? Because there's a lot of people that have used this passage to teach baptismal regeneration, that a person can be saved through baptism. So I want to bring some clarity to these things. And really the whole passage, as I said this morning, is all about the victory that Christ gives us. And the title of the sermon is The Threefold Victory of Christ. Because Christ gives us victory over sin, and that He was our sin bearer. We see that in verse eighteen. We made that clear this morning, that Christ bore our sins upon the cross. The just for the unjust, the just is Jesus, the unjust, that's me, that's you. All of our sins were placed on Christ, on Calvary, and He suffered and died for us. We said that the suffering of Christ was vicarious, which means in our place he was our substitute. We're the ones that should have suffered, but it was Christ. His suffering was vicious. He suffered in every way, physically, psychologically, and spiritually, when Jesus bore on the cross the burden of sin. Christ's suffering was victorious because we see here in verse 19 that while his body was dead, his spirit went and preached to the spirits that were imprisoned. And that's what I want to elaborate on a bit tonight and talk about uh w really point number two, Christ was victorious over Satan. And I want you to see here what what does this mean when it says that Christ went and preached to the spirits in prison. We want to know just a little bit more about this verse. Now there's a principle that comes with interpreting the Bible, which is called the analogy of Scripture. And the principle is very simple. Scripture interprets Scripture. Scripture is the best interpreter of Scripture. And a lot of times we come to a clear meaning of a theological concept by comparing other verses of Scripture. And nowhere is this more evident than when we try to find what Peter's talking about right here. And I find that as you hold uh really two or three other verses of the Bible next to what Peter is saying, it kind of gives us a complete picture of what he's talking about. And so I want you to hold your place here in 1 Peter three, and I want you to go to the book of Jude. This is the book just before Revelation. Revelation is the last book in the New Testament. If you're not careful You can bypass Jude because it's just a very short letter. It doesn't have chapters, it only has verses in it because it's so very short. It's more like a postcard than a letter. There's only twenty-two verses in it. And Jude has something to say, I think, is along the same lines. Look at verse 5. Jude says, I will therefore put you in remembrance, though you once knew this, how that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not. Now the theme of Judah's apostasy, right? People who come close to embracing the truth, they have the truth revealed to them, but they turn away from it. And he gives three illustrations of it. There were the Jews in the wilderness after they were saved out of Egypt. Rather than crossing over into the promised land, they were destroyed in the wilderness because of their unbelief. Look at verse six And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved an everlasting chains under darkness, under the judgment of the great day. falling away or an apostasy and he talks about the angels that sin in verse number six. These angels committed an apostasy. Now there are three views about who these angels are. The one says that these fallen angels are angels that we have really no information about. This is just a story that Jude happens to reference. There's no other passages in the Bible on it. It's kind of an obscure reference. And so we really don't know anything else about it, so there's no more no use asking any more questions. about this. It's a not very well-known story, but Jude knew about it. Now the problem with that view is, is what is Jude doing to these believers? He's reminding them of something that they know. Again, notice what he says in verse 5. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though you once what? Knew this. This is something you already know. He's just sparking their memory. He's not going into a lot of detail. He's just saying, I want you to remember this. I would just say this to you. Remember 9-11. Would that require a whole lot of detail? No, you know exactly what I'm talking about. If I said remember Pearl Harbor, You already know what I'm talking about. I don't have to go into detail. You know what that's about. And this is what Judah is doing to the readers here. He's saying, look, I want you to remember this. You already knew it. But remember the Jews in the wilderness, remember that story? Of course they would say yes. Remember the angels that sinned? Now that implies that this was something that was known. And it's something in Scripture. Why? Because what happened in verse 5 to the Jews, was that in Scripture? Yes. What happened in verse 7 to Sodom and Gomorrah when he gives another illustration? Is that in Scripture? Yes. So it would be logical to conclude that whatever he's referring to in verse number six happened in what? Happened in Scripture So he's just sparking their memory. And so it can't be some obscure reference about something that nobody knows about. But there's another view that says this refers to the original fall of Satan. When Jude says the angels have sinned and left their habitation, he's referring to Lucifer and the third of the angels that he conned to join his his rebellion, his mutiny in heaven. And one third of them were kicked out of heaven. And this is what it's talking about here. The original fall of Satan and his demons from heaven. They were originally heavenly angels, now they became Satan and his demons. Well, there's a problem with that view You say, what's the problem? Well the problem is, look what it says in verse number six, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved Ineffer everlasting chains under darkness under the judgment of the great day. Hath preserved perfect tense in the Greek. That is something that is complete in the past With continuing results in the present. That is to say that if this is referring to Satan in the fall of the angels from heaven, that means they're already in chains. Until the judgment of the great day. Now I don't know about you, but I don't think Satan is bound today. I mean, look around in the world. Do you think that Satan is bound? I say absolutely not. If Satan is bound, where does all this evil coming from? Now grant you, man has an evil heart, but there's all kinds of evil and rebellion and things happening in this world that we attribute to the devil. I don't think Satan is bound right now So that can't be referring to the original fall of Satan from heaven. But then there's a third view, and this is a view that this event is recorded in Scripture. That these angels committed a certain sin that it was so heinous that God said, Okay, that's it. I'm taking you out of circulation. I'm putting you in prison right now because the sin that you committed was so horrendous, it was so horrible. That you will be punished immediately. And in fact, it elaborates again in verse 6. They they kept not their first estate. Estate means ruler dominion. They left their dominion, their habitation, the place where they dwelt. And so whatever they did, they left the natural realm. And we kind of get another clue in verse number 7, because it says, even as Sodom and Gomorrah, so whatever happened in Sodom and Gomorrah also happened with these angels. What happened in Sodom and Gomorrah in verse 7, even as Sodom and Gomorrah and cities round about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, going after strange flesh And so what happened in Sodom and Gomorrah, we know that story. We know that there was the sin of homosexuality that was committed there in Sodom and Gomorrah. And the word for Fornication in verse number seven is the Greek word is normally porneo, is normally the word for that, which is where we get the word pornography from. And it's a very general word that talks about sexual sin. But the The prefix is added to the word perneo, ek perneo, which intensifies it, which makes it really bad. Whatever this sexual sin was, this was really, really, really bad. This was a heinous thing. This was an abomination in the eyes of God. And he says, going after strange flesh. Now we don't have time to read Genesis 19, but if we were to turn there, we would see that you remember that story in Genesis 18. God himself visits with Abraham. There were two angels with him. Remember that story? And they're there to bolster Sarah's faith, to reaffirm the fact that Sarah is going to have a son. But when God is done with that. He sends these angels on and they go to Sodom and Gomorrah. And you know the story. Lot, where is he? He's a judge at the city at that time, right? He's sitting at the city gate. judging matters, he sees these visitors come, he shows hospitality to these strangers, invites them into his home, and the Bible tells us in Genesis 19, 4 that the city that the the house was surrounded by men in the city. And if you read the cat the passage very carefully, you know that they were not there to welcome these guys. They were there to commit a terrible thing, a gang rape, you could say. It was disgusting because they said to Lot, bring these men out that we may know them. And that term there is a sexual term. Bring them out They were going to commit rape against these guys. And so Lot begs them not to do that. And what happens is these angels pull Lot inside. And they they closed the door. Now these are angels in the form of of of a human appearance, but they were the angels of God that God had sent there And he pulls they pull Lot inside, they shut the door, and what does the Bible say in that story? They sh strike the men with blindness And the Bible says this, that those men, even though they were struck with blindness, they wearied themselves to find a door. Now some people read that and say, well, they were inside the house, they were trying to get out. No, they were on the outside of the house trying to get in That shows you how perverted they were. They were lusting after strange flesh. And so Jude references that. And he says, what happened there in Sodom and Gomorrah? It's kind of what also happened with these angels that sin, even as what happened also in Sodom and Gomorrah, lusting after strange flesh. This brings the next question. Is there a place in the Bible where Angels lusted after strange flesh. They left their habitation. Well turn to Genesis chapter 6 Hold your place in uh 1 Peter. We're gonna come back there. But go to Genesis chapter 6 in the b uh all the way back in the beginning in Genesis 6. And notice what it says in verse number one. This is before the flood. This is the anti-deluvian days, pre-flood days. Notice what it says in Genesis 6:1. It came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth. And daughters were born unto them, Genesis six one, that the sons of God, verse two, saw the daughters of men, that they were fair, and they took them wise all of which they chose And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh, yet his day shall be a hundred and twenty years There were giants in the earth in those days. Also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare them children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old men of renowned. And God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And so what happens here is that we have a group called the Sons of God. And they have this cohabitation with what the Bible calls the daughters of men. Now, again, this is another one of those passages that has a lot of interpretation. The really big question is: who are the sons of God in this passage? And again, there are several interpretations. There are some that say the sons of God were kind of these dynastic rulers in the Canaanite line, and you know, rulers were sometimes called Elohim, sons of God back in that day. And so these had to be rulers. Well, there's problems with that. There's no evidence here in the Old Testament of any kind of a monarchial system in that time And so that's kind of to me force there. No writer of scripture ever considered kings to be deities or sons of deities. Now there's a second view, and that is the sons of God, these are men in the line of the godly line of Seth The godly line of Seth was established in Genesis 4. 26. So you have the ungodly line of Cain, and you have the godly line of Seth. And what was happening was the godly line of Seth and the ungodly line of Cain there came a unholy cohabitation there where the godly children of Seth Married the ungodly children of Cain, and because of that, that's what caused this problem. That's another view there. Now, the problem with that view is it fails to come to grips with the technical use of the expression sons of God. If these were sons of Seth, how come the writer didn't just say they're sons of Seth? Why does he call them sons of God? And you have to understand that whenever the expression sons of God is used in the Old Testament The Hebrew expression bene Elohim always refers to angels. Always. And Job You remember the story in Job where it says, And the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan was among them This was divine counsel in heaven when all the angels came to appear before God, and what's the expression the writer uses? Sons of God, Bene Elohim Talking about angels there. It's also used in Job 38, 7, when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy. This is talking about when God created the world I think the angels were there and they witnessed God's creation, and when they saw God do this incredible miracle of creation, the angels rejoiced, and the Bible says the sons of God shouted for joy. Again, the same expression, but Nay Elohim. It's referring to angels. The angels were there and beheld God at creation. That leads us to conclude then that the sons of God here in Genesis 6 were angels. And what you have here in Genesis six is the the marriage of these angelic beings Coming in the form of of a of a man and this unholy cohabitation where they marry the daughters of men, that's what it says there. In verse number 6, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair, and they took them wives, all of which they chose. And so you have this union between angels and women in this pre-flood era that's there. Now you see, boy, that is that really the view? Well, this was the view that was held by the uh Jewish rabbis. In fact, this view was held by Philo, it was viewed the view held by Josephus. Josephus wrote this, many angels accompanied with women and begat sons that proved unjust. This was the view of the rabbinic writers This was the view of the oldest church fathers, Justin, Tertillian, Cyprin, Ambrose, and on we could go. This is the view of the early church. It was not until the later part of the fourth century that another Christian, a man by the name of Julius Africanus, came up with the other view that the sons of God in Genesis 6 are probably descendants of Seth. That was the first time that view had ever even been put out. It wasn't until the late fourth century. Eusebius, the great church historian, insisted that in Genesis 6, the sons of God is a reference to angels. He compared the stories in Genesis 6 with the stories of the Titans in Greek mythology. In fact, what he implied was that the stories in Greek mythology really get their ideas from what happened here In Genesis chapter 6. This is a view of the writers of the Septuagint. What's the Septuagint? That's a Greek translation of the Old Testament. When they translated the phrase sons of God here in Genesis 6, they translated it as angels. And by the way, one of the pseudopigrapha, that is a writing that's not inspired scripture, that has some historical value, first Enoch, references this whole episode here Let me just quote it from you. Listen, it says this And it came to pass that when the children of men had multiplied in those days there were born unto them beautiful and comely daughters And the angels, the children of heaven, saw and lusted after them, and said one to another, Come let us choose wise from among the children of men, and beget us children. There were in all two hundred, and they took unto themselves wives, and each chose one for himself, and they begat be begat and defiled themselves with them And it goes on to talk about uh that they bear great giants, and there arose much godlessness, and they they were led astray and became corrupt in all of their ways. That's from a reference from Uh the pseudo pigry writing of first Enoch. You say, wait a minute, first Enoch is not in the Bible, that's right, it's not in Scripture It's not inspired scripture. And the truth is some of those pseudo-pigraphal writings can be wrong in certain places. However There are certain historical facts that are in there. You say, how do you know that? Well, because Jude quotes from that reference. He quotes from 1 Eni. So does Peter. And if the inspired writers of Scripture quoted from those references, that means that they were historically correct in the areas where they quoted. And so That leads me to believe that this is a solid reference here. Now there's another objection that says this can't be talking about an unholy cohabitation between angels and women because doesn't the Bible say that in heaven, and they quote verses like Matthew 22, 30, that Jesus taught in the resurrection people neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like the angels in heaven And they quote that reference and say, this can't happen with angels. Angels are not given in marriage. But there's a problem with that reference. First of all, that reference is talking about angels in heaven. It's not talking about demons on earth. And it's not saying that the angels, I've heard one person say, well, it says that the angels are sexless. That's not what that's saying. Whenever the Bible uses a pronoun for angels, it's always the masculine, he or then, or him. And so it's not saying that angels can't marry or that they are genderless. That's not what they're saying there. Henry Morris wrote this when Jesus said that the angels in heaven do not marry, this does not necessarily mean that those who have been cast out of heaven were incapable of doing so. And so you can't use that verse to say this can't happen. Uh angels, if you'll notice in the Bible, have the ability to take on a physical body and go back and forth between the spiritual world and and the physical world, that's very, very clear. And we see that in Genesis 18. When the angels came along with the Lord, a preincarnate appearance of the Lord there to Abraham, they looked like three men. Abraham obviously found out that they were more than just three men throughout that story, but they took upon them the form of a body. What does the Bible warn us about in Hebrews 13? Be careful that you might entertain angels what? Unaware You better watch out. You better when you entertain a stranger, you better be careful that could be an angel. In other words, you better treat him good. It could be an angel from heaven that God sent. You could be entertaining angels unaware. And so demons can possess a human body. They can take upon them the form of a body. Arkenthu says this: the picture is one of unmitigated lust What would give a fallen spirit more pleasure than taking upon him the form of a body and doing this? I wonder if this is w the beginning, he says, of the demonic beginning of harems And so there is this unholy cohabitation. And what it did is it produced this race of kind of half-human, half-angelic beings. Look in Genesis 6, look in verse 4. There were giants in the earth in those days. Also answer that the sons of God came unto the daughters of men, and they bare them children unto them. The same became mighty men, which were of old, men of renown. The word for giants Nephilim, which means fallen ones. And some say, well, this just means that these were wicked men that fell upon others to kill them. No, this is a reference to those who have fallen. This is the natural probable meaning. They were children of the fallen ones. Again, the Septuagint, when it translates this word giant, again, that's the Greek translation of the Old Testament, it uses the word giganticus. That's where we get the word gigantic. They believed that they were giants, a half breed of angel and men, uh as a result of this unholy cohabitation. And so look at the rest of it in verse 5. And God saw the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thought of his heart was only evil continually. You see, what happened after that is that even though things were bad, they got really worse. And the Bible says, when God looked upon the heart of man, there was only evil in the heart of man continually. And this is where God says, you know what? I'm going to destroy the world. This is what caused the flood. Now, someone would ask, so we see then the sons of of uh the sons' identity, the sons of God. There's another question, I call this the subtle deception. Why would demons want to do this? Why would they want to do this? And the answer is to that is very simply deception. This is nothing new. This has been around in false religion all through the years. It's not any different today. You join the Mormon church. This is exactly what the Mormon Church will teach you that if you join them, you'll have eternal life. You'll be your own God. You'll have your own planet. You'll populate that planet with your own people. You'll have celestial sex all throughout eternity with all of your wives as a God repopulating your own planet. You say that sounds rash. Well just read what Mormons teach if you don't believe that. That's exactly what they teach. Also, you read about this. In the cities like Corinth or pagan temples, where a man would climb up the Acropolis, go into the pagan temple, he would commit immorality with one of the temple prostitutes. That was considered to be being in connection with their God And and and so on. This is the same thing that's been happening all throughout throughout uh history with re respect to false religion. So deception is Part of the reason why Satan would want to do this, but there's another reason that maybe even more, and that's the prevention of the Messiah. Satan was trying to bring about a race of people that could not be redeemed with the blood of the Lamb, with the blood of Christ. And you remember in Genesis 3. 15, God promised that Satan's demise would come through the seed of who? The seed of the woman. So Satan went about to try to corrupt and defile the seed of the woman. That was his attempt to do that And so he begins this, and I can just see this happening. And so as a result of this terrible sin committed by these angels that left their habitation and they did this horrible thing, God said I'm going to put you in a prison for what you've done. Now, go again to the New Testament, go to another passage, go to 2 Peter 2, and I want you to look down at verse number 4. 2 Peter 2, verse 4. Now Peter again is referencing this. He writes 2 Peter years later, but notice what he says in chapter 2, verse 4. For if God spared not the angels that what? Sin. But cast them down to where? Hell. Now again, where are they now? They're in hell. They're there right now. That's what this the verb here tells us. God casts them down. They're already cast down to hell. So this can't be talking about the original fall of Satan from heaven. Because if that's true, that means Satan is already in hell right now, and so are his demons. But we don't believe that. We believe he's loose. That hasn't happened yet. That's gonna happen. But then but Satan is loose. So these angels are In hell. And by the way, the word for hell is not Hades. It's not Gehenna. Those are the typical words used to talk about hell. But neither one of those words are used here to talk about hell. There's a word used here to talk about hell that's used here. It's used no other place than here. This is the only place in the whole Bible that this one Greek word is used, and it's the word Tartarus. They were cast down to Tartarus. Now, where does Peter get that word Tartarus? He's reading it from the Septuagint. That's what the Septuagint says. They were taken and put in Tartarus. Tartus, by the way, was a Greek word that was used in Greek literature to talk about the afterlife where bad gods go. You know in Greek mythology you had good gods and bad gods. Of course, none of that is real or true. We know that. But in their myth, they had you had gods that were good, you had gods that were bad. The bad gods, guess where they went? They were cast down the Tartarus And that was the word that was used in their mythology. Now, this is the word that was used in the Septuagint, and this is the word that Peter uses here to say that these angels that committed this sin. They were put in this special place of punishment in prison. They're there right now. And the word that he uses here is Tartarus. And they're being reserved. We saw this in Jude, they're being reserved unto the judgment of the great day. They committed this sin. They're right there right now. They're being reserved there right now until the judgment of the great day. When all of them will be cast down into the lake of fire. Now go back to 1 Peter and look in verse number 20 again, or verse 19 again, where it talks about Jesus, by which also He went and preached unto the spirits in what? Prison. Those spirits were in prison. So now by looking at these other verses, it kind of helps us understand what Peter's talking about. The prison is this place of Tartarus where these angels are there, these spirits are there, they're being kept there. And when Jesus died, he died in his body. But his spirit was alive. And during that three-day period, Jesus went down to hell. By the way, Jesus never went to hell to suffer for sin, as I heard some people say. All the suffering for sin that Jesus did was on the cross. He didn't have to go to hell to suffer anymore. On the cross, Jesus said, it is what? And he meant that There was no other suffering that needed to take place for sin to be paid for. So when Jesus went to hell, it wasn't to pay for sin He went to this special place, and look what it says he did. He preached unto the spirits in prison. The word for preach, like I said this morning, is not Evangelion. He's not preaching the gospel. He's not saying, hey guys, would you like to get saved? And the and it's not logos, he's not giving them some kind of exposition of the word. It's the word caruso. The word caruso was a word that was used by a herald. Whenever a general won a victory And he wanted the people back in the city to know, he would send this runner, he was the herald, and he would go back to the city and he would carusso, he would proclaim victory. This is the word that Jesus uses here, or Peter uses here rather, where it says, Jesus preached caruso unto the spirits in prison. And it's like I said this morning when Jesus died on the cross. Hell kind of had a holiday, those spirits that were imprisoned, they thought that the death of Christ meant victory for them, but it was the exact opposite. They had no idea That the death on the cross really meant their defeat, their absolute, total defeat. And Jesus descended there to that place to pronounce to those spirits victory. Victory. Caruso. That's exactly what he did. And that's what I believe happened here when Jesus went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Now again, there are six other or five other interpretations to this. But you just heard the right one tonight. I don't say that I I I I I hate to say it like that. Sounds kind of braggadocious. I'm not. I'm just saying I I'm I'm pretty convinced that this is the right understanding of what happened here. There are others that say, well, when Jesus preached to the spirits in prison, they interpret this and say, well, it's talking about he preached through Noah in Noah's day to those people that were there. That's not what that's talking about there. in my opinion. So let's move on to the next thing. What about verse 20? So Christ was victorious over sin bearing. And sin bearing, Christ was victorious over Satan. Here's number three. Christ was victorious concerning salvation. Look at verse 20. Now Peter goes on. And notice what he says that he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Look at verse 20, which sometime were disobedient when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of who Interesting that he pointed out that they were disobedient when? In the days of Noah. When the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah. And so now Peter is going to reference the story of Noah in this time. Because, and what Peter's doing here now is showing how Christ was victorious in this matter of giving us salvation. And Peter is saying, look, if you want to see a picture of this, of how we are victorious through what Christ did, look at the story of Noah. Because Noah is a picture of the salvation that we have. Look in verse number 20 again, where it says Which sometime were disobedient. Once the long-suffering God waited in the days of Noah while the ark was preparing, wherein few that is eight souls were saved. Notice where it says by water. The King James translation gives that by water. Now, what's interesting is that Noah was a preacher of righteousness. You know the story. God said, I'm going to destroy the world. He's going to bring a flood. And he's going to start over again. And Noah was to build an ark, and this was a monstrosity. This was a this was kind of like the Titanic of its day. And Moses took one or excuse me, Noah took one year, I'm getting my Old Testament characters mixed up here Noah took one year to build this ark. No doubt he had help from people around. But he organized it with the plans that God gave him. And he's building on this ark. And that whole time, that whole year He's preaching righteousness. In fact, the Bible says for 120 years he preached righteousness there. And while he's building this ark, Getting it ready. He's preaching. And you'd think that people would get saved. But here's the message he's giving. God is going to destroy the world with rain. By the way, it had never rained in the world up into that time. Rain was had not happened. If you read the Old Testament in Genesis, there was kind of a mist that came up out of the earth that would water the plants, but that was all pre-flood. And God says, rain is going to come, and he will destroy the world. And there were no one that really believed except Noah's family, because it says in verse 20, few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. Now when you see that by water, there are some people that latch onto that and say, oh yeah, Peter here is giving an illustration of baptism, water baptism saves, when you get into the waters of baptism, you'll get saved, and this is a picture of it. No, this is not talking about water baptism. Let me just say where it says saved by water. The Greek preposition, we could translate it like this: saved through water. When they were in the ark and they went through the water, they were saved. But water didn't save Noah and his family. If you know, in fact, of all the people back then, who actually were in the water? It was the other people that were destroyed. Water didn't save anybody. Water killed a lot of people. So you can't use this to talk about water baptism and water saving. You know, they were saved. Through the water. The baptism here that he's talking about is not water baptism. You have to get that out of your mind. There are some people that try to say that. But I'll get back to that. But look at verse 21. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. Now notice where it says the light figure. That's one Greek phrase, antitupon, which is where we get the word type. We can say it like this. This is a type. Of salvation, we could say the type, or even baptism now saves us. You say, well, now wait a minute. He's saying clearly right there, baptism saves us. But it's not talking about water baptism. It's talking about a spiritual reality. So we see what is it? It's not talking about the water. What it's not is water baptism. What it is is a real baptism where you are placed in Christ at salvation Now let me explain it like this. The word baptism just simply means immersion. So anything that is immersed in something else Is baptized. Okay? You see this bulletin here? If I put it in my Bible and close my Bible, guess what? This bulletin is now baptized into my Bible Because it's fully immersed in there. Anything that's fully immersed in something else is baptism. Jesus talked about a baptism of suffering. On the cross, he would be fully immersed in suffering. That's what the word baptism means. And this is what he's talking about. In a real spiritual way, when you got saved, you were baptized, but it's not talking about water baptism. You were Immersed into Christ. You were placed into Christ. That's the baptism that he's talking about. Did you know that when you got saved, you were in Jesus? And Noah and his family, they were safe through the water because they were immersed into what? The ark. And the ark is a picture of Christ. What saved Noah and his family from the water judgment? They were in the ark. What saves you from judgment? You're in Christ. You see, the ark is a picture of Christ. And you did you know that the dimensions of the ark were the dimensions of an ancient coffin on a huge scale? And so really, when you think about the ark, you know, kind of think about a giant coffin because that's what it would look like. And people would get on this thing. And they died to the old world, to the pre-flood world. And when they got off the ark, they resurrected to a new life. And the same thing happens to you when you come to Christ. You are immersed in Jesus, when you put your faith in Christ, you're baptized into Christ, you're safe from all of the judgment, and guess what? You die to the old life And you're resurrected with Christ to live a new life. That's what Peter is talking about. Look in verse number 21 again. The like figure we're unto, even baptism now does save us. And he makes it very clear here, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. We could say it like this, not water baptism. That's what he's referring to there. Not the cleansing or the putting away of the filth of the flesh That's not water baptism that he's referring to there, not the cleansing of your flesh, Peter says. That's not what I'm talking about. But look at the rest of it. But the answer of a good conscience towards God What does that mean? The word answer there is the idea of a contract. A technical term And this is what happened. You see, when you get saved, you know what happens? Before salvation our conscience is dirty. Why? Because of the sins that we committed against God. We have a guilty conscience. It's way down We want to have release from the guilt of our conscience. We want our conscience to be cleansed and made new and clean. And how does that happen? When you come to Jesus and put your faith in Christ You know what? All of your past sins are forgiven, and your conscience is totally cleansed. You're a new person And that's what he's referring to there. He says, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience towards God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's the baptism that saves. When you get saved, you come to Christ, you're immersed in Jesus, you're baptized into Christ, and you're one with Jesus, that's a spiritual reality. When Christ died, you died with him. When Christ rose, you rose with him. You're so one with Christ. And now that you're in Christ, You're a new creature. You died to the old world. Your conscience has been completely cleansed and made new because of what Jesus did for you on the cross. And so what he's talking about there is not water baptism. He's talking about real salvation. When you come to Christ and you're baptized into him. And your conscience is cleansed and you're made absolutely new. And you're one with the Lord Jesus Christ. You see, that's what it's talking about. You were baptized into Christ. Just like Noah and his family were immersed in the ark. When you got saved, you were immersed in Jesus. And by the way, you can't lose that once you get it. You know what? Noah, he could fall down in the ark, but he couldn't fall out of the ark. You could fall down in Christ, but you can't fall out of Christ You see, when Noah got on that ark, what does the Bible say? God shuts a door. And only God can open a door that he shuts. And the only other opening was a window at the top. You can't fall up. So he couldn't fall out of the ark. He was sealed in there. In fact, they weren't getting out until the Lord opened the door. So he could literally fall down in the ark. I imagine he did a few times. But he couldn't fall out of the ark. And friend, if you're saved and you're immersed in Jesus, you're sealed in Christ. You can fall down in Jesus, but you can't fall out of Jesus. Because God has sealed you there. You're his forever. And you're one with Christ. And so this is a beautiful, and this is what Peter's saying. This is a picture of salvation here. The like figure, the type, where baptism does save us, but it's your baptism in Jesus. And so again, all of this is about the victory that Jesus gives us. Victory being our sin bearer, victory over Satan, victory concerning the salvation that He gave us when He placed us in Christ. This is the victory that you have. So notice verse 22 when he says this. Talking about Jesus who has gone into heaven. And is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him. Where is Jesus now? He's exalted in heaven. At the right hand of God, that place of exaltation, where angels and authorities and powers, all spirits, demons, spirits, and everything is under the authority of Jesus, who is Lord And again, we get back to the original point that Peter made, and that is the sufferings of Christ. brought about victory and exaltation. And if as a believer, if you follow Christ, guess what? You're going to go through suffering too. But guess what? Through that suffering, you can have victory and vindication, exaltation, and reward just like Jesus So again, Peter's point is: look, suffering believers, and again, remember Peter's writing to suffering believers, look, look to Jesus. Look at the victory, the threefold victory that He won for you. Because of his own sufferings. Victory over sin, victory over Satan, victory over death, by giving us salvation through his own resurrection from the dead. Look at the victory of Christ. And be encouraged by that. Whatever suffering you may go through, you follow in the footsteps of Christ, and you too will be blessed and exalted, and you'll receive glory by being faithful In that time of suffering. So let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we just stand in awe of the victory that you have won for us. In and of ourself, Lord, we are nothing. We have nothing in and of ourself. All that we have And our salvation comes through you, what you have done for us. Our faith is not in anything that we have done Our faith is in you, Lord Jesus, your finished work on the cross, what you have done for us, the fact that we are placed in you And we're safe from judgment. Thank you for the victory that you won for us. Victory over sin, bearing our sin. Victory over the forces of hell and Satan. Victory over death. And now, Lord, as we come before you, I ask that you would use these words to encourage your people, perhaps some going through suffering tonight, that they would come to the cross and see you. And be encouraged to know that just as you were vindicated, so will they be. And they'll receive great glory. When they bear the cross, there come also the crown. And so Lord, let these words encourage you. With heads bowed and eyes closed, again I just want to invite you, friend, to come to Christ if you've never come to Him. There's only one way to heaven, that's through Jesus. That's it. It's not through religion or being good. That's man's way, and that man's way leads to death. There's only two religions in the world, do religion and done religion. Some people say it's what I do, and again, that's the wrong way, or it's what Jesus has already done, that's the right way. And it's putting your faith in what Christ has done for you. We're all sinners. None of us are worthy In and of ourselves. But whenever a sinner acknowledges what Christ has done for them on the cross, puts their faith in the finished work of Christ, and says, Lord Jesus, save me, friend, that's salvation. And the Bible says, For whosoever Shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. So my question to you is: have you done that? Have you called upon Jesus? Have you asked Jesus to save you? And if you haven't, can I invite you to do that right now? And would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, thank you for bearing my sin on the cross, for suffering and dying for me. And paying my sin debt. And I ask you right now, as I put my faith in your finished work, to save me, Lord Jesus Forgive me for my sins, and I turn to you as my only hope of salvation. And friend, if you'll put your faith in Christ, He will save you. The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. If you come to Christ, he's not going to turn you away. So, friend, would you come to him? Would you be willing to pray that? With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many say, that's my prayer tonight, right now, by faith, I'm trusting Jesus, Pastor. Would you pray for me Would you lift your hand so I can pray for you? Is there anyone here like that? So yeah, that's me. Putting my faith in Christ. And dear friend, I see your y that hand there Again, would you pray, Lord Jesus, save me. Make me your child. And if you'll pray that in meaning, friend, he will save you. And we're going to be here afterwards. I want you to come and Tell us, I prayed, I trusted Jesus today as my Savior. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. And we'll thank you and we'll praise you, Lord, for what you're going to do in hearts and lives. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.