Would you take God's word this morning? And I want you to open to the Gospel of Matthew this morning, the Gospel of Matthew, and look in chapter 20. We're going to look at chapter 20. And look at verse 17 down to verse 28 this morning for our text. I know we've d we've been doing a study in 2 Corinthians, but I want to put that on hold. as we begin to look for the uh forward to the the the Passion Week of Christ. Uh next Sunday is Palm Sunday and then right after that word Easter. So I thought that we would look at this event that took place just before um the Lord would present himself on Palm Sunday. So Matthew chapter 20, verse 17. Can we stand for the reading of God's Word this morning? Matthew chapter 20, verse 17. And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests. unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge, and to crucify him, and the third day he shall rise again. Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons worshipping him and desiring a certain thing of him. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on th thy right hand, the other on the left, in thy kingdom. But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And they said unto him, We are able. And he s and he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of the my cup, and be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. And Jesus called them unto him and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they are greater They're they're in great exercise authority upon them. But it shall not be so among you. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me today? Father, as we uh look at this narrative here in Matthew, I pray that you will help us to see Christ. And to learn from him. Lord, you saved us that we might be changed into the image of your dear Son And so, Lord, help us as we study and look at the life of Christ. Help us to see the beauty of Christ. Help us to see Him as the only Savior, the only way of salvation. And help us to follow in His example. of selflessness. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There is something in the heart of every man that seems to long for glory. Have you ever noticed that? Man longs for praise. He desires victory. He longs for greatness. And with this, we see this kind of competitive spirit that is in the heart of mankind. Seems to be innate in mankind, this competitive nature. Man competes for glory, he competes for honor. And uh we see this, we live in a uh a proud and egotistical generation. Our society is obsessed with awards and recognition We have all kind of awards. We have the Nobel Prize. We have Academy Awards. We have the Golden Globes, the Grammys. It's amazing to me how that crowd figures out another award to give themselves. We have Honor Roll, we have Hall of Fame, we have MVP Awards, Olympic Gold Or world champion. We love to compete. We love to crown ourselves with status. Now why is that? I believe that it's a result of the fall. When God created man, man was robed in glory. He was the king of God's creation. He was God's co-regent. And there's a sense of glory that came with uh God creating man, but with the fall came shame Came defeat. There came a law a sense of lost glory. And I think that ever since then, man has this innate desire to recapture that lost glory for himself. And the sinful heart of man is trying to get it back in his own sinful, depraved way. Trying to get back that lost glory. Part of salvation is God giving us back that glory that was lost because of sin. The Bible says that Jesus Christ came to restore many to glory. Those who come to know Jesus Christ will ultimately Get this glory. But we see this competitive spirit in the disciples. I don't know if you ever noticed that when you read the gospel, you find that the disciples were constantly competing with each other. They were wanting honor. They were wanting to be called the greatest in the kingdom. For example, go back to Matthew chapter 18 and look at verse number one. Just to kind of set the context for this. And verse one, and at the same time came the disciples unto Jesus saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? Can you imagine asking Jesus that question? Jesus, there's twelve of us here. Which one of us is the greatest? Who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus called a little child on the him and set him in the midst. And said, Verily I say unto you, except ye be converted and become like a little l as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Wow, what a comeback from the Lord. You need to stop being so puffed up and you need to be humble like this little child. This is the this is the spirit, this is the attitude of someone who gets into the kingdom. And look at chapter 19, look down at verse number. 27. And uh this is right after Jesus uh dealt with the rich young ruler, Matthew 19, 27, then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? That's another one of those questions that's a bit awkward if you ask me. Jesus, we left everything to follow you. What are we going to get? What's in it for us? What are you going to give us? And Jesus said in verse number twenty-eight, He said unto them, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory Ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel, and every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. But many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. So what did Jesus say to them? Peter said, Lord, what are we going to get? I mean, I walk away from my business. What are you going to get from me? What are you going to give me? And Jesus said, Look, whatever you give up here, whatever you sacrifice here It's going to be restored to you in the kingdom. It's going to be given back to you in manifold blessings, a hundredfold. And the kingdom. So really, they were not really sacrificing, they were making an investment. Anyone who sacrifices for the sake of the kingdom is making an investment in God's kingdom, and God says there's a return on that. But then Jesus says something very interesting, verse 30, but many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. What do you mean by that? Because in the kingdom, the values are reversed. Those who are in the in this world today seeking to be first, they have this competitive spirit, self-promotion, self-glory. You know, man doesn't mind climbing to the top of the ladder, even if you have to climb over a few people to get there. In his wake, there's all kind of destruction of people. just to get to the top, that competitive spirit that says, I have to be the greatest. They they are first. You might be first now, but in the kingdom of God you're last. The kingdom of God's values are completely reversed. The ones who will be the greatest, the ones who will be rewarded the most are those who put themselves last. The last shall be first, and the first shall be last. It's interesting to me that Jesus never really rebuked the disciples for seeking glory in the kingdom of God. What he does do is rebuke them for the way they went about to try to get it. The way you do that is not the way of the world. It's not by making yourself first, it's by making yourself last. There is a glory that awaits the believer. If you're a child of God, there is a future glory awaiting you. The Bible speaks about that. And Romans 8. 18 says, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not Worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. The suffering, the groans that we go through now Can't compare to that future glory one day. That is if you're faithful to Jesus Christ. If you serve Him faithfully, you don't quit on God. You Persevere in your faith, there's a glory that awaits you. First Peter one seven, that the trial of your faith be much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Whose praise, whose honor, whose glory, yours? When you persevere, when you stay faithful, when you serve the Lord, even through trials When the Lord comes, that's when you'll get your praise and your honor and your glory. That's when all of that will come. The greater the faithfulness, the greater the glory. But the way to future glory in the world today is to compete. It's to strive. Self-promotion. Self-exaltation, self-glory. One writer said this, the promotion of self-esteem, self-fulfillment, and self-glory has become a major industry that ranges from exercise programs to motivation for executive success. Tragically, the cult of selfism has found its way into evangelical Christianity. Books, seminars, conferences, magazines, and organizations that promote self under the guise of personal development abound. And this movement has found little resistance in the church, which often seems determined to beat the world at its own fleshly gain. And I think that's true. What we learn here from the life of our Lord is that the path to glory comes through self-denial. The path to glory is not the way of this world. You make yourself last. That's the way to be first in the kingdom. And this is what Jesus is going to talk about here. In Matthew chapter twenty, basically what we read here in this passage are three events That take place right before Jesus will go to Jerusalem to present himself as the son of David. That we see in Matthew chapter 21. Jesus is going to take his final journey into Jerusalem. He's completed his ministry in Galilee. He met with the disciples all the way up in Caesarea Philippi, chapter 16. You remember where Jesus Says, um, upon this rock I will build my church. The gates of hell are not going to prevail. Then he goes to the Mount of Transfiguration in chapter 17. And they see a preview a preview of the glory of the kingdom and Jesus' transfiguration. And then he's making his way steadily down through Galilee, down all the way to uh Jericho, he'll cross the Sea of Galilee, get out right there by Jericho, and then he'll make the journey from Jericho all the way up into Jerusalem. This will be his final pilgrimage into Jerusalem, and then he'll present himself as the Messiah, the son of David on Palm Sunday, and that begins the Passion Week. And these events that we're looking at here in chapter 20 are right before Jesus begins to make that final journey from Jericho all the way up to Jerusalem. And what Jesus gives us is the prediction of his suffering and his death. And then we see the request of uh the mother of James and John, and then Jesus gives an explanation on his purpose for coming. Each time he points to the cross in in these three sections. Why? Jesus was choosing to go to the cross for us to pay for our sins, but also to be an example of making yourself last. You talk about making yourself last. Nobody made themselves last like Jesus did when he decided to go to the cross and suffer and die for our sins. And so What I want you to see from this passage are three characteristics to the path of glory, we could say, of glory in the kingdom. Here's the first thing, it's a path of sacrifice. You want future glory? It's a path of sacrifice. Look at verse 17 of chapter 20. And Jesus going up to Jerusalem. Took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. Again, he's making his final journey. Two times he said, We're going up. That's because at that time they were right there by Jericho. In fact, right after this, Jesus will heal some blind men there in Jericho. This is about ten days from his crucifixion. In ten days, Jesus will be crucified on the cross from this time. Up to Jericho, that's because Jericho is a city that is 100 feet below sea level. Jerusalem sits 2,500 feet above sea level. And so the journey from Jericho to Jerusalem is literally upward. You're walking up that whole time. And during that time, I want you to see the private conversation that he has with his disciples in verse 12. It says, where he took the disciples and he said unto them. Behold, we go to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed. So he takes the disciples where it says apart in the way. We could say he takes them aside. While Jesus is making this journey, there's a parade of people going with him. We see this in other gospels. And a lot of times when Jesus is teaching his disciples, it's while they're walking. So picture this in your mind. They're making the journey. Jesus is talking to his disciples. He kind of pulls them aside, away from the big crowd. Why is a crowd of people following? They're going to Jerusalem for Passover. And it's a multitude of people. In that crowd are some of the people that Jesus healed, people that follow Jesus. It's the time to celebrate the Passover. And Jesus has been focusing on his disciples during this whole time. There was a part of Jesus' ministry when he stops preaching to the multitudes, and he focuses strictly on his twelve to prepare them for what is going to happen. And this took place really right after the death of John the Baptist. They accused Jesus of doing miracles in the power of Satan. Jesus then begins to teach him parables. And then John the Baptist is beheaded, which means that if the forerunner is killed, what are they going to do to the king? So Jesus knew that his Time was close. So during that time he focuses on the disciples. He goes all the way up north. During that whole time he's instructing his disciples. He's teaching his disciples. And notice the next thing he tells them, the predicted crucifixion. Look in verse 18. Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests, unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death. And they shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge, to crucify him, and the third day he shall rise again. This is the third time. In Jesus' earthly ministry, that he tells his disciples, I'm going to the cross. I'm going to be crucified. He tells them this once in chapter 16, verse 21. He tells them this in chapter 17, verse 22, and verse 23. Chapter 16 is ready, Cesarea Philippi, right after he says, upon this rock I will build my church. And then he tells them this right after the Mount of Transfiguration, the Son of Man is going to be crucified. And now he tells them here. Again, he alludes to his suffering. Why was it necessary to repeat this? Well, there are at least two reasons. First of all, because the disciples did not fully realize what was happening here. They could not comprehend what was going to happen to Jesus. In fact, when Jesus told them this in chapter 17, the Bible says they were filled with grief And each time he tells them about his cross, each time he tells them about his crucifixion, he reveals a little bit more about it. In chapter 16 it says he would die and be raised. In chapter 17, it says he would be betrayed Here he adds that the Jewish leaders would turn him over to the Gentiles, and they would flog him, they would scourge him, then they would crucify him. He would be betrayed, it says, in verse eighteen. The word betrayed paradidomai. That's kind of a divine passive Actually, it's God the Father who willed this. This is the reason why Jesus came. This was all part of God's plan. He would be turned over. to the chief priest. Condemned, he says. That's actually a judicial process. It was really a kangaroo court. They had it like early in the morning around two o'clock. What what kind of court meets at two in the morning? A corrupt one. They had already decided Jesus' fate, what was going to happen with him. And then he would be delivered to the Gentiles. This must have really been a shock to the disciples. And this is why he was crucified, because the Romans killed their capital punishment was through crucifixion. He also gave the details, he would be mocked, he would be scourged. He would rise again the third day. This was the whole reason for Jesus' coming. This is the heart and center of the gospel. And the disciples needed to understand this. They needed to see this. Because not long after this, what were they to do? They had to preach the cross. They had to preach the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ There's a second reason why Jesus emphasized this, so that the disciples themselves would learn self-denial. They would learn humility. They would learn to serve others This is what Jesus is teaching them. The last shall be first, and the first shall be last. The right attitude of service to Jesus is with selflessness. with sacrifice. They were to follow in the example of Jesus Christ. And so Jesus had to do this. He had to go to the cross. He had to die. This is why we have salvation, beloved. Because Jesus on the cross took the wrath of the Father upon himself for sin, for our sins. Jesus was sinless. And all of our sins was placed on Him. And He was willing to bear our sins on the cross. No one sacrificed more than Jesus did. No one. In verse 18, it says, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. This is for emphasis. Pay attention is what he's saying to the disciples. Look, I'm going to the cross. But then notice in verse 18 where it says, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed. Notice the we there. Grant Osborne writes this. The switch to the first person we shows the disciples must go through it with them. In other words, Jesus is calling the disciples to share in this life of self-denial. This is the way of the cross. This is what we're called to do, to stand with him He was calling them to be last just like he was. So he says, we are going to Jerusalem, and I'm going to the cross. And so this was an amazing thing here for the disciples to try to get this. And this is what God calls us to. If you're a follower of Jesus Christ, what did Jesus say in Matthew 16? Pick up your cross and follow me. I'm calling you also to a life of self-denial. Follow my example in this. It's a path of sacrifice, but also it's a path of suffering. Now the disciples didn't quite get this, and just to illustrate it, notice what happens in the next part. It's a path of suffering. Look in verse 20. Talk about bad timing here. Look at verse 20. Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshiping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. Here, Jesus just told them about what he was going to go through. He was going to be crucified, he was going to be flogged. He was going to sacrifice his life. And right after he's done saying that, James and John try this political power play to try to be the greatest in the kingdom. I mean this is really incredible. You know, the tactic that they use here is to use their mother. Here comes the mother of James and John, and notice the request that she has. First she worships as she bows down. She recognizes who Jesus is. And the good news about this is she knows he's the Son of God. And she knows that he's going to fulfill everything he said. And she knows that he's the king in his kingdom. The very fact that she would come and make this request, that's the good news. But that's where the good news ends, right there. She says, Lord, I want you to do something for me, and the parallel account of Mark 1035 It says, teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. They're asking for a yes before they even ask what it is. Lord, just grant us this request. Give us what we ask. You know, it sounds like my children sometimes asking me for things. Dad, give me this one thing. Well, what is it? What do you want? And they want a yes before the request. This was a request for a blank check from Christ. And verse 21, and he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit the one on the right hand, the other on the left, in thy kingdom. Wow, what a request. She requests that her sons have the highest positions of importance when Jesus inaugurates his kingdom reign. Granted, one of my sons sit on your right and the other on the left. The right hand was the seat of honor, typically reserved for the most important people. The left was just beneath that. And so this was just an incredible request that she makes here. Now, keep in mind that Jesus had already promised that the twelve would sit on thrones judging over Israel. He already promised that in Matthew 19. Remember we read that? You're going to sit on thrones, whatever sacrifices you make here, you're going to get it back one hundredfold in the kingdom. This is an investment into the kingdom of God. That wasn't enough for James and John. They wanted something more than that They wanted to be the greatest in the kingdom. And they get their mother to make this request. Why is that? Because The mother of James and John, most New Testament scholars believe was a woman named Salome, and this was the sister of Mary. Jesus' mother. And so James and John were first cousins, you could say. And so they thought, you know, if mom S, who is the sister of Jesus' mother Mary There's a family tie there. Surely, for Mary's sake, Jesus will give us what we ask. That's not what happens. And so Jesus his response is telling here, and look at verse twenty-two. But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what you ask. I mean, I think there's a sense in which Jesus is amazed that they would ask such a bold thing here. You don't know what you're asking. You're asking for greatness in the kingdom. But don't you understand, and this is the principle that Jesus gives, greatness in the kingdom is directly related to suffering. The more you suffer here now, the greater you're going to be in the kingdom. So to ask to be greatest in the kingdom is really asking to suffer a lot right now. Aren't you glad that God doesn't answer some of our requests? Some of the things that we pray for, we don't really know what we're asking. And this is what is going on here. You have delusions of grandeur about glory and greatness, but you don't understand that what you're asking for is to suffer the way I suffer. Look in verse 22 again, he says, Are you able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? And they said unto him, We are able. Now they say that there's no such thing as stupid questions. That's questionable. But I know that there are such things as stupid answers. And this is a stupid answer right here. Oh, we're able. We can endure whatever you endure. Really? You think so? Are you able to dr drink of the cup? Jesus uses two analogies here for suffering. Cup, scripture, th uses this analogy throughout talking about suffering. Jesus would drink the cup of suffering. He would, again, take upon himself our sins If someone asked, why did Jesus have to suffer so much? Because our sins were so heinous in the sight of God. He took that cup upon himself. And then he also compares it to baptism here. This is not water baptism. The word baptism here means fully immersed. overwhelmed. Are you able to be baptized in suffering the way I am going to be fully immersed in suffering? Are you able to do that? Again, they don't know what they're asking. Their answer to Jesus really demonstrates that, that they did not know what they were saying. In fact, later on, when Jesus is arrested, they're gonna all gonna run They're going to run and hide. And and by the way, when they said, Yeah, we're able, then Jesus, look at verse 23. And he said to them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism baptized with. But to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give. In other words, Jesus was saying, Yeah, you're going to suffer some. No question about that. The very fact that you're identified with me That you confess me, that you're one of my disciples, that means you are going to suffer some. Are you okay with that, beloved? Because it seems like in the American church today, what we want is a kind of Christianity where we don't have to suffer at all. And it's okay to be associated with Jesus as long as Jesus gives us what we want. But to suffer for his name's sake, to be associated with Jesus and have to suffer the reproaches of the gospel, we want the rewards of the gospel without the reproaches of the gospel. That's not the way it works, beloved. If you're going to follow Jesus Christ, if you're going to take up his cross, you have to be willing to suffer with him. You have to be willing to stand with them. You have to be willing to drink some of that cup of suffering. You have to be willing to be baptized some, and James and John would. In fact, James will be the first martyr of the church. He'll be beheaded by Herod. John would later suffer being put on an island in isolation under the reign of Diocletian there in the Isle of Patmos and so on But then Jesus says, look, but to sit on my right hand and on my left, that's not mine to give. It shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father, this will be the Father's choice to exalt those in positions of greatness in the kingdom, and it'll be according to their faithfulness to Christ. Their faithfulness to the gospel. Well, notice the reaction of the other ten uh ten, verse twenty-four. And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. That's an understatement. They were really, really mad. They were mad that, you know, in this race for greatness, James and John kinda he thought they got there first, so they they were probably mad because they didn't think of doing something like that. Because again, they're all competing for honor, they're all competing for glory, they still all want to be first. And and so they're angry about this. But again, if you compare You know what Jesus says here to some of the greatest saints in Scripture, what you're going to find are they all had to suffer some for the sake of the gospel of Christ. Let me give you the last thing quickly. The path to glory is the path of sacrifice. The path to glory is a path of suffering. But then also it's a path of service. Path of service. Look what Jesus says in verse 25. But Jesus called them unto him. And said, Now there's a little rift here among the disciples, a little bit of feuding going on because of this. You can just imagine, you know, so Jesus says, come on over here guys, huddle up. All right, let's take care of this. He's going to use this as a teachable moment. I really want to emphasize this, guys. Look what he says in verse this next private meeting with the disciples. Verse 25, ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them and They that are great exercise authority upon them, but it shall not be so among you. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your what, your minister Let him be your servant. Let him be your slave. Again, Jesus wants to emphasize it's totally opposite in the kingdom of God. He talks about the rulers of the Gentiles. They're always wanting to exercise authority and talk, you know, like they have all this authority, exercise dominion, ruling harshly. Seeking greatness and power. Jesus said, You're trying to be like them. That's not what the kingdom of God is like. The servants are the ones that are greatest in the kingdom of God. It's not by ruling. It's by serving those that are servants, you see. And then he turns to himself as the greatest illustration of this. Look in verse number twenty-eight. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life what? A ransom for many. Again, I've came to make myself last. I came to serve. I didn't come to be served. I came to be a servant to all. I came to give my life for all, a ransom for many. That whole idea there of ransom. is the idea of a price uh to per a purchase price to release people from slavery. That's the word there. I've come to redeem you out of this prison of sin. I've come to die for you. Here Jesus gives his purpose statement. This is why I'm here. I'm here to be a servant. I'm here to give my life as a ransom for others. So that you will be saved, so that you can know the Lord Jesus Christ, so you can know salvation. And so This is the way to be first in the kingdom of God is to, first of all, come humbly to Jesus Christ and then to serve And be willing to pick up your cross and follow Christ. Now, right after this here, again, Jesus will go to Jericho, will heal. Uh two blind men. And uh from Jericho then he'll start his journey into Jerusalem. And then by the time you get to Matthew chapter twenty-one There Jesus is at Bethany and He's ready to go on that particular Sunday to present himself as the Messiah, the son of David, and that inaugurates, that begins the Passion Week when Jesus will make his march towards the cross. But we'll take we'll talk about more about this next week on Palm Sunday as we look at the life of Christ as he moves to the cross. Let's bow for prayer together. Father in heaven, how we thank you for the life of our Savior Jesus Christ. As we look at this narrative here today, we're reminded again of the great sacrifice that was paid, the great price that was paid for our sins. By our Savior, who came not seeking greatness, but came and took upon him the form of a servant. He laid aside his glory. And came to die in agony and pain for our sins that we might have salvation, that we might have eternal life And Lord, how we thank you for that. Help us, Lord, as we study these narratives, see the life of our Savior, to love our Savior more. To follow in his example of picking up the cross, of sacrifice, of suffering, being willing to suffer if we have to for the sake of the gospel. And service, humble service for others. Lord, may we make ourselves last Because in your kingdom that's the way to first. That's the way to truly be great in your eyes. Not in the eyes of the world, but in your eyes. That's true greatness. Help us, Lord, to follow in that example. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, before we leave here today, I want to I want to throw out an invitation. It could be that you're here today and you've never come to Christ for salvation. And he came that you might be saved. He came to save sinners like me, like you. And friends, salvation is just simply turning to Christ, realizing it's all in Him, putting your faith in His finished work. It's coming to him and praying, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. I realize you came to die for my sin. Save me, Lord Jesus. Please make sure of your soul, friend. Make sure that you know Christ. Make sure that you're saved, that you're resting in his finished work and in his finished work alone. And then be willing to follow him. One sure sign that you're truly a believer is you're willing to pick up that cross. You're willing to pick it up and obey him and follow him. Are you willing? If you're not, maybe you need to examine whether you truly know him Father, bless your word to hearing hearts here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.