Thank you so much, Praise Team. Take God's word tonight, please. Open to the book of Zechariah, the Old Testament book of Zechariah. We'll be looking at this book on Wednesday night, and we're in chapter thirteen tonight. Chapter 13, and we're going to look at this chapter. And then next week we'll do chapter 14, and we'll be finished this book of Zechariah. Look in chapter 13, start down at verse number one. And in that day shall be a fountain, and in that day there shall be a fountain open to the house of David. to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for uncleanness. Throughout history there have been tales about a legendary fountain of youth that you can drink from. If you drink from it, you'll heal from all your sicknesses and you'll be young again. Wouldn't you like to find that fountain? There's been tales about it down through history. They f they found some of uh about this, something about this in the writings of Herodotus all the way back in the fifth century, early stories in the 11th and 12th century by crusaders that reported there being such a fountain like this. In the 1500s, the uh famous Spanish conquistador, Ponce de Leon, came to the New World seeking gold, and that was his kind of ambition and passion. But while he was in the area Indian tribes began to uh talk to him about this fountain of youth, and they convinced him that it was real, so much so that he gave up looking for gold and made it his passion to try to find this fountain of youth. Well, he obviously was unsuccessful because no fountain existed. So he died from a poison arrow in 1521. Now while the stories of the fountain of youth are legend, There is a story about a fountain that is very, very real. And it is a fountain that will give eternal life to all those that find it. Or uncleans by it. And this is the fountain that God has graciously provided all sinners to be cleansed so that they can be His holy people. And that's really what Zechariah chapter 13 is all about. It's all about this fountain, God's fountain. Now, chapter 12 and chapter 13 of Zechariah are um connected together. Chapter 12, verse 10, you remember that God promised to pour out on Israel the spirit of grace and supplication, so that they will look on me, God says, whom they have pierced. They will mourn for him as one that mourns for an only son. This is the salvation that will happen one day in the future when God's uh people Israel look to their Lord. And then in chapter thirteen, verse one, it begins in that day. It refers to that day of great mourning. So there's a connection between chapter 12 and chapter 13. Also, if you look in verse 1 of chapter 13, it talks about the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. We see that expression also in chapter 12, used there several times. So the primary interpretation of these verses is with reference to the Jews. Both chapters refer again to the house of David, the inhabitants of Jerusalem. So just prior to the second coming, God will pour out his Spirit on Israel, so much so that they will recognize their Messiah. And they will the Bible says, as as Paul would later put it in Romans 11, all Israel will be saved. But you know, even though the primary reference is to Israel, this also applies to us. Since the Gentiles have now been made partakers of the new covenant, we also can, through the gospel uh claim these promises. This applies to all people. For us as well as for the Jews, God has opened a fountain. for cleansing, a fountain of for cleansing from sin and impurity. Everyone who's dirty, everyone who's defiled by sin can come to God's fountain for cleansing. Now I want you to notice just three basic simple things about this fountain tonight from our passage. First of all, number one, think with me about the provision of God's fountain. Again, this is God's provision, and it's a provision for sinful humanity. We are sinful people, beloved. The Bible says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. If we compare ourselves with others, we might not think that we're all that sinful. In fact, the problem today with people is that they just don't look at themselves as being sinful. They don't think there's anything wrong with them. In fact, people like to compare themselves with others who are a whole lot worse than they are. And if you do that, you don't look so bad. I'm cleaner than the people that hang out in bars, people reason. I I'm cleaner than my neighbor who doesn't go to church at all. I'm cleaner than my family members who have a lot of faults. I can tell you all about their faults I'm cleaner than those hypocrites that go to my church. Sure, I've got my faults, but I'm not filthy. And the reason people think that way is because they're using the wrong standard to measure themselves. Paul said it to the Corinthians one time in 2 Corinthians 10, he said, you know, comparing yourselves among yourselves is not wise. That's not the standard that you are to compare yourself with. The standard is God's holiness. And Isaiah chapter 6, when Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, he saw God in all of his holiness. He heard the angels proclaiming: Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The first response that Isaiah had was, What? Woe is me, for I am undone. I'm a man of unclean lips. You see, when you see God as holy, you will see yourself as filthy. In fact, that's one of the first evidences that God's Spirit is at work in your life, that you recognize your sinfulness in the presence of a holy God. I was talking to someone on the phone and they were just mourning over their sin and talking about how sinful they felt and and I said to them, man, you're in such a good place to be. And they were like, what? I said, you're in a great spot. Because if you can see that about yourself, that is a work of the Holy Spirit of God. Opening your eyes to see your need. Why? So that you will run to Christ. So that you will run to him in salvation. Notice three things about God's provision. God's fountain is supplied graciously. Again, in verse number one, God's fountain is for sin and cleansing. Now Israel doesn't deserve this fountain. They didn't deserve his mercy and grace. Remember Zechariah chapter eleven, how Israel rejected the Messiah that God sent. It was a prophecy about them um selling or betraying their messiah for thirty pieces of silver. And then in chapter twelve, verse ten, they'll pierce their messiah. That's prophecy about uh the the Jesus being pierced on the cross. Even though it was a Roman soldier that would later fulfill this prophecy and pierce the side of Jesus, God said it was it was Israel that pierced their Messiah. Because it was their sins that put Jesus on the cross cross. We need to include ourselves in this. This was our sins that put Jesus there. Israel didn't deserve the mercy of God. We don't deserve the mercy of God. But God in his abundant grace provides it anyway. That's grace. In verse one, the word sin means to come short or to miss. It used it's used of sins against others in God. Uncleanness means to be shunned or It spoke of moral defilement, and together these words show that we've all missed God's standard of holiness in our relationship with others, and our relationship to Him, and our sins are repugnant or offensive to Almighty God. To try to cover our sins with our good works would be like putting on clean clothes over a filthy body. It's not going to work. If we're to be forgiven and cleansed, it can only be through the grace of God. It's like the songwriter Augustus Toplady wrote, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. Naked come to thee for dress. Helpless look to thee for grace. Foul, I too the fountain fly. Wash me, Savior, or I die But here's another thing, God's fountain is multiplied inexhaustibly. Again in verse 1 where it says, In that day there shall be a fountain open. That phrase there opened is a is kind of a it's not a simple verb that's used there in the Hebrew. It's the to be verb plus a participle The effect of this would be that it's not talking about a single act of opening, but rather a continuous state in which the fountain is open once, but it just continues to flow. That's the idea. So a good way to translate this would be: there shall be a fountain open that stays open. That it continually flows. That's the idea there. In other words, this fountain will never run dry. Aren't you glad that God's grace never ever runs dry? The fountain just keeps flowing. I was reading about a a place in Israel's Negev Desert, a few miles. from the Sinai Peninsula that they say that there's a spring there that bubbles out of a cliff that trickles down into a deep green pool uh in the valley of Zen and the Israelis call it Ain Ad Ain Adat and it's an it's a ancient spring that uh provides perfection for a lot of nomads still in that area and and the idea is the tradition is is that this spring was there all the way back in Moses day and it may have even provided water for Moses and the Israelites. Thousands of years ago. And this spring has just been running all that time. And it's fed by huge aquifers that keep that are underground that just keep the water flowing continually. And that is a picture of God's inexhaustible fountain for sin and uncleanness. It just keeps flowing and flowing and flowing. It's inexhaustible in its supply. Now you might be thinking, well, you don't know how terrible my sins are. Well I don't, but God does. And that's why he's opened this inexhaustible fountain for the cleansing of our sins. There are some people that think their sins are just too great that God can't cleanse them, but that's not true. That's what the devil would have you to believe. God's fountain will cleanse any sin. Where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. And then there's a third thing, God's fountain is applied individually. Notice where it says to the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem The house of David speaks of Israel as a whole. The inhabitants of Jerusalem speaks of each person individually. So the fountain must be applied personally. Individually. Remember, this is kind of the idea. If you look just above verse one of chapter thirteen to chapter twelve verse fourteen where it says, All families that remain, every family apart, and their wives apart, and we see this same expression apart, apart, every family apart, every wife apart. And verses 12 and 13 as well in chapter 12. And as we pointed out last week, this this is talking about applying this to your life personally. I I can't be cleansed for my family. They have to do it individually for themselves Every person individually, personally has to come to God's fountain to receive God's cleansing And so we see here then the provision of God's fountain. But here's number two, the purpose of God's fountain. Why does God provide this fountain of cleansing for Israel? The whole end of God's goal here is for holiness from his people. God wants his people to be holy. That's the purpose. The cleansing should lead us to separation from sin. Now look at verse 2, and it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord of hosts. Notice the expression in that day. Look at verse number 4. And it shall come to pass in that day. Again, we see that expression repeated in that day. That refers to the time just prior to the second coming of Jesus to earth. The time when he will make Israel, or excuse me, make Jerusalem a cup of trembling. to the people round about, to the nations that want to destroy or come against her. At that time, the Jewish people as we said before, will mourn over their sin of crucifying their Messiah. And God says at that time, when salvation comes to Israel, the next step will be he will cut off all idolatry out of the land. He'll cut off all false prophets out of the land that are inspired by unclean spirits or by the devil And so what's the what's the point? That when God cleanses and saves, it's for the purpose of holiness When God saves you, he's not done with you. He's just beginning with you. The next process in your life is a lifelong process, and that is the process of sanctification and holiness. So notice some principles we can learn about sanctification, radical separation from sin. I mean the thrust of these verses that we're look- what we see here, verses 3 on down to verse 7. The thrust of these verses is that having received God's cleansing from sin, there has to be a zealous separation from every form of sin. This is the idea. It's like Paul said in the New Testament, having these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all defilement of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. We don't continue in sin that grace may abound. No, we walk in holiness. Now, as you study the history of Israel, there were two besetting sins in the life of Israel. Can you guess what they were? I'm sorry, what? Idolatry. Give that man an extra bulletin. Idolatry and the other one was uh along with idolatry was uh false prophets. They seemed to give an ear to false prophets. Now here Zechariah says that both of these sins will be radically dealt with in that time. Idolatry in verse 2, idols will be cut off. God said in verse 2, I will cut off the names of idols. God hates idolatry. He forbiding the second commandment. Idolatry is making a God to suit your own tastes. Now in the Old Testament, they made their own God out of their hands. They s they fashioned the God that they wanted that suited them. In today's world, we make a God out of with our mind. We make up our own God in our mind. If we don't like the God that's being revealed in the Bible, we have a tendency to say, Well, my God And we make up our own God. But you don't you don't have the luxury of doing that. Some people say, I don't I don't like to think of my God as a judge. I like to think of him as a loving father Again, you're guilty of idolatry because you're making God after your own image. You aren't free to pick and choose which attributes of God that you like and which ones you don't like. Alright? We must submit to the revelation of God. Any deviation from that is idolatry. But then God also talks about false prophets. Coupled with idolatry is false prophecy or false teaching. And Satan is always behind this. Look at verse 3. And it shall come to pass that when any shall yet prophesy. Then his father and his mother that begot him shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live, for thou speakest lies in the name of the Lord. And his father and his mother that begot him shall thrust him through when he prophesies Wow, that's pretty that's pretty pharaoh, isn't it? So it gives an illustration of how radically False prophecy will be purged from the land. According to the Old Testament, false prophets were to be killed, Deuteronomy 13. And during this time, if anyone dares to speak a false prophecy or claims to be a prophet speaking for God, then parents with holy zeal will take care of business themselves and r and and run him through, pierce him through in verse number three. And God is commending the holy zeal of parents Where it says thrust him through. It's the same Hebrew word used for piercing the Messiah in chapter 12, verse number 11. Now the Jews would immediately recognize this, if they were uh knowledgeable about the law in Deuteronomy 13, 6-11, Moses directed that if your brother or your son or your daughter or your wife you cherish or your friend who is as your own soul entice you to serve other gods You're not to listen to him in that passage. And then Moses said you're not to have pity or spare or conceal, but rather kill him. That it now that's not to suggest that we're to apply this Commandment literally here today, you know, we're not a theocracy nation bound like laws like Israel was, but this is an example Of how God hates false prophets and false prophecies and false teaching, and how thorough we are to be in purging that from us, what God expects. Why? Because false teaching is destructive to souls. It damns souls. So we must love God. We must love his word. This reminds me of what Jesus said in the New Testament. If your right eye offends you, what? Pluck it out If your right hand offends you what? Cut it off. Obviously, Jesus is using hyperbole there to get across his point. We have to be thorough when dealing with sin in our life. We have to be thorough in dealing with false prophecy. But notice how it continues in verse number four. And it shall come to pass in that day that the prophets shall be ashamed. Every one of his vision when he hath prophesied, neither shall they wear a rough garment to deceive. But he shall say, I am no more prophet, I am a husbandman. For man taught to me to keep cattle from my youth. And one shall say unto him, What are these work wounds in thy hands? And then he shall answer those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends So what's happening here? Again, Zechariah further illustrates how God's going to purge the land of false prophets. These men will be ashamed and will put off their hairy robes, the garments of a prophet, or uh these were the w the garments they wore to let other people know they were prophets. And they're going to put off those garments. And if someone says to them, hey, aren't you that prophet so-and-so? And they're going to say, oh no, no, I'm not a prophet. I'm a farmer. I'm a farmer. Um now there's two different interpretations of this. Uh one says that they're just lying to save their life. And there's another interpretation that says, no, they've honestly genuinely repented, and they're taking a new direction, a new way. But whatever you however you interpret that, the idea is God is purging from the land false prophets. And verse 6, if someone notices a wound on their hands or a scar on their bodies, which they probably got by inflicting themselves by worshiping their idols. Then they'll say, well, this w no, this wound was inflicted by a family member or a friend. Um in other words, they w we were being disciplined by our family member, by our friend. That's why I have this wound. And so again, they're either lying or they are expressing genuine repentance, and they've turned from idols, and they're now renouncing idolatry and turning to God But here's the whole overall point, don't miss it. God wants you and I to be radical in purging ungodly influences out of our life. He wants us to be radical in that. Get it out. That's how sanctification takes place. But here's point number two. Also through spiritual sanctification, through trials. Through trials. God wants us to radically separate from sin, but also trials is what he uses. Look in chapter 13, look in verse number 7, the second part of verse 7, where it says, and I will turn my hands upon the little ones. And it shall come to pass that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts therein shall be cut off and die, and the third part shall be left therein, and I will bring the third part through the fire, and I will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. Then shall call they shall call upon my name, and I will hear them. I will say it is my people. And they shall say the Lord is my God. So here he's describing how God is going to allow Israel to go through the fires of trials. Why? So that they will run to the Lord. They will depend upon the Lord in a greater way, and they'll say, He's my God, and God will say, These are my people. You know, that's what happens when a trial comes, isn't it? Now again, he's talking here about right after the shepherdess struck down This refers to the initial response of the apostles when Jesus is arrested. That's in verse 7. We'll look at that in a minute. But beyond that, it refers to the uh I I think two applications. I think it refers to seventy AD when Jerusalem will be destroyed. Israel will go through a great trial then. When God says he will turn his hand up against the little ones. That phrase can also be translated, bring my hand back over the little ones. It's used to express judgment at times. But I think also that this is a this it will apply to the remnant of Jewish people during the tribulation period that go through such a difficult trial and they turn to the Lord. Uh so that's I think the two-thirds parts that's mentioned is a general term for the majority. They will perish, but God will bring the third part through the fire to refine them. The final result is Again, they will call upon my name and I will answer them. I will say, They are my people, and they will say the Lord is my God. Now again, while the primary interpretation And application of this goes to the people of Israel during that time, we can't neglect also that this applies to us as well. God at times will take us through fiery trials to purge us. To do his work of sanctification. And he promises to preserve us through those refining fires. It's not going to be easy. It's going to be difficult. It always is when we go through a trial. It'll be painful, it will be hard, but God promises to preserve us so that in the end, when we go through that trial, we will share His holiness. I know that you can say with me that while affliction is never pleasant, and it is difficult during such times, but at that time we call upon the Lord with more intensity than at other times. Is that true? When we go through trials, we call upon the Lord and He'll answer and He gives assurance that we are truly His. That's part of what God does in trials. He affirms that we are genuinely His children. And we run to him more than ever. It's like the words of the hymn, How great a foundation. When through fiery trials thy pathway shall lie, my grace all sufficient shall be thy supply. The flames will not hurt thee. I only design thy dross to consume, thy gold to refine. Now let me give you the last thing here. We looked at the provision of God's fountain. God provides it graciously for all And the purpose of God's fountain. The end result is God wants holiness from his people. But here's number three, the prophecy of God's fountain. And this is an incredible prophecy that we see here in verse number seven. God is going to open this fountain. How will he do it? By killing his shepherd. Look at verse 7. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts. Smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. Again, this is another incredible prophecy that was literally fulfilled during the earth's our Lord's earthly ministry, the first advent. This is a reference to Jesus' passion and his death on the cross. You say, how do we know that? Well, because Jesus quoted this verse on his way to Gethsemane with his disciples. Jesus referred to this very thing. Write down Matthew 26, verse 31. Then saith Jesus unto them, And ye shall be offended because of me this night. For it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. Jesus is quoting directly out of Zechariah here. He referred to this again when he was arrested in the garden in Matthew twenty six, verse fifty-six. But now notice in verse seven the expression, Against the man that is my fellow. Again read it with me. Awake, O sword, against my shepherd. And against the man that is my fellow that's an interesting expression. And the Hebrew word translated here um who uh The man that is my fellow or the man who stands next to me, it's used in other places in the Old Testament. It's translated neighbor, but the word indicates a close relationship. And so when the Lord refers to a shepherd in this way, it's in a positive way, not in a negative. So some translations translate like this: my associate, my companion. My uh partner who is close to me, even my friend. So think of it that way in verse 7. A wake old sword against my companion. A wake old sword against my friend, my close associate. It means someone who is an equal. Someone who is an equal. Now remember, God's doing the talking here, right? So who can be equal to God? That's the thing you have to ask yourself. The great German scholar Kyle says God would not apply this epitaph to any godly or ungodly man who he may have appointed shepherd over a nation. He goes on to say Community of physical or spiritual descendant, the man the one whom God calls his neighbor cannot be a mere man, but can only be one who participates in the divine nature or is essentially divine. You get where I'm going here? This associate of God, this has to refer to the shepherd who is equal to God. This is a prophecy about Jesus being God. And Jesus would speak of himself as the good shepherd who would lay down his life for the sheep. And right in that context, Jesus will say this: I and the Father are what? One. I and the Father are one. So y and the Jews recognized exactly what he said. Because what does the Bible say they wanted to do right after Jesus said that? They picked up stones they wanted to what? Stone them, right? They should have fallen at his feet and worshipped him. But the Lord Almighty says, My sword, wake up! Wake up, my sword, and attack my shepherd, my equal, my companion. And so these verses reveal what? It was God the Father that killed his son on the cross, that put his son to death. The sword here speaks of the wrath of God the Father. The sword of the Father fell upon the Son on the cross. That's the whole idea. And so Jesus took the wrath on the cross that should have fallen upon you and me. And so this is an amazing, amazing passage of Scripture. Again, it was God the Father that put his son on the cross because he wanted his son to bear the sins of the world, and Jesus became our willing substitute. Now you say, well, now wait a minute, it was evil men that put Jesus on the cross, and that is true. They did according to their own sinful desires and choices. They did what they wanted to do, and yet what they chose to do was fulfill the purpose and plan of God. And that's why we can call God both the just and the justifier, because he put his son on the cross who would be the propitiation for our sins. And so thus Zachariah shows that we all need God's fountain. To cleanse us from our sins. So we see the provision of God's fountain, we see the purpose and the prophecy of God's fountain William Cooper was a friend of John Newton. John Newton wrote to him Amazing Grace, I'm sure you know that. William Cooper was born into the home of an English clergyman. He was educated in private schools. He earned a degree in law. But William Cooper was a man who struggled with depression and anxiety all his life. And that depression was brought about by three traumatic experiences that took place in his life. The first was His mother died when he was only six years old. And that experience was so traumatic. It caused him to be so emotionally unstable all of his life. This incident at such an early age caused him to go into bouts of depression, and it left him unable to deal with many things in life It affected him really for the rest of his life. The other traumatic thing that happened to him was at the age of twenty-one, he fell in love with a woman, but the woman's father refused to allow her to marry him. And this again plunged him into depression. And then later his father died. And right on the heels of that, his stepmother. And then right after that, his closest friend drowned. And then after that he he was practicing to be a lawyer, and doors had opened to him for a great opportunity, but He had to make a a a public speech and he was so gripped by fear that he could not speak. In fact, all of his life he uh he had a problem with uh Stuttering and he wasn't very good at speaking and he couldn't perform and because of this the door shut and he didn't get that position and this for William Cooper just again plunged him into terrible darkness. He felt he wrote he felt that he was under God's wrath And all of these circumstances together led to a complete breakdown, a mental breakdown. His brother committed him to an insane asylum in London. These were not good places to go. They really just put him in a dungeon there by himself. But while he was there, William Cooper found a way to treat himself. Because he found the Bible and he began to read the Bible. As a child, he had a spiritual upbringing from his father and his mother. But it wasn't until this point in his life when he was at his darkest That he began to consider having a relationship with Christ and what all that meant, the things that his father and mother told him when he was a child. And so he began reading the Bible. And one day he read Romans 325, whom God has set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. And finally, William Cooper understood that Christ's atoning sacrifice sufficiently covered all of his sin. And he recalled at that moment he wrote, I could only look up to heaven in silent fear, overwhelmed with love and wonder. And he was soundly converted to Christ on that day and delivered from the burden of guilt. That burden of guilt caused much of his emotional trauma Now he still wrestled with depression, but now he found a source in Christ that would help him through those dark times. Now he later met John Newton. John Newton invited William Cooper to come and stay with him and live with him. And John Newton found out that William Cooper was a gifted poet and and songwriter and he encouraged him to write down his thoughts. Write down, you know What's on your heart? Make it into help me to write some hymns. And William Cooper did just that. And one day he was reading Zechariah 13, 1. This very passage. In that day there shall be a fountain open. And he knew that that fountain was Jesus Christ. And so he picked up his pen and he wrote, There is a fountain filled with blood. Drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunge beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stain. Ere since by faith I saw the stream, thy flowing wound supplied, Redeeming love has been my theme, and shall be till I die. And it wasn't long after he wrote this hymn that he did die on April the 25th, 1800. But what helped William Cooper through many difficult sorrows Was knowing God's fountain. Have you come in faith to God's fountain, the Lord Jesus Christ? And allow his shed blood to cleanse you from all of your sin and all of your impurity. Are you regularly confessing sin, forsaking sin? Are you looking daily to Jesus, the Good Shepherd? Who is your help, your sanctification? Are you striving to grow in holiness? Are you submitting to God as He refines you through the trials, calling you out? Affirming that you are his, you are definitely his, and he's doing his work of holiness in your life. And if you feel dirty, remember, God's fountain is open daily, doesn't have business hours. That fountain is always open, always available. Let's bow for prayer together. Every head bowed, every eye closed. So, Father, thank you for our refuge in Christ, our hope, our strength, our all is Christ. Thank you for that precious fountain filled with blood. And Lord, may we see it by faith. And may we say with William Cooper: Redeeming love has been my theme. And it shall be till I die. Bless your word to hearing hearts tonight, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen