We've been looking at the book of Ruth on Sunday nights and Wednesday nights, and I want you to look at the book of Ruth, chapter number four, tonight, Ruth chapter four, and we come really to the close of this story, the end of it And it talks about our Redeemer. It points to our Redeemer, the one who is going to come, the one that we have been singing about. I heard about a little boy who went into a pet store with his dad. They were going to buy a puppy. You know, dogs are wonderful when they're puppies And um and so they there was a box of puppies there, and there was one little puppy that was just wagging his hog, or his hog Wagging his tail back and forward. He was just a happy little guy. And the dad said, Which puppy do you want? He said, I want the one with the happy ending That's what I want. Well the story that we're going to look at here tonight has a happy ending. It doesn't start happily, but it ends happily. In fact, the book of Ruth starts with three funerals, but it's going to end with a wedding It starts with a famine, but it's going to end in fullness. You know, the Bible says weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. And we certainly see this in this story here. In fact In chapter 4 at the end of the story, we could just write in They Live Happily Ever After, because really that's the kind of story it is. It's a story about Ruth. We learned a little bit about her and how she's going to marry a man by the name of Boaz. And it is a happy ending. It's a happy ending not only for them but for us. The very fact that they are together and from that union will come a child. And from that child will come King David, and from King David will come the Messiah, the Savior to this world. And really the whole story here in Ruth points to Christmas These things had to happen. This was part of God's redemptive plan in order for us to have a Messiah. And I want us to look then in chapter 4. Now In each of the chapters that we studied, I notice a key word in each chapter. In chapter one, the key word was emptiness. Naomi left Moab empty. Her husband Elimelech had died. Her two sons, Chileon and Melon, had died. She leaves Moab empty, but God is going to bring her fullness. In chapter two, the key word was grace. When they came to Bethlehem, Naomi and Ruth didn't have anything. And Ruth went out to glean in the field, and she was looking for grace. She said, per adventure someone will show me grace, well, and let me glean in their field so they can get food. She went seeking grace, and of course she found it in Boaz. In chapter 3, the key word was rest. In chapter 3, Naomi knows that Ruth has to find rest, and she goes looking for rest for Ruth. Now the key word here in chapter 4 is redeem, is the word redeem. In fact, look in chapter 4, look down in verse number 4. I just want to read this verse to show you how many times we see that word. Look at verse 4. And I thought to advertise these, saying, Buy it before the inhabitants And before the elders of my people, if thou wilt redeem it, redeem it. But if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me that I may know for there is none other to redeem it besides thee, and I am after thee. And he said, I will Redeem it. So see how many times we see that word. We're going to see it a lot in chapter 4. This chapter is where Boaz becomes the kinsman redeemer. Now remember I told you about that law in Israel. If a man dies and he doesn't have any children and perhaps his land has gone into bankruptcy or someone else has got a lien on his land and they're holding it And uh this man uh now he's dead. What can his widow do? Well, there was the law of the kinsman redeemer, his brother, some relative in the family, the nearest kinsman, has the opportunity to buy back that land, then to marry the widow and have children, raise up children for his brother, for his brother's name. Now we see that this is a key to understanding the story, and we already saw how in chapter one, uh, Naomi, her husband, dies. Her two children die, and Naomi and Ruth come back to Bethlehem. Ruth is also a widow. She was married to Malon, one of Naomi's sons. And now they need a kinsman redeemer. And this part of the story is when Boaz will step up and he will become that redeemer. But something has to happen So I want you to notice with me four parts to this story. If you're taking notes, write down number one, a legal summons. A legal summons, because what we're going to read in the first few verses is a legal gathering, and it involves the nearer kinsman who's named in this story. You see, Boaz wants to be the kinsman redeemer But he realizes that there's a nearer kinsman who is first on the list, someone nearer than him. In fact, look in chapter 3, look in verse number 12. And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman. He's talking to Ruth here. This is when Ruth went to ask him to be the kinsman redeemer. Remember, she just lays at his feet. And it's a humble way of saying, please cover me with your garment so that I can find refuge under you. And his response is, I know it is true, I am a near kinsman, howbeit There is a kinsman nearer than I. That is to say, Ruth, I will be the kinsman redeemer. However, first there's someone nearer than me who has the first right to a kinsman redeemer. We need to go see how it is with him. We're going to find out whether he wants to do it. And if he doesn't want to do it Then I'll do it. That's what we come to in chapter 4. Because here in chapter 4, Boaz then goes to the gate. Look at verse 1. Then went Boaz up to the gate. And sat him down there. And behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by. Now, I want you to see, first of all, this is an unnamed relative. Boaz goes to the gate. You say, why does he go to the gate? Well, for several reasons. You know, people that went out into the field would have to pass by this gate. If they went out into the field or came back, they would have to go through the city gate. And so this was a very well traveled place. If you wanted to find someone, if you stood by that gate, chances are you were going to find them. And also the city gate was the place where Legal transactions took place. Disputes were settled. Conflicts were taken care of there. Judgments were made. And so this was the place of a legal transaction. And also, in order for this to happen, Boaz was going to need about ten witnesses. And so It would be a good chance for him not only to find the near kinsmen, but also to find ten elders that would serve as witnesses to the business they're about to transact right there at that gate. And sure enough, while he's there at the gate, He finds this near kinsman in verse 1. And behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by, unto whom he said, Ho such a one! Now when we want to get someone's attention today, we don't say, hey, how such a one. That's not how we do it today. Now, and actually here, the Hebrew reads, Poloni Almoni. And you say, well, why is that important? Well, this is just an expression that is used in certain contexts in Hebrew to let everyone know that the person being addressed, the writer doesn't want anybody to know who it is His name is to be kept a secret. And so the narrator knows the name of this person, but he's not going to give it to us. He's going to keep his name hidden. So we don't know who this near kinsman is. That's why sometimes you'll read different translations and they'll translate this different ways. Some will say, Ma hey, my friend, or hey, hey you, or hey so-and-so. Come over here and sit down We don't know his name. And again, the writer wants it to be that way. You say, why would the narrator want to keep this man's name a secret? Well, think about what he passes up Think about the fact that he has a chance to be in the line of David that, you know, you can almost see his descendants shaking their heads, saying, man, what were you thinking? You could have been the Kinsley Redeemer, uh, but you didn't. And so his name is hidden from us And then also, so he tells this man, he finds the near kinsman, he says, hey, would you sit down here for a minute, friend? And look at verse number two. And he took ten men of the elders of the city. And he said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down. And so negotiations begin with these ten. Now why he chose ten, it's not stated. Centuries later, ten became the number necessary for witnesses at a Jewish marriage. And also a quorum for any sanctuary meeting. And so we see this unnamed man then, this near kinsman, is approached. But also we're going to find out he's an unworthy redeemer Why? Well well because this man he has to be willing to redeem. And we're going to find out that he's not really willing. Now look at the strategy of Boaz. Look at verse 3. And he said unto the kinsman Naomi that has come again out of the country of Moab selleth a partial of land which was our brother Elimaleth's. And I thought it to advertise thee, saying, Buy it before the inhabitants and before the elders of my people, and if thou wilt redeem it, redeem it. But if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know, for there is none to redeem it besides thee, and I am after thee. And he said I will redeem it. So notice the first thing that Boaz does. He tells him about this land. Hey, there's land in the family. Elimelech died. And Naomi has this partial of land. Evidently, this was either sold or it was uh uh under some kind of a mortgage Or somewhere where she couldn't really get to it and she didn't have the money to buy it back. She was too poor. And Ruth was too poor to buy it back. And so he says, there's this land involved in the family. And by the way, this was one of the reasons for a kinsman redeemer. The purpose was to preserve the name and to protect the property of families in Israel. God owned the land and he didn't want it exploited by rich people and so that's the purpose for this law. In fact one commentator says this when obeyed these laws make sure that a dead man's family name did not die with him, that his property was not sold outside the tribe or the clan. And so Boaz explains the situation. He says to the man, you have first rights to redeem the land, to buy it back And the man says in verse 4, I'll buy it. I'll redeem it. No problem. I want to do this. And then Boaz slips in the stipulation. He says, Oh, by the way. You also have to take Ruth, the Moabitus. She comes with it. And you have to marry her, and you have to raise up children for the name of her dead husband. It's interesting to me that he kind of leaves that information to last. Oh, by the way, this is also something that you have to do. Barry Webb wrote this. Quote, fortunately for Boaz, however, this first Redeemer is not the romantic type. He's a money-wise, number-crunching, cool head, and looks at the situation in strictly business terms. If he goes ahead and and buys the field, he will have to marry Ruth. In the end, that means he's going to lose out. And he's right. You say why? Well, because If he buys the land, he'll have to support Ruth. Any benefit he gets from the land, he's going to have to use some of that to support a wife. And not only that, Ruth is going to bring Naomi with her. And so he's going to have to support Ruth and Naomi, and so any prophet from the land is going to have to pay for that. And besides that, he's going to have to have children with Ruth. And you know something about children, they cost money So he's going to have to pay for that, and then eventually that land will go to the firstborn child, and so in the end, he's not going to be able to get the land for himself And so he begins to think about that, and he looks at that, and he says, you know, eventually I'm going to lose out here. And so he says, you know what? This isn't worth it. In other words, the price was too high for him. Look in verse 5. Then said Boaz, what day that thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth, the Melabitus, the wife of the dead. To raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance in verse six and the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself Lest I mar mine own inheritance, redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. Notice where he says, I can't redeem it for myself. In other words, I'm not going to get any benefit out of this. How's this going to help me? What was he concerned about himself? He wasn't concerned about the family name Or doing what's right. He said, no, I can't redeem this for myself. He was kind of a selfish man. No wonder we don't know his name. His name is withheld, not given. Now I can't tell you who this man is, but I can tell you who he represents. You see, if Boaz represents the Lord Jesus, then he does. Jesus is our near kinsman. And we'll talk about that in a minute. Then who is this nearer kinsman? Let me tell you who I think he points to or represents. He represents Adam. You see, my real close relative is Adam. We're all related to Adam. Did you know that? All of us here Every person here tonight, you're related to Adam. We're all born of Adam. And the Bible says, in Adam all die. He is our nearer kinsman. You see. Now, remember a few weeks ago I was telling you about tracing down genealogies and and things like that. Well friend, you know, a lot of people have a lot of desire to do that, but I can just save you some time if you want to. I take you all the way back to the Garden of Eden and say we all are descendants of a corrupt farmer. And we all need help. And when God looks down upon humanity, he only sees two people. He sees Adam and Christ. And you're either in Adam or you're either or you're in Christ. That's it, one of the two. And you say, how does this man represent our near kinsman? Well, just as this man was selfish It was only concerned about himself and could not redeem or would not. It tells us that there's no redemption found in this Adamic nature that we have. You know, there are some people that would have that would have you to believe that w you know within your own nature, if you obey enough commands and you do enough good, that there's redemption found in your own But I want to tell you, dear friend, we're all children of Adam, and our Adamic nature cannot be redeemed. It cannot redeem itself, I should say. It can be redeemed by Jesus, but we can't redeem ourselves We just can't do it. Remember what Boaz did? He got ten elders as witnesses to testify about this nearer kinsman that he would not redeem. And you say, who do those ten witnesses remind us of? They remind us of the Ten Commandments. You see, the Ten Commandments testify that the Adamic nature cannot redeem You cannot redeem. We're all guilty of breaking all those commandments. I was teaching our Sunday school class this morning, Romans chapter 7. What does it teach us? Our relationship to the law is this. Once we come to Christ, we're not under the condemnation of the law anymore. The law can pinpoint sin. The law can proclaim sin, but the law can't purge us from sin. Only Jesus can do that. And friend, I want to tell you something. If you break one commandment, you've broken them all. All the law can do is call us a sinner. And so these ten witnesses, the ten commandments, all testify that we, in our idamic nature, we cannot redeem ourself. So we see number one, a legal summons, but I want you to write down number two a loving substitute. Notice the second part of this story. This is where Boaz comes in. This is where he becomes the worthy, willing redeemer, whereas the first near kinsman would not redeem. That selfish nature would not allow him to redeem Here Boaz comes along, and I want you to see, first of all, he replaces a person. Look in verse 7. Now, this was the manner in former times. in Israel, concerning redeeming and concerning changing. For to confirm all things a man plucked off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor. And this was a testimony in Israel. Now what happened? Well today when we want to make a legal transaction and it's finalized, what do we do today? Well we just sign papers. But that's not the way they did it back in this day When one person would not redeem the land and he let someone else do it, this is what they would do. This would be a dramatic gesture. A man would take off his shoe. And give it to the other man. So here, this nearer kinsman who's undained, what does he do? He takes off his shoe and he gives it to Boaz. And again, this was an old custom in Israel. And this was a very dramatic symbol. You say it was a symbol of what? Well, first of all, it was a symbol of ownership. And what this basically said is now Boaz has the right to walk on that land. Now Boaz has the right to claim that property. It was almost like giving him the title deed to the land and saying it's yours now. You can purchase this. I'm giving you the right of ownership. But also, it symbolizes substitution. You see, when the near kinsman handed Boaz his shoe, he was saying before all the witnesses, I'm not going to redeem. I can't redeem. Here, you take my place. You be the kinsman redeemer. You be my substitute. You stand in my shoes. Now this might be where we got that expression. You ever say, man, I'd hate to be in that guy's shoes? Or I would love to be in his shoes. Where if I were in his shoes, this is what I would do. Maybe this is where we get that And so this speaks of one person taking another person's place. And by the way, that's what Jesus did when he saved us. He was our substitute. He stands in our shoes. You realize, dear friend, that Jesus took all of the punishment upon himself that I deserved All of the wrath of Almighty God that I deserve because of my sin, Jesus stood in my shoes. He took it. He was my substitute. All the hell of also said Jesus, who is infinite, suffered in a finite period of time. What I, being finite, would suffer in an infinite period of time. All of the hell was unleashed on Jesus right there on the cross. He takes the price that I cannot pay, that you cannot pay. And you know what Jesus says to you tonight? I'll stand in your shoes. I will be your substitute. Just as Boaz stood in the shoes of that nearer kinsman who represents the old flesh, the adamic nature, Jesus stood in our shoes. He says, I will do for you what you cannot do for yourself. There was a a uh an old man who got saved and uh he he was kind of biblically illiterate. He didn't know a lot of terminology or theology. And he was being quizzed. He was saved. He was good and saved. And they asked him, they said, you know, what's it like to be saved now? He said, well I'm not sure I can really explain it. He said, but I can tell you this. It's like I'm standing in Jesus' shoes and he's standing in my shoes. I want to say something, friend, a theologian couldn't have said it better than that. He who knew no sin. became sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so here Boaz, he replaces a person And then I want you to see he redeems a person. Look at verse number nine. And Boaz said unto the elders and unto all the people, ye are witnesses this day that I have bought all that was a limelex. And all that was Chileons and Malons of the hand of Naomi, verse 10, moreover, Ruth and Moabitis, the wife of Malon, have I purchased to be my wife to raise up the name of the dead upon this his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren from the gate of his place And ye are witnesses this day. Notice where he says, I have bought, in verse number nine. Just underscore that. Verse 10, I have purchased. This is the principle of redemption. And again, this is the key to this chapter here in chapter 4. We see the words redeem or buy or purchase. at least 15 times. There can be no redemption unless the price is paid. A price has to be paid. So now Ruth and Naomi and the land were redeemed. And I want to tell you from their point of view it was free. But from Boaz's point of view, it was very costly. He paid the price. And you know what? From our point of view, salvation is free. And I want to tell you, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And the offer of the gospel is free. Friend, if you want to come, you just come. But I want to tell you, from our point of view, it's free, but from God's point of view, it was very costly. Very, very costly to pay that price. And so the near kinsman was willing to redeem. Boaz was willing to redeem now that near kinsman, he only wanted the land. But the price was too high to go any farther than that. He didn't want to pay that price. Thank God our Redeemer was willing. He was willing to pay the highest price. to redeem us. Now, so Boaz, he replaces a person, he redeems a person. But here's the third thing. He represents a person. And again I say he is a picture of the Lord Jesus. Remember, not just anybody could be the kinsman redeemer. You had to be a near kinsman. And again, that was the obstacle for Boaz. There was a near kinsman. And when that near kinsman was not willing to redeem, Boaz stepped up. And all this reminds us that Jesus, this is why Jesus came to earth. This is why we celebrate Christmas. God became a man. Why? That he might be our near kinsman and so that he could redeem us. That's the whole purpose. Of him taking upon flesh, becoming a man, the incarnation is what we call it. Hebrews 2, 14. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood. He also himself likewise took part of the same. And now the Bible calls Jesus our brother because he became a man that he might be our kinsman. He had to be a near kinsman That's why he became a man. He had to be able to pay the redemption price. And Boaz was able to pay. And Jesus, my friend, was able to pay. Nobody was richer than Jesus. And he was able to pay that price. Just write down 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19. And I want you to see that Jesus paid a much higher price than Boaz paid for Ruth. For as much as you know you were not redeemed with corruptible things, such as silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, as a lamb without blemish and without spot. How were we redeemed? Through the blood of Christ. The precious blood of Christ. Again, there's no redemption without the purchase price, and Jesus paid that purchase price, and it was a high price. An American astronaut was strapped into his rocket And and and he was ready to be launched and a he was being interviewed by someone on the radio and they said, How do you feel? He said, Well, how will you feel? He said, Here I am on top of this rocket. It's just basically a giant bomb with 150,000 parts. And it was built by the lowest bidder. You know what, dear friend? You were bought and paid for by the highest bidder Who paid the highest price. And he's going to take you all the way to heaven, not just the moon. He's going to take you all the way to heaven. This redeemer had to be willing, and Jesus was willing to redeem. Now, so we see a le a legal summons. Number two, we see a loving substitute. But write down number three, a life-changing salvation. A life-changing salvation. Because what happened? Look at verse 10. Moreover, Ruth the Moabites. The wife of May Malon have I purchased. Now, so he redeems her. And by the way, while this is happening, a crowd gathers. Look at verse 11. And all the people that were in the gate And the elder said, We are witnesses. Here all these witnesses are coming together. You know what I think is happening? They're kind of catching what's going on here at the gate. And people are gathering around. And and I think that their hearts are blessed. Isn't it wonderful to see redemption take place? It's wonderful to see that. And they said, Oh, we're witnesses And uh what do they see happen? They see Ruth, what did she gain? A new family. In verse 10, she comes into the family of Boaz, a brand new family. You know what you get when you're redeemed by the blood of Christ. You come into the family of God. You're never alone again once you come to Jesus because all of us are brothers and sisters. Don't you know that this is one big family here? We're all family And that's where we get our love from the Lord, who sheds the love of God abroad in our heart. God's people are our family. This is our family. When we come to Christ, we get a brand new family. Also, she got a brand new fortune Because being married to Boaz, you remember what the Bible said about him? He's introduced as a mighty man of wealth. And you know what? Ruth was gleaning in the field, but now she owns those fields. Now she they're all hers. And uh she owns it all. She's married to him and he takes care of her. He shares his wealth with her and all that is Boaz also belongs to Ruth. Did you know the Bible says that you are a joint heir with Jesus Christ? Do you understand what that means? Whatever he owns, I own. I want to tell you something, dear friend. I'm rich. I'm rich. You say, where is it's it's all laid up there. But I'm telling you, whatever belongs to Jesus belongs to me. And you're rich too. You're richer than any rich man here in the world. The Bible says the meek shall inherit the earth. A new family, a new fortune, a new fame. Look again in verse eleven. And all the people that were in the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman that has come into thine house, like Rachel and like Leah. Which two did build the house of Israel, and do thou worthy in Ephrata, and be famous in Bethlehem And so the crowd gathers and they pronounce a blessing and they said, May you be famous in Bethlehem. And by the way, that's somewhat prophetic. The name Ruth does become famous. In fact, when we think of Ruth today, we think of it with reverence and respect because of what happened there in Bethlehem. In fact, there are three women that had babies in Bethlehem that we remember. You know who they are? Rachel. She had Benjamin there just before she died, right there at Bethlehem. Ruth will have a son named Obed, and later, of course, Mary will have Jesus there in Bethlehem. Now, but here's the point. Ruth is remembered and respected because she becomes a maternal ancestor To the Lord Jesus Christ. We wouldn't even know anything about her except for her connection to the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? I want to tell you something, friend. Knowing Jesus gives us purpose and meaning I tell you, without Jesus, I have no meaning. I have no purpose in life without the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what? Jesus takes no bodies and he makes them nobilities. Once you come to Christ, Jesus takes nobodies, he makes them somebody. Who was Ruth before she was redeemed? She was just a Moabitus woman, part of a race of people that was despised. She was cursed, she was crushed, she was condemned, she was poor, she was forgotten, but redemption made her rich And it made her remembered all because of her relationship to her kinsman Redeemer. And again, I tell you, dear friend, as Christians, we have nothing to boast about except the cross of Christ. God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. I want to tell you the only thing I want to glory in is the fact that Jesus knows me and I know him And he has redeemed me. And he has given my life meaning and purpose. And without him, I'm nothing. But friend, with him, he's given me purpose and meaning. And you know what? With him, I'm rich. With him, I am a noble person because of Jesus Christ. A new family, a new fortune, a new fame, but then also a new fruitfulness. Because look what they said again in verse 11. They said, these women, the Lord make the woman that has come into thine house like Rachel. And like Leah. It's interesting that they mention Rachel and Leah. They said, may Ruth become like Rachel and Leah. You know, Rachel She was barren for many years, and then she bore children. Just like Ruth. When Ruth was in Moab, she was barren. But now she's about to bear children. And between Ruth and Leah. That's where everyone in Israel came from between those two women, Rachel and Leo. And of course there was also the But basically these are considered the mothers of Israel and they were fruitful and God blessed them. And uh and so they prayed for them. Look down in verse number twelve. And let thine house be like the house of Pharaz, whom Tamar bare unto Judah of the sea which the Lord shall give thee of this young woman, and so they are just pronouncing a blessing, saying, may you be fruitful. And in verse 11 you see the word Ephrita, which is another name for Bethlehem, and it means fruitful. So they say, may you be fruitful. Now, that's just like us. You know, when we come to the Lord Jesus, you know what God wants from us? He wants us to be fruitful May we be fruitful. You know, friend, we were talking about our Christmas Eve service. What a great time to invite people to come. What a great time. I'm talking about people that don't normally come to church. Your friends, your neighbors, the people your co-laborers, people you work with. People that need Christ, you have a good reason to invite them to come on Christmas Eve. And then also on Christmas Day. Now I know a lot of people say, oh, on Christmas Day, we want to spend time with our family. I just told you this is your family right here. You come and worship the Lord on Christmas Eve and Christmas Day and invite your family and friends. You know why? They're going to hear the gospel. And by the way, they should hear it from you first. Share Jesus with them. You know why? God wants us to be fruitful. I pray that the grace that God has invested in me was not in vain. But that when he invested grace in me, I'll turn around and I'll share that with others, that I might be fruitful. And friend, I pray that for every person here. If you're a Christian and God has saved you by his grace, he's brought you into his family, we all have a responsibility to be fruitful, share the Word of God, share Jesus Christ with those around. So that others will come to know him. And Ruth became fruitful as the wife of Boaz. But then let me give you the final thing here. A legal summons, a loving substitute, a life-changing salvation. But write down, number four, a long-awaited son. A long-awaited son. Look in verse Number 13. So Boaz took Ruth and she was his wife, and he went under her, and the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. And the woman said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which has not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel. Boaz and Ruth have a son. And uh Naomi kind of comes to center stage here again because the book really closes with Naomi being blessed by this son. In fact, the women say to Naomi, The Lord has not left you without a kinsman. Now, the word there actually is the same word for kinsman redeemer, Goel. So they're actually saying, you know, the Lord has not left you without a Kinsman Redeemer. Why did they say that? Because they recognized that this child would also take care of Naomi in her old age And he would help her. In fact, look what they say in verse number 15. And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. For thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath borne him. They're referring to Ruth there. They said Ruth is better to you than seven sons, but she has borne you a son, and this son will be a restorer of thy life. And someone who will nourish you, someone who will take care of you in your old age. He will restore your life. You know, I've heard this from grandparents. I guess I'll find out for myself soon enough. But they say that grandchildren kind of restores the life of a grandparent. It kind of gives you a new life, a new energy. You know, you just look at those grandchildren and and and you're blessed by them and you say man this this is so wonderful and it just kind of gives you a new zest for life and that's what they're talking about here a restorer of thy life A nurser of thine old age, this baby will become Naomi's kinsman, Redeemer. And all the women of Bethlehem, they are rejoicing with Naomi. In fact They basically named the child. This is unusual. Look in verse 17. And the woman, her neighbors, gave it a name. That's something. All the women of Bethlehem named this child. Isn't it something when a group of women get together how much power they have? They they decide they name this child, and the child's name is Obed, which means worshiper. And so that's his name. Now, it's interesting to me that the women here name this child because what it really suggests Is that there's something going on here that's even beyond the control of Boaz and Ruth. There's something happening here This child given by God really belongs not just to them, but in a way it's going to bless the world Why? Well, this child will be a blessing to Boaz and Ruth. This child will be a blessing to Naomi. We just saw this. This child will be a blessing to Bethlehem, because from this child will come King David The greatest king in Israel, the man after God's own heart, from this child will bless Israel. Because From Israel, David will build the kingdom, and from Israel will come his son, who would be a blessing to the world. The Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what it's all about. You know, really what we see in in chapter four are four redeemers, don't we? There's the unnamed Redeemer who refuses to redeem. There's Boaz who becomes the kinsman redeemer. Then there's this fish child, Obed, and the women of Bethlehem said, he will be your kinsman redeemer. But that child points to the ultimate Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of David, who would be a blessing to the whole world. And he would redeem us. And redeem this sin-cursed earth. Let me show you one passage and I'm done tonight. Look in Revelation chapter 5. Just close there. I want you to see this. Now we know a lot about Revelation. John the apostle is on the Isle of Patmos. He has a vision of things to come. And this is part of the vision. Look in Revelation chapter 5. Look in verse number 1. In chapter 4, John has been called up to heaven. He sees the one sitting on the throne. He's so This one sitting on the throne, of course, is God the Father, and his presence is so incredible that he John runs out of words to describe him. He said he's kind of like a jasper stone, a crystal stone. And he's so beautiful. But seated on the throne is God, and he has in his hand a book. Look in chapter five, look in verse one. And I saw In the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. Verse two, and I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? Now, what is this book? This is the scroll, the book which is really the title Deed of the Earth. The whole earth was in bankruptcy. The whole earth was in default. The whole earth needed a kinsman redeemer, and not just the earth, the land itself, but We who were on this earth, we needed a kinsman redeemer. And this book is the official document. It is the title deed. And it's sealed with seven seals. And all of heaven is looking for the one worthy to open that book. Look at verse 3. And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. John sees that no one's able to open the book. No one in politics, no one in government, no one in religion, no one in science, no one in philosophy, no one in economics, no one anywhere On this earth is worthy to open that book. And John begins to weep. Look at verse number five. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, had prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. Look at verse 6. And I beheld, and lo, in the midst of the throne And of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elder stood a lamb, as it had been slain, having seven hordes, horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God, sent forth unto all the earth, and he came and he took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. Now, this is an incredible scene in heaven. God the Father is on the throne. There's this scroll in his hand. No one's worthy to open it. But here is Jesus, the line of the tribe of Judah. The root of David, and he comes in, and all the cameras of heaven switch to him. And he comes over and he takes the scroll out of the hand of God the Father. And you know what happens when he does that? All of heaven erupts And praise and worship. And the Bible says they sing a new song. And notice what they sing in verse 9. And they sang a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book. And open the seals thereof, for thou was slain, and thou hast redeemed us to God by thy blood. Out of every kindred and tongue and people and nations. Oh, listen, friend, heaven's going to be wonderful. We're going to get to be there to see that glory that Jesus shares with the Father. He is the worthy Redeemer. I want to tell you something, friend. We have a lot to praise God about. We have a lot to praise God about. He is our Redeemer. And friend If you're here tonight and you've never made Jesus your Lord and Savior, I plead with you, don't leave until you get that settled. This is the whole meaning of Christmas He came to redeem us, to redeem this sin-cursed earth. Don't let this time go by in your life without reaching out in faith to Jesus Christ. It's no accident that you're here It's no accident that Ruth happened to be gleaning in the field of that kinsman redeemer. It's no accident that you're here tonight Because God is calling out to you. He is reaching out to you. He wants to redeem you. He wants to give you eternal life and salvation. And if you don't know Jesus, friend I plead with you, come to him. And you know what? You'll be part of that throng in heaven where we'll sing. The Bible says, thousands upon thousands and thousands of thousands, and we'll sing, Thou art worthy, O Lord. You have redeemed us by thy blood. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Can we bow for prayer? And so, Lord, We thank you that we have a Redeemer. You are a Redeemer. We thank you, Lord, that you were wealthy. You were lavishly wealthy. And that you were lovingly willing to be our Redeemer, to be our substitute, to pay the penalty for our sins, to purchase our salvation by your blood. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here tonight that's never placed their faith in Christ. May they tonight put their hand of faith into your hand of grace and say yes to Christ. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed, I just want to ask you, is that your prayer tonight? I want to be redeemed By Christ. I want my sins forgiven. I want eternal life. And tonight I'm coming to Christ. I'm lifting my hand in faith to God. And I'm saying, Lord, save me. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand tonight? Say yes, that's me. I want to know Jesus. I want to make sure that I'm a Christian, that I'm redeemed. Alright. And so those of us who know the Lord Jesus Christ, may we never forget that. purchase price, how valuable the price that was paid to purchase my salvation and your salvation, friend. And may we praise him with all our heart. Father, bless these words as we worship you, Lord. May we again be in awe of the great salvation that you provided for us. Thank you for how you communicate these things to us. in these stories. May it inspire us to serve you and love you all the more. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name. Amen.