See. It's good to see you here tonight. And I invite you to take God's word, please, and open again to the Old Testament prophet of Jeremiah. We we looked at a wonderful messianic prophecy that Jeremiah gave this morning. And I want to talk a little bit more about some of the beautiful pictures and prophecies that Jeremiah gives before we leave this book. So look in Jeremiah chapter number 8, and I want you to look at verse number 22. Jeremiah chapter 8, verse number 22. And it says this, is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered? Now, Jeremiah is famously called the weeping prophet, and for good reason. He had a ministry that was not very easy. He had to pronounce God's judgment upon a rebellious people of Israel And he also wept over the tragedy of human suffering that he saw as a result of the judgment of God. And as we come to the passage that we see today, Jeremiah 8:22, Jeremiah seems to be at his wit's end. He seems to be an emotional basket case here beside himself. He's astonished, he's dismayed, he's disgusted, because he sees the dire condition of the people, and he asks a rhetorical question in verse number 22. Is there no bomb in Gilead? Is there no physician there? And then he says, why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered? Now, Abal, of course, is kind of a medicinal salve, we could say, and Gilead is a region in the Transjordan that is known for its medicinal healing resources. The word balm comes from a word that means balsam tree. And from these trees that were in that region, you could basically uh get a turpentine like resin resin. that healed wounds. So think of it kind of as an ancient uh VIX vapor rub or neosphorin or something like that. You know, it was highly sought after. In fact, Gilead was known for its healing bomb. It was also known for its doctors. Kind of like Baltimore is known for, you know, its uh hospitals, Johns Hopkins and University Hospital. And people sought this this healing bomb for their illness. They sought it for centuries. In fact, the uh caravan that Joseph uh was uh was a part of when he was sold by his brothers uh was headed to Egypt carrying, uh if you look carefully in Genesis uh 3725, they were carrying with them the balm of Gilead And then a few d a few years later, when Joseph was uh exalted in Egypt and uh he sent his brothers back home to get his final brother Benjamin. This was before he revealed himself to his brothers. Uh his father Jacob sent some gifts with his sons, and he said, When you go, take some a little bit of this balm, the balm of Gilead, as a gift for this man. After the captivity, when Israel took the promised land. Gilead, which is on the other side of the Jordan, became part of that land. That's where the the tribe of Gad basically settled. But the bomb trade then became uh a part of Israel. That was just part of their their trade. And uh and the reason for this again is because of the trees that were found there in that region that provided this uh this resin. that made this healing bomb. It was so expensive, it was so sought after that one writer said it was worth twice its weight in silver Now Jeremiah the prophet is asking a question. How can a people who traded in this medicinal bomb be so sick Now remember Jeremiah is the prophet, but he's all there's a little bit of a poet in Jeremiah because if you read his book, what you'll find is that oftentimes throughout, he will use beautiful metaphors to communicate a spiritual truth, and he's doing so here. He's using a physical illustration to make a spiritual point. The real sickness that Jeremiah refers to is not really a physical sickness, it is a spiritual sickness because the people of God had backslidden away from God. They were wounded as a result of their sins and and their idolatries. They needed to be healed. And so the real question behind the illustration is this. How can a people of God with the law and their midst be so sinful, so backslidden away from God? What was the solution for the people of Israel? And by the way, later Jeremiah would use the same metaphor to express That the Egyptians, what they needed to do in Jeremiah 46, 11, it says this Go up to Gilead and take bomb, O virgin daughter of Egypt. In vain you have used many medicines, there is no healing for you Jeremiah was saying the same solution for the that was for the Jewish people that they needed the Balm of Gilead is also the solution for the Egyptians and the Gentile people, and for that matter, for all people. So what we see here is that the bomb of Gilead is a metaphor for the salvation that God provides. We could say it's the healing bomb of God's wonderful grace. The heathens and Jews could only be healed by seeking this healing bomb, and you can seek it only where it could be found, and that's nowhere but in God. You have to seek it in God. And so Jeremiah is astonished that the people are s are so sensitive. They have not yet been restored. What's the problem? Is there no bomb there, he says? Is there are there no physicians there? Have we run out of medicine? Are we short of doctors? And again, all of this is a metaphor that he's using. And the answer is no, of course not Then why are people so sin sick? Is it that there's no place to go to for healing? Of course there is But the problem is that people are not seeking the right place for healing. They're not going to the great physician so that he might apply the healing balm of Gilead to their souls. You know, God wants people to be well. He wants you to be well. You might have some spiritual illness tonight. It may be that you're you're backslidden. It may be that you're angry over something in your life because things aren't going the way It may be that you're defeated by sin or you're discouraged. It might be that you're overwhelmed with depression. Perhaps you're bewildered over things that have happened in your life lately. You're frustrated. Because the things that you set out to accomplish are not happening. Maybe your faith is small. You're having a crisis of faith, or maybe you're battling with loneliness. Whatever it is, I can assure you of this, God wants to heal your soul. He wants you to be well. Again, this is not talking about a physical healing, but rather a spiritual healing of the soul. And so the question is Why is God's healing bomb not applied? Why is it not used? God is saying, Why have you not come to me for the healing of your soul. You have neglected to come to the great physician. And we can apply this as well to the lost world. You ever wonder why our world is so sensitive And the way it is, it's because they've tried all the other medicines, but you know what? Those medicines will not heal the soul of man. Only the balm of Gilead, only God's healing can do the trick. And so I want you to see some reasons why the people were not seeking the bomb of Gilead. That's the question that Jeremiah asked here. And I want us to look a little closer at this. And give you some reasons that I see here in the text that we could also apply this to our world today. Why aren't people seeking the healing of the great physician? Well, here are some reasons. First of all, the sickness is not yet realized. People don't realize how sick they really are. Look in chapter 8. Look, drop down to verse number 4 in chapter 8, where it says this. Moreover, thou shalt say unto them, thus saith the Lord, Shall they fall and not arise? Shall he turn away and not return? Jeremiah is asking, when people fall down, don't they get up? That's a pretty simple point. People usually learn from their mistakes when you trip and fall. You learn how not to fall. You try to correct it. Jerusalem, however, has not learned from its mistakes because they are, first of all, they're clinging to a lie. Look in verse number 5 of chapter 8, where it says, Why then is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? They hold fast deceit and they refuse to return. Hold fast means to cling, to firmly grab hold of something. The people have latched on to a lie, and they're holding on to that lie. They think there's nothing wrong with them. They think they're perfectly healthy. But Jeremiah says, no, you're clinging to a lie. Many people in the world today are just like that. There are many lost people that think, oh, there's nothing wrong with me. And part of that is, you know why it's false religion. You know, religion today says that b people are basically good. And you know, God loves you and he accepts you just as you are. You have all these false religions saying to people, oh, you're fine, you're good But those are all lies. And then this leads to the next thing. They are unaware of their spiritual sickness. Look at verse number six. I hearkened and heard. But they spake not aright. No man repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? Everyone turneth to his course as the horse rushes into battle. They're completely unaware of their condition. They say, what sin? There's nothing wrong with me. There's no sins for me to repent of. Uh all we've done nothing wrong and so Jeremiah says they're they're going headlong into the course that they've always been on, always been a part of. They're walking in the wrong direction. They see no reason for collection or excuse me uh correction of their of their walk. And then the next thing is they claim to have the law and that they're fine. Look at verse number eight How do ye say we are wise, and the law of the Lord is with us? Lo certainly in vain made He it. The pen of the scribe is vain. They claim that, you know, just having the Bible proves that they're in good condition You know, we meet people like that. I go out on visitation and there are people that maybe they'll invite me into their house and you know what? Somewhere around there'll be a Bible or maybe a Bible will be on the coffee table And of course they never go to church. They've never darkened the door of the church. They're not concerned about their spiritual life. But since they have that Bible there, that's proof enough that they're all right. Everything's just fine in their life. And that's the way the p the people work. Jeremiah says, look, you think you have the law? You you think that that's a good luck charm? That that's going to keep you from judgment? You have this rabbit's foot faith where you have this Bible or you have the law and you think that because of that your condition is fine God says to them in verse ten, the whole nation is culpable. Look down in verse ten. Look at the second part of verse ten. For everyone from the least even unto the greatest is given to covetousness. From the prophet even to the priest, everyone dealeth Falsely. God says, all have sinned against me in this nation. When he says from the least to the greatest, he's talking about everyone. Everyone. Is uh the is in serious condition. Everyone has sinned against me, from the prophet unto the priest And one reason they had not sought God's healing balm again is that they didn't think they were sick. They were clinging to a lie. They say, hey, we're fine. Look, we have the law of God We're healthy when in fact the cancer of sin was spreading all over the nation. You know what? You're not going to go to a doctor if you don't think you are sick. Unless man realizes he's sick, he's not going to go to the great physician for his help. And by the way, that's why the Word of God is so very important. You know why? Because the Bible diagnoses our heart. It tells us what we really are. That's why we have to be in the Word of God. The Bible calls upon us to constantly give ourselves An examination, a spiritual examination. Deuteronomy 4 verse 9. Only take heed to thyself, keep thy soul diligently lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, unless they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life, but teach them to thy sons and to thy sons' sons. And Proverbs 423, keep thy heart With all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. And then of course in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul tells us, examine yourselves to see whether you're in the faith Make sure that your faith is real. That was the problem with the church at Laodicea. Remember what they said? We are rich. We are increased with goods. We have need of nothing. But the Lord said, you don't know that you're miserable and wretched and poor and blind and naked. You don't really see how desperate you really are. You don't see how what bad condition you're really in. It's dangerous to be sick and not know it. And so the sickness is not yet realized. But here's another reason they're not seeking the healing balm. The wrong doctors have been consulted Again, go back to chapter 8. Look down at verse number ten. We already saw everyone from the least even to the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto the priest. Everyone deals Falsely. At verse 11, for they have healed the herd of the daughter of my people slightly, slightly, saying, peace, peace when there is no peace. He compares the prophets and the priests back then to poor physicians and doctors who don't really uh heal the wounds. All they really do is just put a band-aid over it and say you're fine. But they really don't diagnose it correctly. They really don't give the right solution. These people needed an emergency heart transplant. But these quack physicians, all they did was they put a band-aid and you know they were just filled with band-aids and lollipops and said, you know, you're fine. You're fine. Just do this. You're okay. God's not going to judge your sin Peace, peace, they would say, these were the false prophets going all around in Judah saying, Oh, we're fine. God's not going to destroy his temple. God's not going to judge the nation. Everybody here is fine. Peace, peace. And Jeremiah says there is no peace Meanwhile, the patient grows worse. I read uh a while back, I think one of the great presidents of the United States was James Garfield. You probably haven't heard a lot about him because he was only president for four months. After he was elected, uh he was going to take a train to from Washington to Boston, and when he went to the train station, the crazy man walked up behind him and shot him twice. He shot him once in the arm and then he shot him once in the back. His biographer later said, if they had just left him alone, he certainly would have survived. He said, however, within minutes doctors converged from the fallen president, and they used their fingers to poke and to prod his open wounds. He goes on to say twelve different doctors inserted unsterilized fingers and instruments into Garfield's back probing for this bullet. Miller continued, he said, and the first examination took place on the train station floor. He says, I can't imagine a more germ-infested environment than a train station floor. American doctors at that time did not believe in germs. Uh according to Dr. Jeffrey Resnick, he's uh from the Library of Medicine, they rejected the use of antiseptics pioneered by a British doctor by the name of Joseph Lister. You ever heard of Listerine? Yeah, that came from this guy, Joseph Lister. But the American doctors did not believe in the Listerine theory. They believed that, you know, you got uh sick and diseased from bad air. They didn't believe in germs that you could not see. And so as a result of that James A. Garfield did not die from the bullet wounds. He would have survived that. What he died of was infection. And doctors that did not know how to treat the infection. In fact, when he died, again Dr. Resnick said President Garfield died because of what his doctors did to him and what they didn't do to him. And the man who shot the president, Charles Gutierrez Before he was hanged, he said, yeah, I shot him, but the doctors are the ones that killed him. That's a sad story. Because these doctors did not know how to treat their patient. And you know what? Spiritually speaking, there are a lot of preachers like that. They are, you know, they they give the message that people really want to hear. They don't talk about the judgment of God. They don't talk about sin because those are all negative things. They don't talk about the guilt your guilt before a holy God because after all guilt is such a negative emotion and we don't want to talk about negative things like that And what they are is they're poor physicians. They want to make people feel good. When you leave church, you know you should feel good. Beloved, let me tell you something, when you leave church sometimes you should feel bad. You should because you haven't repented of the sins before a holy God. We have preachers, feel-good preachers that cater to itching ears People never apply the balm of Gilead to their soul because they're being told that they're all right. Liberal theologians used to be the ones who trivialized God, but now Sad to say, even in the evangelical church, we're having preachers preach a lesser deity, a kinder, gentler God. You don't hear sermons about the holiness of God. You'll hear sermons about the fact that hell is very real. And people that do not repent of their sin and trust in Jesus go for eternity in a very real hell and spend it there. That's not a popular thing to say nowadays. David Wells in his book, God in the Wasteland, wrote this. He said The fundamental problem in the evangelical world today is that God rests too inconsequentially upon the church. His truth is too distant, his grace is too ordinary, his judgment is too benign, his gospel is too easy. and his Christ is too common. And I think that's so very true. The bomb of Gilead is not sought after because the sickness is not realized. The wrong doctors have been consulted. But here's the third thing the diagnosis has been ignored. Jeremiah is not the doctor, but he is the physician's helper. And the diagnosis has been made by the doctor, God's word. We'll make the diagnosis a diagnosis, excuse me, but some people, unfortunately, they will ignore what God says. They won't listen. And that's why Jeremiah weeps. He weeps because he's so fed up with the people. That at times he wants to leave, he wants to go on vacation. Uh he you know look in look in chapter nine, look in verse number one. Oh that my head were waters and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and n for the slain of the daughter of my people. On one hand, Jeremiah is weeping. He's brokenhearted over the sinsick condition of the people of Judah. And then on the other hand, he wants to get away from it all. Look in verse 2. Oh, that I had a wilderness, a lodging place of wayfaring men, that I might leave my people and go from them. For they be all adulterers and assembly of treacherous men. Jeremiah is so frustrated. He's heartbroken on one hand, and he wants to get away from it all on the other. He sees their stubbornness and he knows it's going to cost them. He sees that they're refusing to go to the right doctor. And he's very frustrated. They won't take their spiritual medicine. And so he begins to list part of the diagnosis, first of all, idolatry. At verse number two he says they are all adulterers and assembly of treacherous men. Look at chapter nine, look at verse thirteen And the Lord saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein, but have walked after the imagination of their own heart and after Balaam, which their fathers taught them. Here he's talking about idolatry, which is spiritual adultery And uh they would participate in the the the pagan rituals of the people of the land of Canaan, Canaanite gods like Baal and Ashtareth. But then dishonesty That's another problem. Go back to chapter 9, look at verse 3. He says, and they bend their tongues like their bow for lies, but they're not valiant for the truth upon the earth. For they proceed from evil to evil, they know me not, saith the Lord. Jeremiah says they make their tongue like a bow, ready to shoot lies. This figure's feet compares the tongue to a bow These deceitful people fire arrows, they fire lies out of their mouth, all over the place all the time. The word for lie here, Shakir. w is used uh repeatedly in the in the book of Jeremiah and and other passages about talking about lies in the sea. Um and Jeremiah basically thought that no one in the land could be trusted. This is a place that's filled with lies. At one point when Jeremiah went to God again and again and said, God spare your judgment, spare your judgment, and God said, Okay, Jeremiah, I'll tell you what I'll let you do, I'll let you go to, if you can just go to anyone in Jerusalem, if you can just find someone who does not lie and speaks the truth all the time Then I'll spare the city judgment. And you know what, Jeremiah went out on that hunt, and guess what he found? He could find no one That spoke only the truth that was valiant for truth. And then he thought, well, I know what I'll do. I'll go to the leaders. I'll get me to the great men, for surely they know the way of the Lord. Surely they speak the truth of God And when Jeremiah went to the priests and the prophets, the ones who were in charge, you know what he found? That they were worse than the people. And so he knew then that judgment was going to come. He said, No one can be trusted. They shoot lies out of their mouth. Like arrows out of a bow. They they they're they're not able to know the truth. Let me show you another beautiful picture Jeremiah uses. Look in chapter 8, look in verse number 7. I love this image he gives here. He says, yea, the stork in the heaven knows her appointed times. And the turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming. But my people know not the judgment of God. Jeremiah compares them to birds and their ability to obey their creator's instructions. And basically he says, you know, the birds are way ahead of these folks. The birds know their way of God. The birds know their way back home. He's speaking here of migratory birds. Geese are not the cleverest creatures, but they do know when to head south for the winter. And Jeremiah says, you know what? These folks here, they don't know that judgment, the storm, the winter of judgment is going to come. They don't know their place. They refuse to repent of their sins. They refuse to acknowledge that there's anything wrong. One might call these people bird brains, according to this passage, but that would be insulting to these birds here. The sickness is not yet realized. The wrong doctors have been consulted. The diagnosis has been ignored. But here's another reason they don't seek the balm of Gilead is because the suffering has not yet begun. Some have not turned to the great position because they don't feel the bad. They don't feel the consequences of their sins. They're saying to the doctor, Look, I feel fine. There's nothing wrong. I feel great. But Jeremiah shows us here, they're about to reap the consequences of their sin sickness. First of all, there'll be bitterness. Look in chapter nine, look at verse number fifteen. Therefore thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will feed them, even this people with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink. The people of Judah have forsaken the law. They refuse to obey the voice of the prophets. They walk in their own stubbornness. And because of this apostasy, the Lord says, You know what? I'm going to give them gall to drink. These were two poisonous substances that spoke of in the Old Testament metaphorically of bitter affliction. I'm going to let the consequences of their sins come upon them. I'm going to let them feel the affliction of their sin. But then there's going to be captivity. Look at chapter 9, verse 16. I will scatter them also among the heathen. whom neither they nor their fathers have known. I will send a sword after them till I have consumed them. Judah will be carried away into captivity. Even in captivity, however, this order of divine retribution would pursue them even until every unrepentant sinner had been judged by Almighty God. There'll be bitterness, there'll be captivity, but then there will also be mourning. Look in chapter 9, look at verse 17. Thus saith the Lord of hosts: Consider ye and call for the mourning women, that they may come. And send for cunning women that they may come. And let them make haste and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, that our eyelids gush out with water for a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion. How are we spoiled? And he's saying here that since judgment is inevitable Lamentation and sorrow and weeping is appropriate. And Jeremiah says, why don't you call for the professional mourners? Did you know back in this day? that when there was a death in the family, not only did the family mourn, but if the family was well off enough, they would hire professional mourners. These were women that would come and do the lamentation. They would come and they would do the weeping They would tear their clothes, they would throw ashes, they would throw dirt upon themselves, they would sing a court of a sort of a uh a song that was a mixture of of screams and uh loud wailing They would basically uh sway back and forth in kind of a uh in kind of a uh according to a uh uh the music of tambourines that they would carry with them, um, and they would just cry out And great lamentation. And Jeremiah is saying, look, you need to go get these professional mourners. You need to hire them because mourning is coming. Bad things are going to happen. Finally there would be death. There will be death. Look at verse number 21. For death has come up unto our windows. And has entered into our palaces to cut off the children from without and the young men from the streets. Again, Jeremiah is using a poetic illustration here, but in this metaphor, death is now personified in verse number 21. Death is a person, or we could say a monster. You know, we we do that. What do we say of death? Death is a what? Grim Reefer, right? Some guy walking around looking like a skeleton with a hood and a sickle, you know A really ugly looking character that's death. Well here in the Old Testament, Jeremiah does the same thing, but it's according to a Canaanite um myth that was very well known back in this day. Uh the word Hebrew word here is Malvat, which is a the uh the root of it is Mot, because the Canaanite God of deathless Mott, M O T. And uh there was a story back then that they would tell uh those who worship Baal and Astareth, you know Baal one one time went to the underworld. Mot is the god of death, the underworld, and Baal decided to go down and visit the underworld. Baal was the son of the chief god El and uh a Canaanite pantheon of gods. And while Baal was down in the underworld, he came across the territory of Mott, who ruled the underworld, and Mott demanded that Baal pay tribute, and Baal refused. And since he refused, the story goes that Mot went out and seized him like a lion seizes a little goat, a kid goat, and crushed it in his jaws, and Baal died. Now, Baal had a sister named Annette, who when Baal didn't return home, she decided to go looking for him and she went into the underworld and she found him that he had died. However, she had great power. And she was able to overcome Maud and and she was able to resurrect him back to life. And and this story of Baal, they would uh actually it would be according to the seasons of the year, you know. When in the fall when everything died, they say Baal went to the underworld and uh Mot killed him. And when the spring came and everything started to come back to life, they say, you know, and then his sister went down and resurrected him out of the underworld And now he's back to life. And that's what they believed. But nevertheless, the story is that Mot, who killed Baal, was one bad dude. You didn't want to mess with him. He was a god of death. And so, Jeremiah is using this mythical story. It's not true, of course, but he's using it. Death is personified. And by the way, Baal refused to have a window in his palace to prevent Mott from entering in after that episode. But here, in verse 21 Jeremiah's kind of playing on that, and he says, you know, death mott has come up into our windows, has entered into our palace to cut off the children from without and the young men in the streets. When God's judgment comes, death will come with it. Many will die. It sounds like a horror story. Death coming through the windows. And verse 22, the carcasses of men will fall like dung unto the ground. And the suffering will begin. The reason that people haven't sought the balm of Gilead is because the sickness hasn't been realized. The wrong doctors have been consulted. The diagnosis has been ignored. The suffering has not yet begun. But here's the fifth thing. The wrong medicines have been prescribed. When death comes, what are you going to do? Notice verse 23. Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that glory, glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness. And so, what will help you when death comes? When the suffering comes upon you? What medicines will you turn to? And Jeremiah named some wrong medicines here. These are things that are not going to help you. When you face death. First of all, wisdom. Man's wisdom will not help you when death comes. There's nothing that man can say that can overcome the power of death The wisdom of man is feeble when you have to face death. You don't have enough wisdom to outwit death. when it comes. So don't let the wise man glory in his wisdom. An old legend tells of a merchant in Baghdad who one day sent his servant to the market. And before long the servant came back and he was white and he was trembling and the master said, What's wrong? He said, well down at the marketplace I was jostled in the crowd and I turned and I saw death. had jostled me. And he looked at me and he made a threatening gesture. And he said, Master, please let me take your horse and let me ride to Samaria so I can get away from death. And of course he allowed him to ride to Samaria. And then the merchant himself went down to the marketplace and he saw death there. And he went over to death and he said, Why did you frighten my servant with a threatening gesture? And Death said to him, I wasn't giving him a threatening gesture. He said, I was simply surprised to see him here at Baghdad because I have an appointment with him tonight in Samaria. Everyone has an appointment with death, and none of us are going to be able to get out of that appointment. Man likes to boast about his wisdom, but it's helpless. in the face of death. And so let not the wise man glore in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might. You might be strong, but you're not stronger than death You you're going to have to fight it in a war against death, and you know what? You're not going to be able to win that war in and of yourself. Ecclesiastes 8. 8. There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit, neither hath he power in the day of death. And there's no discharge from that war, Solomon said You don't have enough strength to keep death at bay, to retain your spirit when it's time, when God calls you home. And guess what? You can't get discharged from that war with death. You're all going to face it. Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. You're not strong enough to overcome it. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. People who are wealthy love to boast for their riches, but you know what? It doesn't matter how rich you are when death comes, you won't be able to buy it, buy it, or buy it off, or bribe death. You can't boast in your riches in a day of death. These are all wrong medicines. These are all poor physicians. The only thing that will help you when death comes, when death knocks at your door, is the great physician, the bomb of Gilead. Look at verse number twenty-four. But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understands and knoweth me, that I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. Loving kindness is a beautiful word there. It simply means kessid or love. It's really the word for grace. God's healing medicine is grace. And the only thing that we can boast in is that we know the Lord because of his loving kindness, because of his grace. Not anything in and of ourself. But it's only the grace of God. It's only the loving kindness of God. Now you might be asking, though, what does this have to do with Christmas? Well, you well remember this morning when we were talking about Jeremiah's great prophecy. Remember he went to sleep and he had a dream and God showed him the day that is coming and he said, Lo, the day is coming, it's coming. And he was talking about the Messiah. So in this this time when Judah and Jerusalem had nothing but judgment ready for them because of their sins. And they were captives in Israel because of their sins. In the midst of all of that darkness and depression and doom and judgment, God shows Jeremiah a beautiful, beautiful prophecy about the Messiah, the Savior who is going to come. Because beloved, he is the only hope for man in his sin. He is the only hope for those that need a physician because, again, the wound of sin is incurable. Go back to chapter 30. We looked at this this morning. We'll look at it again as we close tonight. Chapter 30 and verse number 15, where Jeremiah again is talking about the wound of sin. Why cries thou for thine affliction? Thy sorrow is incurable. for the multitude of thine iniquity, because thy sins were increased, God says, I have done these things. But then later on, God says, I will restore health to thee. I will heal thy wounds. God would send to the world a physician to heal the wounds of sin sick people. And that position would be his Messiah, his great physician, Jesus Christ. Whatever is ailing your soul, he can fix it Whatever it is, he can fix it with his healing bomb. This bomb of Gilead You know what? It was derived from a tree which grew in Gilead, and therefore Gilead became well known for this bomb because of this tree. And what do we learn from this? The healing Of the Messiah, the great physician. He comes and he ministers to us, and you know what? The ministry, the healing that he gives us comes from a tree. But it comes from the tree, a special tree, that Peter talked about in 1 Peter 2 24, who his own self bear our sins in his body on the tree That we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness, by whose stripes ye are healed. We're healed because of a tree called Calvary, because of what Jesus did there for us. There's only one remedy for the sin-sick soul. That's the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Make no mistake, my friend, that is the balm of Gilead. The bomb of Gilead is Jesus and what he did for us on the cross at Calvary. And so God says to the world today, will you turn to me? Will you live? Will you be healed? There is a bomb in Gilead. You don't have to be sick. You don't have to die of an incurable wound. There is a bomb. There is a physician. That you can go to. Will you come to Gilead and will you live? God is inviting the world today to come and to see his healing bomb, his messiah. So what does this mean to us? Reject all superficial methods, all superficial medicines of men that really don't ever really do anything to heal the soul. Realize that Christ is your only remedy. Repent, run to him. Run to him. You say I'm already saved. Well, if you're his child, whatever sickness you might have in your soul, you can still run to him. He's still your physician. Still go back to him, whatever it is. Renew your determination to know the Lord, the balm of Gilead. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. There's a there's an old hymn that is based on this verse. It's a beautiful hymn. There's a bomb in Gilead To make the wounded whole. There's a bomb in Gilead that heals the sin-sick soul. And friend, that's what Christ is to us. He is our all and all. He is our healer. And I don't know what your need is tonight, but I know a great physician that can take care of it. If you'll just go to him. That's why God sent his Messiah into this world. Would you take a minute and ask the Holy Spirit to diagnose your illness? And then run run to the great physician. Say, Lord, heal me. I need the bomb of Gilead. There's there's there's these quack doctors are offering superficial medicines that really don't heal. Just say that to the Lord, Lord, there's only healing in you. I'm looking to you and you and no one else. Father, I just pray that you'll minister to every heart here tonight. Thank you, Jesus, for who you are. Thank you that you are our great physician. That there is a bomb in Gilead. How we thank you and we praise you for that. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.