All right, good to see you here tonight. Thank you, praise team. Would you take God's word tonight, please, open to the book of Psalm 119. As you know, we're in a journey through Psalm 119 and we're going stanza by stanza and tonight we're going to look at The seventh stanza or the Zion section, which is verse 49 down to verse 56. And we're going to look at these eight verses tonight. Psalm 119, verse 49 down to verse 56. And tonight I want to talk about things to remember in trying times. Things to remember in trying times. The Book of Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. If you've never read it, I really encourage you to read it. There's a scene that teaches us the importance of remembering things in our Christian life. This is where Christian, the character in the book, is on it, he's on his way to the celestial city, right? He's taking this long journey and he along the way he has all these different challenges. And so He he finds the pathway difficult, so he climbs over some steps to walk on a on a meadowy path. Eventually the ground grew soggy and it covered with poisonous vines. The sky became black, and Christian spent the night huddled at the foot of an oak tree, caught in a downpour. The next morning, the giant despair came upon him and captured him. and beat him and imprison him in the dungeon of Dowden Castle with its thick black walls. And Christian couldn't sing. He tried to, but he couldn't sing. His mood was, uh, as the author said, dungeon dark. And daily the giant of despair beat him mercilessly until he grew weaker each day. One day he found in his cell a rope, a knife, a bottle. the tools of suicide, and for a moment he was tempted to end his misery. But one evening, about midnight, he began to pray, and a little before day Christian suddenly remembered something He kind of breaks out into this passionate speech. Let me just quote it to you. Quote, What a fool am I, thus to lie in a stinking dungeon, when I may as well walk at liberty. I have a key in my bosom called promise. That will, I am sure, open any lock and doubting castle And sure enough, he reaches in, he pulls out the uh key, and it did. Using the key of God's promise, Christian escapes the giant despair and doubting castle. Now, the lesson is that as Christians, we are prone to forget some things that we need to remember, especially in trying times. And so it seems that it's it's the nature of human nature that we forget things that we need to remember and we remember things that we should forget. That's kind of part of our nature. But I think the secret of living a Christian life, part of the secret is just being consistent and faithful, is that you remember the right things. Now remembering seems to be the theme of this stanza. We see the word used three times. We see it in verse 49, remember the word unto thy servant. We see it in verse 52, I remember thy judgments of old. We see it in verse number 55. I have remembered thy name, O Lord. And when you read this stanza of Psalm 119, you get the sense that the psalmist is going through a very difficult time. He's perhaps being beaten by the giant of despair, or maybe he's in doubting castle himself. In verse 50, he talks about he uses the word affliction. This is a word that means to be wretched, to be miserable In verse 51, he says he's been in derision. That is, he was the object of his enemy's scorn. They derided him, they ridiculed him. As you have been with me in the study, I told you that I think the author, some one nineteen was a young man who was carried away into exile by the Babylonians, and all along that journey the Babylonians are very cruel and they are uh deriding him, demeaning him They were unspeakably inhumane to these exiles. In verse 51, when he talks about the proud, the proud have had me greatly in derision. I think he's referring there to the Babylonian soldiers. They're arrogantly defying God and his word And this young this young man is facing new uh challenges each day, new ways of verbal and physical assault. In verse 53, he says, Horror has taken hold of me because of the wicked. He's horrified at what he sees and what he hears. And what he knows will be the destiny of those who are wicked. In verse 55, he mentions having uh being in the night. Now, like the psalmist, I think all of us have experienced these kind of emotions, right? We've gone through these kind of things, these similar experiences And this stanza of Psalm 119 again reminds us of three important things that we should remember in trying times. And I want to go over them with you here tonight. First of all, remember God's promises. Very simply remember God's promises. That's what the psalmist is doing. Kind of like Christian in Pilgrim's Progress, he remembers the key of promise that God has given him. And we all need to remember that. We need to remember God's promises to unlock whatever prison that we're in. God's promises are the believer's security. And we'll begin in verse 49. Remember thy the word unto thy servant upon which thou hast caused me to hope. Now, the psalmist is asking God to deliver him from his trying circumstances. He remembers God's faithfulness in fulfilling his word in the past. He's asking God to fulfill his promises again. Remember the word. That means really we could say, remember your promises, Lord. His hope was in the trustworthiness of God to keep his promises. Spurgeon wrote this, he asked for no new promise, but to have the old word fulfilled. He is grateful that he has received so good a word. He embraces it with all his heart and now entreats the Lord to do to deal with him according to it. And so his sense of security and peace are derived from God's faithfulness in keeping his promises. Two times we see the word comfort. He talks about his comfort in verse 50 and in verse 52. I've remembered your word, Lord, and it comforted me. He's remembering the promises of God, and it brings them comfort. And the word here is a sense of reassurance and safety and well-being. There was a woman who was very godly, a very religious woman, and one day her son came home after work and she fixed him a meal, and after he had eaten it He was kind of thumbing through her well-worn Bible, and he noticed that written upon s above certain verses were written in the initials T and P. When he read, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, he saw T and P above that. When he read, The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? He saw T T written above that. When he read, All things work together for good to those who love God, he saw T and P written above that. And then he said, Mom, I noticed these certain verses you wrote, T P above each verse. What does that mean? And she said it means tried and proven God's promises have been tried, and guess what? They're proven, they're true. Spurgeon again said, I've thumbed my Bible many a year. I have never yet thumbed a broken promise. So God's promises are the believer's security, but also they're the believer's strength. Look at verse 50. This is my comfort in my affliction, for thy word has quickened me. The word to quicken again here means bring to life, to give strength, to cause to recover. And we all have to admit that the burdens that we carry in this life, they drain us of strength. They drain us of strength physically, emotionally, spiritually. Have you had that kind of burden where it just completely drains you in every way? And you're and you seem to be less without strength. We become so exhausted. carrying these. The Apostle Paul could relate to that because in 2 Corinthians 1 8 he said this, for we would, brethren, we would not, brethren, have you ignorant of our trouble which came to us in Asia, listen to this, that we were pressed out of measure above strength Insomuch that we despaired even of life. Can you imagine the Apostle Paul saying that? We were so pressed. We were so burdened. We have lost so much strength. It was beyond our strength. It was above our strength. So much so that we despaired even of our life. The despair of life. And then he said this in verse 9, 2 Corinthians 1 9, but we have this had the sins of death in ourselves that listen to this, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raises the dead. Paul said we went through that experience so we would learn not to trust in our own feeble strength. God drains us completely of all our strength. Why? So that we can trust in God. Who has the ability to give strength to raise the dead? It's at that time that we have to turn to God's word for strength. Do you know that God is able to give you strength? to revive you when you're down in your deepest sorrow and burden. Again, Paul was writes this in the New Testament. Paul was writing to the church at Thessalonica and uh He had just started that church. He was only there for a short while. He had to leave the city because of a riot. They chased him out of the city. He was very concerned about the believers that he left behind. what was going to happen to them. So he kinda leaves Silas and Timothy to check on them and he would later meet up with them in Athens and they would report to Paul what was going on. And Paul would later write, he when they when the when they reported to Paul that the church was standing strong, this is what Paul wrote. 1 Thessalonians 2. 13. For this cause also we thank we God without ceasing, because when we when you receive the word of God, which you heard of us, you received it not as the word of men. But as it is in truth the word of God. Listen to this, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. I love that. Effectually works. This is the Greek word energyo where we get the word energy The Word of God is able to work in you and give you strength and power and energy, and give you a strength that you do not have, a strength that is of God. God's promises are the believers' strength. But here's the third thing. God's promises are the believer's shield. Look at verse 51. The proud have had me greatly in derision, yet have I not declined. from thy law. Now the psalmist was surrounded by enemies, but he stayed focused on the promises of God. You see, his enemies could only cause him to lean harder on God's promises. And when you have afflictions, when you have trials, when you have troubles, those are sent by God intending to teach you to lean even harder. on God and on his word. I was reading an incredible story about a missionary couple written in a book, the story of of Dick Hillis. Missionaries Dick and Margaret Hillis found themselves caught in a China during the Japanese invasion. And they live with two of their children in a small town called Shinku. And the village was really tense with fear. Every day brought terrifying reports of the Japanese advancing. And at the worst possible time, Mr. Hillis developed appendicitis. And he knew his life depended on making the long journey by Rickshaw to the hospital. On january fifteenth, nineteen forty one, with kind of a deep foreboding, his wife Margaret watched and leave. And soon the the Chinese colonel came with news. The enemy was near, the townspeople had to evacuate. Well Margaret knew that she could not evacuate with a a little one year old uh Johnny and two month old uh Margaret Ann, they would never survive as refuge refugees. And so she just stayed put and she decided to stay where she was. And just trust God. And early the next morning she tore a page from the wall calendar, which read the new scripture verse for the day. Each day had a new verse. And the verse was Psalm 56, verse 3, At what time I am afraid I will trust in thee? And the town emptied during the day. The next morning Margaret rose. She had this feeling of being abandoned. But the new verse on the wall, on the calendar for that day, was Psalm 9:10, Thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. And the next morning she arose to distant sounds of gunfire, and she worried about food for her children. But the verse for that day on the calendar was Psalm, or excuse me, Genesis 50, verse 21. I will nourish you and your little ones. And on that day a little woman, Chinese woman, popped in with a pail of goat's milk, and later another woman came with a basket of eggs. And through the day, sounds of warfare grew louder, and during the night Margaret prayed for deliverance. The next morning she tore the page from the calendar Which read Psalm fifty-six verse nine When I cry unto thee, then shall my enemies turn back The battle was kind of looming closer, and Margaret didn't go to bed that night. Invasion seemed imminent, but the next morning everything was quiet. And suddenly the villagers began returning to their homes, and the colonel knocked on her door. For some reason, he told her, the Japanese have withdrawn their troops. No one could understand why, but the danger was over. They were safe. And Margaret, glancing at the wall calendar Felt that she had been reading the handwriting of God. And indeed she was. She was reading the promises of God that upheld her through that time. God's promises are indeed the handwriting of the Lord, they are our shield. But also God's promises are the believer's song. Look at verse 54. Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my Pilgrimage. The psalmist knew that he was a pilgrim in a strange land, being carried away into Babylon. He was in exile, a believer having to live in Babylon. And while the exiles were on their journey, you remember I telling you that the Babylonian soldiers were very cruel. Psalm 137, verse 3 kind of talks about how they taunted them about the songs that they would sing on their journey. And so the psalmist evidently is singing in this journey. Earlier in this Psalm 119, he said, I am a pilgrim traveler, hide not your commandments from me. God's word was his map. in a strange land. Now he says God's word is his song in a strange land. He was singing the scripture, singing God's word. Now did you know that singing scripture helps us to memorize it? Music has a very powerful mnemonic device. Some of you sitting there, you can remember, you can recall words to a song that you heard years ago maybe and you know the words. I mean I can't even remember my grandchildren's birthdays, but uh God help me I needed to memorize that I'm sorry. Uh don't tell the kids I said that anyway. I have trouble keeping up with all the birthdays. But you know what I can still remember something put to music. There's just something about music in the rhythm of it that helps you to remember things. And that's especially true when you Put it to the Word of God. Scripture set to music, plant God's word deep in our heart, and we draw on it in times of difficulty. Did you know in Deuteronomy 31, God Himself used music to help his people remember his words? Write down Deuteronomy 31, 21. As Israel is about to enter into the promised land, God instructed Moses to teach Israel a song so that, quote, When many evils and troubles have come upon them, this song shall confront them as a witness. For it will live unforgotten in the mouths of their offspring. God said, Mo Moses, teach them this song, so that they will remember it. When they're confronted with trouble, they can sing this song and they can teach it to their children. Singing scripture is a great way to worship God. In fact, that's what the whole book of Psalms is about. This is this is hymns that have been written, meant to be sung, and to encourage The Bible says, Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in what? Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Singing scripture can be a source of great comfort. And so this is what this is what he's doing. He's God's word is his song. As you know, we were in Greece and we visited the the uh The supposed jail where Paul and Silas were, I believe that is the actual location, and we remember the story of what happened when Paul and Silas were thrown in jail after they were beaten. What did they do? They moaned and groaned all night, right? No, they sang. They sang to the Lord. Maybe Paul was thinking about this Psalm, Psalm 119, verse 54. God's promises are the believers' security, strength, shield, and song. When you're going through trying times, remember God's promises. But here's number two. Remember God's judgments. Remember God's judgments. Look at verse 52, 53. I remember thy judgments of old, Lord, and have comforted myself. Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. Now when he says judgments of old here, he's referring to the providential works of God recorded in Scripture. These stories are recorded in the Old Testament for us so that we can read them. We see God's judgments, we see his works, we see what he has done. God's judgments reveal his mercy. They also reveal his wrath. Remember that time when God revealed himself to Moses? Moses said, Lord, show me your way, show me who you are, show me who you are in the depth of your being. And then God said this and Exodus 34, verse 6. And the Lord passed by before him. This is Moses. He kind of puts Moses, passes by, he sees the afterglory of God. Moses does. And then God says this. He proclaimed the Lord the Lord two times. Merciful graces, long suffering, abundant in goodness and truth. Verse 7, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will no by means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the children's children. Now you say, what's the point, Pastor? Well, in this self-revelation of God, in Hebrew, there are 16 words that describe God's mercy. And 16 words that describe his judgment, justice, and wrath. There's a perfect balance here. Mercy. Judgment. Now the question is, what does God show? When does he show mercy and when does he show judgment? It's according to however he wants to do it. God said, I will have mercy on whoever I will have mercy. It's the prerogative of God, a sovereign God, at times to reveal Himself through mercy, and at times to reveal Himself through judgment or justice. And sometimes we see both at the same time. That shows us the judgments of God. For example, Noah and the flood. While God judged the world with a flood, he saved, he showed mercy to Noah and his family. When God judged Sodom and Gomorrah with fire, at the same time he showed mercy to Lot and his family. While God God judged Pharaoh and Egypt for their sin and rained down plagues upon the Egyptians at the same time, God delivered through his mercy. the children of Israel. And and and there's on we could go through scripture. Um the nation of Israel saw This about God's judgment and God's mercy. This kind of became a key revelation of God, and the prophets will refer to it oftentimes throughout the Old Testament. But and but but by the way, the greatest thing we can do is just teach these stories to our children so that they can see the attributes of God. They can see the nature of God. They can learn to fear God and reverence God and love God. But the psalmist remember, he was obviously taught these things. Because here he says, I remember, Lord, your judgments, and it provoked two different reactions. First of all, it brings comfort. Again in verse 52, I remember thy judgments of the old Lord, O Lord, and have comforted myself And by the way, this is the reason God uses men under inspiration of the Holy Spirit to record these stories. Why? To bring us comfort Break down Romans 15, 4. For whatsoever things were written before time were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. As you read these stories in the Bible, it gives you hope. It teaches us. They're there for our instruction so we can learn from them. They help us in difficult times. They comfort us. They encourage us in difficult times. A person who's going through suffering can find comfort by reading about the story of Job. A person trying to live in a hostile environment can find comfort by reading about the life of Daniel. A person who's being treated wrongly, perhaps even by his family, or unjustly accused by co-workers, can find comfort in reading of the story. of Joseph. A person who's waiting on God to open up doors can find comfort by reading the story of David. Any situation in life that you face, I challenge you that you'll find that in the Bible. And you can find comfort in that circumstance. But also another reaction he has is it brings compassion. In verse 53, he says, Horror has taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. And the idea here behind this word horror, it's actually a very interesting word. It was a word used of the burning wind from the desert. The Arabs called this a poison wind, hot, dry, and merciless. And the Psalmist is kind of using this word here in a very figurative sense to speak of his emotions. Horror has gripped his soul. Why? Well, when he thinks about The judgment that people without Christ will face, without God, those who are rebellious against God's word, the wicked, the ungodly And I tell you, beloved, we need to, we need, we don't think about this enough. The eternal destiny of those who do not know Jesus Christ. This should be our compelling desire to get the gospel out to those who don't know Christ. And horror should take hold of us when we think about the eternal destiny of anyone who is not a believer in Christ. We don't like to talk about it, we don't like to think about it, but beloved, there's a real eternal judgment that awaits those who reject the gospel. And and that's why we should, you know, we're here to I I love our prayer meetings on Wednesday night, but you know, we really need to focus on praying for the lost. You know, I don't mind praying for people to be healed. But I'm more concerned about keeping people out of hell than keeping people out of heaven. I mean those who are sick, and don't get me wrong, I want people to be healed, but we're all going to die eventually. We're all gonna face death. We understand that, right? I mean I have no illusions about my mortality. I know I look young and strong to you all right now, right? We're all gonna die. We all will face death. And the most important question is, are you prepared for that? Do you know Jesus Christ as your Savior? Are you absolutely certain about that? Good. What about your family? What about your friends? What about your neighbors? What are we going to do about that? We need to have the feelings of the psalmist here where he says, horror has taken hold upon me. But he's he's looking at these enemies and he really uh i it just put him in amazement to think about How uh they have no fear of God. They have no sense of what's going to happen to them at death. And friend, I get the same sense when I see the people in the world today Acting so irreverent with no fear of God. They have absolutely no idea of the horror that awaits for those who reject the gospel. And reject the word of God. Even in our deepest, darkest trial, we remember that we're the most blessed people on earth because we know Jesus. We're going to have eternal life in heaven. Even in my darkest trial. I'm blessed because of that one thing right there. So remember God's promises Remember God's judgment. But here's the third thing, final thing. Remember God's name. Look at verse 55. I have remembered thy name, O Lord, in the night. And have kept thy low. When you're going through trying times, you need to remember God's name. Now notice in verse number 55. It's all in capital letters if you have a King James Version. I remember thy name, O Lord, L-O-R-D. It's all capital letters. And the King James Translators did us a favor by doing that because whenever it's in all capital letters there, it is uh It tells us that that is the divine name, the four-letter name of Yahweh, that sacred name, the s the name that is so sacred that Jews never really mentioned that name because it was too sacred to say to say out loud. Out of reverence, they would not say that name. They would replace it with Adonai or Hashem, the name, but they wouldn't speak that name because it was too sacred. And I think this tradition goes all the way back to Exodus three fourteen, where Moses said, Lord, you know, w who are you? What's your name? And who shall I say When when the children of Israel asked me who sent me, what should I tell them? What's your name? And what did God say? I am that I am. And the the that phrase there is from the Hebrew word to be. The word the name Yahweh stems from the Hebrew expression to be, and it kind of comes from that declaration that God gave there. God points to himself as the self-existent, eternal one. And Moses, in response, didn't speak that name back. Out of reverence, it was too sacred. It became known as the tetragrammaton. And there were a few exceptions, however. Do you know there were a few exceptions where you could speak that name? Well, what were the exceptions? Well, let me give it to you. The high priest could speak this name when he went into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement. He could speak that name Yahweh when he went into the Holy of Holies. Or another exception is what the Hebrews called a pik youak nefesh. What is that? That is a life or death crisis. If you are in some circumstance, some crisis, that's life or death, it's a life or death struggle. Then you could call upon that name. You could speak that name. And we see this sometimes in the Psalms. For example, in Psalm 130, verse 1. The psalmist says, Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O all caps, Lord Yahweh, O Yahweh. He's in a life or death struggle, and he calls upon God's name. He remembers the name of God Now, let me just give you a few few things we only have a few minutes, but just a few things that the Bible tells us what it means to remember God's name. Number one, remembering God's name is just trusting in his character. It's God's name reveals who He is. And this means you reject all idolatry. It underscores the significance of God's name. Isaiah 42, 8. God says, I am the Lord, that is my name, I will not yield my glory to another. nor my praise to idols. This statement underscores the exclusive name of God, the holiness of God's name, which is not to be shared Also, remembering God's name is an act of worship. And again, we see this frequently in the Psalms. Psalm 105, verse 1 through 3 says, give thanks to the Lord, call upon his name. Make known his deeds un among the nations. Sing praises to him. Tell of his wonders works. Glory in his holy name. All of this is associated with worshiping God, remembering God's name is the truth is associated with worshiping Him. But also remembering God's name is a confession of complete trust and reliance on God. Proverbs 18, verse 10: The name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous run into it and are safe. When we call upon God's name, we're running into that name for safety, for security. In troubling times, the believers are encouraged to call upon the name of God. It's a strong tower. Run into it. Find safety in the name of God. But also, remember God's name and remembering God's name, listen to this, is confessing Jesus Christ as Lord See, the way this applies to New Testament believers is that the Yahweh of the Old Testament is Jesus in the New Testament. Now I know some people will debate that. For example, there's a scholar by the name of Bart Ehrman. He is a professor of religious studies at UNC Chapel Hill in North Carolina. He's well known for his books that are critical of the tenants, the core tenets of Christianity. In particular, he criticizes the reliability of New Testament sources. And he claims that the idea that Jesus is himself Yahweh, he says that is a complete doctrinal innovation. It was something that the church made up. We don't see that anywhere in the Bible. Really? I would like to take issue with the scholar, Mr. Ehrman, who always is criticizing the Bible He says this, quote, I can't think of any ancient Christian source that talks about Jesus as Yahweh himself. Well, I've got one ancient Christian source that talks about It's called the New Testament. Let me give you an example. And what I mean by that is listen, the Greek word curios. Now in the Old Testament, God's name is Yahweh. But in the New Testament, whenever the word curios is used in reference to Christ, it's the equivalent of the Old Testament name Yahweh. Everybody with me? All right. So let me give you an example. Joel two thirty-two. Joel two thirty-two. Listen, listen to this verse. And it shall come to pass that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Delivered or saved. Does that sound familiar? Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Lord shall be saved or delivered. Now notice that the word Lord is in all caps in the King James. Paul quotes this verse in Romans 10. 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, and the Greek word there is curios. He's quoting out of that verse Joel 2. 32. But the question is, who is he referring to here by Lord? Well the previous verses in Romans 10 make it very clear. What does verse 9 say? That if you believe Jesus is Lord, or confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, Then you shall be saved. Or you believe God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. So the implication here is that the curiosity in that passage is referring to who? Jesus. So Jesus is the Yahweh of the Old Testament. Let me give you another example. You don't look completely convinced. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 2 through 4. As newborn bees desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby, if so ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. To whom coming as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of them, but chosen of God and precious. Now verse 3, where it says, that the Lord is gracious, Peter is quoting from Psalm 34, verse 8. And what does Psalm 34 verse 8 say? O taste and see that the Lord is good. And the word Lord there in Psalm 34, 8, again, is all capital letters. All capital letters in your King James Version, which again, it is the word Yahweh. O taste and see that Yahweh is good. And again, this is identifying curios uh in 1 Peter is the is the Yahweh of the Old Testament So again, this implies that Jesus is the Yahweh of Psalm 34, 8. And then consider Peter's use of Isaiah 8. Isaiah 8, verses 12 and 13. We'll just read verse 13 for the sake of time. Sanctify the Lord of hosts himself. And let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. Peter is quoting from Isaiah 8. 13 and 1 Peter. 15, 315, when it says, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and always be ready to do what? You guys with me? Give an answer to everyone that asks you. I was asking for an answer from you. Um so But again, here is the exchange. The curiosity Jesus in the New Testament is the Yahweh of the Old Testament. So to call upon the name of the Lord for you is to call upon Jesus. Jesus is the embodiment and the revelation of Yahweh. Jesus said, he that hath seen me has seen what? The Father. Jesus prayed in John 17, 6, I have manifested thy name unto men which thou hast given me out of a I've manifested your name. Jesus is the manifestation of Yahweh from the Old Testament. Also, remembering God's name is a call to live in a manner that honors and his character that reflects his holiness. The Bible says in Colossians 3. 17, whatsoever you do in word or deed, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks unto God the Father through him. And then finally, let me Quickly close this. Remembering God's name is to ask Him to remember us and work on our behalf. When you're going through trying times, just call upon His name. Run to Him. Take refuge in Him. If you need healing, he's Jehovah Rapha. If you need peace, he's Jehovah Shalom. If you're weighed down by your sin and you need righteousness, because you don't have any. He's Jehovah Sidkun, the Lord my righteousness. Alright? If you need victory, he's Jehovah Nisi, the Lord my banner. If you need provision, he's Jehovah Jerai, the Lord is my provision. If you need salvation, he's Jesus. He is my salvation. The Bible says in Psalm 50, verse 15, and call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. And that's what we should do. When you're in trouble, call upon his name and watch him deliver you, and then you can glorify Him. The psalmist said in Psalm 55, verse 16, As for me, I will call upon God, and the Lord shall save me. And the psalmist here in this stance, the Psalm 119, makes it his practice to remember God's name. But notice in the night, look again in verse 55. I remember thy name, O Lord, in the night. He remembers it. Maybe in the time when he would feel the fears and the anxieties welling up in him, there's something about night that maybe cause us to fear. But in those moments when we are tempted to fear, he calls upon God's name. And how does it how does he do that? Look in verse 56 and we're done. This I had because I kept thy precepts. It's through the Word of God. How can we know anything about God's name but through his word? It reveals to us who he is. When he says, I've kept thy word. I think what he means here, you know, honestly he didn't have a scroll that he referred to. I don't think the Babylonians would have let him have it When he says he kept his word, where did he keep it? I don't think he traveled with a small pocket-sized you know Torah, yeah. He kept it here. He kept it in his heart. He committed it to memory. Remember earlier in Psalm 119, thy word have I hid in my heart. He remembered it. He meditated on it. He kept it in him all the time. That's the best place to keep God's word, right? The best storehouse is in your heart. In your mind. So that when you go through those trying times, you know what? You can remember God's promises, you can remember God's judgment, and you can remember God's name. And you can call upon them in those times, those trying times. The Bible says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed upon thee. And may we practice this in our own life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for these wonderful promises that you've given us. That we can refer to over and over again. Lord, they are indeed our source of strength, our security, our shield, our song. Thank you, Lord, for your judgments. We can look in Scripture and see, Lord, your mercy and your And your judgment and not only have fear, but gratitude. And Lord, we can remember your name. And call upon your name in the day of trouble and know that Lord, you will strengthen us. You will deliver us. And you're mighty to save, just like we sang about today. Tonight. So, Father, may we apply these words to our heart. Strengthen those that are here tonight that are going through trying times. And we pray in Jesus' name