Would you take God's word tonight and I want you to open to the last chapter of the last book of the Bible, Revelation chapter 22. You know, we have um been in this book for over a year. I don't know if you realize that or not. I was kind of looking through the sermons. Um, you know, every once in a while I'll do that and find out, okay, where have I been? Where am I going? And I happen to look and see that, you know, we have been in this study for over a year. But we finish it up tonight in Revelation chapter 22, and I want you to look down at verse number six. And we'll start there in verse six, and we'll finish through the chapter tonight. But look at verse six. And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true, and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angels to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done. And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keep keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book Now here in this passage today, the Apostle John is giving his concluding remarks about the book of Revelation. the conclusion of uh these word words here, he's emphasizing the importance of this book. And as we consider these verses tonight, we'll end our study in Revelation. But really Truly, the truth about the book of Revelation will not be over. I heard about a agitated feminist and a pro-life conservative that were debating the relative merits of the sanctity of life and Uh sensing victory in the debate, the feminists said, you know, you don't understand. We've won in the White House and we've won in the courthouse, and the fat lady has already sung. And the prolifer calmly replied, Ma'am, what I believe is that it's not over when the fat lady sings, it's over when the trumpet sounds. Well, our study of the book of Revelation might be over, but really it won't be over. Uh it won't be over really until the trumpet of our Lord sounds. So here in chapter twenty-two, John is giving his conclusion to the book of Revelation. And you know, it it's funny, when you read it, it almost sounds like the introduction to the book of Revelation. There's so much overlap. between what John says in concluding and what John says in the introduction. You know, John was a good preacher. I teach my homiletics to this, you know, you have to introduce your sermon, say what you're going to say, say it, and then in the conclusion, say what you said. And uh there's three parts of the sermon. Introduction, main body, conclusion. Here in the conclusion, John is reemphasizing and saying what he has already said And again, going over how important it is for us to learn what God would have us to learn here in this book. In fact, that expression, this book, is kind of a Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of What, this book. Look at the end of verse number nine, which uh it says, again, thy brethren, the prophets of them which keep the sayings of this book, Worship God. Again in verse number eighteen, at the uh we see the this this in uh in verse eighteen, for I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of This book. And if any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in And then again at the end of verse number 19, and from the things which are written in this book. Over and over again, John is emphasizing the importance of This book, this book of revelation, this prophecy that God has given us. It's so important that we learn these things. There's two books of the Bible really that help us in our theology greatly. One is the book of Genesis, where we see the beginning. It's kind of the seedbed of all theology, and the book of Revelation is the fruition of all of that. theology. And so those two books of the Bible are so important. And those books of the Bible happen to be the books I think that Satan attacks a lot. He would have us to believe that Genesis is a myth and that revelation is a mystery. But God has given this to us so that we can understand it. So what I want you to see then in closing here are seven characteristics of the book of Revelation that we need to understand And uh and and in the conclusion, we need to see the emphasis that John gives in the character of First of all, here's the first point I'd have you write down. Number one, think about the certain purpose of this book. The certain purpose of it. Look again in verse number six. And he said unto me, These things are faithful and true. And the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angels to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done. Now just like John did in the introduction, he in the conclusion, he again tells us the whole purpose of the book of Revelation. What is it? Verse 6, to show unto his servants the things which must shortly be done. It is to show. It is to reveal. Now the book of Revelation is not to be to bewilder. It is not designed to confuse. It's not designed to leave a question mark. It's designed to reveal unto us what God has planned in the end. A lot of times people treat the book of Revelation like it's a mystery, like it's an enigma. And admittedly there are some who treat it that way. But again, I have you heard me argue for this throughout our whole study, if you just interpret the book of Revelation straightforward, literally. We understand there's symbolism in it, but all the symbols have literal meanings. If you just treat it chronologically and literally, it will reveal the plan of Almighty God. And so um that's what God would have us to know. But again in verse number six, notice God reveals it to his servants. That word for servant there is a a a word that you've heard me refer to a lot in the Greek. It's doulos, and it just means a slave. If you're not a slave to Jesus Christ, if you haven't given your whole self to him, it may be that you won't understand what the Lord is saying here, because this is a revelation given to his servants. You have to be a servant of Christ before you really understand it. And notice what he says in verse number six. These words, he says, are faithful. These sayings are faithful and true. Notice the soundness of this. Faithful and true. This expression we see two times in the book of Revelation already referring to Jesus Christ. Now here This expression faithful and true is referring to the book itself. And you see, the words of this book are as faithful as the one who reveals them. And that's Jesus Christ. And let me just say this, that this is John emphasizing that you can trust and you can depend upon what God says here in the book of Revelation. Did you know all of God's predictions are up to date? If you ever doubt that the Bible was accurate concerning fulfilled prophecy, just look at all the prophet prophecies that have already been fulfilled. And God will keep his word, friend. You can rest assured on that. The soundness of it, but also the surety of it. Notice he says that these things must come to pass. In verse the six again, to show unto his servants the things which must come to pass. Not maybe, but must. All these things that John talks about. All these prophecies that are given here in Revelation, they must come to pass. And ladies and gentlemen, just know this that not one word of God's prophecies will fall and fail. Everything that God says will surely happen. It will come to pass. And notice it says in verse number six that it must shortly be done. Now this word shortly here, it doesn't necessarily mean immediately, but it has the idea of suddenly, suddenly, quickly. Notice in verse number 7 what he says, behold, I come what? Quickly. Notice in verse number 12 again, and behold, I come quickly. Again in verse number 20, we see the same thing. He which testified these things saith, Surely I come quickly. I heard about a preacher that was preaching a sermon and uh he got up and he said, Behold, I come quickly. And he couldn't remember what else to say in the sermon. When you do that you repeat this phrase over. So he said again, Behold I come quickly. And still he couldn't remember. And but this time he took a step back and he thought he'd hit the pulpit. And maybe he would remember, behold, I come quickly. When he did, he slipped and he tripped and he flipped over the pulpit and he landed in the first pew, and there was a dear old saint of God, he landed in her lap. And he said, I am so sorry, ma'am. She said, That's okay, Sonny. You warned me three times, you know. You're coming quickly. Three times here in the book of Revelation we hear these words, behold, I come quickly. Now the word quickly here is a Greek word, which me it can mean soon. Or it can mean suddenly. It's going to happen fast. It's going to happen without no warning. It's going to happen, you know, in the twinkling of an eye. It can mean either one of those things, but I think the idea here is that when the Lord does come, it's all going to happen so suddenly, so quickly. And the context I think helps us. Look at verse 11. He that is unjust, let him be unjust still. And he which is filthy, let him be filthy still, and he that is righteous. Let him be righteous still. And he that is holy, let him be holy still. You see, when the Lord comes back, it's going to be so suddenly That people that may have procrastinated and said, you know, I'll get my heart right with God one day. When the Lord comes and He brings everything to conclusion when he comes suddenly in whatever state that you're in at that point, that's where you're going to remain. Let him that is Unjust, be unjust still. And those that are filthy, they'll be filthy still. And those that are righteous, they'll be righteous still. When the Lord comes back, whatever condition you are in at that time, that's where you will remain. You know, Pastor Johnson you had an expression he used to use in reference to evangelism. He would say, as death finds you, what? Eternity keeps you. And I think that's the whole idea here in this in verse number eleven. When the Lord comes back, it's going to be so quickly, so sudden, that and whatever situation you're in, whatever condition you're in, that's where you will remain. I was reading about the city of Pompeii. how you know the story it was us overthrown with a volcano and archaeologists have dug in that region and they found that um that the cataclysm came so quickly that people were unable to escape from the city and they found a man frozen in time. He was covered with lava, but the last moments of his life, he was frozen in a position where he was reaching out for a bag of gold. He didn't leave the city because he was too occupied with trying to take gold with him, and that's how he was covered up. And he forever was frozen in that position there. And the idea is when the Lord Jesus Christ comes back, it'll be so sudden, it'll be so quick. That whatever condition you're in, that's where you'll be found for eternity. Friend, that's why don't put off making your heart right with God. Make sure you know Jesus Christ and you're walking with him. There's the certain purpose of this book to show to his servants Things that will come to pass, and that he's coming quickly. And number two, there's the comforting promise of this book. Look at verse number seven. Behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy Now in the chapter one in the introduction, John said, Blessed is he that readeth. Here John is saying, Blessed is he that keeps, and the word means to observe or to obey, to take heed, to hold fast. It has the idea of letting it affect how you live. If you really believe that Jesus Christ is coming back, it's going to affect the way that you live. Listen, if we spend a whole year studying the book of Revelation and it doesn't change how you live your life, then I have failed in this study. It should affect how we live. We should read it, we should keep it One country preacher said this, he said we ought to live as if Jesus died yesterday, rose today, and is coming back tomorrow. We ought to live with that kind of passion and that kind of urgency. But then there's a third thing, not only the certain purpose and the comforting promise, but also there's what I want to call the common problem of this book. Look at verse number eight. And I John saw these things and heard them And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which showed me these things Now, in these verses, John confesses here to kind of an apostolic blunder, a mistake that he made. It happened once before in Revelation 19, 10. And that is that John gets so caught up in the things that he heard and he saw that he falls down and worships an angel. Now John knew better, but he got so caught up and the excitement and the prophecy that he lost perspective. And it's no accident that I think that John records this mistake that he made twice because I think what he's doing here is he's teaching all of us a lesson. If you're not careful The message of Revelation can be presented in such a spectacular way that it's easy for us to get off track. It's easy for us to forget what's important. You can get so caught up in the way that it's presented. that you forget why it's for that it's presented. We lose perspective and when we do we make two two mistakes and here's the first one we fail to rightly worship You know, if you're not careful, you can worship the messenger rather than the master. We should never make that mistake. And this is what John does. Uh he he worshiped the one who showed him these things. And there are still people that make that mistake today. John would have been a good Independent Baptist, I think. A good evangelical Christian. We have people like John today. They lose sight of the message and the master, and they sometimes they give too much credit to the messenger. They focus too much on the messenger. They get caught up in style and preaching style and preachers. And there are some preachers that instead of exalting Christ, they are preaching in his in a way so as to give to build admiration for themselves. And there are some preachers that get so involved in the prophecy, they get so caught up in it that they're that they really are focusing on prophecy instead of Christ. The central message of Christ. When you exalt a man because he presents the prophecy in such a fascinating way, and you forget to worship Christ. Or you get so caught up in prophecy that Christ is lost, you're making a huge mistake in this book of Revelation. We fail to rightly worship. Let's remember that all of this is about Jesus and his glory. And we need to keep our focus on Christ. But also we fail to rightly witness. Look in verse number 10. And he said unto me, seal not. Oh, by the way, look in verse number 9. I like what the angel says. A little rebuke here. Let me let me get that. Then he said unto me, See thou do it not, for I am thy fellow servant and of thy brethren, the prophets of them which keep the sayings of this book. And so here he's given a rebuke saying, look, don't worship me. I'm just a messenger. I'm just one that's giving you this message. And then in verse number ten he says this, and he says unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book for the time is at hand. Listen, when you learn this, John, don't just seal it up. That is, don't, don't just keep it to yourself, but you get this word out. This prophecy is not to be sealed. The prophecies of this book are to be revealed. It's to be proclaimed. Now this is in contrast to what God told Daniel in the book of Daniel. You might, if you've ever studied that book, you'll know that there are times when God said to Daniel, Daniel, seal up these prophecies. That is, you know, just keep this hidden for a time. But now God is saying to John, it's time for all of this to be revealed. These prophecies are no longer sealed up. These prophecies are to be revealed to all. We are to preach and we are to proclaim the message. Of the book of Revelation, why? Because it serves as a warning about a God whose wrath will be poured out on this earth And so we have to get out there because it says in verse number 10, look at the end of verse 10, for the time is at hand. Friend, we're living in the last days. And God's wrath can be poured out on this earth. We need to get out there and we need to warn people. We need to tell people about the coming of Jesus Christ. So they'll get their hearts right. I remember when uh When when I was first saved here at Grace, Pastor Johnson was preaching through Revelation. I remember that. And I remember just as a new believer, when Pastor Johnson started preaching through Revelation, I was so amazed. By some of the things he was teaching, some of the things I was learning. Now, I was just a teenager, and so I would go back to my friends in the neighborhood and I'd start telling him about Revelation. I mean I start witnessing to them. And I want to tell you I scared them to death. I remember, and this is this is the truth. I I lined them up on my the steps on my porch. I said, come here guys, I want to tell you something I set them all down there. And I I started reading Revelation. I started reading about the judgments that God is going to pour out on the earth. And they sat there, their eyes as big as saucers. And they were scared and some of them prayed to receive Christ. I I just scared them into the kingdom of God, you know And by the way, some of them I think their profession of faith was real. Others, I think, you know, it may have been just because out of fear they wanted to pray a prayer, but there were others who, I believe, genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as their savior. In fact, a few years ago, a man came into a church here and he was had a white beard and he was wearing a cap. And uh at the end of the service, while standing in the back, he walked out and he looked at me and he said, Do you remember me? I hate when people do that. He was wearing a cap. He had a beard. And I don't know I I don't know w how I did this. I think it was a word of n knowledge maybe, I don't know. But I said, is your name Doug? And he goes, I knew you would remember me. It was a lucky guess, really. And uh Doug was one of those young men that I had witnessed to when I was a teenager. And I told him about you know the book of Revelation, how he needed to get saved, he needed to trust Jesus. And you know, Doug is was walking with the Lord even to this day. He lives, he's told me all about his life. He said I moved to West Virginia. I live in West Virginia. I attend a church there. I just want to thank you for sharing the Word of God with me You never know what the Lord is going to do. But this is what John is saying. Look, the time is at hand. We need to get the Word of God out. And if we get caught up in prophecy and we're so consumed with it and we get our charts out and and we try to, you know, chart every little detail about prophecy and we're so we become so obsessed with it That we forget to share the gospel with other people. We're missing the boat there. Some people are so caught up with their head in the clouds of prophecy. that their feet don't touch the the pavement of soul winning. And they're never witnessing, they're never trusting the Lord Jesus Christ. It's like the uh are witnessing about the Lord Jesus Christ. D. L. Moody said they become so heavenly minded that they're no earthly good. Studying the book of Revelation should give us a burden for souls. It should give us a passion. to share Christ with other people because we know that God's wrath will be poured out on this earth one day. And so there's the certain purpose and the comforting promise and the common problem of this book. But here's the fourth thing. There's the central person of this book. Look at verse number 13 when it says this. Here's Jesus. Again, actually back up to verse number 12. And behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me to give every man according as his his work shall be. I am Alpha. And Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last. Now again, this book of Revelation, it's all about Christ. It exalts Jesus Christ. It's not the revelation of St. John the Divine, like we see in some of your Bibles that was put in there by the publisher of the Bible. It's the revelation of Jesus Christ. It reveals him in all his glory. And so revelation is from the Greek word apocalypsis, an uncovering, an unveiling. It unveils the glory and the majesty. And the authority of Jesus Christ. And that's the thing that we need to see in this. Did you know that the book of Revelation has 32 names and titles of Jesus Christ in it? Let me give you a few, the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, the Alpha and Omega, the Lamb, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the Son of Man, the root of David, the Amen The King of Kings and Lord of Lords, these are just a few. Thirty-two different names and titles of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the worthy one that opens the seals. of the scroll as the judgments are poured out. And so here Jesus says, we see words of exaltation, I am the Alpha and the omega. What's the alpha and the omega? Well we know that. That's the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet. And this corresponds to what the Lord says again in verse 13. The beginning and the end, the first, and the last. Now, all of that is from uh passages in the Old Testament. For example, in Isaiah 44, 6 God says, I am the first, I am the last. In other words, these three expressions all can apply only to God. And so here Jesus Christ is offering testimony that he himself is God. It's like I said this morning in the sermon, Jesus is not a created being. Jesus always was. He is God. God that came down as a man. He is the Son of God, the second person of the eternal Trinity. We see words of exaltation, but then we see words of examination. Look at verse number 14. Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life and may enter in through the gates of the city Now, these words speak about those who are truly saved, those who are truly believers. What are the characteristics of those who are truly saved? Well, they obey Jesus Christ Now, if you're not careful, you can misunderstand verse 14. It says, Blessed are they that do his commandments that they may have a right to the tree of life. There's some people that might read that verse and say, well, there it is. If I obey the commandments of Jesus, that will get me to heaven, and then I'll have the right to the tree of life there in heaven. That's not what that verse is saying. What it's basically saying is How do I know that I'm a person who's truly saved and who will one day be in heaven and have access to the tree of life? If you're truly a believer, your life will be characterized by obedience to Christ. That obedience doesn't get you saved. That obedience reveals that you already are saved. That you've already trusted Christ. You know, anyone who lives a life of continual disobedience and says, I'm a believer, I fear for them in their salvation. Because the Bible says, hereby we do know that we know him. Here's how you know that you know Jesus. If we keep his commandments. If you're a child of God You're going to want to obey the commandments of the Lord Jesus Christ. That will give you the assurance in your heart that you truly are a child of God. that you know that you're going to heaven because there'll be a pattern of obedience to Jesus Christ in your life And so that's why the Bible gives a blessing to those that obey his commandments. That is an assurance to us that we truly are saved. And it says, and may enter in through the gates into the city. And this is an image that John is giving here. Before you enter into a city, you have to pass the gate, and before you pass the gate, there's a judge sitting there at the gate that will give you entrance in. You know, uh when we were in Israel And I'll show this next week at the 9. 45 hour when we show some pictures. But we one of the cities that we visited was an old city of Dan that's in northern Israel. And you can go there and you can see this ancient gate. As you go into the city, it's kind of on a slope you go up And the rocks are all uneven. That's all on purpose. For defensive purposes, if you were an army trying to get into a city, you would make it easy for the army to charge up the hill. The rocks are all uneven And then when you get to the top, you have to make a hard left turn. Again, for defensive purposes, uh, you know, you don't want Access immediately into the city so that you would have to turn left and as soon as you make that left turn, you're entering in the gate of the city. And you know what you see there is you see a little platform that's been there for centuries. That's where the judge would sit at the city gate. And he would judge the affairs of people that would come there to the city gate. Did you know that there are cities of refuge in the Old Testament? Before a person could go into the city of refuge, you would have to present your case to the judge And if the judge thought you worthy, he would grant you entrance into the city. And I think this is the imagery that John is using here about heaven. Those that are granted entrance into heaven are those that are truly saved and know Jesus Christ as their Savior. At the 9. 45 hour, I've been teaching about evangelism. And the one question that I tell you to ask people, if you were to die today and stand before Jesus and he were to say to you, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would your answer be? Well, that's kind of the imagery here. Here is the gate to the city of heaven, and only those that are allowed entrance into the city Are those that have the right answer to that question, by the way? Why should I let you in? There's only one right answer, and we know what that answer is. Because all of my hope is in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Like the songwriter said, my hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. My faith is in the finished work of Christ. I don't deserve heaven, but because of what Jesus Christ did for me, I I'm a child of God, and I have been given entrance into that city. And so this is the imagery that is given here. And notice there are those that are without. Look at verse number 15. It's not a very pretty picture. For without are Dogs and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh alive. Who are those that are being without? John uses the expression dogs. This kind of is puzzling when you see this word here. What does he mean by that? You know, in ancient times, dogs were not the domesticated household pets that they are today. They were despised scavengers that milled about cities, the garbage dumps. And to call a person a dog was to talk about a person being low in character. It's used in scripture for that purpose. It's referring to people that are out and out sinners, re rebelling against God. It refers to impure people. And then he also refers to those that are sorcerers. The word here actually is speaking about those that are involved in witchcraft and making spells, but also With that is the abuse of drugs because sorcery and drugs were so tied together in the ancient world. This could be referring to someone who uses drugs for pleasure. Horemongers refers to those that are immoral It's from the word pornos, where we get the word pornography, those that engage in all kind of illicit immoral behavior. The Lord says, all of those that continue in this kind of life And those that loveth and maketh a lie. Those are all characteristics of people that do not know Jesus Christ. that are not children of God. Those are the ones that are lost, that are without. And that's a very sad thing. That's why we, again, we have to be passionate about presenting Christ to those that are in need. So we see here that Jesus Christ is giving words of examination. Only those That are truly saved. Only those that have put their faith in Christ and are living a life of obedience to Christ, showing that their faith is real. Those are the only ones That will be granted access into heaven, into the tree of life. And so this is these are the words of our Lord Jesus. Now let me give you another point here. We talked about the certain purpose. and the comforting promise and the common problem and the central person of the book of Revelation, that's Jesus Christ. But then there's the clear proposal of this book. Look at verse number 16. I, Jesus, have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David and the bright and morning star. And here, Jesus tells John, look, I sent my angel to testify to you. Through angels, the message of revelation was communicated to John, but the source of this was always Jesus. This was always the words and the revelation of Jesus. And so he uses this expression, I Jesus. This is Jesus talking here. This appears only here in the Bible. And uh it establishes that this final invitation in Scripture is not a human invitation, but a divine call from the Lord to all those that need him. Now remember the book of Revelation was addressed to the seven churches, to believers, but The book of Revelation also includes a standing invitation to anyone that would want to come to Christ. I think verse 17 is one of the great verses in the Bible. Look at verse 17. And the spirit and the bride say what? Come. And let him that heareth say, come. And let him that is a thirst Come. And whosoever will let him take of the water of life freely. Isn't that a great verse Listen, you want salvation? Just come. Just come. Now we hear today a lot about the doctrine of election. And sometimes people will come to me and they'll they'll ask me about that doctrine and they'll ask a question like this. Who are the elect? Well, we just read who the elect are in verse 17. You know who the elect are? Anybody that wants to come. You want to come? Come. You say, I don't know if I'm elect. Friend, that's not your concern. And let me ask you a question. Are you hungry? Here's a table fully loaded with bread. Just come and eat. Are you thirsty? Here's the water of life. Come and drink. The doctrine of election is not a doctrine that we apply to evangelism. It's a doctrine that we apply to eternal security. If you're hungry, you come. If you want salvation, you come. If you're thirsty, you come. Whoever wants it, can have it. And Jesus won't turn you away. Friend, do you want to come, then come. That's why I call verse 17 one of the great verses of the Bible. The word come to me is one of the is the queen of all Bible words. Just come. Friend, come to Jesus Christ. Anyone who dies and goes to hell should have to leap over a Christian pleading with them to come to Jesus Christ. Come to me. Come to me, Jesus says. Come. Anybody that wants to come. Don't worry about whether or not you're one of the elect. If you want Jesus, friend, you are. You come to him. You run to him. That's the only condition of salvation that I see here. You know what the condition is if you're thirsty. If you're thirsty, if you're hungry, if you're heavy laden, then Jesus says, Come to me. Years ago in London there was a large gathering of notables and a concert And one of the invited guests was a famous preacher. His name was Cesar Milan. And a young lady charmed the audience that night with her singing. And after the concert, Caesar Milan went to this young lady and he said to her, graciously, yet very boldly, he said, You know, I thought as I listened to you tonight How tremendously the cause of Christ would be benefited if your talents were dedicated to the cause of Christ. And then he said this, you know, young lady, you're a sinner in the sight of God. Not exactly the way I would approach it at that point, but that's what he said. He was very bold. You know, young lady, you are a sinner in the sight of God. But I'm glad to tell you that the blood of Jesus Christ can cleanse you from all your sin. And you know what? The lady became angry at the preacher, and she stomped her feet and walked away. And as she was leaving, he said to her, Look, I mean no offense, and I pray that the God will convict you and show you that you need Jesus Christ. Well, the young lady went home and she couldn't sleep. And the face of that preacher just appeared before her again and again. And she had heard the gospel before, and she knew that she needed Christ. And those words kept running through her mind. And at about two o'clock in the morning, she got out of bed. She wanted to come to Christ. She wanted to get it settled. And she did. And then she took out A piece of paper and a pen, and she wrote these words, just as I am without one plea, but that thy blood was shed for me. And that thou bidst me come to thee, O Lamb of God, I come. So those words sound familiar to you. They were written by this lady, Charlotte Elliot. Who is convicted by the words of that preacher? And if you want to come, just come. That's what the Bible says. Now let me give you another thing here. What I want to call the consecrated prophecy of this book. Look at verse 18. For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book. If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book. And if any man shall take away From the words of the prophecy of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book. And so here is a severe warning. Now it was customary in ancient days for a writer to put this kind of warning at the close of their books because those who copied Their works were tempted to tamper with the material that was written down. And here John gives a severe warning. Not just to those that would write and copy it, but to the reader, to the hearer, where this book would be read aloud. And it applies to anyone and everyone today that would tamper with the Word of God. Let me tell you something, friend. This is the very Word of God. Don't tamper with it. Don't take away from it. Don't add to it. You don't edit the Word of God like it's some kind of a newspaper or like it's some kind of an article. Uh years ago I read that Reader's Digest decided to come up with a condensed version of the Bible. You remember that? They decided that they were going to take out everything in the Bible that they thought was unnecessary for people. And they came up with a condensed version of the Bible. What a mistake that was. The Bible's already condensed Remember what John wrote in his gospel? John says, you know, I suppose if I wrote down everything that Jesus said and did, the worlds couldn't contain the books. Now, obviously John was using hyperbole there, but you get the point. John was saying we didn't write down everything that Jesus said and did. We just kind of summarized his life. And these gospels. And so the Bible that we have, it's already condensed. It's exactly what God wants you to have. Don't you take away from the words of the prophecy of this book. Don't you add to it Because here is a severe warning of judgment from Almighty God for anyone that would ever do these things. Friends, we don't need to rewrite it, we need to reread it. Over and over again. And so there's the certain purpose, the comforting promise, the common problem, the central person, the clear proposal The consecrated prophecy of this book, but here's the last point, and we're done. The closing prayer of this book. Look at verse number 20. And he which testified these things said, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus. And the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. This is the last prayer of the Bible. And this ought to be our prayer. Even so, come, Lord Jesus What did Jesus teach us to pray? Thy kingdom come. We should be longing for his kingdom. We should be living for his kingdom. We should be praying, Lord, I want your kingdom to come. Now we know that Jesus reigns already over his kingdom, the spiritual kingdom of God that comes to people's hearts. There's a sense in which this is already, but not yet. Jesus reigns spiritually over the hearts of those that have enthroned them in their heart as Lord. But there's a sense in which Jesus is yet coming to set up his literal physical kingdom on earth. Where the kingdom of God will fully come. It's already, but not yet. And so our prayer should be, Lord, come, even come. Lord Jesus. Even so come, Lord Jesus. You know, the problem is we're so caught up in this world and the things of this world. That we can't focus on his kingdom. But again, the last prayer of the Bible ought to be our prayer. That Jesus Christ would come and that he would reign as King of kings and as Lord of Lords. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, thank you. For this wonderful book of Revelation. And I pray, Lord, that it'll change us as we meditate on it, as we think about it. As surely as you came the first time, and we're celebrating the first Advent. But as surely as you came the first time, we know that you're coming again. And I pray, Lord, that this certainty would change how we live our life. And that, Lord, we would focus more on your kingdom than on our own. That our hearts would live each day in light of the reality of your coming. May it change who we are. Lord, may it make us passionate in our devotion for you. And sharing Christ with others who so desperately need the gospel. And so, Lord, help us to rightly apply this book, how important it is for us And we pray in Jesus' name, amen.