Take take your Bible tonight. Look in the First Peter chapter one. First Peter chapter one, verse number eight. Such a beautiful job singing that song, Brother Bill. Thank you so much. And tonight I want to speak about, again, we're doing on Sunday evenings a series, a very unique series. I've not done anything like this before where I basically take Puritan works, sermons. uh and kind of give you a synopsis of what the work that they've done, the books that I've read that have been a blessing to me. And of course I kind of package it my own way, but I'm sharing with you really the insights and the truths that come from them So uh I know a lot of you have uh saying I really have enjoyed this series, and that's because they're not my sermons, they're other guys that I'm actually just bringing you the truth from these men that have so enriched my life. And tonight the uh the title of the sermon is from the book, The True Christian's Love to the Unseen Christ. There are some sermons that are forged in stu study and others that are forged in suffering. This was a sermon series that was forged in suffering written by the Puritan Thomas Vinson. He was a young Puritan preacher in London in the 1660s. And that was a very difficult period. You've probably heard me mention it before. Many of the Puritans ministered in such a a difficult time And uh you remember in 1662 there was what is called the Great Ejection where they cast these ministers out of their pulpits because they would not conform to the Church of England or the state. And so the uh of course Thomas Vinson was one of those and uh and just a few years later there would also be the Great Plague that would sweep through London and tens of thousands died and streets emptied and homes were marked with death And many ministers fled and people fled the city, but Thomas Vincent stayed. And he walked into the infected homes and he stood beside bedsides where men and women were taking their last breath. He just faithfully ministered and a very, very difficult time. And uh it was during that time that um he began to preach from 1 Peter 1 8 on this this thought. Because Vincent saw a troubling reality. There were many people that he saw that professed Christ, but few truly loved him. He couldn't really discern in these people a love for Christ. And so he began a series of sermons on this idea of the of the true Christian's love. for the unseen Christ. And uh all these sermons became a book. And in the preface of the book, he kind of tells you us plainly why he wrote it. He says this. He says that he believed that there was a general decay of love to Christ. And that many nominal Christians had only the the theory of love and not the fervor of that love. They had a knowledge of what it is to love Christ, but they didn't really have the passion. that that should go with it. And he said he stated that his aim was to warm and inflame the reader's heart with love to the unseen Christ. And so he writes these words, quote, the life of Christianity consists very much in our love to Christ. And that is the issue before us. Not till you attend church faithfully, although that's important. Not do you know doctrine, although again that is so very, very important, but do you love Christ? Do you love Christ? And so I want to kind of summarize the message of this book. Now this book has 17 sections in it Relax. I won't go through all 17. I'm going to kind of package what he said in th under three headings that I've that I've come up with. But at the heart the book answers one question. This is the one question that the book answers. How can a believer truly love Christ whom he has never seen? How do you love Christ when you've never seen him And how can he know that he does? How do you know tonight that you truly love Christ? How can you love a Christ that you have never seen? And so I want us to explore this idea that Thomas Vincent really expounds upon under three headings. Here's the first one, what I want to call the paradox of loving an unseen Christ. The paradox. Because look again at verse number 8. Whom having not seen ye love. And we have to remember who Peter is writing to. Who is he writing to here? in this chapter, in this book. Well, he's writing to believers who were going through a lot of suffering. Some of them were scattered because of the persecution that was going throughout that area. And these Christians had been displaced from their homes, and this was during a time of the great persecution of Christians under Nero. I know that You've heard me talk about that before, how that it became open season on Christians after Nero tried to burn down Rome and uh because the Senate wouldn't give him an area of Rome that he wanted, he had some of his henchmen go out and Set part of the city on fire where the fire got out of control. A lot of people died. He needed a scapegoat, so he blamed the Christians. It was the Christians. They were always talking about a baptism of fire. I mean this is a weird group of people. They are are cannibals. They talk about eating flesh and drinking blood. He didn't understand the Lord's Supper And he didn't understand anything about Christianity. And so because of that, there was a great persecution that came. And this is the context of 1 Peter chapter 1. And verse six it says this, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptation, that the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus, and then in verse eight, whom having not seen ye love And so this is the context of this. These are believers who are experiencing sorrow and loss and opposition, and yet they love Christ. That's what makes verse 8 so powerful. Here they were going through all of this tremendous suffering. And yet they loved a Christ that they have never seen. And they didn't love him faintly nor reluctantly, but they loved him truly. You see, Christian love for Christ, it's really not dependent on comfort, and it's not dependent on ease or anything like that. It thrives when life is hard. It thrives when difficulty comes, that love for Christ. And so Thomas Vinson's point here is that there's kind of a divine paradox. Here are these Christians going through this difficulty and yet they love a Christ that they've never seen. He says that is a paradox. We've never heard his voice audibly. We've never seen his face visibly. We've never touched his hands physically. And yet we love him. Now, how is that possible? How is that possible? And Vincent answers the question by saying this: quote, Christ is not seen with the eye of sense, but he's seen with the eye of faith Faith gives sight to the soul. You see, the world says seeing is believing, but the scripture says believing is seeing. Believing comes first. And through faith, Thomas Vincent says, we are able to behold the beauty of Christ. We are able to see his mercy. We are able to see that he is sufficient for us. We're able to see that he loves us. And when a soul truly sees Christ by faith, Thomas Vinson says, you can't help but love him. When you see Christ through the eyes of faith, your response is that you will love Christ. And he puts it again this way, quote, the ground of this love to Christ is discovery and believing apprehensions of Christ's loveliness and love. So just by knowing who he is through the scripture, the word of God You can apprehend his beauty. You can apprehend his greatness through scripture You see, a man might fall deeply in love through letters, long before he ever sees the one that he loves, just by knowing that person, their words, that person's heart, and so on. In fact, this happened to John Newton John Newton, the one who wrote Amazing Grace, spent years separated from the woman he loved while he was at sea. And their relationship was sustained almost entirely through the letters. that was written back and forth. And he would read her words over and over again, and Newton would later reflect on how deeply his affection grew for his fiancee Mary. Not in her physical presence, but it grew through reading her words and through understanding and meditating on her character that he read about in those letters and a longing for reunion. And he came to know her, he says, through the written letters. And that warmed his affection. So by the time that they uh met again, uh that affection that they had for each other had been deeply formed and they married soon after he he got back. Well that's a picture of the Christian life You see, we've never seen Christ with our eyes, but we do have God's word. And through the Word of God, we learn of Christ. Through the Word of God, we see his heart. I've never seen his face, but I've seen his heart. And I see it through scripture. I see his love. I see his character. I see his sacrifice. And as we read, we meditate. And as we meditate, we also pray. We commune with Christ when we read about him in Scripture. And when that happens, our love grows again not because we see him physically but because through scripture and that time that we spend with him we know him truly we know him truly And so we see Christ through God's word, and we see that in the Word of God, Christ shows us, the Word of God shows us Christ, who is worthy of all of our love. He's worthy of all of our love. And that's exactly where Thomas Vincent takes us in his book. He says this, quote, the ground of this love to Christ is the discovery and believing apprehensions of Christ's loveliness and In other words, you don't love Christ by trying harder. You love Christ by seeing him more clearly in Scripture That's when the love grows. So let me show you what Vincent shows us. First of all, he says we love him because of his person. We see the person of Christ. He's not just a teacher, he's not just a prophet, he's God in the flesh, truly God, truly man, infinite in majesty, and yet he's near in mercy. Vincent says, when you see who Christ is, his glory, his humility, his condescension, your heart is drawn to him. This is not an ordinary person. I remember when I first got saved, my mom bought me a Bible, and uh the first book that I ever read through was the Gospel of Matthew I remember that so very distinctly as being a new Christian and just reading through Matthew and reading about Christ and just being stunned. By what he did and the gentleness and the love that I saw in Christ in the Gospel of Matthew. He's not an ordinary person. He's the Son of God that stepped into our world And Thomas says that we we love him because of this person, but also we love him because of his beauty and excellency. Vincent speaks of Christ's loveliness. There's a moral and a spiritual beauty In Christ that surpasses anything that we've ever seen in this world. When you compare Christ to anyone or anything in this world Christ far surpasses it. He far surpasses it. Perfect in purity, perfect in wisdom, perfect in compassion, perfect in righteousness. There's no flaw in him, there's no defect, there's no inconsistency just purity and perfection. Everything about Christ is excellent. And when faith beholds that beauty, Thomas Vinson says the response is to say he is altogether lovely. And then also we love him because of his work in redemption. And this is where love really begins to burn. Christ did not remain distant. He came for us. He came to this world for us. He lived the life that we could not live. He died the death that we deserve to die. He took our place. He was our substitute. And Vincent presses this reality. He says Christ's benefits are incomparable. There is nothing like what he has done for sinners. And so when you see that Again, it becomes the natural response of the redeemed heart simply to love Christ. But also, he says we love him because of his love towards sinners. This is the deepest ground of all We love him because he first loved us. Not when we were worthy, not when we were you know because we're worthy. He loved us when we were rebels, when we were not seeking him, he was seeking after us You know, to think of that, his love for sinners, and meditate upon that. So this is this is the reasons that we love him. Now, before we move on, Vincent also points out a warning in this. He says that there's a danger in not loving Christ. So before we move on, let me just touch on what Vincent says in his book. Because Thomas Vincent does not leave this truth in the in the realm of beauty alone. He says this, he he turns sharply and he warns. He says, if Christ is truly lovely If he's so worthy of our love, then here's the question, then what does it mean if we do not love him? So if he's altogether lovely, so worthy in his person and character and redemption of love. What does it mean if we don't love him? What does that mean? And Vincent answers with real clarity. He's very sobering here, where he says, it means the soul is still spiritually dead. You know what he's saying? If you don't love Christ, you're not really saved. There is no true saving interest in Christ, he says. The person remains under judgment. They had no category for a Christian in that day who did not love Christ. Now we have categories today we like to call Christians, you know, carnal Christian. We have the natural man, the carnal man, the spiritual man. We divide Christianity up into carnal and spiritual. The only problem is I don't really see that dichotomy in Scripture It's a very dangerous thing to me to say, well that person's just a carnal Christian. Really? Well maybe they're not really a Christian at all Because anyone who calls himself a Christian and has no love for Christ or doesn't show that love for Christ, then the Bible and my the what the butt-up the Bible I study shows no uh no other position For in fact, the Apostle Paul in 1 Corinthians 16, 22, said, If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. Devoted to judgment. That's pretty strong. And so really there's only two categories of people in the world, those who love Christ and those who say they do and don't, are people who just don't. You either love them or you don't love them. And so Vincent uh he uh he warns people very solemnly. He says, it's not enough to say I believe in Christ. It's not enough to say I attend church. I agree with doctrine But the question is, do I love him? Do I love Christ? Because if Christ is truly seen as he is, then indifference, he says, is impossible. You can't be indifferent about Christ when you see the loveliness of Christ. And he says coldness is not neutral, it is revealing. So that brings us to the next point. How do we know if we truly love the unseen Christ? And here's point number two, what I call the proof of loving an unseen Savior. Not only the paradox, but the proof. And and this is the question again that Vincent really presses home, and that is, how do we know if we truly love Christ? He says, because this is where many people deceive themselves. There's a lot of people that say they love Christ, but do they really love Christ? Not everyone who speaks well of Christ, he says, loves Christ. Not everyone who follows Christ outwardly truly follows Christ inwardly. And this is why Thomas Vinson gives what he calls the marks of the evidences of true love to Christ. He says this, quote, love to Christ is not a fancy but a working grace. It shows itself in the life. If you really love Christ, it's going to show. It's going to show in your life. Now, how does it show? What does it look like? First of all, a love for Christ produces a desire for his presence. He says you're going to want to be in his presence. He says, such as love Christ, they greatly desire his presence. If you love Christ, you want him. Not just his help, not just his blessing, but him. You're going to want him. You desire time in his presence. You're going to desire fellowship in prayer. You're going to desire nearness to Christ through the Word. A loveless heart can take or leave Christ. A loving heart longs for him, he says. And so that is so very true. This begs the question, this is a question that I've asked and I've struggled over from time to time in my Christian life. What does it mean to desire his presence? What does that actually mean? We've heard people talk about that before. What does it actually mean to desire his presence? Well, Vincent says believers desire his presence. What he's talking about is a communion. He's not saying that we chase after a sensation. What does it mean to desire his presence? Well, that means time in God's Word. Again, this is where Christ reveals himself to us. There's also prayer. where the soul speaks to him, we we we are in it in his presence and when we pray. Meditation where the truth is digested and then we apply it. Worship where the heart is filled. well t is is filled with adoration of him where the heart is lifted to Christ. All of that is desiring the presence of Christ. So the desire for Christ is not necessarily, Lord, give me a feeling. The desire for Christ is, Lord, I want you. And that's a crucial distinction. But that brings also another question. Do we feel or sense his presence? You ever asked that question? Have you ever, don't raise your hand, have you ever sensed in your life the presence of Christ? It's a good question. And this is again where Vincent kind of helps us to answer the question, do we feel or sense his presence? And Vincent kind of gives a balanced answer, but really he just says, sometimes yes. Sometimes yes, we do feel his presence when we're with him. This is where Seasons, he says, where the heart is warmed. You may be, you know, in your daily devotions, you have the same time, maybe every day, same place. You read scripture. Sometimes it could be a little mechanical Um, is that not true? Is it just me? Or, you know, again you guys look so holy and make me feel really bad tonight. What's the matter with you, preacher? Sometimes honestly when I I I'm in there it's my fault, it's my fault, it's my own coldness. I I it it gets a little mechanical and I I want to sense more of the presence of Christ, but You know, it's those moments. I've also been in there in times when I've I've been in God's Word and I've studied God's Word, and I have been so overwhelmed with the presence of Christ. I've been so overwhelmed with him that I know that he's near. And my prayer at those times is, you know, Jesus, don't leave. Stay here. Stay here with me. And I know that sounds mystical. I know that sounds kind of, but those experiences don't come every day They come at times when the Lord might visit us with his presence. That's part of desiring it. And this is what uh Vincent says, in those moments the heart is warmed. In those moments Christ feels near, Scripture is unusually sweet. Your prayer is full and lively The Puritans called this the sensible presence. Sensible presence. Have you ever had a sensible presence of Christ? when you're spending time in the Word of God. The Puritans would say Christ is always present with His people. Objectively, we know that by the promises that He gives us But he's not always sensibly present. That is to say, subjectively by experience. We don't always experience that. We don't always sense that, but that doesn't mean that it's not real. And so what does the sensible presence feel like? Again, the Puritans describe it as sweetness, as warmth when you're with the Lord, a kind of a spiritual light, a melting of the heart. All those things are expressions that they use to talk about this sensible presence when you're with the Lord Jesus. Samuel Rutherford, another Puritan. spoke of Christ's presence as overwhelming and sweet. He said, His love to me is more than I can contain. It is like a flood. And he described seasons where Christ seemed so near that his heart was almost undone with love. And then another Puritan, John Flavel, gives one of the most famous accounts. He describes riding on a horseback, meditating on Christ, when suddenly, and this is his words, quote, the Lord so filled my soul with his love that I could scarcely bear it. He said he had to ask the Lord to withhold the intensity because his heart could not contain it. That's kind of the sensible classical language of Puritans. uh when they're talking about this this sensible presence of the Lord. And then later David Brainer, who came along later than the Puritan era, but was very Puritan-like He wrote in his journal, My soul was in sweet and precious frame. I enjoyed a sensible communion with God. So, yes, that is available And as children of God, we find those moments especially precious. And we desire that. You're going to desire to be in the presence of Christ. for uh uh to to uh enjoy his fellowship and enjoy his communion. This is the next point. Love for for Christ produces delight in communion. You delight in that. Communion with Christ is not a burden, it's a joy. Time in his word is not dry, it is sweet. Prayer is not just a duty, it's fellowship. And if your walk with Christ is constantly mechanical, then Thomas Vincent warns, you know, you should not ignore that. You shouldn't make sure. That you're really in Christ. Because love always brings delight. And if you truly love Christ, you're going to delight in those moments. But here's another evidence. He says love for Christ produces grief over sin. Grief over sin. If you truly love Christ, he said you're going to grieve over your sins. When you love someone and you grieve that someone Then you're going to be grieved because you grieved them. And this is what he says. The believer does not merely fear the consequences of sin. He mourns because he has offended his Lord. And he grieves over that. He mourns over the offense of sin, like David in Psalm 51, verse 4. Again to thee and thee only have I sinned. Sin becomes bitter, not because it harms you, but because of what it does to the one you love. And then also he says, love for Christ produces obedience. You're just going to want to obey him. If you're not obeying Christ, then there's no love. Vincent writes this, where there is sincere love to Christ, there will be a careful endeavor to please him. to obey him. Love makes obedience personal. You're not just following rules. As a Christian, if your Christian life is all about following rules, Again, I uh you know I wonder if you're if what you have is real. It's not about rules, it's about a relationship with a person. And it's not so much me wanting to check the boxes and do all these things, it's wanting to please my Lord. to please Christ. You see, I don't know I'm not going to do it perfectly, but that's going to be what I want. But also he says love for Christ produces a willingness to suffer. And this is where love is tested. Vincent points out that true love for Christ will endure difficulty. You go through a difficult time, you walk away from Christ, that reveals that what you had was not real love for Christ. But when Christ is truly loved, he is worth any inconvenience. He's worth sacrifice He's even worth suffering. In fact, the early believers in the book of Acts rejoiced in that they were counted worthy to suffer for the name of Christ. So you'll be willing to suffer for him. But uh let me give you the uh the next thing here, the last point here. Um Because I wanna you know don't want to keep you here too long. I know everybody is hungry, you look hungry. But here's number three, the product of loving an unseen Christ, the product. The paradox The proof, the product. Because if you look again in 1 Peter 1 8, look at the second part, whom having not seen ye love, and whom though now ye see him not yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable. and full of glory. When Christ is truly loved, something remarkable happens. Joy is produced, not a surface level happiness. It's not what we're talking about here. Not a circumstantial emotion, but a deep, spiritual, unshakable joy. Thomas Vinson writes, this joy is a foretaste of heaven. It is glory begun. It is not the world's joy. It is a joy of a soul that has found Christ. It is joy inexpressible. It's inexpressible. Joy unspeakable. There's no words for it Paul Paul Paul echoes this in 2 Corinthians 9 15. Thanks be unto God for his unspeakable gift. Again, in Philippians chapter 4, verse 7, Paul speaks of the peace of God which passes all understanding. Have you ever experienced that? Have you ever been just so overwhelmed with a peace that it defies description? And from all of your outward circumstances, you shouldn't have this peace, and yet you do. It's there. It surpasses our ability to understand it or comprehend it. What a wonderful thing that is. And that's what happens. That's what love for Christ produces. This joy that is beyond explanation. John Owen wrote, A sense of Christ's love is the sweetest thing that can be enjoyed in this life. But then it's also glorious. It's full of glory. The joy is not earthly, it's a heavenly joy. It's heavenly in nature. Not a joy that comes from anything on this world or the temporal things of this world. It's from above. And it carries the fragrance of eternity. This is what Paul talked about in Romans 5. 2. We rejoice in hope of the glory of God. This is a joy that lifts the soul above the world. A joy that lifts us above our our circumstances, that loosens our grip on earthly, worldly things. That's the kind of joy. It fixes our heart on what is to come. Vincent says, this is glory to uh be begun. In other words, it's a foretaste of that what we're going to get in heaven. He said it's like heaven breaking into our heart, giving us a little taste of what we will experience one day in glory. It's sustaining. It's sustaining. This joy is not fragile. It's durable. It holds in suffering. We were talking about Hebrews chapter ten this morning. And here's a passage, Hebrews ten thirty-four. You took joyfully despoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and enduring substance. Here are believers that were going through suffering. People were coming and robbing and taking their things. And the writer says, Look, you you took joyfully the spoil spoiling of your goods. They were taking things from you, they were stealing from you, they were taking advantage of you, and you took it joyfully Why? Well, because you know that you have uh a better substance that's in heaven, he says. An enduring substance. In heaven. And in Acts chapter 5, verse 41, it says, and they departed, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer for his name's sake. And so it's a joy that carries us through the difficult times. It's sustaining. During the early church, believers were often led to execution. I know, again, that's something that we don't see in our country. But these believers led to the off the execution. They were often led to their death through singing. They were singing hymns about Christ and to Christ. Not because they love suffering, but because they love Christ more than their suffering. And again, they counted themselves worthy. Their joy is not in their circumstances. And Vincent himself brings us right to the edge of death. He writes this in his book, quote, within a few minutes I shall be with my dearest Lord My faith shall be swallowed up in a vision, my hope in fruition, my love shall come to perfection. And that's what love for Christ produces. It's a joy so deep that even Death cannot extinguish. In fact, death kind of makes you, if you're a believer, you you get excited over the prospect that you're going to be in the presence of Christ, the one that you love. And so uh he writes this. He says, my soul was in a sweet and precious frame. I enjoyed a sensible communion with God. This was a quote here that I'm giving you from David Brainerd, the missionary, who spent his life in sickness and hardship. He labored with the Native Americans. At first there was really no visible fruit of anything that was really happening. He was often physically weak. He was frequently near death. In fact, he died at a very young age And yet he writes this in his journal. My soul was in a sweet and precious frame. I enjoyed sensible communion with Christ. Even in suffering, even in weakness, he had joy. And by the way, again, he died when he was just 29 years old. Just 29 years old. But his wife testified to this truth. So we see the paradox of loving an unseen Christ. Even though we don't see him, we love him. Even though these believers were going through persecution, they loved him, even though not seeing him. There's the proof, the evidences, it'll be revealed in our life whether or not we love an unseen Christ. And then the product, it'll produce a joy, inexpressible joy, a joy that sustains us through the difficulties of life. A joy that produces glory. So, again, the question, what's the question that he posed at the beginning of the book? Is it possible to have a deep love for Christ having not seen him? And of course the answer is yes. Absolutely. We can know him. We can fellowship with him. There have been countless believers who lived their entire lives without seeing Christ, and yet they loved him deeply. Some suffered, uh, some were in prison, some died for their faith, and yet they all had that one thing in common. They never saw Christ with their eyes, but they knew him heart to heart. They never touched him, but they trusted him. And when they came to the end of their lives, they were not afraid. They were not afraid. Because they were going to the one that they had loved all along. So let me ask you, do you love Christ? The one that you've never seen, do you desire? Do you desire his presence? The one you've never touched. Are you willing to obey him and submit to him in all things? The one whose voice you never heard, and yet you treasure his word because he speaks to you through the scripture. Because one day The Bible says in 1 John 3, 2, we shall see him as he is. We will see him as he is. So we need to love him now sincerely, supremely. We need to love him steadfastly because then we'll be ready. We know we'll be ready to see him that one day when the Lord finally does call us home. The price you have not seen is more real, he's more glorious, and he's more worthy of your love than anything you ever have. Let's bow for prayer together Just examine your own heart tonight on based on what you heard. We heard a Really just a synopsis, a summary of Thomas Vincent. The true Christian's love to the unseen Christ. And ask yourself, do you love him? Does that love characterize your life? A love for Christ. Not just a feeling, not just An outward expression with your words, but a love that is demonstrated in your life. By what you do, by how you live. Does it say, I love the unseen Christ? Never seen him, but I know him I've never seen him face to face, but I do know him heart to heart. And the and the relationship is real and the intimacy is real. And his presence in my life is real. Father, take and use your word tonight and how we thank you for it. Encourage hearts, we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.