And the title of my sermon tonight is just three lessons about Christian Liberty. This is the next issue that the Apostle Paul deals with. You might remember that uh Paul received a letter from the Church of Car. And in that letter, they posed to him many questions about certain issues. In chapter 7, Paul dealt with questions about singleness and marriage and divorce. And now Paul's going to deal with an issue of Christian liberty. And this is a big issue, unless you think it's something that's kind of minor. Just we're going to see that Paul answers this question in three chapters. He's going to talk about Christian liber liberty, how to exercise it, and how not to abuse it. And he'll deal with it in chapter 8, chapter 9, and chapter 10. So this is kind of a long answer to this question. And I guess it's appropriate because it just seems to that there are many divisions among God's people in this area of liberty, uh what a Christian can do and what a Christian cannot do. And sometimes these issues can cause division among God's people. And I've heard of churches Splitting over things that were very small, very minor. One of the most ridiculous church splits that I've heard about in recent years was a preacher who was trying to make a point with a strong gesture and he got his hand caught in his tie, which is why I keep my tucked in here, you know. He got his hand caught in his tie and then he ripped his tie off and said, This thing is of the devil. And there were some people that were offended by that And uh and so from then on he didn't use ties and then there were the those who felt he should wear a tie and the church was divided up into the tie wearers and the non-tie wearers and kind of split over that issue, as ridiculous as that sounds. You know, in any part of private or public life that God has addressed, we must obey without question. We must obey without compromise. What God commands, we do. We do exactly what the Lord says And nothing else. What God condemns, we stay away from. We obey Scripture. We obey what the Lord says. However, there are areas of life where the Bible does not specifically give a command. It's not specifically spelled out. And the question is, how do we behave in areas like that? Where the Bible doesn't address Specifically in a verse or in a law. And there are many areas of question that are in question among a lot of Christians. For example, um just some that come to mind eating at a restaurant that serves alcohol There are some Christians who believe that if a restaurant serves alcohol, you shouldn't eat there, and others feel like we have the liberty to do that. If we didn't eat where alcohol was uh was not served, if we only ate at those places, we would never go out to eat because it seems And then, you know, women wearing makeup, some are against it, some are for it. Uh mixed bathing or swimming, some think it's wrong, others think They have the liberty. The length of hair on Christian men, gym memberships, should Christians have TVs in their homes. Uh birth control, tattoos, dating and courtship, daycare, school options. Uh union membership, should a Christian be a part of a union? The use of tobacco, Christians in sports, and Christmas trees. You're not taking my Christmas tree from me. By the way, do we have the liberty to do these things or do we not? Now, as Christians, we've been given a lot of freedom in Christ. However, there are limitations to our liberty. That's what the Apostle Paul is going to teach us here. Now remember that the Bible is not primarily a book of laws. It's not a book of specific laws that deal with every specific scenario or situation. that we would ever enter into. And thank God that it's not. Because if the Bible dealt with every scenario and gave a law in every situation, we would need a forklift to carry it around. The Bible is not primarily a book of great laws, although it has laws in it. The Bible is primarily a book of great principles. And that's good because you can find loopholes in laws. But you can't find a loophole in a principle. A principle is transcendent. A principle applies in many scenarios, in many areas. And so what Paul is going to teach us here, really to to sum it up at the very beginning, he's going to teach us a principle about Christian liberty. I think it is the major principle in this area of Christian liberty. And if I could just give it to you very simply, it would be this: love trumps liberty. Love Trumps liberty. Or we could say it like this: love for others should govern our exercise of our liberty in Christ, when our liberty could cause a weaker brother to stumble. Or we could say it like this, there's limitations to our Christian liberty. We should be willing to limit our liberties out of love for others. Others. That's very basic. And this is what Paul is going to address here in chapter eight. Again, he's he's talking about a new topic now. He's moved on. This is the controversy that was brewing in the church at Corinth. And it was the issue of meat sacrifice to idols. Look in chapter 8, look in verse 1. Now as touching things offered unto idols. We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies Now, let me give you a little background into this so we can really understand it. The Greeks and the Romans were polytheistic. That is, they worshiped many gods. They had a God for everything. They had a God for war. They had a God, a goddess of love, they had a God of travel, a goddess of justice, and on we could go. They were also polydemonistic. That is, they believed in many evil spirits. And they believed that the air was filled with all kinds of evil spirits. And giving food sacrifices, which was usually meat, was of great importance to both of those beliefs. It was believed that evil spirits were constantly trying to enter into people, into human beings, and the easiest way for this to be done was for an evil spirit to attach itself to food before it was eaten. To attach itself to meat before it was consumed. And the only way the spirits could be removed from food was through being sacrificed unto a god, one of the various gods that they worship. And so they would sacrifice their meat. The sacrifice served therefore two purposes. It gained the favor of the God, and it cleansed the meat from demonic contamination. And when they and when the person offered up the meat to the idol, it was really divided into three parts. One part was burned at the altar, the second part was given to the priest who Now because of the large number of offerings, the priests were not able to eat all of the portion of the early of meat that were given to them in their tab in their temples. So they sold their meat in the marketplace. They sold what they didn't need. And this meat was highly valued. Because it was considered cleansed of evil spirits, and thus the meat was served at the feasts and to guests. So really back in that day, most of the meat sold in the meat market was cleansed, or we could say sacrificed to idols. Now some Christians would come along and they would buy this meat and they would take it home and they would cook it and they would eat it and they would serve it to guests. Other Christians Who were in the Masalum or the meat market, and they witnessed who they knew as believers or Christians buying this meat were offended. That a Christian would do that. In addition, there were some who saw Christians eating in the in the pagan temples. They were eating meat there. Cor Corinth had many temples there devoted to pagan gods. And one thing you need to understand is that the the the temples back in that day were kind of like the restaurants today. You didn't just go to a restaurant back then if you wanted to eat out. Where would you go? You would go to a pagan temple. Archaeologists have found some of these temples where they were set up with a large dining room with tables. And for people to come and to eat. And so Christians would see other Christians going to these pagan temples and eating this meat that was sacrificed to idols. Now those who did that felt like they had the liberty to eat the meat because they had knowledge, they would say, Oh, we have knowledge about these things. But the weaker brothers had a problem with it. Now those who had knowledge kind of had an elitist attitude. These were probably the wealthy, the elite, the high society, because really they were the only ones that could afford meat. You remember back in that day not many people were eating meat. Only the rich people could afford it. The poor rarely got to eat meat. If they did get to eat it, it was probably by going to one of these feasts in the temple Or in the church, when the church would come together and bring their food and the rich would bring their meat and the poor would bring what they had, then perhaps a ri a poor person had the opportunity to eat meat there But other than that, they really didn't have the opportunity. Garnsey noted this. He said meat was relatively expensive and could have only been available on a regular basis to those with money to buy He went on to note sacrificial meat was monopolized by those who had money, senators and others of high status. in society. So the poor person rarely got to eat meat. And so when a poor Christian who didn't get to eat meat got saved, they wouldn't go to the temple to eat it. First of all, that it was against their conscience. And they felt like it was wrong to do. And when they saw others do it, it offended them. And so they refused to eat the meat. And so you had this problem. It was developing an issue in the church. People who were eating the meat, the Christians who were eating the meat, they would say, Oh, we have knowledge. We know that there's nothing wrong with this and they had kind of this elite proud attitude where they kind of looked down to those who look down on them for eating this kind of I think this was an arrogant attitude. I think this is the same attitude that was later on we're going to look at First Corinthians eleven, where that you have the Lord's Supper, where they would have a feast, and then later on they would have the Lord's Supper, and you have the rich shaming the poor I can just imagine in that context the rich saying, Well, they don't want to eat meat 'cause they think it's wrong, 'cause it's sacrificed to idols. They let them have their own food over there. They can't have any of it. I can just imagine that developing there. The rich were hoarding their food, not sharing it, and so on. But having said all that, the question is Is it wrong for a believer to eat meat that was sacrificed to an idol? Even more specifically, is it wrong for a believer to buy that meat sacrificed to an idol? Now Paul makes a clear distinction and I want to really make this clear up front that Paul Is not saying that eating in the temple, in the pagan temple, eating meat there is questionable. He's not saying that. And he makes that clear in chapter ten. For a cr for a believer to go into a pagan temple and to eat meat in that temple, that was clearly wrong. Why? Because what are they doing there? Paul said you're fellowshipping. With demons. And he uses the illustration of the Lord's Supper to prove his point. When we come together for the Lord's Supper and we eat together at the Lord's Supper, what are we, who are we fellowshipping with? Fellowshiping with Jesus. Right? That's why we call it communion. There's a wonderful fellowship and presence of the Lord Jesus. And Paul says, but when you, talking to the Corinthians, who, these libertine Christians who felt like they had a lot of liberty, who went to these pagan temples, Paul said, you are dining with demons. That is clearly wrong. The questionable practice Is is it is this is it okay for a Christian to buy the meat in the market and then take it home and then eat it? That's the issue here And so there were some in the church that felt like they had liberty to do it. They flaunted their liberty. They were proud of their liberty. In fact, we saw earlier where these, I call them libertine Christians, they would use slogans to talk about their liberty. For example, go back to chapter 6. 6 and look at verse 12, where they're using a slogan here, and Paul's quoting the slogan that they use, all things are lawful unto me. All things are lawful for me. And Paul would answer back, yes, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful to me. And Paul would say, Yeah, but I will not be brought under the power of any of any And then here's another slogan, verse 13. Meats for the belly and the belly for meats. Yeah, Paul said, but God will destroy. So Paul kind of quotes back their slogans to them and refutes them, and that's what he's going to do here when we get to chapter 8 verse. Verse one. This is a again a yes but argument that the Apostle Paul uses because again he refers to their slogan. And what is their slogan in chapter eight, verse one? Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. There's a slogan Paul says, Yeah, I know that. We all have knowledge. We have knowledge, and again, this is kind of an elitist thing. We're in the know. Not like Some of these other believers who don't really understand. We have knowledge and we know that these idols are not gods. They're false and there's nothing to it. And Paul again quotes this slogan, but he says, yeah, but there's a limit to your liberty. In fact, there are three phrases in verse 1 That are very important. We all have knowledge. What does Paul say? Yes, but knowledge puffs up, but charity what? Edifies. Now I want to submit to you that that's the main idea of the whole chapter. And what Paul's going to do is really unpack that whole thing. Verse 1. Verse 1 is to really the sum and the substance of all Paul wants to To say in chapter 8. And what he's going to do in the rest of these verses is really unpack those three ideas there about knowledge, about being puffed up. about love edifying. And these are the three lessons that we need to learn about Christian liberty. So here's the first lesson. If you're taking notes, right down number one, liberty is attained by knowledge. We get liberty by knowing things. By knowing the Word of God. We all have knowledge. And Paul admits this is true to some degree. Yes, we have knowledge. The libertines who use this slogan, they're right. We we do have knowledge. It's wonderful to have knowledge. It's knowledge and understanding that gives us under gives us liberty. And what what they were saying is: look, we Can exercise our freedom because we have this knowledge, and there's a sense in which that is true. It is true. And they were saying, we know more than those who are not exercising freedom. So there's a sense in which it is important to have knowledge. Why? Because knowledge will will inform your conscience. Remember I said the weaker brother are those who had a conscience that was very sensitive, that was overactive, that was accusing them of every little thing A stronger brother is someone whose conscience was informed. We all have that conscience, but the conscience doesn't bring its own knowledge with it. You have to educate your conscience And if you educate your conscience, you'll grow in spiritual maturity, and your conscience won't overly accuse you of things that are okay. So it is important to get knowledge. It is important to educate yourself in the Word of God, to inform your conscience, so that your conscience will be at rest and will not overcuse. It's important. Paul was uh someone who believed in knowledge. He was a theologian. He was really a theologian of all theologians. When I read Paul, I'm just constant And he wanted those who heard him to understand scripture. He wanted them to grow in the word of God. That is the desire for any pastor That's the desire for all of the pastors here at Grace. We want you to grow in knowledge. We want you to know the Word of God. Paul said to the Roman Corinthians, whatever was written was for our instruction. He said to the Colossian believers, I pray that you'll be filled with knowledge and spiritual wisdom. In 2 Corinthians, in the long list of ways in which he ministered and he was commended, Paul included knowledge and the word of truth. Many times Paul will introduce a concept by saying, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren. I want you to know this. I want you to have knowledge. The Bible doesn't put any premium on ignorance. You have to grow. You can't practice what you don't know. You can't grow in grace unless you learn and know the Word of God. The Bible says in the Old Testament, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. If you don't know the Word of God, it will And so Paul affirms this, yes. And specifically, what knowledge were they talking about? Well, look at verse 4. As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered and s sacrificed on the idols. We know that an idol is nothing in the world and that there is none other God but one. First of all, they knew that the idol represents gods that do not exist. And Paul states his agreement with this. These Corinthians were theologically correct as far as this is concerned. There are idols that do represent gods, but these gods don't exist. They're not there. They're not real. The stone or the metal or the wood is real, but there's no God behind it. The image is not of anything that really exists. In the Old Testament, Israel for a time apostasized and they began to worship Baal. You know how Baal was depicted in the statues in that day? He was a guy who had lightning bolts in his hand. He was considered to be the God of the thunder and the rain and the lightning, and he could determine whether you had rain or not. And you remember that climactic challenge there on Mount Carmel with Elijah and the prophets of Baal where they Each built an altar and Elijah challenged them to call on their God and uh let him bring down fire on the altar if he's real. In first Kings eighteen twenty four, and call ye on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the Lord. And the God that answers by fire, let him be God. And all the people said it as well. what happened? The prophets of Baal they got their altar ready and they called on Baal, saying, Oh Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered the Bible says They leaped upon the altar, and it came to pass, it says in verse 27, it came to pass at noon that Elijah mocked them and saying, Cry aloud, for he is a God. Maybe he's talking. Or he's He's pursuing, or he's on a journey, or per adventure he sleepeth, and he must be awakened. They called upon Baal. You know what happened? Nothing You know why? Because there is no such thing as Baal. Baal does not exist. And of course we know the end of that story. Elijah called upon God, and God answered by Fire. Why? Because he is the one and only true and living God. All the others are nothing. So people who worship Buddha and Allah and Hindu gods are wasting time because they're are no other gods. There's only one God. Uh Paul at one time, the Bible says in Acts nineteen four twenty six he caused an uproar in Ephesus. Why? It says this Paul has persuaded and turned away a considerable number of people, saying that gods made with hands are no gods at all. Paul went around stirring things up by saying that in that world, saying they're not gods at all. They don't exist. And so Paul agrees with this. There's only one God. They have idols, but there's nothing That's true about their false gods. But then also, there's only one God, the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verses 5 and 6. For though there be many that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth As there be God's many and Lord's many, but to us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we by him. Paul further affirms the truth that there is one God, the Father, and one Lord Jesus Christ, even though there's a lot of people out there claiming there's a lot of gods in heaven and earth, many gods And Lords, Paul says, no, there's only one. And by the way, there were a plethora of quote-unquote deities that people back then And I think here he's kind of echoing the old Testament, what is called the Shema and Deuteronomy 6, 4. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. There's only one. The Jews would recite this twice a day. There's only one God manifested in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. We believe the Trinity that God, one God revealed in three distinct persons, all God But all distinct and yet one. And so the Bible affirms that in many places. Isaiah 45, verse 5: I am the Lord, and there is none else. There is no God besides me. He says. And so many other verses. So here's the first lesson. Liberty is attained by knowledge. Okay, we get it. They had knowledge that there's only one God. All these other gods did not exist, so therefore these meats sacrificed unto idols, really, they were not sacrificed unto anything. Because there's no gods that exist, only the Lord, only God. Number two. Liberty that is attained by knowledge. Number two, liberty is abused by pride It can be abused by pride. And this is the yes but part part of Paul's argument. It is true that idols represent gods that don't exist. There's only one God and Lord Jesus. But this knowledge, Paul would say to these believers, does not give you the right to abuse your liberty. Yeah, we you know that. But that knowledge that you have should not cause you to look down on others. This is the way you abuse your liberty. You abuse your liberty, first of all Ver first of all, by looking down on others, Paul said again in verse one, Knowledge does what? It puffs up. They weren't humbled. Paul says the knowledge you have has not humbled you. You know, knowledge has a tendency to puff you up. Nice education and all that. If you're not careful, they can be very elitist and look down on others and say, Oh, we have knowledge Let me tell you something. If you really learn the Bible, it's not going to puff you up, it's going to humble you. Because it's going to remind you of who you are. It's going to remind you how much you don't know. True understanding of the scripture should humble you. But here, these Christians who said we have knowledge are very egotistical. This elitism, this superiority. And Paul says, yeah, I know you know that, but maybe you're forgetting, and he'll deal with this really in chapter 10, that although there are no gods behind those idols, there are demon spirits behind them. He'll say that in chapter 10. Chapter ten. In fact, look in chapter ten. Look in verse number nineteen. Just slip over there. What say I then? That the idol is anything? Or that which is offered as sacrifice to idols is anything? But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to what? Devils, demons. Yeah, okay, there's no gods, but I'll tell you what Paul says there are demon spirits behind that. And they are dedicated to hum keeping people in bondage and and and tricking people and deceiving people, preying on unsuspecting people, but here they were looking down on Others. You can abuse your liberty by looking down on others, but also you can abuse your liberty by forgetting about others. Look at verse 7. How be if there is not in every man that knowledge Yeah, you know this, but not everyone has this knowledge that you have. Not everyone has this, for some with conscience of the other Doesn't not everyone is as spiritually mature as you are. Not everyone is in the know, as you libertine Christians, feel that you are in the know Some of the Christians in the Church of Corinth were new believers. They were baby Christians. They were saved right out of paganism. They still imagined that idols were real and that the gods behind them were real. And they knew that there uh that there was only one God, but yet they didn't really grasp that he was the only real God they were learning. And so they rejected everything related to their past life. Life of paganism, and they wanted nothing to do with the temple. They wanted nothing to do with the meat sacrifice unto idols. To participate in that was to be tempted to fall back into that former practice And their conscience of the idol, Paul said unto this hour, is as as a thing offered unto an idol. That which you eat is really to them offered to an idol. You see, their conscience was accusing them should they participate in this practice. Their conscience was saying, don't do that. That's that's not right. You don't have the liberty to do that. If you did that, that would be a sin. And Paul said to them it was very real. Now some of the Christians that were in the know, that had this elitist attitude, You know what they were doing? They were trying to force these weaker brethren to see their side of it. And they were putting meat in front of them that was sacrificed to an idol and saying, Look, just eat it. There's nothing wrong. Just eat it. And what was it doing? These weaker believers would disobey their conscience, which is by the way, you should never do as a Christian. You never violate your conscience. But They were putting the meat in front of them. They were saying, eat. And you know what? Their conscience was defiled. They were teaching them to disobey their conscience. By doing what they thought was wrong. And so, what is a defiled conscience? One writer said this: defiled conscience is defiled faith. Such behavior brings guilt feelings, despair, loss of joy, and peace. It also leads to sinful thoughts connected with former pagan practices, and even leads a person back into some of them And so that's what was going on. These these Christians that were in the know were abusing their liberty by looking down on others, forgetting about others Others, teaching others to forget their conscience and we're causing them to stumble. Look again in verse eight. Here's another slogan from these Christians in the no. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, neither if we eat not are we the worse. What they meant is that the food is mor morally neutral. There's no moral religious advantage or disadvantage to eat Eating such food. And so they quote the quote this slogan meat commendeth us not to God. Really not a big deal. And Paul would answer back in verse nine, but take heed lest by any means This liberty of yours become a what? A stumbling block to them that are weak. Your liberty can cause another brother to stumble And the word for stumbling block here is not the normal word used in the New Testament for it. Normally it's the word scandalon when it talks about scandal. stumbling. Here it's the word proscoma and it is it goes deeper than just causing someone to stumble. It causes them to stumble morally or to injure their soul. It's one th To offend someone, it's another thing to cause them to sin. And that's what Paul's saying here. You can exercise your liberty as a Christian and cause another believer to sin and to injure Their soul. How? Because if to that person it's wrong and their conscience tells them it's wrong and they disobey their conscience and do that, to them it is a sin. You can cause them to sin Sin. How? Well, Paul gives an illustration. Look at verse 10. He illustrates it. For if any man see thee which hath knowledge, I think he says that sarcastic. Then if anyone sees you who have knowledge, sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are Offered to idols, and through thy knowledge shall the weaker brother perish for whom Christ died. And Paul is being very forceful here. Here's how you can cause a brother to stumble. Here's how you can cause him to violate his conscience. So by looking down on others, forgetting others, causing others to stumble, but but to Destroying them. Look in verse again in verse 11. And through thy knowledge shall the weaker brother perish. Look at the word perish, Apullomai, to utterly destroy. It's the idea of causing a person to sin, and that same sin to Brings them to ruin. You can bring them to ruin. You can destroy them. Dr. Jerry Vines tells the story of a lady that came to him one day for counsel. And she broke down in tears because her family was torn apart by immorality. And Dr. Vines answered, he said, How did it start? She said, Well, the pastor Of our church invited us to a church party. And she said, when we got there, everybody was playing cards and drinking liquor, including the pastor. She said, We thought that if he could do that, so could we And we went right back into living the way that we used to live. In those three months, our family fell apart. So This is an abuse. By the way, it let me just say it's wrong it's it's wrong to drink liquor. To me that's not a doubtful thing. That's another area if you disagree with me. You can you have the liberty Liberty to be wrong on that. So let me give you the third lesson. Liberty is attained by knowledge Number two, liberty is abused by pride. But here's the third lesson. Liberty is applied by love. It's applied by love. Notice the last phrase of verse one. Knowledge puffs up, but charity edifies. Charity edifies. And I think this last part of the Chapter, Paul focuses on this part of the argument. And really, this is the main point of the whole chapter. In fact, I think it's the main point of the next three chapters. That you limit your liberty out of love For others. Love is better than knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love builds up. Look at the word edify there. That's what it means to build up. Love might puff up, but love will build up other believers. And the libertines were boasting of their knowledge, but they had no love. They had a lot of knowledge, but no love for other believers. That's why, by the way, later on in chapter 13, what's Paul going to do? He's going to talk about Love because this church lacked it. And Paul is teaching that mature believers, you need to stop focusing on your freedom and your liberty and all the knowledge you have, and you need to be more focused on loving others. Others, loving believers. If you love them as God calls you to love them, you will not use your liberty in any way that will offend, confuse, weaken another Christian These believers were solid in their doctrine. They were orthodox. They just didn't have a lot of love. And so Paul mentions three areas that they needed to work on in their love. Love for God. Look again in verse three. Actually back up to verse two. For a minute. And if any man thinks that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. There's a shot at those guys. You think you you know a lot, you really don't know what you need. Love is better, but if any man love God, the same is known of him. You need to learn to love God more. There's a lot of scholars and theologians that But again, I say that all theology ought to lead to doxology. It ought to cause you to love God God more. And if you love God more, the result of that is what? You're gonna love his people more. Studying theology is loving God with all of our mind, which affects our heart, which affects our will, which will cause us to love other believers. Paul said you don't love the Lord the way you should, therefore the knowledge that you have isn't something wrong with it. But then also love for Christ. Look again in verse uh twelve. But when you sin so against the brethren, ye wound their weak conscience, and you sin against who? You sin against Christ. hurt another believer, you hurt Christ. What did Jesus say in Matthew 25, 40? And as much as you've done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you've done it unto me. Whatever you do to your brother, you're You're doing it to me. So when you sin against your brother, you're sinning against me. Remember in Matthew 18, Jesus, what he said about if you cause one of these little ones, and I think he was talking there. about younger believers if you cause them to stumble. He gives out a serious warning about that. You need to learn to love God more, you need to learn to love Christ, and then you need to learn to love your brother Look at verse thirteen. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend So Paul sums it up there in verse 13. He becomes an example in limiting one's liberty out of love. And Paul said, Look, if me eating meat causes uh anyone to be offended, if I cause my brother to offend by me Eating meat, then I will be a vegetarian the rest of my life. That's literally what he's saying. By the way, this is not hyperbole. He said vegetarian, not vegan. Alright, just a little clarification there. I'm just teasing. Right. Love for brothers will cause me look, Paul said, Look, and he was again he's not using hyperbole. He's saying, I'm willing to make whatever adjustment to my lifestyle so that I live a life that's non-offensive to any of my brothers. Let me ask you a question. Are you willing to say that? Are you willing to say if what I do causes offense to anyone, I'm gonna not do it? And I I would just I I they they they mean more to me, my love for Other Christians is means more to me than anything. And if if there's something I'm doing that's causing them an offense or cause them to stumble in any way, I'm just not going to do it. I'm going to adjust my lifestyle for even the weakest brother. In the church. Because I want them to grow in Christ. That's what he's saying. Love. Liberty is applied by love. So therefore I don't want to be an offense. I'm gonna limit my liberty whenever the circumstance is is right, whenever I need to out of love for another, I'm willing Completely, totally to limit my liberties for others. And that's the pattern and that's the practice that we ought to have. That's the love that we ought to have for other believers. And by the way, in chapter nine, all of chapter nine is Paul giving the example of how he should He's chosen to limit one liberty after another after another. He just goes on and lists a bunch of liberties that he has limited. Why? So that he can reach other people, so that he can love others the way he should Really, chapter 9 and chapter 10 are examples. And by the way, the greatest example of this is the Lord Jesus Himself. The Lord Jesus Himself. Let me show you something in closing, real quick. Look in Matthew chapter 17. Let me just show you this real quick. This is Jesus being non-offensive. Look at Matthew 17. Look at verse 24. Says this uh in verse twenty four. And when they were come to Capernaum, this is Jesus' headquarters there at Peter's house, they that received tribute money came to Peter, it was time to pay the temple tax. Guys were going around collecting it. So they come to Peter's house. These guys collect the tax and they say, Doth not your master pay tribute? That is this isn't Jesus going to pay the temple tax And Peter said, Yes. Of course. And when he was coming to the house, Jesus prevented him. That is, he preceded him, saying, What do you think, Simon? Of whom do the kings of the earth take card Custom or tribute of their own children or of strangers. And Peter said unto him of strangers. And Jesus said unto him, Then are the children free. That's right. Why does a king doesn't pay taxes? A king doesn't pay taxes. He collects it from strangers And it's not collected from his children. And here's the point. Why should Jesus have to pay the temple tax? He's the king. In fact, the temple already belongs to him, it's his. Why should he have to pay a temple tax? That's the whole point here. Peter spoke quickly. You know, but Jesus said Look down in verse number twenty-seven. Notwithstanding lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, cast in a hook Take up the fish, the first that cometh up, and when thou hast opened his mouth thou shalt find a piece of money that take and give it unto them for me and thee. of the Bible. Peter, just go take a fishing line, throw it in the water, first fish you catch, will have the specific coin that is needed to pay the temple tax. By the way, there were several kind of coins floating around in the first century. Just think about that for a minute. Let that sink in. You don't think that Jesus is sovereign and he's God? Peter, just throw the line in the water. The first fish that you take up will have in its mouth the money and then go pay the tax. Tax. He pays the tax by a miracle to show that really he's not on the plane as everyone else, but he doesn't want to be offensive in anything. So there's a sense in which the Lord Jesus is willing to move heaven and earth and the seas to not offend. And friend, that's the attitude we should have. We should love God's people so much that We're willing to make whatever concessions and we're willing to limit our liberty in any way necessary so as never to be an offense to anyone else. And Paul's going to continue to talk about This as we move on in our study. But let's have a word of prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for this reminder to us. I pray, Lord, that we'll take this to heart. Father, we we desire with all our heart that you send to us. New converts, Christians, baby Christians. Lord, I know that sometimes, and I can just imagine that perhaps you're not willing to entrust to certain churches new believers because of the way they'll be treated. Lord, I pray that we'll be a church that's so filled with love. That we will so nurture and so love anyone that you send into these doors, that they would be built up in the face May we not be a church that's elitist, that looks down, that pretends to have all this kind of knowledge, Lord, because we know and knowledge is important, Lord, but the most important thing is that we love one another. So help us. Help us to to obey what the Apostle Paul is teaching us. May we be a church that you can entrust with young converts That can grow spiritually to be conformed to the image of Christ. So bless us. And Lord, if there's some area in our life where perhaps we've been stuck And we've been unwilling to limit any liberty, and we've lived unto ourselves. I pray, Lord, that you'll convict us of that. Help us, Lord, to be like our master. To do what we're supposed to do, to do as we should do, to live in non-offense, as much as possible, as much as lies within us. And so bless these words to our heart, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Just name, Amen