Would you take your Bibles this morning open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 27? The Gospel of Matthew, chapter 27. And we're going to be looking at verse 57 and on down. Would you stand please for the reading of God's Word today? Stand for the reading of God's Word. Matthew twenty seven verse fifty seven. And when the evening was come There came a rich man of Arimathea named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple. He went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus, and then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in his clean linen cloth and laid it in his own new tomb, his own new tomb, which he had hewn out of the rock. And he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulcher and departed. And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God add his blessing to his word today. Give us understanding. Pray with me this morning. Father, this is such a beautiful narrative of Matthew's record of the resurrection. I pray that you'll open our eyes and help us to understand this in a new way. And may it be a blessing and a strength and an encouragement to every person here today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. There's no way to overemphasize the importance of the resurrection. When God became a man, the crucifixion, and then the resurrection. The resurrection is one of the greatest miracles that ever took place along with the incarnation when God became a man. It is the greatest demonstration that Jesus was the Son of God. And the resurrection is the greatest theme of our preaching. That is at the center of every sermon that we preach, that Jesus Christ came out of that grave. And that's why there's been so many people that have attacked the resurrection. It's kind of a scholarly thing to do among some liberal theologians, because after all, a bodily resurrection kind of goes against reason Martin Luther one time said this reason is the greatest enemy that faith has. It never comes to the aid of spiritual things, but more frequently than not struggles against the divine word, treating with contempt all that emanates from God. And that's so true. Men in their reason uh want to be able to explain everything, and you can't explain a miracle. So they go out and they try to come up with theories. about what really happened according to them on that resurrection morning and as a result they tell lies or they give their own theories. Let me give you some of the lies that man created through the years. First of all, there's the swoon theory This is the theory that Christ never really died. The reason that uh he c he got out of that grave was because he never really died to begin with Shocked from the loss of blood on the cross and the wounds sent him into a semi-coma, and when he was laid in the coolness of the tomb, he revived, and then he came out of that grave. That's one theory Well to to believe that you would have to believe that the Roman soldiers botched the execution, that when they said he was he died that they were wrong. You would have to believe that Jesus then was somehow able to uh roll the stone away and get past the sixteen Roman guards that were there. All of that is ridiculous. The Bible says in John 19 that the Roman soldiers testified that they didn't break Jesus' legs because they knew he was dead. In order to hasten the death of those that were crucified, sometimes they would break the legs of the crucified victims, so they couldn't push up and get air and they would suffocate. When they came to see Jesus, Jesus had already died. And so the Bible says they thrust the spear into his side, and out came water and blood, which according to the American Medical Association proves that Jesus died. Then there's the no-burial theory. This is a theory that Christ was never in the tomb, so obviously he wasn't there on Sunday. After all, what they do to crucify victims when they take them off the cross is they just really throw them in some pit And a lot of times there in Jerusalem they would throw him in the trash heap called Gehenna. And so people say, well, you know, he wasn't in the tomb. That's why uh the tomb was empty. Well then why post Roman soldiers at the tomb? If it was empty. Why do that? That doesn't work. Then here's another one. And this is a theory that, you know, people didn't Jesus didn't really resurrect. It's just people wanted it to happen so bad that they had a hallucination. It was a pathological problem. They thought they saw him because they wanted so badly to see him. Well, if that's the case, there were a lot of people hallucinating back then Because the Bible says at one point Jesus appeared to 500 people at once, 500 people having the same hallucination. And then hallucinations don't eat. The resurrected Christ ate with the disciples on at least two occasions. The disciples touched him. He said to Thomas, here, put your finger into my nail-print hands here. Thrust your hand into my side. Then there's the telepathy theory. This is the theory that there was no physical resurrection. God sent back mental images to people to make them think there was a resurrection. Well, the problem with that is it makes God a deceiver. And it founds Christianity on deceit. It makes all of the apostles liars. And then there's another theory, the seance theory This is ridiculous, but this is some people say that it was a medium that conjured up the spirit of Jesus from the dead. That's so ridiculous. I'm not even going to answer that Then there's the mistaken identity theory. This is the theory that there was someone who impersonated Jesus, that uh Jesus didn't really come out of that grave. Well the problem is if that person impersonated Jesus, he would have to have the wounds, right, from crucifixion. He would have to be crucified himself. That's a lot of trouble to go through to p impersonate someone. And if you wanted to disprove the resurrection of Christ, all you would have to do is to find the body, produce the body. Here's the body. That's proof enough. These are all lies that men have come up with to try to explain away the resurrection of Christ. And by the way, that's nothing new. On the very day that Jesus came out of the grave, lies already started. And Matthew records one of them. Look in Matthew 28, look down at verse number 12. It says, and when they were assembled, this is these are the chief priests and the leaders, when they were assembled with the elders, and at taking counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers. saying, say ye his disciples came by night and stole him away while we slept. Here the chief priests and the saying to the soldiers, here's some money You just tell this story that while you were asleep on guard, the disciples came and they stole away the body. This was the most famous lie. The one that is believed most who want to deny the resurrection. We all know that lies spread pretty quickly, don't we? Mark Twain said a lie runs around the world while the truth is tying its shoes. And this is a lie that was very well known back in that day. In fact, one of the early church fathers, Justin Martyr, referred to it in the first century. He said, quote, You Jews selected men, sent them into all the world proclaiming that a certain atheistic and lawless sect had risen from one Jesus, a Galilean deceiver whom we crucified, but his disciples stole him at night from the tomb. and deceive men saying that he has risen from the dead and ascended into heaven. End quote. That lie was still gaining momentum in the first century. That lie that was started that Matthew records right here the day after Christ or that day that Christ came out of the grave. This lie is so popular that it became known as the Toledoth Yeshua And that lie is still embraced today by liberal theologians, by people who don't want to believe the resurrection. So in Matthew's account, Matthew is particularly interested in disproving this lie, and he wants us to have the real account of what took place that day when Christ came out of the grave. So what I want you to see are three facts. that Matthew points out to disprove this lie that the disciples came and they stole away the body of the Lord Jesus. Here's the first fact. Number one, I call this a borrowed tomb. The burial was granted How do we know that the disciples did not steal away the body of Christ? Because it was the disciples that oversaw the burial of Christ. If they were going to steal away the body, this would have been the time for them to do it. Look in verse 57 of chapter 27. And when even was come, this is Friday, the evening of Christ's death, he died right around 3 o'clock. And right after that, when even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathea named Joseph, whom also himself was Jesus what? Was his disciple. Here we're introduced to Joseph of Arimathea, he was a rich man, which fulfills biblical prophecy because what does the Bible say? Isaiah 53, 9, his grave was assigned with wicked men. Jesus died between two thieves. Yet he was with a rich man in his death. And here steps forward in fulfillment of biblical prophecy, a rich man named Joseph of Arimathea. He was obviously a man of some prominence. Because he was able to have an audience with Pilate that evening. You couldn't just go and knock on the door of the Praetorium and say, I want to see Pilate unless you were somebody. And this man was. And so Pilate hears him and look down in verse 58. He went to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be Here is a disciple of Christ, a man who's a believer, who goes and makes a plea to Pilate for the body of Jesus. Now Mark's gospel says that when Pilate hears that Jesus died already, he was surprised He was surprised that he died so quickly. In fact, he did a little investigation. He investigated the soldiers that were there. He wanted to make sure, and according to Mark's gospel, he asked those soldiers, Did he indeed die? And they said, yes, he did. After knowing that that was a fact, he then gives the body to Joseph. Look at verse 59. And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth. This is the preparation. They now prepare the body of Jesus for burial. There were other disciples there that were helping during that time. The Jews did not embalm bodies like the Egyptians did. What they did was they took would take strips of linen cloth, they would dip it in these spices. Sometimes the spices would uh weigh, you know, up to a hundred pounds. Um and they would just dip it in and then they would wrap the body and that was to uh to to hide the the stench from the decay that would come. And so they would just wrap the body tight in these grave clothes. And this is exactly what they did It says in verse 60, and he laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out of the in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre and departed. So they would take the body, wrap it up, put it in a tomb. The normal process is they would come back later. They would add more ointment. Ninety days later they would normally come and they would sprinkle lime on the body, which hastened the decay, and then when there was nothing but bones later they would take those bones and put them in a bone box called an ossuary, and they would inscribe the name of the person on the side. of that box. That was a normal procedure. Of course, that wouldn't happen to Jesus, we know. But here is this rich man, Joseph of Arimathea, and in an act of great reverence and devotion to Christ He lays him down in his own family tomb. He rolls the stone to the door, and he left. This is the burial of Jesus. This is not unimportant. This is very important. because it proves that he did indeed die. And there was the prophecy that Jesus gave when he said, as Jonah was in the whale's belly three days and three nights So shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. This is a fundamental part of the gospel. Jesus died, he was buried, and he rose again the third day. But notice in verse 61 And there was Mary Magdalene and the other Mary sitting over against the sepulchre. Here are two witnesses as to the burial of Jesus. If you needed to prove something in the court of law, how many witnesses did you need? Two witnesses established Everything. They established that Jesus did indeed die, that he indeed was buried in that tomb, and they knew exactly the location Which basically explodes another lie that people had back then, which said that, oh, it was the wrong they they came to the wrong tomb. They got mixed up. The reason Jesus wasn't there is they got the tombs mixed up, they went back to the wrong tomb. No Both of these ladies knew exactly where the tomb was. These ladies knew where to go on that Sunday morning. So here's one fact that Matthew points out. Pilate granted the burial. His body wasn't stolen away by the disciples. The disciples. Did the burial, they prepared the body, they put him in the tomb, they rolled the stone to the door. They didn't steal him away. But here's the second thing I call this a sealed tomb. The body was guarded. The burial was granted. The body was guarded. This is another important fact that Matthew gives us. Look down in verse. 62. Now the next day that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, saying, Sir, we remember that deceiver that while he was yet alive, after three days Uh said he after three days, I will rise again. Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night and steal him away And say unto the people, He has risen from the dead, so the last heir shall be worse than the first. Here are these chief priests. They come to Pilate's Praetorium. By the way, this was on the Passover It was very unusual for Jewish leaders to meet with a pagan secular ruler on the Sabbath, let alone on the Passover Sabbath. They would do so When they did that, they were really defiling themselves. You might remember that on the previous day they were careful not to go into the praetorium. They had to have the governor come out to speak to them. But here was something so important they didn't care about the normal tradition of defiling themselves. They went to Pilate, they went to the to the praetorium. Why? Because verse 63, they remembered the words of Jesus What did Jesus say while he was alive? Remember they said, Oh, if you're the Messiah, give us a sign. And Jesus said, I'm not going to give you any more signs. You've seen a lot of them. I will give you just one more. As Jonah was in the whale's belly three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. They understood him correctly. They knew that what Jesus was saying was that on the third day he would rise again. And by the way, this is people normally ask me, you know, how do you get three days between Good Friday and Easter Sunday? That's normally a question. Well, the Jewish method of counting days and nights is not the same as ours. In Jewish reckoning, any part of a day counted as a day and night. So you got Friday, that's a day and night. Saturday day night and then early Sunday morning. Any part of the day counted as day and night They knew that on the third day, Jesus said he would come out of that grave. And so they were afraid, verse 64, as we read, that the disciples would come and steal away the body. And so they said, look, we have to make this tomb secure. Because the disciples will come and take away his body, and they'll say he rose again, and then we'll have a real problem on our hands. So, and by the way, the idea that the disciples would come and steal away the body is ridiculous. You know where they were? They were hiding in fear. They were absolutely afraid. In fact, John twenty nineteen says they were assembled together, locked away for fear of the Jews. But the Pharisees wanted to make sure every precaution was taken to make sure that Jesus stayed buried. He stayed in that tomb. And so the governor Gives his word. Look at verse 65. Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch. Go your way. Make it as sure as you can. He gave them a watch. In verse 66, so they went and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the tomb and setting a watch. What is a watch? It's uh sixteen Roman soldiers. Sixteen soldiers. Four on the west, four on the east, four on the north, four on the south, completely surrounded. The tomb was Sealed not only by the watch, but but with a Roman seal. This was a cord stretched across the entrance to the tomb. It had a wa it had a wax Seal in the middle. That was kind of a psychological barrier. Anybody tempted to break that seal, for them that meant certain death to break the seal of the Roman government. So this made the tomb secure. You have 16 Roman soldiers. You have a seal stretched across the tomb. And so this is this was the setup. The idea that the disciples would come and break that seal, overpower the soldiers, or maybe somehow sneak past 16 soldiers, steal away the body, that's ridiculous. This place, this tomb was made sure. And so this is the other fact that Matthew points out Disciples didn't steal away the body. The burial was granted by Pilate after he made sure that Jesus died. The disciples themselves buried him. The body was guarded. By the Roman watch. But notice the third fact that Matthew will give us. I call this an empty tomb. Not only was the burial granted and the body guarded, but the bribe was given. Listen to what Matthew says happened on that resurrection morning. Look at verse 1 of chapter 28. And in the end of the Sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. They're there early in the morning. This was at dawn, which is about 6 a. m. They go to the tomb of Jesus. Luke 24, 1 says that they were bringing more spices to the tomb that morning. Look at verse 2. And behold, there was a great earthquake. For the angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone from the door. and sat upon it. Here's another earthquake. There was an earthquake at the death of Christ. We saw that if you were here with us on Good Friday that recorded this great earthquake. Now here's another one. An angel had descended from heaven and rolls back this huge stone. Now, Mark 16, 3 says the women were discussing on the way to the tomb, how are we going to get this stone back? I mean, we got these spices here, but how are we going to be able to apply them? Who's going to roll back that stone? But when they got there, it was already rolled away. The angel had done that, and he was sitting there waiting for them. And by the way, the angel didn't roll away the stone because he wanted to let Jesus out. I assure you that that stone was not a problem for the Son of God. He was rolling away the stone to show that the tomb was empty, to reveal that it was empty, to demonstrate to all. And Luke's gospel says that when both Mary's went to the tomb, they saw it was empty, and they returned back to the disciples, and they told them But the Bible says in Luke's account that their words seem to them as idle tales. Here these two women come back and say, Hey, guess what? We just went to the tomb. The stone was rolled back. There was an angel there. The tomb was empty What was their response? The Bible says it seemed to them as idle tales. Lauros is the Greek word. Delirious stories told by crazy people. In short, the disciples said to these two women, You are crazy. You're crazy. They didn't believe him, it says. And then Peter and John went to the tomb in Luke to see for themselves And as they looked in, the Bible says they looked in wondering thumezo. They were blown away. They were amazed when they looked inside the tomb and saw that the body was gone, and yet the grave clothes were there neatly rolled as if the body had just passed through those grave clothes. What does that prove, by the way, that little detail that Luke puts in there? Well it proves that the body wasn't stolen. Because if you were going to steal a body, you wouldn't take your time to unwrap the body. You would just take the body, right? And if you did unwrap the body, you certainly wouldn't take the time to fold those grave clothes very neatly, wrap them back up, would you? No, none of that. The grave clothes there were proof that there was no theft. Something miraculous had happened. But look at the response of the soldiers at the tomb. Look at verse 4, chapter 28. For fear of him that is the angel, the keepers did shake. And became as dead men. Here are these mighty Roman soldiers, these 16 guys, and they shook for fear. They were paralyzed. They were like dead men. They were completely traumatized. By this angel. And then there was joy. Look what he says in verse 5. And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear ye not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus. which was crucified. He is not here, for he is risen, as he said, Come and see the place where the Lord lay. And go and go quickly and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead, and behold He goeth forth you uh before you into Galilee. There shall ye see him. Lo I have told you. And they began to depart in verse nine. They come upon Jesus, and they worship him there in verse number nine. And in verse ten, then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid, go and tell my brethren that they go unto Galilee, and there they shall see me. So there was great joy. By these women, when they see these things and they worship the Lord and they follow his instructions. This is the greatest reaction we should have to the resurrection. You know what it should do to some people, it should cause them the fear. You know the resurrection means it means everything that Jesus said was true. And if you're not repented of your sin, you should be in fear, because he is the risen Son of God. He will be the judge one day, and you better repent of your sin. You better bow your knee to him now and call him Lord. But also it should be joy, and there should be worship. This is the way we respond to the resurrection of Christ. Now notice what the soldiers do. This is the report of the soldiers. Look at verse 11. Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city and showed Unto the chief priests, all the things that were done. What do they do? These guys, after they kind of get out of their terror state, they collect themselves, they go to the city And they report first, it's interesting, they report to the chief priests, not to their centurion head, not to the Roman government They go to the chief priests and they say, you know, we got a problem here. After all, the chief priests are the ones that wanted them there. And the Bible says they showed them. All the things that were done, that means they told him everything. They told him about the earthquake. They told him about the angel. They told them about the stone being rolled away. They told him about the tomb being empty. There's nothing in there Now you would think at this point the Jewish leaders would probably say, you know what, guys, we've been wrong about Jesus. He's given many signs, and here's the greatest sign. We've been wrong. That's not their response. Look what it says in verse 12. And when they were assembled, when they they decided to have a meeting This word assemble, this is a word you or phrase used frequently in Matthew to talk about an official meeting. They convened a meeting together. They kind of got together and said, What are we going to do? They knew that they couldn't deny that this was real now. They had to believe at this point that Jesus was everything that he said he was. They had to believe it. They had 16 witnesses. To tell them what happened on that day. Sixteen witnesses, Roman soldiers at that So you would think that they would repent. No, that's not the response. They were shocked. They were afraid, but they didn't repent. What did they do? They assembled together, and when it says in verse uh twelve, and had taken counsel, again, this phrase. Used in Matthew refers to making a formal resolution. They got together, they convened the Sanhedrin, they came up with a formal resolution of how they were going to address this problem. How were they going to address the problem? Look again in verse 12. Had taken counsel, and they gave large money unto the soldiers of Gura, silver money. I mean these rulers bought off Judas for 30 pieces of silver. I imagine they had to pay these soldiers a whole lot more. 16 soldiers. But it didn't matter to these leaders. They were willing to pay any price to keep the truth from being told. And to tell a lie. By the way, why do you tell a lie? To cover up the truth, right? That's why you tell a lie. And this is the lie that they told. Look in verse 13. Saying Say ye his disciples came by night and stole them away while we slept. Now for Roman soldiers to make that Admission. Oh yeah, we were we fell asleep and the disciples came and took away his body. You understand that Roman soldiers, when they fall asleep on duty, could die as a result of that? They could be put to death if their superiors find out that they boxed an assignment like that. So to say that lie, put their life on the line. But that's okay. This had to be some serious money they were getting. To be willing to tell a lie. This had to be a good bribe And notice how they comforted them. Look in verse fourteen. And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him and secure you. Listen, if Pilate hears about this, don't worry about it. We know how to take care of Pilate. You'd let us deal with Pilate. You just say this. You say that his disciples came by night and they stole him away. That's what we want you to report. So that's exactly what the soldiers did. Look at verse 15. So they took the money and did as they were taught. And this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. They took the money, they got the lie out there. And this lies going around the world. And Matthew, at the writing of Matthew's gospel, which he wrote this gospel, when did Jesus, but he was about 33 years old, so we're talking about AD, 33 when he died. At the writing of Matthew's gospel, he wrote it around sixty-three AD. So for thirty years this lie is reported, and Matthew says this lie has been reported even to this day. This lie has been reported even to this day. Now, why does Matthew include this? Remember, the Jews kept asking for a sign. Give us a sign. Was the resurrection not a sign? They had all the signs they needed. There were signs at the death of Christ. If you're here on Good Friday, we talked about the miracles that took place at the death of Christ. And now the greatest of all signs that Jesus was the Son of God is the resurrection. And when all of this confronted them, the truth, the facts were there Rather than submit to that and repent and call upon Jesus as Lord, they stubbornly push the truth away. So we're not going to believe this. And we're going to cover it up with a lie. You know, people are still doing that today. They're still stubbornly pushing away the truth. Because they don't want to submit. And Matthew records this to demonstrate that the apostasy of Israel was full and final. There was no more hope for them. You deny the resurrection, you have no hope. You have no hope of salvation It's the testimonies of the enemies of Jesus that is the greatest testimony as to the reality of the resurrection. This lie proves the truth. that Christ did come out of that grave. So if you look in scripture, really what you have is the testimony of his friends. Mary Magdalene, the other women, you have Peter, the ten disciples. He appeared one time to the eleven without Thomas, and then one time he appeared to all of them, including Thomas. He appeared to 500 at once. He appeared in Galilee. You have all this evidence. And then you have the testimony of his enemies who use a bribe and a lie to cover up the truth. The beloved, you should believe, and I do with all my heart that Jesus came out of that grave, just like Scripture says He is the risen Son of God. How vital is this to your salvation? How vital is believing in the resurrection? for you. Well listen to this verse. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God has raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Safe from what? Safe from divine judgment. Safe from eternal hell. Safe from punishment, from sin, from guilt. You must confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord. You have to believe with all of your heart that God raised him from the dead With all of your heart, believe that. And so I would ask you, friend, today, do you believe in the resurrection? Have you repented? Have you Called upon Jesus to save you because he is the Savior. There was a scientist from Canada by the name of G. B. Hardy. He was searching for answers in religion. And he asked two important questions. First, is anybody cheated death? And second, is that available to me? And he went around and he searched and he searched the tomb of Buddha and it was occupied, and he found the tomb of Muhammad and it was occupied He found the tomb of other religious leaders, they were all occupied, but he found the tomb of Christ and it was empty. That answered the first question, but what about the second? Is it available for me? Is victory over death available for me? Jesus said, because I live, you shall live also. There is a resurrection for all of God's people. There is victory over death. There is eternal life to all of those who submit to Christ. Believe he's Lord. Believe he came out of that grave. Call upon him as your Savior, as your Lord. Repent with all your heart. Trust Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. So I would ask you, dear friend, have you done that? I would plead with you this morning to make sure of your salvation. You believe that Jesus died, was buried, and he came out of that grave on the third day, just like he said? You believe that The Bible says, if you believe that, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you be willing to say, yes, I believe? And I'm asking Jesus this very moment. To be my Savior, my Lord. Cleanse me of my sin. Give me eternal life. If you'll come to Him in faith, if you put your faith in the finished work of Christ, friend, He will save you. He'll give you eternal life. And you know what? You'll have a resurrection day too. You will live. Would you be willing to pray that right where you are? Save me, Lord. Save me. And if you pray that prayer, please let me know afterward. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk. This is the greatest decision you'll ever make. This is the most important decision. We all will face death. We're all going to die. It's not a question of if, it's when. Are you prepared for eternity? Jesus defeated death for us so that we could have everlasting life. Trust him today. Call upon him today. Father, I pray that you'll use your word, speak to hearts. May many come to know Christ as a result of your word, this word that Matthew gave us, that we've tried to make clear today. Thank you. For the resurrection of Christ, we believe with all of our hearts and with all of our hearts today, we confess that Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.