Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of First John? First John chapter four. As you know, we're doing a study in 1 John. And I want you to look in chapter 4 this morning. And we're going to look at verses 7 down to verse number 21. And I want to speak this morning on three reasons we love one another. From 1 John chapter 4, verse number 7. We're going to get right into the text this morning. Look in verse number 7. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. Church tradition tells us that when John the Aged Apostle was extremely old, he was weak and he had to be carried into the church meetings. And uh they brought him into the meetings, and at the end of the meetings, uh they would ask him just to give a word, and he would always say the same thing. He would say, Little children, let us love one another. And the disciples there in the uh church would uh get weary of him saying the same thing over and over again. And they would say to him, Why why do you say the same thing over again? Why do you keep telling us to love one another? And John would just simply say, well, because the Lord commanded it. And that's enough. Now we can kind of identify with those disciples by Coming to another passage in 1 John 4, verse 7, about the theme of love. Because if you've been with us in our study, we've already talked about this. on a few occasions. John has already dealt with this issue of love. Now let me just uh remind you if you're here maybe for the first time or maybe in a while Uh in 1 John he goes he deals with three themes and three ideas that really show that you are a genuine child of God. And if you remember what they are, first of all, there was the doctrinal theme or the doctrinal chord, as I like to call it, of Christology, what you believe about Jesus. Because what you believe about Jesus will determine whether you truly are a child of God. Do you believe what the Bible says about Jesus? And another issue was, I call this the moral cord of obedience And that's this idea of do you obey Jesus? You say, how do I know if I'm really a truly a child of God? Well, do you obey Jesus Because if you have a life of obedience to Christ, we're not talking about perfect obedience, but it's the pattern of your life. You're going to want to obey Jesus. Hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. If you're obeying Jesus, that's another test that you are a child of God. But then the third court is that of love. And the issue is this. How do you love others? Do you love people in the church? Do you love God? Do you love those that are outside the church? Do you have a life of love? Now John has already dealt with this in chapter 2, verses 7. through eleven. He said, A new commandment I give unto you, that you love one another, and it's an old commandment, yet it's new. It's new in the way that it's emphasized. It's new in its quality It's new in the way that it has been uh exemplified, and that is in the life of Christ. So he already dealt with it there. Again he hit on love in chapter three, verses eleven through eighteen And we might be prone to say, okay, John, we've got the message of love now. Can we move on? But John hits on it here again. This time, he doesn't just hit on it. It's longer in this passage than before. From verses 7 on down to verse number 21, he's going to emphasize again this issue of love. If you are a true child of God, your life will be characterized by love. You're going to love. You're going to love God's people. You're going to love others. It's the distinguishing mark of the church in the world. Remember what Jesus said? He said, the world's going to know that you're mine by your love. In fact, if you don't love, you don't know God. Look at verse number 8 of chapter 4. Pretty clear here. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. I again John is so very antithetical in his his uh statements. It's either or. I mean it's it's it's it's black and white, it's right and wrong. If you love That means you know God. If you do not love, he that loveth not knoweth not God. If you don't have love in your life, if it's not characteristic of you, then you don't know This is the inevitable result of every person who is born of God. However, he also is careful to also tell us that it's not automatic or effortless. That is to say that we need to grow in this area. This thing of love has been put in us, but we need to also work at it. It's not effortless. Look in chapter four, look at verse number eleven. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. In other words, there's room for growth in this area for all of us. There's room for us to grow With some believers it's very easy to love. With others, you have to put the pedal to the metal. You have to put out more effort. But we all can grow in this area. And so John is going to hammer on it here again, and he's going to give it to us really. This whole section falls into three easily discernible patterns or sections we could say with the exhortation, love one another. Three times he'll say, love one another. And each time he'll focus on a different member of the Trinity, we could say We could say it like this. We love one another because love is provided by the Father. We love one another because love is personified in the Son. And we love one another because love is perfected by the Spirit. Those are the three reasons why we love one another. So let's look at the first one provided by the Father. Again in verse number seven Down to verse 8, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God, and he that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And so John emphasizes the fact that God the Father is the source of love. Now, when we talk about love, what is the meaning of love? Because there's a lot of definitions out there about it. And the biblical meaning is not primarily a feeling, although it involves feelings and emotions. When John speaks of love, he points to the supreme example of Jesus Christ. He does it in verse number 16 and how Jesus laid down his life for us. And so Based on that, we could define it like this. Love is a self-sacrificing, caring commitment that shows itself in seeking the highest good of the one love. That means you're willing to sacrifice yourself, set aside self, and seeking the good, the highest good in the person that you love. It's acts, selfless acts. Another way to say it is love is sacrificial acts of service on the behalf of others that results in their good. I'm willing to do this to for their good, I'm willing to set aside myself, I'm willing to be sacrificial and selfless for the good of someone else. Now it it involves emotions, but it's not primarily that There's going to be affection in that. Biblical love is delightful. It's a delight of our heart. It's not just duty, but it's primarily it shows itself in actions. and attitudes and actions. Now where did this kind of love come from? Well John tells us in verse 7 it originated from God. Love is from God Did you know the beloved before creation love already existed? It existed in the Trinity. There was perfect love between the members of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Jesus prayed in John 17 to the Father. He said, Thou lovest me before the foundation of the world. There was perfect love in the Trinity. And so God, and John goes on to say, God is love in verse number 8. And a lot of times when people read this, they they they get the wrong idea when they think of God as love. They think of God as being uh a tolerant or he is uh towards sin or he overlooks sin. You know, God wouldn't punish anyone because he loves us. But we have to remember that that's one of God's attributes. Another, earlier in the epistle, what did John say? God is light. Which stands for what? The fact that God is holy. And God's love does not override his holiness. God is holy, which means he judges sin, but he's also a God of love. He's a God of mercy. Both of these things are part of his nature. One attribute does not negate the other attribute There's a term that is used in theology called the unity of God or the simplicity of God. What does that mean? It simply means that God is not made up of parts. We would say it like this, that God is not part justice and part goodness and part mercy. No. All those things are completely a part of who uh completely who he is. He's completely good or wholly just or wholly merciful. All those things are a part of his whole being, we could say. And so God is all light, or he is all holiness, and yet at the same time he's all love. And you say, why is that important? Why do theologians make that distinction? Well, because the unity of God prevents us from singling out one attribute of God and making it more important than all the others. Which is a lot of what people do when they want to explain away God's wrath, they exalt the love of God and say, Oh, this is the most important, dominant attribute about God. And since God is really love then all these other attributes kind of take second place. So therefore God will not judge anyone. No, beloved, that's simply not true. Not true. All of God's attributes are in perfect unity and harmony. All of them are completely true about God. And love is a part of that. Love is God, and God is love, as John says here. It's one of his perfections. It originates with God, but also it operates in the family. In verse 7, again, it says, Everyone that loveth is born of God and knows God. The word born here, perfect tense Greek. Being born of God means to be born into the family. You are saved. That happened at one point in time. And you we continue to see the results of that in our lives. That's the idea behind the action of the verb here When it happens at one moment in time, at one moment in time you became a child of God, and we still see the impact of that in your life. In what way? Well, because you now are demonstrating love in your life Because that's part of being a child of God. Here's another issue of theology that I could talk to you about, and that is all of God's attributes are divided into two categories. There are what are called the incommunicable attributes of God. What is that? Those are attributes of God that are unique to him. He doesn't share these with anyone else. This is what makes them God. This is what makes them transcendent. These are things that are about God that are not true of us. For example, God is independent. That is to say, God's not dependent on the rest of creation. But we, however, we're dependent creatures. Another way, another attribute is God is unchangeable. He does not change. He's always the same. We can't say that about ourselves. I mean since we've been in this service, some of you are a half hour older than you were when you walked in. All of us are a half hour older than when we walked in. We we change all the time. But then there's another category of attributes of God, which are called communicable attributes. And these are the attributes that God communicates with us, or we could say that God shares with us. For example, love is one of them. He shares love. Why is there love in the world? Because God is love. That's a part of his perfection. And God shares this attribute with us. When he created us, he created us in the image of God. We bear his image. So therefore he made us relational creatures who love and need to be loved. We need to love God and have that love uh given to us, and we need to love others. And receive love from others. That's part of who we are. This was God's goodness to the whole world. This is really part of God's common grace. Every person has the ability to love. Even those who don't know God have the ability to love because they were created in the image of God. Unbelieving parents sacrifice for their children. They give sacrificial love for their children. Unbelieving soldiers might lay down their lives for their comrades These loving deeds stem from God's common grace because God made us creatures with the ability to love and to receive love. That's a wonderful thing. But also salvation gives us the ability to love on a greater capacity. And this is what he's talking about here We can love in a greater way. We can show the love of God because the Holy Spirit has been placed in us. There's a greater quality to that love. that we have as children of God. And the absence of this kind of love reveals that we really don't know God. We're able to love our enemies. We're able to love those who despitefully use us, as Jesus said. And so we need to take this seriously. There are many in churches that claim to be born again, but they don't love others. They don't make any effort to love others. They're angry, they're unkind, they're impatient, they're abusive in their speech, they're self-centered in everything that they do, they're judgmental in their life of others, they spread malicious gossip And they do it with great delight. And these are people that claim to know God, and but John is saying this, look, you know, if if you don't love your brother, you're you don't know God. So love is provided by the Father. But here secondly it's personified in the Son. Look at verse 9. And this was love, was manifested the love of God towards us. Because that God sent his only son, begotten Son, into the world that we might live through him. And herein is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us. And he sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. This is the expression of God's love. The origin of love is in the being of God. The manifestation of God's love is in the coming of Christ, is in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Never was love more clearly manifested than in the life of Christ. And in the act of propitiation in him, going to the cross to pay our sin debt. That is the most clear illustration that this world has ever seen of love. This is the supreme act of Christ would die. for sinners. In Romans five eight, but God commended his love towards us. He demonstrated his love and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It's one thing to die for a friend, but it's another thing to die for an enemy. Sinners were enemies of God, hostile against God, and Christ died for sinners. And the Bible here in verse 9 says it was God's only begotten, only begotten monogenes. What does that mean? It does not refer only to Christ's birth or his humanness. Here it means to the Supreme One. There's none greater than Christ. This is his rank. This is his position, not origin. He is the supreme And he made the supreme sacrifice. The word propitiation there means to satisfy the wrath of God the Father. Which is the whole issue of salvation. God the Father is holy. He judges sin. We are sinners. He doesn't want to judge us. He sent his son Jesus to satisfy his wrath for sin. How? Jesus lived a sinless life on the cross. He took all of our sins upon himself. All of God's wrath fell on Christ. That is the propitiation. God's wrath was satisfied with the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. I don't think that people get that. I don't think people fully comprehend that. I read a story that kind of helps us understand that in 1937 John Griffin, he worked as the operator of a railroad bridge, draw bridge that spanned over the Mississippi River. And uh when steamboats would come down the river he would pull the bridge up and when a train would come he would lower it down. He had a a little house there along the river that was the control panel that did all of that. And one day he brought his son to work with him, eight-year-old son. And the son just enjoyed seeing that bridge go up and down. But during the day, John Griffin got busy and really lost track of his son. And then suddenly he heard in the background the the whistling of a train. It was the train headed to Memphis, the 307, that was coming early Instinctively he looked around for his son and he couldn't find him. And finally he was able to see that his son, playing among the gears of that huge mechanism that worked that drawbridge, saw that his son got tangled in those gears in his pants and was stuck and he couldn't get out and immediately John Griffin had a decision to make because the train was coming He didn't have time to run over and try to extricate his son to get him out of those gears and get back to the to the control house before that train would get there. And if he didn't get back, 400 people on that train and they would plunge their death into the river So he had a decision to make. Does he just throw the lever, knowing that the gears would come together and the body of his son would be crushed? And he would die, yet those people would live, or does he leave the bridge up and s and sacrifice 400 people in order to save his son? What an incredible dilemma. And John Griffin threw the switch and the gears came together and instantly mangled and killed His son, and that drawbridge went down and the train went by, and he noticed as that train was coming by, he looked into the window of that train and he saw a little child playing in the aisle. He saw a man reading the newspaper. He saw someone taking a nap. He saw someone eating their lunch. And the thought went through his mind, those people have no idea what I just did to save their life. They have no idea what they did. And I'm convinced that this world today has no idea what God did to offer salvation to this world. They have no comprehension of it. This is the greatest expression of God's love. And then John goes on to say the example of God's love. Look at verse 11. Beloved, if God so loved us. We ought also to love one another. Ought here implies obligation or command. This is the reason why we love others because God has loved us so much. More than we could ever fully fathom or comprehend. And so God demonstrates this love, it's personified by the Son. It's provided by the Father, personified by the Son. But here's the third thing. It's perfected by the Spirit. And we see this in verses 12 down to verse number 28. In this section, John uses the term perfect love. He uses it several times. He uses it in verse 12. He uses it in verse 17. Herein is our love made perfect. And then he uses it in verse 18. There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. Now what is perfect love? The word perfect here is the Greek word teleos, and it has the idea of something becoming fully mature, like a fruit ripening to full maturity. And John is using this word to refer to something that grows in us, that lives in us, that bears fruit in us. And what is that? That is love. You see, when you got saved, God planted in you The seed of love, the divine seed of love has been put in you, but now it needs to be perfected. It needs to grow, to mature in you. And why is it important that God's love be perfected? Well, he gives us the reason. Look at verse 12. No man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. You know why this is so important? Because the world has not seen God. No man has seen God at any time. Now someone might read that say wait a minute didn't Moses see God No Moses saw just a part of God's glory. No man can fully look upon God And John's just making a point here. How is the world going to see God today? No man sees God. There's a separation between the world and God today. How is man going to see God? Well If the world is going to see God today, he's going to see it in his children, where love is being perfected in their life. Where love is maturing and ripening in them. The question is: does the lost world see God in you? By the maturing of your love, the perfecting of your love in you, that's the question. Do they see it in me? Do they see it in you? And John says, they ought to. They ought to see that. Well, so how do we know that God's love is being perfected in us? And let me just go through these quickly. Several things. First of all, we experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 13. Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us because he has given us of his spirit. Because we have the ministry of the Holy Spirit working in us. That is one sign that God is working in us and He's maturing us and the love in us. He's perfecting that love. Because we experience that ministry of the Holy Spirit. Do you experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit? Does He convict you over your sin? Does He open your eyes to see truth into Scripture? Does He draw you in to pray? Do you cry out Abba Father? Do you sense that ministry of the Holy Spirit? Well, if that's happening in you, you can rest assured that love is being perfected in you as well. Because that's what he does. Another thing is we become bold witnesses for Christ. Look at verse 14. And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. You can't be a witness unless you yourself have seen or experienced something, and that is salvation. John says, we have seen And uh this is something God did in him at salvation. We see Christ through the eyes of faith. We our eyes are open to see the beauty of Christ, and we repent of our sin, and God does a new work in our heart And as a result of that, the natural thing that will happen is we become bold witnesses. That's just going to happen. Centuries ago, the gospel was carried out. With a good system. It wasn't telegram or telephone or television, it was teleperson. You're just going to tell someone about Christ. That's the best way for the gospel to expand. But notice the next thing. We do not sacrifice truth for love. Look at verse 15. Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. John is very quick in this section on perfect love to point out that we never compromise truth for the sake of love. And I think this is a reference to what was going on in the church there, where they had some people, some false teachers in the church that were not confessing that Jesus was who he claimed to be, and yet they were confessing that they were loving people. But if you don't line up with who Jesus is, if you don't confess Jesus as the Son of God, whatever you have is not real love You don't compromise truth for the sake of love. But another thing is we know experientially God's love for us. Look at verse 16. And we have known and believed that the love that God has given Hack to us. God is love, and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in us. And what John is saying here is that we know this experientially. The word know here, gonozco. We have come to experience this in our own life. We experience God's love in us. We have the sense that God does love us, and that's part of being a child of God You're going to have that sense of peace with God, and you'll sense that love that God has towards you But then also we have no fear of judgment. Look at verse 17 and 18. Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, because as he is, so are we in this world. There is no fear in love. If perfect love casts out fear, because feareth made hath torment, excuse me, he that feareth is not made perfect in love. If we're being perfected in God's love, what will happen is that we'll have no fear of judgment. Now um my brother uh Jay shared with me a little clip which I thought was really interesting. It was a a preacher and this is what he said, and it's so true. A man came to him after church and said, I'm I'm afraid that I'm afraid for my salvation. I wonder if I'm really saved. And he said, well, why is that? He said, well, because the only reason I want to get saved is to be delivered from hell. The only reason I want to be saved is because I'm afraid of hell. And the preacher said, Well that's good enough. That's okay. In fact, the Bible tells us to what? Flee from the wrath to come If the only reason you want to get saved is because you don't want to go to hell. That's a good reason. I would suggest you follow up on that and make sure that you're saved. But what'll happen in you, however, is that you'll grow in your love and you'll have a sense to where That fear is no longer there. It's gone. Why? Because as your love is mature, your love matures, you understand God's love towards you, and there's no more fear of judgment or condemnation ever in your life That's all part of growing in Christ. Because perfect love will cast out any fear of judgment because you know that you are God's child. And he loves you, and you don't have to be afraid of judgment. But then also we reciprocate God's love. Look at verse 19. We love him because what? He first loved us. We understand it was God who loved us first. It was God who sought us. It was God who came to us. That's all part of growing too. Maybe when you first got saved you, well I found God, but then eventually you realize it wasn't you who found God, it was God who found you. It was him seeking you. Not you seeking him. He did all those providential things in your life to bring you to himself. It was him seeking you. But then here's another thing we show our love for God by loving our brother. Look in verse twenty and verse twenty-one. If a man say I love God and hateth his brother, he is a liar. For he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen And this commandment have we from him that he who loveth God loveth his brother also. This is the seventh time John has used the phrase, if a man says. Each time it refers to an illegitimate claim. It's a warning against being a pretender. In this case, it's someone who claims to love God and yet hates his brother, and we already saw this. John said it before. You claim to love God and yet you hate your brother. That can't happen. Where does God dwell in this world? Where does he dwell in this world? I was teaching this morning on the temple. There's no more temple. In the Old Testament, God dwelt his presence was in the temple because God has always wanted to dwell among his people, and the first temple was in Eden. When the Shekinah glory dwelt with Adam in the garden, but Adam sinned and he was cast out, and then God graciously made a temple where sacrifice was made, blood was shed, where holy God could meet with men But that's no longer there. Why? Because when Christ came, he was the fulfillment of all the temple. And it's through Christ that the Holy God can meet with sinful men. But where does God dwell now in this world? He dwells in his church. He dwells in you. He dwells in you. That's the point. And how can I say that I love God if I hate you? If God dwells in you And I say I love God, but I I I hate you. You see how that just doesn't make sense? No. If you're a child of God, God dwells in you. And if God dwells in you, I'm going to love you because I love God. That's the whole point that John's making here. And so we show our love is perfected. We know that our love is perfected because Our love for our brother in Christ, it continues to grow and to blossom. And so why do we love one another? Well, because love was provided by the Father. personified by the Son, and love is perfected by the Spirit in us. And this is how you know you're a child of God. This is how you know that you really belong to Him. Because this love is a part of who you are. Let's bow for prayer together. And I want you just to search your heart right now and just say, Is this true of me? Is this true of me? Is this the kind of love that marks my life? And would you just pray right now and say, Father, I pray that your love will be perfected in me. Thank you for How that love that you have was personified in Christ and that He died for my sins. Help that love to be perfected in me. And a friend, if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, my invitation to you is to recognize that Jesus did bear your sin debt and bear the wrath of God for your sin on the cross. And what you must do today is turn to him and put your faith in him and what he did. That's salvation. If you've never done that, I'm inviting you to do that right now. Do it today. Do it right where you are. We're gonna have some ministers here in the front if you want to talk more about this. They're gonna be here and available. Let's all stand together. I'm gonna give a Just a brief invitation here this morning. And we have some men up here in the front that will take you aside and show you from the scripture how you can know for sure that you're a child of God. Whatever other need you might have, they're here for you. Let's just sing this invitation hymn together. Lord I Lord I Sweet Lord I Lord I be weak, Lord I received Lord I cont. Let your love go through me change. Each wire I pray Lord I receive Lord I receive Alright, let's let's bow for prayer. We're gonna have our closing prayer, then John will lead us in our closing hymn. Father, again, thank you for the privilege of being here in worship today. Bless all these, your people as they leave this place. Lord, keep them safe. Watch over them. Remind us, Lord, that we are We are vessels of your love to this world. Help us, Lord, to show the love of Christ to all that we come in contact with. Bring us back together tonight to rejoice with those who follow you in believers' baptism and to hear the word we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.