Take a left and be careful because you might pass over it. Judah is a very little book, and it just has 25 verses in it. And tonight I want to talk about three kinds of apostates. While you're finding that, do you know how to recognize a poisonous snake if you saw it? Now I think uh everyone uh looks at a snake and probably automatically assumes it's poisonous. That's probably the best way to go about it, right? I was reading about this this week. There are four different types of venomous snakes in the United States. If you don't get anything else out of the message, you can learn how to identify a poisonous snake. And they basically are the cotton mouth, the rattlesnake, the copperhead, and the coral snake. And this article went on to talk about how to identify them. A cotton mouth are pretty easy. They have a white stripe alongside their head They're often found around water or in water, and that when their mouth is completely white, like cotton, thus the cotton mouth. And a rattlesnake, that's not hard to identify, right? Anybody can identify a rattlesnake by the rattle. But then there's the copper head that has uh uh the color of it, a coppery brown. It could be even a bright orange or s uh silver pink and peach. The young snakes have yellow tails. And then there's another snake called the coral snake. And it can be easily confused with the king snake because they both have the same color, red and black and yellow. The difference is the color pattern. The ring colors on the snake have a certain pattern. And we learned in elementary school, I don't know if any of you learned this, the poem about how to tell the difference between a king snake and a curl snake. Anybody learned that? Red touch black is good for Jack Red touch yellow can kill a fellow, right? So if you ever see a coral snake, you have to stop and quote that poem. And that way you'll know whether it's really a king snake or a coral snake. But perhaps you don't feel like quoting poetry when you see a snake. Well you say, what's all that got to do? Well, let's just say, and by the way, summer's coming, right? If you like to go hiking, or if you have a a garden, a big garden in your yard. Let's just suppose that you had a big house with a big garden and children play in that garden. There's a possibility for snakes to be in that garden, and some of those snakes can be poisonous snakes. Now wouldn't you think it'd be good to teach your children how to mark a poisonous snake? Don't you think that would be faithful? Of course it would be. Well, there's a sense in which an apostate is a poisonous snake in the garden of God, and we need to learn how to mark them. We need to know the distinct patterns. We need to learn a poisonous snake in the garden of God when we see one. And that's really what Jude has been teaching us about. Remember he said of these apostates in verse number 4, they crept in unawares. They slithered in the garden of God unawares, and they're full of deadly poison and venom And we better be aware of it. We better learn how to mark them or to understand what we see. Now remember when we said apostate Is an apostate is not just any unbeliever. And an apostate is just not just any person who is a part of a cult. An apostate is someone who has seemingly received the truth They have every indication outwardly as if they have received the truth of God, and yet later they turn away from that truth. You ever you ever see a person, they just seem like they come to church, they come down the aisle, they cry, crocodile fears, they seem to embrace the things of God, we rejoice and we seemingly see some significant things in life, but by and by Something happens where they turn away from the truth. And now they just turn away from the truth, they they turn against the truth. And they begin to ridicule the truth and replace the truth. And they become an enemy of the gospel. Friend, that is an apostate, and we better beware of them. When he wrote 1 John, he was dealing with that very issue. There was a group in his church that had come under the influence of a false theology, a false doctrine, and they left the church, they departed Thinking they were getting a new improved version of truth. And John says they went out from us because they were not of us. For had they been of us, They would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out, that it might be made manifest that they were never of us. And later John writes in 1 John 2. 19 Or 227, I should say, these things have I written unto you concerning them that seduced you. Not only did they leave, but then they began to seduce others. to follow their pattern. And friend, that's why apostasy is so dangerous. In fact, just right in your margin, Romans 16, 17, Paul said this, now I beseech you, brethren, mark them. That which calls division and offenses contrary to the doctrine that ye have learned, and avoid them. Paul said, mark those who are offenses and are contrary to the doctrine. You know what doctrine means? One time a Sunday school teacher asked a little boy, he said, Do you know what false doctrine is? And the little boy said, That's when a doctor gives you the wrong medicine and you die. That's that's false doctrine. Well, friend, that's false doctrine. A lot of people are getting bad medicine today. And we better be alert to that. We better be aware. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to look in Jude verse 11. Just one verse tonight That we want to look at. Look at verse 11. Woe unto them, for they have gone in the way of Cain and run greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward. and perish in the gainsaying of Kor. Now Judas saying, these snakes in God's garden They're like three men. They're comparable to these three men. Now remember I told you part of the pattern of Jude is to write in threes. He gives us three words of assurance in the beginning. three godly virtues. He gives us three illustrations of how God judges apostasy, three characteristics of apostates. We learned that. But here he gives us three men from out of the Old Testament that he said, this is what an apostate's like If you want to know what an apostate is like, just mark these three men. And so he gives us the way of Cain in verse 11, the heir of Balaam. And the gain saying of core. Now it's spelled C-O-R-E here in the New Testament, but in the Old Testament, the Old Testament name is K-O-R-A-H. And that's the Hebrew pronunciation and spelling of it. And these are snakes that you better learn to mark. And you better learn to avoid, so says Jude. So I want us to look at these three kinds of apostates, three marks. And first of all, Cain. And just write this down. Cain represents those who pervert the truth. He represents those that pervert the truth. In order to get a good understanding, hold your place in view. Go to the book of Genesis. Look in chapter 4. Go back to Genesis and look in chapter 4. And here is this gives us a look of uh a little bit of a look and a understanding of how Cain perverted the worship and truth of God. Look at chapter 4. We know in verses 1 and 2, Cain and Abel were the sons of Adam and Eve. Cain was a farmer. Abel was a shepherd And look what it says in verse number three. And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord. Verse 4. And Abel he also brought Of the first things of his flock. And it says, and the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had not. Respect. Now what I want you to see first of all in these verses is that God has established a definite pattern of worship that He prescribed. You say, how do we know this? This is by implication of these words that we just read. Notice, first of all, there's a definite place of worship that's implied here. Why? Because it says Cain brought The fruit of the ground, brought to where? That implies a place. He had to bring it somewhere. Abel brought, the Bible says, his sacrifice. So here is a definite place I think there was a definite altar that was established by God, a place where God met with them. In fact, I think that's supported in verse 16 where it says Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. Now the Lord is everywhere. But I think there in that garden God had established a place where Cain and Abel and Adam and Eve met with him. There was an altar there. We don't know the location of it exactly But there's ground for believing this, that it was east of of the Garden of Eden. In fact, James Fawcett and Brown in their commentary said this. It says that he, God, dwelt at the east of the Garden of Eden between the cherubim as a Shekinah to keep open the way to the tree of life. There's other ideas presented like this in the Jerusalem Targum. A. W. Pink wrote this, if the grammatical construction of the Hebrew will warrant this translation, then Genesis 3, 24 would seem to signify that having expelled man from the garden, God established a place there, a mercy seat by the cherubim. And so we could just say that there was a certain place there that God had established. I believe an altar. But also not a definite, not only a definite place. But a definite time. Look again in verse 3. And in the process of time, it says. Now the word process there means at the end of. The word time is the Hebrew word Yom. It's the plural of it. So we can say it like this, at the end of days. At the end of days. And I think this means at the end of the week. You see, God had a definite place for worship. God had a definite time. A certain day for worship, but also a definite manner. Because what do we see in verses 3 and 4? Each are bringing a sacrifice to the altar. This altar that God established. They're bringing a sacrifice to it. Now again, all this implies that the children of Adam and Eve had been definitely instructed that there was a place, there was a time To go to God and they were to bring a sacrifice. Cain and Abel would have never been able to know this. Or Adam and Eve would have never been able to know this. had not they been instructed by God to do this. And what God wanted at that altar, at that certain place, at that certain time, he wanted a sacrifice and it had to be a certain kind of sacrifice. And let me tell you something, dear friend, it had to be a blood sacrifice. Now I know I've read certain commentaries that said Cain's offering was vegetables and it was fine. They say it was just his attitude that was wrong. And God didn't accept his attitude. Well friend, I'll just tell you the attitude of the worshiper is important But I want you to note in this passage that Cain doesn't really cop an attitude until first God rejects his offering. And so God wanted more than just vegetables. He wanted a certain kind of sacrifice. In fact, if you compare the offerings, Cain's offering was bloodless What does the Bible say in Hebrews 9. 22? Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sin. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, God has never forgiven one half of one sin without the shedding of blood. His was a bloodless sacrifice. It was the fruit of his hands. It was his own labor. It was the fruit of the ground. Now, ladies and gentlemen, God had just cursed the ground in Genesis 3. Remember? After Adam sinned, sometimes we say, well, man has cursed this earth. Let me tell you something, beloved, God's the one who cursed the earth. He cursed the ground because of man's sin. And here is Cain bringing the fruit of the ground, the ground that God cursed, the labor of his own hands, a bloodless sacrifice. Now compare that to Abel's offering. What was Abel's offering? Abel's offering was the best of the flock. It was a blood sacrifice because innocent blood had to be shed. And there was a picture, an imagery here that God wanted them to see. Life had to be taken. Life is in the blood. There had to be death because of sin. Abel's offering was without his own works, without his labor. And the Bible says in Hebrews 11, 4 that Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. It didn't say Abel was more excellent than Cain. It didn't say Abel's attitude was more excellent than Cain's attitude. It said that Abel had a more excellent sacrifice. than Cain. And so, friend, this wasn't personal. It wasn't that God didn't like Cain or that he liked Abel more than he liked Cain. That had nothing to do with him. God had prescribed a definite place, a definite time, and a definite manner in which to worship Him And it had to be a blood sacrifice. But then also a definite acceptance of the of the sacrifice. Look again in verse 5. And Abel brought the first things of his flock And the Lord had respect unto Abel and his offering, but unto Cain and his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. There was a definite acceptance God had respect under Abel's offering? Under Cain's offering? He did not? Now let me ask you a question, dear friend. How do we know? How did they know? That God respected Abel's sacrifice, and that God didn't respect Cain's sacrifice. Let me tell you, just float an idea out there to you. I think that the way they knew that was God's demonstration of some definite demonstration, some definite way that God showed them that he accepted Abel's sacrifice. Here's a few verses to consider. In Leviticus 9. 24, the Bible says, there came a fire out from before the Lord And consumed upon the altar the burnt offering. And when all the people saw, they shouted and fell on their faces. How did they know in Leviticus that God accepted the offering? There was a fire that consumed it. We see the same thing in Judges 6. 21. You remember on Mount Carmel? Elijah said, if your God be God, let fire fall. And if and if our God is the real God, let him let fire fall and consume this offering. Of course you know the story. The fire fell from heaven In 1 Chronicles 21, 26, the Bible says, David built an altar unto the Lord and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and called upon the Lord, and he that is the Lord answered him from heaven by fire. Upon the altar of the burnt offering. In 2 Chronicles 7:1, now when Solomon made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven. So you get what you understand what I'm getting at. I think there in that very beginning, the way that God demonstrated that he accepted the sacrifice of Abel Was that I could just picture my mind Abel bringing the best of his flock, the male lamb without blemish to the altar He lays him on the altar, he cuts his throat. There's the flowing of the blood. God from heaven accepts that because in that sacrifice, what does God see? God sees way forward. He sees his innocent son, the Lord Jesus Christ. whose blood is shed on the cross, and God the Father accepts that sacrifice. And the way Abel knows it is fire falls from heaven. And that fire is a symbol of the wrath of God that will fall upon Christ at Calvary, but it was also a way that God demonstrated that that offering was acceptable to him. Now here's Cain. What does he do? Cain, he brings to this certain place at a certain time his own offering. And rather than doing it God's prescribed way, rather than bringing a blood sacrifice, what does he bring? He brings the fruit of his own labor. I'm sure he had the best fruits and vegetables there on that altar. I think it was a very beautiful sacrifice I think that he was very proud of that sacrifice. I think it represented all of his work and his labor and his toil and his sweat. But he he brings that to the altar and guess what? There's no fire, there's no acceptance. Why? Because God had appointed, and friend here in the dawn of civilization, God was teaching a lesson, a lesson that we see in the New Testament without the shedding of flood, there is no remission of sin. And again I say there has never been a sin that has been forgiven without the shedding of blood. And that sacrifice in the Old Testament and all the Old Testament sacrifices look forward to the cross, to the Lord Jesus Christ, and his sacrifice on the cross. for our sins. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission of sins. And friend, you mark it down. It is the blood of Jesus Christ that cleanses us from sin. That's the reason John wrote in 1 John 1 7, the blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanses us from our sin. So all that to say that the Abel's sacrifice Abel's offering pictured and pointed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now Cain says, I'll have none of that. I'll not have a bloodless sacrifice. I'll do it my way. It'll be through my works, my labor, my toil, and what you have here in the very beginning are really the beginning of two different religions And let me just tell you something, dear friend. There are only two religions in the world. There's only two. Not three. Not four. Just two. We like to divide religions up into Hinduism and Muhammadism and Confucianism and Buddhism and Rheumatism and all those other isms We have ways to divide them all up, all these world religions. And even in among Christians, we like to subdivide Christians to Baptist and Methodist and Lutheran and Presbyterian and Episcopalian But the bottom line, dear friend, is there's only two religions in the world. And you know what they are? True religion and false religion. There's man's religion and God's religion. H. J. Ironside said it like this, there's due religion and done religion. You see, some people out there think there's something I've got to do. There's some works that I can do. You look at some of these other major religions of the world, and it all boils down to this one thing. It is something they have to do. to appease a God or the wrath of God. You know what the Bible teaches? It's what Jesus has already done. It's what He has done. Nothing that we can do No works that we can accomplish. Friend, even if you could do good works, what about your sin? A holy God has to judge sin. And so any religion that's based on man's work is represented here in Cain's offerings. You do not find acceptance with God based upon your own works. Depraved sinners can do no works. that are acceptable to Almighty God. If someone says, no, wait a minute, sinners can do good. Of course they can do good, dear friend, but I want to tell you something. It's monopoly money. You can't spend it. You can play with it. You uh do an experiment. Take your monopoly money and go to the bank down here. Go down to Wells Fargo and you fill out a deposit slip and you give it to the lady and you give her that monopoly money and see what she does Well, I'm not sure. She'll say, Sir, you can't you can this what do you talk about, ma'am? This is good money right here. Well sir, this is this is monopoly money. Well it's money. Well, sir, this money doesn't spend in our bank. Let me tell you something. Man's good works does not spend in God Almighty's bank. They just don't. And so, friend, anyone that teaches salvation through works is going after the way of pain. And it's a false religion. God says there's only one way to find acceptance. It's through the shed blood of the sinless Son of God. It is through the Lord Jesus Christ, it is through the cross. Friend, there are two different ways. There is the way of Cain, and there is the way of the cross, and the way of Cain will damn you to hell, and the way of the cross is the only way of salvation That's it. And so Cain represents those apostate teachers that would teach some manner of salvation that bypasses the cross. Or bypasses the blood. You hear some of these preachers out there, oh, well, we don't need a vicarious substitute anymore. And that blood, that's a gory story Let me tell you something, friend, it's not a glory story, it's a glory story. And you take the blood out of any gospel and you have nothing. You have nothing. C. H. Furgen said this: the true test of whether a man is preaching the gospel or not is the emphasis he places on the blood. Of Jesus. Now, that's the first illustration. They've gone the way of Cain. But now go back to Jude. Let me show you the second one. Jude says, and by the way, just hold your place. We're going to go back to the Old Testament. Cain represents those who pervert the gospel, but then there's also Balaam. Woe unto them! For they have gone the way of Cain. And here's another kind, and run greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward. There's the second kind. Jude says, here's another snake in the garden. That you need to learn to mark. And these are those who are made in the image of Balaam in the Old Testament. And what does Balaam do? Balaam represents those who would prostitute the gospel. Or prostitute the truth. Now who was Balaam? Like J. Vernon McGee said, he was a prophet for prophet He preached for money. And again, we have to go to the Old Testament. So go back to the book of Numbers. We want to see his story. And I want you to look at Numbers chapter 22 and Numbers chapter 23 because it gives the story there. And I'll just give you a little background into this. Balaam was an apostate prophet. There was a king in this day of the Moabites named Balak, and he and his people were seriously intimidated by the Israelites. Now Israel had crossed out of Egypt. They crossed the Red Sea. They were now journeying through the promised or the the wilderness to the promised land. They were coming to the region of Moab. And they had heard what God had done for these Israelites, Balak and his people, and he wanted to weaken the children of Israel. They were on their way to Canaan. And Balach heard about this prophet by the name of Balaam It seemed like to Balach everything that Balaam cursed, verbally cursed, ultimately ended up cursed. It seemed like everything he said came to pass And so Balak had an idea. He would hire Balaam to curse the people of God. Look at Numbers chapter 22. Look at verse number 6. Look at this verse here. Come now, therefore, I pray thee. This is Balach talking to Balaam, curse me this people, for they are too mighty for me. Peradventure I shall prevail that we might smite them, and I may drive them out of the land I woke not that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed. And so he says to Balaam, Balaam, curse these people. I know whatever you whoever you bless seems to be blessed, whoever you curse seems to be cursed And I want you to do this, and we'll pay you handsomely for this if you'll do it. And you know what Balaam says? Balaam says, let me pray about it. Let me pray about this. So he goes to God. Look at verse number 12 of chapter 22. And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them. Thou shalt not curse the people, for they are blessed. God gives his answer. Don't go with them, don't curse them. Well, is that the end of the story? No, because Balach comes back, and you know what he does? He ups the enemy. Look at verse number 16. And they came to Balaam, that is his messengers, and said to him, Thus says Balach the son of Zipper, let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me. Verse 17, I will promote thee unto very great honor, and I will do whatsoever thou sayest unto me. Come therefore, I pray thee, and curse me this people. That is, I will give you more I will up the inning, you'll have great honor. And you know what Balaam says? Let me go back and pray about it again. Now friend, never pray about what God has already forbidden. Or what God has already commanded. And this is an insult that he would even do that. And God says, okay, if you want to go with them, go. But you're not going to be able to curse them. Whatever I put in your mouth, that you will speak. And we don't have time to go through the whole story. But what happens here Is that King Balaf takes Balaam to a high mountain and he looks out over and he says, curse this people, and you know what Balaam does He blesses them instead of curses them. Because when he opens his mouth, only blessings come out. That was the first time. Then, of course, now Balach, he's angry. He said, let's try this again. And so this time he takes him up to Mount Pisgah. Look in Numbers chapter 23, look in verse number 14. Just go over there. And he brought him again into the field of Zotheim and to the top of Pisgah And then verse number um 16, and the and the Lord met Balaam and put a word in his mouth, and he said, Go again into Balach and say thus. And so basically what happens is That Balaam tries to curse again and he can't and he can only bless them again. Look at verse number 20. Behold, I have received commandment to bless, and he hath blessed, and I cannot reverse it. Well, Balak is really frustrated. And so he says, if you can't help me, then just shut up. This is the Harmon paraphrase here. If you can't do what I say, then just just shut up. He says, I'll give you one more chance. So again, he takes them up to another high. place. Look in verse 25 of Numbers chapter 23. And Balach said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all. That is, if you can't say anything can't do either, then don't say anything But look down at verse 28, and Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, and again he's asking him to bless them, and the Spirit of the Lord comes upon Balaam again. And look down in verse number 5. How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob. This is chapter 24, verse 5, I should say. Chapter 24, verse 5. How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob? And thy tabernacles, O Israel. Three strikes and you're out. Balach says to Balaam, I've given you three chances. To curse these people and all you do is bless them. You know what? You're not going to get this money. And look in chapter 24, look in verse 11, what he says, Therefore now flee unto thy place. I thought to promote thee. Unto great honor, but lo, the Lord hath kept me back from honor. I was going to really handsomely reward you, but you can't do what I ask And so therefore you're not going to get this. Now this didn't sit well with Balaam. I mean, he really wanted that money. And so he got a devilish idea. He thought, you know what, if I can't get this money by speaking the truth If I can't profit by speaking blessing, then what I'll do is if I can't curse them, I'll corrupt them. And if they sin against God, they will bring a curse upon themselves. And so Balaam goes to Balach and he says, I'll tell you what. If you can get them to sin against God, they will bring a curse upon themselves. And here's what you do. You have some beautiful women over there in Moab. He said, I tell you what, you bring those women to the men of Israel, and you have a big party. And I bet you can tempt those men to sin against God. And that's exactly what happened. Israel fell into sin. They got into worshiping Baal of Pior and being a part of this idolatrous worship and committing fornication and because of this horrendous sin against Almighty God, God And this is in Numbers twenty-five, one to nine. Again, we don't have time to go over all of it. Deuteronomy twenty-three, verses three to six also talks about this. So Balaam's plan And Israel was weakened, and Israel was cursed. And you know what? Balaam, he got his reward. He got his money. That's exactly what he wanted. Now friend, I want to tell you something. There's not enough demons in hell on the outside of this church that can dent this church. But you know how we can bring a curse upon us if we live in sin from the from within. And that's exactly what Balaam understood. And Balaam is a type of the apostate that is willing to prostitute the truth. He's willing to corrupt people. He's willing to make a merchandise of people's souls in order to get gain, in order to get money. That's the kind of apostate he was And I want to say something again, dear friend, there are snakes like this in the Garden of God. There are people all over men who claim to be men of God that will prostitute the truth of God and will sell it for gain. They'll say whatever sells. They're spiritual pragmatists, whatever will get the attention of people, whatever will fill their pockets and pads. their wallets. That is what they will say. And I want to tell you, anyone who is like that is the spirit of Balaam, and that's the spirit of apostasy. Now let me just say this, dear friend. Let me qualify this. Every preacher of the gospel has a right to live of the gospel, the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 9. And a church ought to take care of their preachers and their pastors. But the Bible makes that very clear. Paul said that. Paul said the um the labor is worthy of his hire. labors in the word of God is worthy of double honor. But having said that, anyone, any man or any woman or anybody in any place that is that alters the word of God for any kind of advantage or gain has the spirit of Balaam on him. Let me tell you something, friend, the truth is not for sale. It's not. But yet again we have all kind of people out there. whose whole agenda is material gain. You have these television evangelists and preachers and are reaching out, trying to get money Just listen to this, 1 Timothy 6, 9. They that will be rich, that is, if you have a desire to be rich, fall into temptation and a snare and to many foolish and hurtful lots, which drown men in destruction and perdition, for the love of money is the root of all evil. Which some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, pierced themselves through with many sorrows. But listen to this. Paul says to Timothy, But thou, O man of God, flee from these things. And the word flee here is where we get the word fugitive. Someone who runs, continually runs. Paul said Timothy, run! from the love of money and materialism. That is not to be characteristic of a man of God. Flee from these things Now friend, I was just reading, when I was preparing for this sermon, I thought I'd do a little research and click into some of these television ministries and ministers, some of these hucksters on TVN, the blasphemy network. That preach a false gospel and what they make. According to one person on there, and I won't mention names, I'll just let you do that. Uh they had a five million dollar jet, thirteen mansions, a hundred thousand dollar mobile home for her dogs I read of another pastor who made millions of dollars, multi-millions of dollars, lived in a multi-million dollar mansion, another man I'll go ahead and mention him, Benny Hinn. He lives in a $10 million house. He owns a private jet, luxury vehicles, lavish lifestyle. He was exposed on Dateline As having been under investigation by the Senate because of the way he dealt with money. And friend, that you can go on. There are people out there, all they're into it for is money and merchandise, and they make money off of people's souls and the desperateness of people, they're cashing in on that. That's the spirit of apostasy. And so Cain represents those who pervert the truth. Balaam represents those who prostitute the truth. But then there's one more snake I want you to see in the garden. And that is Kor. Go back to Jude 11. And hold your place. We're going to come back to Numbers. I've got to show you this real quick. And I'll be brief. We just have five minutes. But look in verse 11 again. Woe unto them, for they have gone the way of Cain. And run greedily after the heir of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Kur. Now, here, this last apostate that Jude points to is core, and there are apostates made in his image. Look at the word gainsaying there in verse 11. This is a combination of two words, anti, against, logia, to speak. It is a word that chooses to speak about rebellion and hostility against someone. It is to rebel against the truth. It is to rebel against authority. And friend, I don't have time really to go into this. But you do, let me give you some spiritual homework. Read the book of Numbers, chapter 16, verses 1 through 3. Who was Korah? He was a prince of Israel. He was a Levite. He was a Koathite, which means he worked around the temple. But he raised a rebellion against Moses. He gathered together 250 princes of Israel and said, Moses, who do you think you are? We don't need you as a mediator. He said, all these men here are holy men. And we don't like the way you're running things. You're not the only man of God around here. And he protested. He brought a protest rally against Moses. You know what he was disputing This idea of Moses being a mediator. You know who Moses was a type of? He's a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember when the Bible says that Moses, there would come one after Moses who would be made a prophet like after Moses and the image of Moses. And who was that speaking of? That was speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. He protested against Moses. He protested against Aaron, God's priest. And the New Testament says Aaron is a type of Jesus Christ. And so what we see here in type, in imagery, is a protest against Jesus himself. And friend, that's what apostates do. They protest the Lordship of Christ. They protest against the Lord Jesus. And you know what happened in that story? And again, just read this on your own. Numbers 16, verses 28 to 34. Moses said, You know what? If I am not of God, then all of you men will die a natural death. But if I am of God Then the ground's going to open up and take you. And immediately the Bible says the ground opened up and they fell in. Swallowed them up. Why? They provoked the anger of God. And what was God doing here? God was setting an example Here in the Old Testament in this story, against all those apostates. Now the ground doesn't open up every time. Someone rebels like this today, but God was setting an example, and God has not changed his mind. His wrath is still against those that would protest the authority of God, the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. Just like in the uh early church when Ananias and Sapphira lied, and the Bible says they dropped dead. God doesn't do that every time. Like one preacher said if God did that every time, if God killed liars, where would I be? And all the congregation laughed. He said, I'll tell you where I'd be, I'd be preaching to an empty church. But God was doing that just to set an example of how He hates apostasy. And so folks, we need to be warned. That's what Judah is all about. He's saying you need to learn to mark them. Cain represents those who pervert. The gospel, they preach a bloodless gospel, a man-made religion. Balaam represents those who prostitute the gospel. They're only in it for greedy gain. And they make a merchandise of people's souls And they corrupt the people of God. Kor represents those who protest the gospel. They shake their fist in the face of God and they rebel against the authority of God. But let me just show you this one thing as we close tonight. Go back to Jude verse 11. Let me show you one more thing. Look at the very first three words in Jude 11. Woe unto them. God says. Woe unto them! That's strong. God pronounces a woe against these types of people. I was reading about some aspiring psychiatrists from various colleges. They attended their first class under a professor who was lecturing on emotional extremes And the professor stood up and he asked one of the students from a major urban university, he said, what's the opposite of joy? And the student said, sadness. And the professor said that's correct. And then he asked a young lady from an Ivy Leaf school, what's the opposite of depression? She said, elation. The professor said that's correct. Then he turns to a young man from an agricultural institution and he said, What's the opposite of woe? And the young man said, Well that would be giddy up But friend, that's not what this means here. This is a strong word. Jesus used this word in Matthew 11. He said, Woe unto you, Corazon, woe unto you, Besseida, if the mighty works which were done in thee were done entire in Sidon, they would have repented. Jesus pronounced a woe. And you know what that has the idea of? Serious, serious judgment. And God says today, woe. unto any of these, those who would pervert the truth, those who would prostitute the truth, those who would protest the truth, woe unto them. And you better mark them. Let me just say this and I'll be done. Robert Bruce of Scotland was leading his men in the battle. He was trying to gain independence from England. And near the end of the conflict, the English wanted to capture Bruce to keep him from assuming his position as the next in line for the crown of Scotland. And so they put some bloodhounds on his trail. And when they got close, Robert the Bruce could hear them baying loudly. And one of his men said, We're we're done for. They're on your trail. And he said, I've got an idea. So they headed for a stream and they walked through that stream, waist deep, and got out on the other side. And when he got out on the other side, in a few minutes they could hear those hounds coming and baying. And they stopped. They went no farther because the trail had been lost. The English soldiers tried to urge him on, but they they could not pick up the trail, and a short time later, Robert De Bruce was wearing the crown on Scotland. Now, all of this is a picture, I think, of our sins. Our sins are like hound dogs, and they're prodded on by Satan, and they're on our trail. And they're baying at us. And I want to tell you something, dear friend, we're goners, but I want to tell you, there's a stream that flows with red crimson blood. And I love that song that we sing. There is a fountain filled with blood. Drawn from Emmanuel's veins, and sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty sins. Now, we are safe because of the blood of Jesus Christ By grace through faith and his blood. No hound of hell can touch you, friend, if you are under the blood of Christ, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want to ask you tonight. Is that your standing before God? Do you know him? Don't dare be persuaded by any message of salvation that bypasses the cross in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Tonight. So Father, thank you for these warnings so needed in this day and hour. We're living in a day where we're getting all kind of messages. So many different gospels that are wrong. There's only one gospel. Lord, help us to be able to mark these snakes. That have crawled into the garden of God. Help us, Lord, to never be persuaded by these insidious teachings and words. Help us to stand for truth. Help us to obey the command that you gave to Jude, Jude who wrote under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, that we must earnestly contend for the faith. May that be our mindset. From now until the time that Christ comes, may we contend for the faith. May we be warned. And friends, with head bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask. Do you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you safe under the blood of Christ? Can you honestly say that tonight? That I have turned from my sin, I've turned to Jesus, I've repented. My only hope is in Christ. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. And friend, if you're not in that position, if you can't say that With all your heart, then I want to ask you tonight, would you be willing this very moment to place your faith in what Jesus has already done? It's not what you can do It's what Jesus has already done. And would you be willing to put your faith in him tonight? And would you pray this prayer and mean it, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Thank you for your blood shed for me on the cross. Forgive me of my sin. Cleanse me of my sin. I now turn to you. I realize you're the only way of salvation. You're the only hope. And so I come to the cross. I see your blood shed for me and I put my faith in you. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that in meaning and you can have a s assurance you can know based on the authority of the scripture that you are a child of God I pray that you'll pray that in meaning and friend if you have see us after the service see myself see Pastor Johnson see Pastor Earl See, Pastor John, let us know, friend, that that's what you've done tonight. Now, Father, bless these words to our heart, we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen