I invite you to take your Bibles tonight open to the book of Revelation. As you know, we've been studying Revelation for a while now, and we're coming to the end of the book. And we're getting into an exciting part, but of course all of it's exciting, but we're getting here to the last part of Revelation. In fact, we're in the last chapter, chapter 22 of Revelation, chapter 22. We're going to look at the first. Five verses. And uh listen look at verse one with me. And he showed me a pure river of water. of life, clear as crystal proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. And in the midst of the street of it, on either side of the river, was there the tree of life which bear twelve manner of fruits and yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse. But the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and his servants shall serve him I was reading about a man by the name of Reverend Robert Lowry. He was thirty-eight years old ministering in the city of New York. This was back in eighteen sixty-four. And during that time there was a terrible plague that had uh falling upon the city and the people. We we had a tendency to think that we're the only generation to have to deal with sickness and and disease, and that's not true. And here is a man that was was dealing with the plague and it was affecting his church and he visited members of his church, sick members, and uh conducted funeral after funeral. And one hot July day, he was near collapse himself. He was exhausted. He was discouraged, dispirited. And uh he happened to read this passage that we read, and he wrote on a piece of paper these words, and these are words that you'll recognize because they're words of a great hymn that we sing today. Shall we gather at the river? Where bright angels' feet have trod, with its crystal tide forever flowing by the throne of God, yes will gather at the river the beautiful, beautiful river, gather with the saints at the river that flows by the throne of God. And that hymn has provided inspiration and blessing. uh to multitudes because of what he was going through. And I think again he got his inspiration from reading this passage of scripture that we just read. Which speaks about one of the glories, one of the blessings of heaven that all of God's people will experience one day when we go there. And so we're at this part here in the book of Revelation, when we come to look at some of these blessings that God has laid up for his people. And tonight my sermon is very simple. I want you to just see three blessings of heaven. Isn't it wonderful to think about what God is going to have for his children and for those who are already there Enjoying the presence of the Lord. These are some of the blessings that they're going to enjoy. So if you're taking notes, write down number one, write down the a pure river of life. That's one blessing, a pure river of life. Look again in verse number one. And that it says, and he showed me a pure river of water of life. clear as crystal proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. Now John is continuing this tour of the the city of heaven. And you might remember in chapter 21, one of the angels, one of the seven angels, took John and they showed John the beautiful New Jerusalem that is there in heaven. And and as you look at it, you kind of get the idea that he was kind of given a panoramic view of the New Jerusalem because he describes for us the majesty of that city, he describes for us the measurements of that city, uh he describes uh the uh the the the met the materials of that city, all the things that make up the city. And so you kind of get this uh this idea that he's kind of looking at uh the city from a distance in a panoramic view, looking at all the beauties and the glories of it. But here, it's almost like the angel takes John a little bit closer now, and what he focuses on now is the the the actual throne of God in verse number one. He sees the throne of the Lord there, and he sees coming out of that throne a river. Now, throughout the Old Testament, prophets use the picture of a river as a powerful expression of richness, of provision, of peace. And so um I I think that this this picture here of a river coming out of the throne of God speaks about the wonderful blessing, the wonderful provision, all that God has for his people there in heaven. Let me read to you what a few scholars had to say. One of the gladdest things on earth is water There is nothing in all the world so precious to the eye and the imagination of the inhabitant of the city, burning and thirsty As a plentiful supply of bright, pure and living water. And I think that's so very true And so what we see here then is this beautiful picture of a source of life and a source of blessing, this river that flows out of the throne of God. Now did you know that in the Old Testament that Mm mostly we see cities that are built around uh rivers. Major cities are built on rivers. Why is that? Well it's very obvious because you can't live without water, right? A city can't survive without water. Example was built on uh excuse me, uh uh Babylon was built on the Euphrates River. As an example, Nineveh was built on the Tigris River. Many Egyptian cities were built on the Nile River as it flowed. Rome was built on the Tiber River, and on we could go. Because people in order to have life, in order to live, they have to have water. And by the way, uh the enemies knew this. Whenever someone would try to attack a city, they would normally start by taking away that city's supply of water. They would do something to dam up that river. And we've also heard of here even in modern times how that If a city is located on a river and that river is polluted or defiled in some way, it causes sickness to the inhabitants. We've even heard of that in the news where a city might be located on a river, there may be a factory nearby, and because of that factory spilling out waste into that river, people get sick. And because of that, we've heard lawsuits that are going against major corporations that are dumping into rivers. What's the point? The point is the quality of a person's life is directly related to the river that they live by. The purity of that river. And that's why I think this is such a beautiful picture here of the life that a person will have in heaven. We see a pure river flowing from the throne of God. The quality of life of the people, the inhabitants of that city in the New Jerusalem is directly related to the purity of that river flowing from the throne of God. And so we see, therefore, first of all, the source of the river. John sees the throne of God, and he sees this this beautiful pure river flowing from that throne, and it comes straight from God. I think that when John writes this, perhaps he's thinking about Psalm 46. Remember that Psalm? Write down Psalm 46 verses 4 and 5 where the psalmist is talking about this. He says, there is a river. The streams world shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God shall help her in that right early. What's the psalmist talking about there? In Psalm 46, he's talking about God's provision and protection for this city of Jerusalem. And uh some people feel that he may be talking about a water system maybe that was built by Hezekiah the king, because most people say, well, you know, if you look at the city of Jerusalem, it's really not located on a river There's no river that we know of that flows through uh the city of Jerusalem. But the psalmist says, however, there is a river. The streams world shall make glad the city of Jerusalem. God. It could be that he's referring to that tunnel that was built by Hezekiah from the spring, from the Gihon Spring, and it ran to the pool of Siloam. Uh by the way, those of us that are going to Israel, you'll get to see that if you want to, you can walk down that tunnel. I've already done that, so I'm not going to do that again. I'm kind of claustrophobic and I don't want to get stuck in that tunnel. But anyway Uh but he could be referring to that that tunnel there, but let uh I was intr interested to find that some archaeologists have uncovered evidence of an underground spring that flowed from the temple down into the city. In other words, they found a reservoir that they believe was a spring there that was situated right below the temple And that water flowed, an underground spring, from the temple out into the city. That's an incredibly interesting discovery to me. Maybe the psalmist is talking about that by saying, there is a river The streams wealth shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. And it may be that John is thinking about this when he's thinking about that river there in heaven that flows from the throne of God, that pure river that is life-giving and it's satisfying. You know, something about water is it satisfies. You know, I heard about a little girl and she asked for water. Three times she asked for a drink of water. And on the third time the father said, If you ask again for a drink of water, I'm going to spank you. And she said, Dad, when you come to spank me, would you please bring me a glass of water? That's a little girl that was thirsty there. People have a thirst for something that is real, and there's a sense in which the water of life speaks about how God satisfies us spiritually in our heart. Did you know there's a thirst in men that will not be satisfied with anything other than God? And God is the source that satisfies, God's the one who satisfies our inner thirst. And so the river speaks of God's provision. It speaks of God's satisfaction. It speaks about the fact that God is the one who is the giver of life. So we see the source of the river, but then think also about the serenity of the river. You know, have you ever just been out have you ever seen a beautiful river and you just kind of camp by it and you sit by it and it's just a peaceful time When you're enjoying the beauty of that setting, can you imagine how wonderful that's going to be for those that go to heaven? Just to be there by that beautiful river. About eleven years ago I was asked to go down the Colorado River with a ministry called Answers in Genesis, they asked us to raft down the Colorado River. And for seven days we went down through there. And uh it was just this journey. Uh and by the way, the Colorado River itself Well it is a beautiful river, but it's it's kind of muddy and it's fast moving water, uh some of the fastest moving water in all North America. And you don't want to fall out of the raft on a trip like that, I guarantee you. It's just above freezing the water is. But there was one spot on that journey where that the little Colorado River Kind of met up with the main Colorado River and if you if you stop there at that very spot where there's kinda it's kind of a fork in the river And you walk back up a ways to the Little Colorado River, there's something that is incredibly interesting there. And what you see is the water in the Little Colorado River is a beautiful blue water. In fact, I have never seen water so crystal clear and blue as the water in that little Colorado River there. And the reason it's that color is because of the calcium carbonate that's in the water, and that's because of the lime deposits that are on the bottom of the river that are there, and it causes releases that calcium carbonate into the water and and the water just turns this beautiful blue and it's also warm whereas the other water and the main river is very cold here. This this water is warm, it's blue, it's beautiful. And I just remember that was just the most beautiful river that I had ever seen in my life. But I want to tell you something, that river is nothing compared to the beauty of that river in heaven that the Bible says will flow from the throne of God. And I can't help but think of my dad. who's there in heaven. You know, my dad, he'd love rivers. He'd love fishing. He loved taking us to the Shenandoah River and Potomac River and and fishing and all that sort of thing. I just I I can imagine the joy that he's having there in that beautiful river that comes from the throne of God. We see the the source of the river, the serenity of that river, and the substance of the river. Again, the Bible calls it a river of life. And that reminds us that God is the giver of life, and it's flowing continually. It continually flows from the throne, which reminds us of the continual life that we have in heaven, eternal life. You know, as God's people, you know you're never going to die. You're going to live on through eternity in that beautiful place there in heaven. And that continual flow from the throne of God is a reminder of the eternal life that we have there in heaven. So there's a pure river of life. But then I want you to write down number two. Another blessing that we see here is a perennial tree of life. Look at verse two. And in the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river Was there the tree of life which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And here's another detail that John gives us, another glory there in heaven. He describes a tree of life in the midst of The city there on either side of this river that flows out of the throne of God. Now think about with me, first of all, what I want to call the bounty of the tree, this tree of life. You know, we saw a tree of life in the book of Genesis. We don't see it again until here in the Book of Revelation. In the book of Genesis, because of man's sinned, he was forbidden from the tree of life. But here in the book of Revelation Now that we are in Christ, in God, and there in heaven, we have free access to the tree of life there, that the Bible says. And so in the middle is this river, and on either side we see this tree, or we could say a series of trees. And the Bible says that they give forth twelve different manners of fruit. It says, twelve manner of fruits. This is how John Wilbert sees it, quote. The visual picture presented is that the river of life flows down through the middle of the city, and the tree is large enough to span the river. So that the river is in the midst of the tree, of the street, and the tree is on both sides of the river. And that's really how I visualize it also. Here's this river flowing right down through That city, the New Jerusalem, on either side are these beautiful trees. And you know, I here's what I think about, you know Every major city has some kind of feature to it, some kind of landmark to it, you know, that that you can kind of attribute to that city. For example, if you've ever been to London, what's the landmark of London? It's Big Ben, right? That that big old clock right there. You know, I've I've been there many times and seen that. There's also the tower uh bridge that's there in London that is a feature of that city. If you go to Paris, it's the Eiffel Tower. They kind of is your distinguishing mark of that city that's there. In Rome, it would be the Colosseum that's there. It's been there for ages. In the city of Washington, there's the Capitol building. What about here in Baltimore? What do we have? I was thinking about that, you know. Well I guess we have the inner harbor. We could y'all well why are you frowning when I say that, everybody? Uh yeah, yeah, we'll talk about it later. But um anyway, the or the Bromosser Tower, right? Or Camden Yards, I guess that would be a feature of Baltimore. Yay! At least we're on the list. And uh But think about look, this is, I think, the feature of heaven, the landmark of that new Jerusalem is going to be this river that flows right down through that city. That starts at the throne of God, flows through the city, and on either side of that river are these trees of life. That bring us this fruit. And the Bible says it's twelve different kinds of fruit. Now there are different ways that interpreters interpret this. There are some who say, well, what it's talking about is that it Each month it bears a different type of fruit every month. Again, look in verse number two, and yielded her fruit every month And the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nation. So you have twelve different kinds of fruit, maybe a different fruit for each month. Some people interpret it like that, or some people say no. It's twelve different kinds of fruit every month. You know, that's a variety. You know, that's another way that people look at it. But either way, this is a unique tree that gives its fruit And this answers a question some people will a have asked, are we going to eat in heaven? Are we going to eat in heaven? Well, the best answer to that is Yes, we don't have to, but we will what's new about that? We eat when we don't have to here too, right? But there'll be this fruit there in heaven. And and also think about this. In in his resurrection body, Jesus enjoyed food, right? Angels ate with Abraham in the Old Testament in the book of Genesis, chapter 18. The great heavenly reunion between Jesus and his people is described in Revelation 19 as the marriage supper. We saw that when we were in chapter 19. Even though man fell by what he ate, God will allow us to eat in heaven. And like I said before, whereas Man in the Garden of Eden was forbidden to partake of the fruit there because of his sin. Now in heaven, man will be restored. to be able to enjoy the fruits of that tree of life there in heaven. And he can eat freely from that. tree. And so the answer to that question is yes, there will be eating in heaven. I'm going to again quote a scholar, Sice, who said this, like the golden table of showbread Which ever stood in the ancient tabernacle and temple for the priest to eat, so the Tree of Life stands in all the golden streets of the New Jerusalem. With its monthly fruit for the immortal king priests of heaven. That's you and me. We'll be able to enjoy that part of heaven. There's the bounty of the tree, the benefit of the tree. Look again in verse number two at the latter part where it said, And yielded her fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations Now, why do the nations need healing? Well, just two things about that verse. I think the word nations is the Greek word ethnos, and it's really just talking about people from different ethnicities. You know, in heaven there are going to be people from all over the world that are there All different ethnic backgrounds. And where it says here for the healing, this is a Greek word. It's where we get our word therapeutic from. And it really just has the idea of health giving. It's going to give health. It's going to add to the quality of life that we have there in heaven. And again, this speaks about how wonderful heaven is going to be, the quality of life that we have there in heaven. And this leads to the third and final point. We see the pure river of life. We see the perennial tree of life. But write down number three, the perfect quality of life. that a person's going to have there in heaven. And John is describing here perfection. In fact, back up to verse 27 of chapter 21 Where it says, and there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defiles. Talking about that New Jerusalem, nothing defiling Nothing sinful, nothing corrupt will enter into that city. It'll be nothing but absolute total perfection. That's hard for us to imagine because we live in a world that is not perfect. And uh We've never really seen perfection. When Paul was speaking about heaven, he said it like this, when that which is perfect is come. That which is in part shall be done away. And so he's talking here, John is, about this perfect existence. And he does it by saying, what will not be there? Some of the corruptible things here of this world, the things that we hate, those things will not be there, John says. Nothing that defiles will be there. But also notice what else he says about this. It'll be a place of perfect restoration. Look at verse number three. And there shall be no more curse. No more curse. We will be perfectly restored as we were just before the sin came and the fall of man, where everything will be perfect that God made. No sin, no corruption, nothing. A perfect restoration, no more curse. It'll all be gone, John says in that New Jerusalem But then also perfect administration. Look again in verse 3. But the throne of God and the Lamb shall be in it. Not only will we be restored perfectly, but the administration of heaven will be perfect. You know why? Because the one who rules in heaven is God the Father and the Lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. They will be administering and governing there in heaven. And the presence of the Lord is what makes heaven heaven. We'll be there in the presence of the Lord. Perfect restoration, perfect administration, also perfect subordination. Again in look at verse 3 where it says, And his servants shall what? Serve him? Now when don't think when you get to heaven you're gonna l lay on clouds and pluck harps all throughout eternity. I can't think of anything that would be more boring than that is just laying around playing a harp. I can't play a harp anyway. Uh I can't play any instrument. But you know what heaven will be like? Heaven is going to be where God is going to give us things to do. Give us responsibilities according to how He created us, how He gifted us. And we'll all have opportunities to serve God there in that New Jerusalem. Think about this, you know, when you find the thing for which God created you to do, the way God gifted you, and you're able to do those things, let me ask you a question. Isn't that fulfilling for you when you're able to exercise the gift? And the abilities that God gave you, and you do that, there's a wonderful peace and joy and fulfillment that comes with that, right? Well, that's the way it's going to be in heaven. God will have a responsibility for you, and you'll be able to do that, and there'll come joy and fulfillment. It's serving the Lord there in heaven. And so it'll be a perfect subordination because we will be serving the Lord there in that glorious city. But then also, perfect revelation. Look at verse number four. Perfect revelation. And they shall see his face, and his name shall be in their foreheads. Again, heaven will be a place where God's people will be able to see the Lord face to face there. And that's going to be an incredible thing. Because you remember in the Old Testament when when Moses said to to the Lord. God, you've you've called me to lead this people into the promised land. And I've never even seen you. I've never even got to see your face. Show me who you are. And you remember what God said to Moses? He said, No man can see me and live. In other words, man and his estate, his state now, if he were to look upon the glory of God. And all of its fullness and all of its blessing, it would be too much for us to handle. We couldn't be able to take it all in. We wouldn't be able to see God in his uh and his complete glory revealed. So you remember what God did to Moses? God took Moses and he said, Look, I'm gonna put you here in the cleft of the rock And I'm going to pass by. And when I pass by, I'm going to remove my hand. When I remove my hand, what you will see is the afterglow. You'll see a remnant. You'll see a part of my afterglory go by. Because you can bear that. But to look upon me in my full glory, you're not going to be able to do that. But you know what when we get to heaven, that's going to be different. God's going to change us. We're going to be in our glorified state. And there'll be the sense where we will be able to look upon God And God will reveal Himself to us in His glory there. And what we will have with God and with the Lord Jesus Christ is this face-to-face fellowship. with God there at that time. There will be perfect revelation, perfect restoration, perfect administration, perfect subordination, perfect revelation. But then there'll be another thing, there'll be perfect identification. In verse number four, it says, and his name shall be in their foreheads. Now again, some people wonder, is this literal? Or is this just an expression that means that we will be so identified with our Lord, I think I told you a story one time Carolyn bought me a stamp and stamp and said property of Jerry Harmon. And one day I went around and stamped all my children with that stamp, you know, on their on their hand. You know, property of Jerry Harmon There's a sense in which when we're a child of God, we are stamped in our heart, in our soul already. We belong to the Lord. The Bible says the Lord knows those that are His. I think this is an expression here that we will be so identified with our God there in heaven. It'll be perfect identification, but then also perfect illumination. Look at verse number five. And there shall be no night there, and they need no candle, neither light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light And so the whole city will be illuminated with God, who is the light, his glory. Darkness will never invade that land. We'll never need a candle or a light switch. Or pay no electric bill in heaven. The glorious brightness of Christ the Lamb and God the Father will fill that city. And so there'll be perfect illumination, but then here's the last thing. Perfect exaltation. Look at verse number Five again, where it says, and they shall reign forever and ever. Heaven will be a place where God's people will enjoy an eternal reign With God, again, it's forever and ever and ever. Again, it's just hard for me to picture forever. To picture eternity. I remember one time I was driving here, I was driving from the south up here to Baltimore, and I was driving through West Virginia. Back in those those hills in West Virginia, and it was during the fall and there were trees, they're out, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of trees. And I just started thinking, you ever do this? I wonder how many leaves there are on these trees. I wonder if would it be possible to number the leaves on these trees just here alongside this this highway or even in the whole state of West Virginia Just to know that number, but you know what? God knows that number, because God knows everything. And not only that, he knows the number of every leaf on every tree all over the world. He knows the number. And let's just let one of those leaves represent one minute in eternity. Friend, that's not the beginning because eternity is forever. Just suppose we could number all the trees and all the blades of grass and all the grains of sand in all the world, and we came up with some number That is, we could never pronounce it's numberless. God knows we don't. And let that number represent one year in heaven Friend, that's not the beginning, because heaven is eternity. Let that number represent one decade. It's still not the beginning, because there is no end. To heaven. It's eternity. And that's what's so magnificent to think about. The Bible says, and they shall reign forever. We will be there with our Lord forever and ever. No more death, no more night, no more pain, no more sorrow. No more crying, nothing but glory, a beautiful pure river of life, the tree of life that brings healing and health and blessing. With the presence of God, the unadulterated full presence of God, where we can fellowship with God, and it will last forever and ever and ever as we serve the Lord there in heaven, our hearts are filled with joy unspeakable. and full of glory. That's what heaven's going to be like. That's just a little bit of it. A little bit of it. There's more. But again, I quote the verse that I've quoted so many times. I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things that God has for them that love him. And just think about that. Our loved ones that are already there, they're already started. They've already got a jump on us. They're already enjoying the blessings of heaven. But friend, it's either heaven or hell. People go either to heaven or hell when they die. I want you to know for sure that you know Jesus, that you know that you're going to go to this wonderful, wonderful place full of blessedness and joy Make sure you know the Lord Jesus. Let's pray together tonight. Father, we are just again uh left in wondering in awe. When we look at verses like this, it's hard for us, Lord, to comprehend, just to be honest with you. It's hard for us because we know that these are things that are really shadows that describe the real substance. That behind all these things that John is revealing to us, there's realities and glories and blessings that these things just speak to us about faintly. It's going to be even more glorious than we can imagine. And Father, we thank you for that. Thank you for eternal life in Christ. Thank you for the Lamb of God that died for our sins. So that we can have eternal life. And Lord, we ask you to give us that eternal perspective. We need it constantly, Lord, because every day we're bombarded with the things of this world. We're dragged down, as it were, to think about the temporal, earthly things. When Lord, you've told us to set our affections on things above. So Lord, help us to do that. Thank you for this wonderful passage. Let it resonate in our mind and in our heart. For people that are here and they're maybe perhaps still grieving over the loss of a loved one, Lord, let this these truths Comfort their hearts and bring joy and gladness, knowing that their loved one is there with you in heaven And with heads bowed and eyes closed again, before I close out our service today. I just want you to ask yourself, do you know the Lord? Are you sure of your own salvation? Do you know Jesus Christ? Are you resting fully in Christ and Christ alone as your only hope of heaven? And if you and if you're if that's not where you are, I would just say right now, settle that. Settle that. Don't let another day go by The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. There's going to come a time when it's too late to make that decision. If you feel the drawing of the Holy Spirit, if you feel a tug in your heart, right now, reach out in prayer and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. Give me eternal life. Forgive me. And friend, if that's your prayer, would you just let us know? We want to help you, we want to encourage you along in your Christian walk. Again, Father, thank you for your word. Bless each person here tonight. May they have that absolute assurance in their heart that they know Jesus. And we pray in his name. Amen.