I invite you to take your Bibles tonight. I want you to open to the book of James, chapter 2. You know on Wednesday night we've been looking at this epistle. So we come tonight to chapter 2, verses 14 down to verse 26 And I want you to look at verse 14, we'll read a few of these verses here as we start. What prophet, or what doth the prophet, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and have not works? Can faith save him If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled, notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit Even so, if it hath not works, or excuse me, even so, faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. One of my favorite characters of church history is a man by the name of Martin Luther, the Great Reformer. One July night in the year of 1505. Luther, who was a university student at that time, studying to be a lawyer, was walking down a parched road, and suddenly a violent thunderstorm came upon him. You ever been in one of those storms that are just fierce? And a bolt of lightning just came crashing down next to him, knocking him down to the ground. And being a Catholic, a good Catholic, he cried out to the saint that would help him out, which happened to be Saint Anne. His father was a miner, and Saint Anne was the the the uh I guess the saint of miners. Uh but he cried out. And uh he said, Saint Anne, help me, and I'll become a monk. Well, he survived that storm, and he thought that he would go ahead and pay his vow, and he became, much to the dismay of his father, He became an Augustinian monk. Now, as a monk, Luther was very fastidious in all of the religious orders and disciplines that were required of a man in that position. He fasted a lot. He went to confession a lot. He was very rigid about keeping the Ten Commandments. Being a law student, he had this understanding about the law of God that perhaps others didn't have He had this incredible view of the holiness of God. And he understood, again, being a student of the law, that God what God required in his law. And he knew that he wasn't right with God And this kind of was a burden that was very heavy on him. He thought that he had to merit salvation, and so he tried as hard as he could. to keep all the commandments and to and to go to confession every day and to do everything that was required of him. The priest there, where he was uh practicing or learning to be a monk, they thought that he was crazy. On one occasion, as one writer writes, he would stay in confession for about six hours, confessing sins. he had committed on the previous day and then on the next day he would go in and he would spend another four hours confessing sin. Where pretty soon people thought that he was just trying to get out of work. I mean after all, how much trouble can you get into in a monastery where you have to go to confession for ten hours and two days? But that was not the case at all. Luther, his soul was in torment because he had no peace. He knew that he was a sinner before a holy God. And he knew that there was nothing really he could do to make himself right with God. There was no peace. And so his superiors decided that maybe it would help him to send him on a trip up to Rome. And Luther went on this pilgrimage to Rome, and there in Rome, which was considered a holy place, and Catholics, by the way, believe that by looking on relics that's that that grace was imparted to a person in their salvation. And they had all kind of relics there in Rome. They said to have had the head of John the Baptist, nails from the cross, and so on. And Luther went through all of that ritual looking at those things, but nothing brought him peace. It only made them worse. And finally he went to the what was called the holy stairs, the Santa Scalia. These were supposedly the stairs that Jesus went up when he was on the road to the Via Della Rosa, the mother of Constantine supposedly went to Jerusalem, located those stairs, had them dug up and brought to Rome. And tradition says that you could look on those steps and still see the bloodstains of the Lord Jesus Christ on those steps, which if you believe that. But people would go up those stairs on their knees trying to get peace with God. And Luther went through that. He went up those stairs. And none of that helped. He also saw the sale of indulgences. And indulgence is a piece of paper with given with the authority of Rome that basically says if you buy this, that your loved one who is in hell can can be sprung out of purgatory much sooner. So they were basically trying to get their relatives out of hell by buying an indulgence according to Catholic theology. Finally, one day Luther began to study the book of Romans, and he was meditating on the phrase: the just shall live by faith. And suddenly he understood. Like a lightning bolt from heaven, it just hit him. It was gloriously simple. It was simply glorious A person is not saved by works. They're not saved by laws. They're not saved by religious rituals or ceremonies or indulgences or penance of merit. A person is saved by putting their faith in Jesus Christ. Faith and faith alone. He later wrote this, then I grasped that the justice of God is that righteousness by through which grace and sheer mercy God justifies us through faith. Thereupon I felt I must have to have been reborn and to have gone through the open doors of paradise. He said the scripture took on a whole new meaning, and this passage of Paul became to me a gate of heaven. He understood it. He got it. But now having said that, this is the same Martin Luther that later, however, became confused over The book of James and specifically the passage that we just read where James says that a man is justified by works. In fact, look down in chapter two verse twenty-one where it says, Was not Abraham our father justified by works? Now when Luther came and he read that verse He began to doubt whether the book of James should even be in the accepted canon of Scripture. In fact, he called the book of James an epistle of straw. That is, it didn't have a lot of substance to it. You have to remember that what Luther was fighting against at that time was the whole Catholic system that taught that faith is necessary for salvation, but it's not sufficient for salvation. You need to have faith, but you need to have works along with faith. Faith plus works brings salvation. And of course, this was called a system. The system was actually called Sacerdotalism. I know that's a big word, but it comes from the word sassur meaning priests, which basically means that salvation is accomplished not just by faith but through the church and the ministrations of the priesthood in the church. And so it wasn't a matter of just simply putting your faith in Christ. You had to do that, but you had to go beyond that. Christ wasn't enough. You needed the church as well. And this is what Luther was fighting against. And so when he read James He thought that James was supporting that whole system that he had come out of and was fighting against, and that's why he struggled over this passage. At one point He said this. He said that he would give his doctor's beret. You know, when you got a doctorate, you got a funny hat that you wear. Thank God we don't do that anymore. But uh he said he would give his doctor's beret To anyone who could reconcile James and Paul. Because it looked to Luther like Paul and James were having an argument. Let me tell you why. Hold your place here in James. Go back to Romans chapter 4 and look at verse number 2. Look at Romans chapter 4 and look at verse number 2. Notice it says, for if Abraham were justified by works He'd have whereof to glory, but not before God. Paul says Abraham wasn't justified by works. If he did, he could glory, but not before God Look at verse 3 of chapter 4. For what saith the scripture, Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. Verse four now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned but of grace, of grace, but of debt But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. Paul makes it very clear that you're saved by faith In Christ's faith in his finished work, that's how you're justified. Faith not works. Faith and faith alone. But then you go back to the book of James, chapter 2, go back there with me, and again look at verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works? Now here you have Abraham saying in chapter 4 of Romans, Abraham wasn't justified by works, he was justified by faith And then you come here to James, and James says Abraham was justified by works. Now on the surface, this looks like a contradiction. Is there a contradiction here? Some liberals and doubters and skeptics look at this and they say, aha, there you go. The Bible is full of contradictions, but they're absolutely wrong because they misunderstand what James is trying to say. In fact I would say this Paul and James are saying the same thing But they're saying it from a different perspective in a different way. You know, y that coin that you have in your pocket You have a heads and you have a tails, and the heads and the tails don't look alike at all, but it's the same coin. I would say that what we're seeing here with James and Paul is the heads and tails of the same truth, the same idea. You see, here's the key to understanding this apparent contradiction. Paul is talking about justification before God. James is talking about justification before men. You see, man looks on the outward appearance, God looks on the heart Here's a person they say, Well, I'm saved. You know what? I can't see into their heart. I can't really see what's on their heart, but you know what? God knows their heart. And God knows whether or not they're truly saved. How can I know whether that person is saved or not? The only thing I have to go by about a person's faith, whether or not it's genuine, is their outward works, you see. Because I can't see into their heart. If your faith is genuine, it's going to be manifested outwardly by the works that you do, and so you'll be justified before others that your faith is real. When you put your full faith in Christ, you're justified before God, but as you do good works, you are justified before men. And so salvation is by grace through faith, plus nothing, but salvation is also accompanied by works. Works are not necessary for salvation, but they're necessary for the assurance of salvation, your good works afterwards. We can say it like this. Paul was talking about the root of salvation. James was talking about the fruit of salvation. Paul was talking about what's beneath the surface. James was talking about what was above the surface. Paul was talking about the provision of salvation, which is faith. James was talking about the proof of salvation, which is outward works. And so that's the difference. And what James was tackling was a problem that was in the early church, and by the way, we still have that problem today, where there are many people that with their mouth they say that they're saved. But their life does not support their confession. You know, anybody can say that they're saved. Anybody can say that they're a Christian. But really it's what is your life demonstrate? What does your life demonstrate? Does the works The things that you do demonstrate that your faith is genuine. You know, almost 80% of Americans claim to be Christians. Did you know that? Eighty percent of Americans our our nation is in moral decline. Our nation is in moral freefall. And yet there are many people that claim to be A Christian. Remember what Jesus said? Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name and in thy name done wonderful works? And so the question you have to ask yourself is, is my faith real? Is it genuine? And James will show us in this passage what I call three kinds of faith. Here's the first one. Number one, I call this the autopsy of dead faith. Go back to verse number fourteen. What doth it profit, my brethren, do a man say he has faith? And have not works. Can faith save him? Again, there were some that have what James calls dead faith. These are people that say they believe with their lips. They give lip service to Christianity, but their whole life does not support what they say. So we see here what I call under this first topic, empty confession in verse 14. Though a man say he has faith. Again, many say they have it. And the key word in this section of James is say You know, he talks about, we we see the word in verse 14 and verse 16, one of you may say unto them. We see it in verse 18, yea, a man may say. James is basically saying talk is cheap. I meet people all the time that say, oh yes, I'm a Christian. But they live a life of perpetual disobedience. They live in a pattern of an unbroken pattern of sin. Again, anybody can say they're saved. I read one time where Hitler claimed to be a Christian. In fact, he at one point uh showed a tattered Bible to some of his friends and said he drew strength from the Bible. And he talked in very pious tones. But of course we know that he was not, that he was The devil incarnate almost. And yet here he was claiming to be a Christian. James is saying whatever claim that you make has to be tested to make sure that it's genuine. Like one country preacher said, you can't tell how much gas is in the tank by the honking the horn. So look down in verse 14 again what he says. What does the prophet, my brethren, do a man say he has faith and have not works? Can faith save him? Or we could translate that like this. Got the article in front of me. Can that kind of faith save him? The kind of faith that just makes an empty confession and there's no works, there's no life to back up that confession. Of course, this question A presumes a negative answer. The answer is no. That kind of faith will not save him Dead faith. But then also notice false compassion. Look at verse 15. If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace and be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding you give them not those things which are needful to the body, what doth it profit? Now James loves to use illustrations, and he's going to give us an illustration to make his point, and he shows again the uselessness of lip service He demonstrates that words are cheap, and he gives the illustration of someone who's destitute. Here's a person that is cold and hungry He uses the word naked, just someone that absolutely just doesn't have what they need. They barely have the clothing to keep them warm. And the whole idea here is they don't have sufficient things to uh for their life. And they have great needs. And you see a person like that And when you see someone like that, you might even have a little feel a little bit of compassion. You might you know you have a Y on your wallet you have a roll of money, you know, you see somebody like that and you feel really bad for them and you say to them, God bless you and then you walk away and you don't do anything. Has that really helped that person? I mean and and you know you don't you don't help them, you don't give them what they need, you don't offer them a meal or buy them clothes or do what they need. James is basically saying, you know, that doesn't help anything. What does the prophet in verse 16, if you see a person like that and you just give them lip service, you just tell them, Hamma, oh, I love you And then you turn and walk away. James says there's no profit in that. That's empty. That's hypocritical. What use is that? He calls that kind of faith dead faith. It's faith without any kind of works. It's dead. There's nothing to it. And so there's an empty compassion here. And so again, he's he's using this to illustrate dead faith. Dead faith is like that. You have all kinds of words, you have all kinds of lip service, but the works that you do does not support what you say from your mouth. That's what we call the autopsy of dead faith. But I want you to see number two, I call this the absurdity of demonic faith. There's a second kind of faith that he talks about. Look at verse 18. Yeah, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. And so James is in verse 18 anticipating an argument against people who are unwilling to say or to uh uh to accept what he is saying. And some will argue and say, well, you know, you're just into works. You know Always when a preacher is preaching, there's people out there sitting and they're arguing with them in their mind. Some of you are arguing with me tonight. I can see it on your face. James is anticipating those arguments that people have in their mind And he's saying, yeah, I know some of you what you're thinking. You're thinking, well, James, you're just into works. I'm into faith. You know, even though I'm not practical in my religion, I know how I feel in my heart. Your problem is you're in the works too much. You know, I know how I feel. I've had people say that to me sometimes after a sermon. I heard what you said, but I know in my heart. I know what I feel. Well you better be careful because your heart can lie to you. Your heart can deceive you. And some people will reason in their mind. And they'll use the argument of emotion and they'll say like this, I know what I feel in my heart, I know the emotions I have, and I remember when I got saved, I remember exactly how I felt And it's all about the heart. It's all about the feeling of the heart. Many people will believe something in their head, and they might even have something that they feel in their heart. They may even have an emotional response to what they hear. Sometimes a preacher will preach a sermon and people will come down the aisle and they'll be crying tears, big old tears. And yet, nothing happens in their life after that. They're just living the same old life. There's no big change. And so James says, you know, it has to go beyond just mere emotion. You can believe the right thing and be orthodox in your doctrine, and it can even bring an emotional response. But that doesn't mean that your faith is genuine. And so James, look at verse 19. He uses a bit of sarcasm here as he deals with the argument of emotion. Look at verse 19. Thou sayest that there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and they tremble. You say you're orthodox in your theology and you believe in the one God. Well that's good. There's some people here tonight that might say, hey, wait a minute, preacher, I believe the Bible is the Word of God. And I believe that Jesus is the Son of God, and I believe everything that it says, well, good, that's wonderful. And you might even be emotional about it. But that doesn't mean that your faith is genuine. Because guess what? The demons, they are orthodox in their theology. Did you know that? Did you know the demons know who Jesus is They believe that he's God. They know the Bible is God's Word. They try to lie to you about it. But they know the truth. They know that Jesus is the Son of God. Read the Gospels. Every time Jesus was In the presence of a demonic spirit, they would call out and say, We know that thou art the Holy One. We know who you are. We know that you're the Son of God. They had all their theology right. And not only that, they got emotional about it. The Bible says the devils believe and they what? They tremble in the presence of Christ. They tremble in the presence of God. Let me ask you a question. When's the last time you came to church and you trembled? I'm not talking because the air conditioning was turned down too low either. I mean, you trembled before the presence of the Lord because you knew that God is a holy God, and He's a God that's not to be trifled with. The demons know the Bible is the Word of God. They know Jesus is the Son of God. They know that He died, rose again, and they know He's coming back. They know that God is holy. They tremble over all these things. They have an emotional response to it all, but how many of you would be willing to say that the devils are saved and they're going to heaven? None of them are, of course. It's absurd to think That demons have genuine faith. Even though they have it here, they they believe the right thing here, and they have an emotional response to it. And by the way, let me just say this. I need to be careful to correct this. There's nothing wrong with emotions in church. All right? It's okay to say amen. That was you guys just missed a great spot to say amen. It's okay to say amen. There you go, thank you. It's okay to be happy. It's okay to rejoice, be filled with joy. It's okay to lift your hands. It's okay to enjoy the worship. All of that is good. I like what Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say. As Baptists, we're so inhibited, it's hard to tell we're inhabited. We need to loosen up a little bit in church. There's nothing wrong with emotion. We need that. In fact, when I hear truth about God, it does bring an emotional response. That's all good. What James is saying is if those are the only things that you're using to test whether your faith is real, it hasn't gone far enough. Faith that's a genuine faith. Not only does it infect your mind, you believe the right things. That's why we s we start with the Word of God. I've got to teach you the truth. I've got to teach you the right things. That should bring about an affection for the truth, an emotional response, but it doesn't stop there. For some people it stops right there with the mind and the heart and the emotions. It doesn't go any farther than that. And James says, if that's what your faith is, it's absurd to think that you're saved because it's absurd to think that the devils are saved because that's how much faith that they have. It's a demonic faith. But then there's the third kind of faith. We saw the autopsy of dead faith, the absurdity of demonic faith, but here's the third thing, the activity of dynamic faith. Now, James is going to illustrate to us that faith, genuine faith, also has with it the element of the will of the things that you do. True living faith is not just the mind, it all includes the mind, we have to understand the truth, is not just the mind and the heart, although it's okay to have emotions and affections for the things of God But true faith is also volitional. It involves the will. It shows a commitment. This is how we know that our faith is genuine by how we live now according to what we believe. And so James is going to give two illustrations of people In the Old Testament, who demonstrated that their faith was real, and the way he knew that their faith was real was by what they did after they believed And by the way, he gives this two different people from the opposite ends of the spectrum. And then he's going to talk about Rahab down in verse 25. Abraham was the patriarch. Rahab was the prostitute. One was a Jew, the other was a Gentile. One was a man, the other was a woman. One was rich, and the other was very poor. One came from the highest level of society And one came from the lowest rung on the ladder. And I think James is using these two illustrations to show the opposite sides of the spectrum to show that faith transcends. It doesn't matter what your background is, it doesn't matter your gender, your race, your religion, your social standing, your economic standing. None of that matters. Genuine faith can be found in the heart of anyone, no matter what your background is. And so first he looks at Abraham in verse 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac, his son, upon the altar? Now what he talks about in verse 21 is recorded in Genesis 22. The time when Abraham took his son Isaac out to Mount Moriah to offer him as a burnt sacrifice. Why? Because God told him to do it. And James says, when Abraham did that. He his works justified him. And what he means by that was that Abraham was showing to all the world That his faith was genuine. Why? Because he obeyed God even though it was something incredibly hard. Look what he did Now, look in verse number 23, what it says, and the scripture was fulfilled, which says, Abraham believed God. And it was imputed unto him for righteousness, and he was called the friend of God. Now, what he's referring to in verse 23 happened earlier in Genesis 15. And what is James talking about? Well in Genesis 15, God came to Abraham and God revealed to Abraham his plan. He didn't give Abraham the whole picture. He gave him a little piece of the puzzle of his plan of redemption. By the way, people in the Old Testament were saved the same way as people in the New Testament. They were saved by the faith in the Word of God, in the revealed Word of God, putting their full faith in what God said with regard to salvation, even though people in the Old Testament didn't have the full picture like we have here in the New Testament on this side of the cross. With whatever pieces of the puzzle that God gave Abraham, he revealed it to him. And you know what Abraham said? To whatever God revealed? Abraham said, Amen. Amen. Because that's what the word believed is. That's the actual word. Abraham, amen, God. God said, Abraham, here's what I'm going to do. Here's a piece of the truth. And Abraham said Amen. And God said, that's faith right there. That's genuine faith. Now God saw at that moment that Abraham's faith was real, and in the eyes of God, at that very moment, Abraham was justified. But how do we know that Abraham's faith was real? That wasn't revealed to the world later until in Genesis 22. When God came to Abraham and God said, Abraham, and I want you to take your son, your only son, Isaac, the son, the one that you love. Take him up to Mount Moriah and all from there for a burnt offering to me. Now, you can imagine the con the conflict that was in Abraham's mind. Wait a minute. God, this was the son. You promised me this son, and you said that through him would you fulfill your plan. Through him, uh all the nations of the world would be blessed. How can that happen if my Only son, the one that you promised me, is dead. But Abraham didn't worry about that. He didn't reason his mind. You know what the Bible says at that moment? As soon as God told him told him what to do, Abraham without questioning God without arguing against God. The Bible says he did exactly what the Lord asked him to do. He got his son Isaac. They went three days. They went to Mount Moriah. He took his son up to the top of Mount Moriah. He he put him on the altar. He lifted up the knife. He was ready to plunge the knife into the throat of his son. And cut his throat and offer him as a burnt sacrifice until God did what? God said, Wave a minute, Abraham, that's enough. And James is recalling that, and James is saying, you see how what he did His works revealed that what he had in his heart was genuine faith. His works justified him before men, before all the world, that showed that that's what genuine faith does. You know what genuine faith does? Genuine faith obeys the word of God. It does what God tells you to do. That's how you know your faith is a genuine faith. Now, that's Abraham But what about Rahab? Look at verse 25. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way? And James just gives one verse here about the story of Rahab. We know the story that's in Joshua chapter 2, when the two spies came to her end there. And they wanted they were kind of doing a reconnaissance mission mission to find out what was going on in Jericho because God was ready to deliver Jericho into the hands of the Israelites. And here are these two spies and they come to Rahab's place And we don't have time to look at the whole story. Well maybe we do. Go to Joshua chapter 2 real quick. We won't, but you've got to see this. Look in Joshua chapter 2. And look down at verse number 9. And look what it says, and as these men are there in her place, in verse 9 it says, And she said unto the men, I know that the Lord hath given you the land. And that the your terror has fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt. And what she did to the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, verse eleven. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts didn't melt. Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you, for the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. So this is incredible. Here, this woman is exhibiting faith in God, the God of Israel. Notice where she says, He's God in heaven above and in earth beneath. Did you know the Canaanites they worship a bunch of different gods? that inhabited different places. They had some guys that inhabited disguise and some that were under underneath and all that. And they had all these guys. And she's basically she's throwing all that out and she's saying, you know, none of that is real Your God is the real God, and she's showing faith in God. Now, where did she learn about this God? Well, she had a Facebook account. No, she didn't have Facebook and she didn't have CNN or Fox News or any media outlets. How did she learn? Well, she ran a inn there, and there were strangers that were coming through all the time, and they would come through, they'd say, Hey, did you hear what happened over there in Egypt? by the Red Sea, what this God did. I mean, let me tell you this. And people would come in and they'd make these reports about God. Did you hear what happened? Recently in the wilderness, and you hear what he did to the two kings of the Amorites, and she's getting all these reports about the greatness of God. And you know what? She believed the word of God That's the first thing we see about her. She heard the word in verse number 10. She said, We heard these things. She believed it In verse 11, we saw that. As soon as we heard our heart these things, our hearts did melt. She understood that it was true. And by the way, there was an emotional response there, wasn't there? Because it says her heart melted. She was filled with fear. So she believed it in her mind, she believed it in her heart, but it went beyond that because she confessed it in verse 9. I know that the Lord has given the land to you. And uh in verse 11 she said, I know that the Lord your God, he is God. She confesses that, the word, but then what was it? That revealed to everyone that her faith was genuine. It was what she did after that. It was what she did that showed that her faith was real. And what did she do? Well James says that she received the messengers and she sent them out the other way. Now, I really get tired of people saying, now wait a minute, preacher, she lied to the king of the uh of of Jericho about all that, and they get all distracted over that one lie that she told. And pages and pages of material have been written on the ethics of what took place there, but you're missing the whole point. It was her actions And the fact that she risked her life to save these spies that showed that her faith was a real, genuine faith. That's the thing that we need to we need to focus on in this very thing here. Now, let me just say this about her faith. It was not a perfect faith. You say, well she she lied. Yeah, she did. Uh she did tell a lie there, but you have to remember it's wartime and we've honored people in wartime for deception to save lives, anyway. I don't want to get caught up on the ethical issue. That's another sermon for another time. But let me just say this. Perhaps we're expecting too much out of this woman who was a prostitute living in Jericho. How about we give her a little bit of slack here Her faith was an imperfect faith. The faith was there, it was mingled with sin. But I want to tell you that you know what about my faith? Even on my best days when I have faith in God, it's mingled with sin in it. It's not perfect. But what did one man say to Jesus, Lord, I believe, helped out my unbelief? Lord, I have faith. It's not a perfect faith. And there's sin mixed in my faith because there's unbelief there too. But God is able to take the quality of that faith, that seed of faith, and and use it. And so she put her faith in the God of Israel. And that faith was a genuine faith, and the way that she revealed it was the things that she did. She was willing to put her life on the line, and not only her life, but the life of her whole family, to show that her faith was real. So again, what's the message? Message is very simple. Your faith is a genuine faith, not just because you believe in Jesus here and believe in here or believing in your heart, it's because of the commitment of your life. Your works demonstrate that you have put full faith in Jesus Christ. Its salvation is by grace through faith plus nothing, not of works. But true faith will produce works afterwards. And those works demonstrate before everyone that your faith Is a genuine faith. Martin Lloyd Jones says this: saving faith involves the whole personality. The mind is instructed. The motions are stirred, and then the will acts in obedience to God. And that's exactly what James is telling us here. So the question we have to ask ourselves is this, is my faith a genuine faith? Is it real? If it is, it's going to show. It'll be revealed. Let me just close with Martin Luther. We started out with Martin Luther. Let me close with Martin Luther. Later on, after he studied James further. He came to embrace what James was saying. He changed his mind about whether or not it should be part of the canon of Scripture. He knew, after studying it closer, that James was also legitimately a book of the Bible. And then he wrote this, oh, it is a living, quick, mighty thing, this faith. It does not ask whether good works are to be done, but before the question could be asked, it does them and is always doing them. He who does not these good works is a man without faith. And so Luther got it. He got it. He goes on to say, yea, it is impossible to separate works from faith, just as it is impossible to separate burning and shining from fire. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So in light of what we heard tonight, I just want you to examine your own heart. To make sure that your faith is genuine, that it's a real faith. And ask yourself the question: Is my faith a dead faith? Is it just lip service? Is it a demonic faith? Is it filled with emotion? But yet there's no work real substance of works? Obedience to God? Or does my faith include not only the intellectual understanding and the affections of my heart? But the commitment of my life, the obedience of my life, the desire to do right and what's good before God. Father, I pray that you'll help us to use your word to examine our own life to make sure to know that our faith is genuine. It's real. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, just take a moment and pray where you are. If you're not absolutely certain about your salvation, I want you to just pray right where you are Turn to Christ. Reach out to Him. Maybe the prayer that you need to say is, Lord, I'm not even sure if my faith is real. Would you help me to know And give me the right kind of faith to believe. And not just believe in my mind. In my heart, but also that will bring a commitment of my life where I call you Lord, not just Savior, but Lord. Again, Father, bless these words to hear your hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.