Would you take your Bibles this morning? I want you to open to an Old Testament book of Joshua. And we're going to be looking at uh chapter 4. Actually, we'll be looking at parts of chapter 3 and chapter 4. But I want you to look in Joshua 4. And I want you to look at verse 5 and verse 6 this morning. Joshua chapter 4, verse 5 and 6. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word today? Joshua 4, verse number 5. And Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of Jordan, and take you up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel. That this may be a sign among you that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our heart today. May he instruct us from his inspired word Would you pray with me today? Our Heavenly Father, would you help us now today as we focus our attention on you through your word? We thank you for the precious Word of God and the truth that you give us, truth for life. May we see Jesus Christ May we take principles from this passage that we can use that will help us as we seek to do your will. Bless every heart, save souls for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to talk to you today about three lessons from Memorial Stones. Now on this Memorial Day weekend, again, we remember the the brave men and women who died for our country. Where did the idea of memorial they come from. It comes from a story of a woman during after the Civil War who in Mississippi she went to the graves of her son and she decorated those mounds of her son. And when she got finished doing that, she went over into a corner of the cemetery and she decorated two other mounds of fallen soldiers. And the observer said, What are you doing decorating those graves, those are the graves of the enemy. And she said, somewhere up north, there is a a mother who weeps. and or maybe some young wives who mourn as we do. And from that, that set in motion uh a series of events that lead up to what we now appropriately observe as Memorial Day. Now, memorials are biblical. I don't know if you realize that or not. If you look in the Bible, what you will find is that God throughout Old Testament scripture and even in the New Testament scripture has called his people to set up memorials to remember significant events. And you know why that's true? Because we are a people that are prone to forget, aren't we? We forget things. And so to guard against that Memorials were erected in the Old Testament by God at His command. And it's appropriate that when significant events under the providential hand of God take place that we erect memorials to remember What God did and how God used people to accomplish significant events. That's what we have going on here in the book of Joshua. In the book of Joshua, God commanded that there be some memorials set up because of the work that He did. These were memorials that were set up because the children of Israel. who had wandered in the wilderness for all those years were about to cross over Jordan into the promised land that God gave them. And this would be this would take place with a miracle basically. And upon that occasion, God had two memorials set up, as we will see as we look into the passage. But what I want you to see today are some lessons that we learn from these memorial stones. I want to kind of relate it to uh the memorials that we should be observing of those who have uh given us our freedom and also apply it to our own life. with spiritual principles. Here's the first thing I want you to see today. If you're taking notes, write down, we should expect miracles. Here's the first thing that we learn as we look at this story. You learn to expect miracles Now again, the children of Israel were about to cross over Jordan, and they were about to get their promised land. And God's going to do wonders. Look in chapter 3, look in verse number 5. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. I love that about God. You know what? God wants to do great things in the lives of his people That's not just in the Old Testament. That's for today. Do you know that today, beloved, God wants to do something great in your life? He wants to work mightily. And God works mightily on the behalf of His people. So there's a spirit of anticipation here with Joshua. He's convinced that God is going to do great things. I would ask you, do you believe that in your own life? Do you believe that that God wants to do great things. William Carey, the great missionary, said, ask great things of God, expect great things from God, do great things for God. Now it was time to go over and cross Jordan and go into the promised land, but there was only one problem. There was a huge obstacle that stood before them. You say, what was that obstacle? It was the Jordan River itself Now normally this wouldn't be a big problem because uh the Jordan River was just about a hundred feet wide at Gilgau, that place where they would cross. It would later be named Gilgau But when God brought the children of Israel to the Jordan River, it was wasn't a hundred feet wide at that time, because of that particular time of the year. The Jordan had swollen. Look in chapter 3, verse 15. Notice the last phrase in verse 15 for it says, For Jordan overfloweth all his banks. all the time of harvest. See what was the problem? The problem was this was the flood season, and the Jordan had begun to overflow its banks, and so a river that was normally very soft and gentle flowing river had become a raging torrent because it was the springtime and the and the snow from the uh the Lebanon mountains uh began to melt and that water came down into the headwaters of the Jordan there at Dan and it just caused the whole Jordan River to swell up. And the Bible uses this expression in the book of Jobs, the swelling of the Jordan. And so a river that was normally just a hundred feet wide had become one mile wide. It was just now a human impossibility to cross this river. How are they ever going to go across this river? You know something I notice about God, that God does things in a way so no man can boast And this crossing would be no exception. If they get across this river, it wasn't going to be because of them. It was going to be because of Almighty God. They would have to have God's help. And you know what? God will sometimes put in front of us in an uncrossable river something that is humanly impossible from our perspective. So that we would turn to the Lord for help because God wants to demonstrate his power in the lives of his people. God wants to demonstrate his power to you. He wants to demonstrate his power in you and through you. God always does things in a way that will stretch our faith. And so, from a human perspective, this was the worst time of the year to cross this river. But God wanted it to be that way. I can just hear some of the Israelites saying, Oh, this is not God's will. This can't be God's will. There's no way we can make it across this river. This is just not God's timing We have to do it at another time, but no, they were not out of God's will. They were right where God wanted them at that particular time. God had put in front of them this big problem And he and the reason he did that is because God wanted to grow them. He wanted to grow their faith. Look in chapter three. And look at verse number four. And again, look at the last phrase in that verse. I want to call your attention to that, where it says, For ye have not passed this way hitherto. You've not been this way before. This is something new. You know why God puts insurmountable problems in front of us? Because He wants to bring us to a new place spiritually. He wants to bring us to a new level of faith. God wants to get you out of your comfort zone. So what do you do when you're faced with a river of impossibility? There may be some people here this morning and that's what you're facing. It could be a a river of doubt or weakness in your life, it could be a river of sickness or family difficulty or financial drought. It could be a river of a rebellious child, uh a job difficulty or relationship gone wrong. We all have rivers of impossibility that we face. The question is, what do we do when we face them? God wants us to trust him. And there's some things here that We can learn from Joshua. What does he do with this river? Well, write this down. First of all, face your problem. That's the first thing I see Joshua doing. He faces the river. Look in chapter 3, verse 1. And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and they removed from Shetim and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, and lodged there before they had passed over. What's the first thing he does? He goes and he faces the river They break camp at a at an Achaea grove and they march down to the Jordan River and they go as far as they could go, humanly speaking. You know, Joshua doesn't ignore the river, he faces it That's the first thing God wants you to do. What problem do you have today? Don't ignore that problem. Face the problem. Do as much as you can do humanly speaking, and then trust God to do the rest. Go as far as you can go. And then let God do the rest. And then this is the next thing. Watch God. Or I could say, you know, let God go before you. Look at verse number three. And they commanded the people, saying, When you see the ark of the covenant of the Lord your God, and the priests You know the Ark of the Covenant, you knew what that was, right? That's that golden box inside of it were the Ten Commandments And Aaron's rod that budded, and a pot of manna. On the top of the lid of that ark, that box that was overlaid with gold was the cherubim's, which r which hovered over the mercy seat that was there. If you've never seen the Ark of the Covenant, watch Indiana Jones movie. I'm I'm sure everyone here's watched that already, right? You know what the Ark looks like. So here the ark in the Old Testament represented the presence and the power of God. It represented the throne of God. And so the ark represented the presence of God Himself. And notice the command. He says to them in verse number 3 that when you see the ark beginning to move out across the river, then get ready to follow it. And the principle here to me is very simple, that you need to let God go before you. Let God work, let him go before you. One time David was uh Waiting to go into battle, and God said to David, Don't move until you hear the sound of marching in the tops of mulberry trees, because that'll be a sign that I have gone before you. You have a problem, okay? Let God go before you. Let God take care of that for you. Watch God and then follow God because it says at the end of verse 3, then shall ye remove from your place and go after it When you see the Ark of the Covenant moving across, then you get ready and you follow it. This is a very simple principle, beloved, but the lesson is that you need to walk with the Lord, and wherever the Lord leads you, that's what you that's what where you go, that's what you do. You follow the Lord. It may not be the easiest thing at times to follow the Lord, but it's the best thing to do, is to follow God. If you ever want to get past your obstacle, you have to learn to follow the Lord. But then also honor the Lord, because look at verse number four Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cupits by measure. Come not near unto it, that ye may know the way which ye must go, for ye have not passed this way hithertofore Notice that the Israelites were told to stay at least 3,000 feet behind the Ark. That's about a half a mile behind it. That's so that everyone can see the Ark going forward And and there's a sense also in which the ark is set off, it's being exalted, it's being honored, because after all, the ark represents the presence and the power of the Lord. Did you know that in the Old Testament In the ancient Near East, that armies, whenever they went into battle, they always let the king march first, and they always kept a certain distance behind, and that was their way to honor the king. God was Israel's king And here, they're honoring God by letting him go forward. I want to tell you that whatever problem that you're facing, always remember to honor the Lord in that problem. Always remember to exalt him. But then notice what he says in verse five. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. Now Joshua's not exactly sure what God's going to do, but he's confident that God is going to do great things. He knows God is going to do miracles, and so he says, sanctify yourselves. What does that mean? How do you do that? What he's saying is cleanse yourself from all sin. Confess all sin. Turn from any sin. Meditate on the Word of God. Worship God. You know, a lot of times the reason that we have the problems that we have is because we're not really worshiping the Lord the way that we should. We're not sanctified, we're not set apart. We're not in the Word of God. God wants to do great things, but have we sanctified ourselves? Have we turned away from our sins? Have we worshiped the Lord as we should? And so here we honor God, but then notice the next thing, step out in faith. Look in verse number eight. And thou shalt command the priest that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan. So he gives some orders. God tells Joshua, when the priests who bear the ark step into the water, the waters will basically part This was God's way. This was God's plan. Now that may have sounded irrational to Joshua and the priests. You know, they might have had their own way. You know, we would rather sometimes do things our way than God's way Our way would be this. God, you open up the waters and then we'll move forward. God says, No, my way is you move forward, you put your foot in the water, get your feet wet. And then I'll open up the waters. God wants you to take a step of faith. He wants you to get your feet wet first. And trust him. Trust his word. Get your feet wet. Go forward. Go to the very brink And God said, when you do that, when you obey me and put your foot in the water, I will part the Jordan. And this would be a miracle in response to their faith. Until we step out by faith, until we get our feet wet, we might not see God do anything for us in our life. And by the way, this is exactly what happens, as we'll see. They put their feet in the water and the waters will part. And did you know that another principle we learn from this is that God doesn't always do the same thing the same way for everybody? In Scripture, this is the third time that God will part the waters. He did it once for Moses. He parted the waters of the Red Sea. But all Moses had to do was to stretch forth his rod, and God said, I'll part the waters. And then he parted Jordan for Elijah and Elisha. If you read in 2 Kings when that happened, you see they took the mantle and they snapped the mantle and it hit the waters and the waters parted. God told them to do that Here he does something totally different for Joshua and Israel. He says to them, put your feet in, and then I'll part the waters. So what we learn from this is that God doesn't always do things the same way. He does it different ways for different people. You remember in the New Testament when Jesus healed a blind man? He made mud and he put the mud in the man's eyes and he was healed from his blindness. And then on another occasion Jesus took spit and he put it in his eyes. And the man was healed from his blindness. And then another blind man, Jesus simply touched his eyes. And he was healed from his blindness. And so immediately you have three new denominations, the Mudites, the Spitites, and the Touchites And each one of them are convinced that this is the way that the Lord heals blind eyes. And they argue about how the Lord does it But I want to tell you that God doesn't always do the something the same way for everyone. You know why? Because God doesn't want us to put our faith in a method or a formula. He wants us to put our faith in him. The power comes from him, not our methodology, not our programs. And so we need to get our orders from God. Here, God was doing something new for Joshua and Israel so that they would turn to him and trust in him. You might say, well, this is nothing new. God already parted the Red Sea for the Israelites. Yeah, but that was for the older generation This is a new generation. And they needed to see the power of God now. You know what? We are the newer generation. We need to see God's power just like we have heard in the days of old. Just like God did great things for our fathers, we now need for God to do great things for us. But we need to have the same faith in God that our fathers had. And if we do, God will do great things for us. So they step out in faith, and then they cross the river. Look in verse 15. And as they bear the ark, Where they come to into Jordan, and the feet of the priest that bear the ark were dipped in the brim of the water, for the Jordan overfloweth all his banks at this time at the time of harvest, that the waters which came down from above stood And rose up as upon a heap, very far from the city, Adam, that is beside Zeratan, and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea, failed and were cut off And the people passed over right against Jericho. And so this is what happens. God does this incredible miracle. The Bible says that the waters were cut off, that they stood or they rose up All the way back to the city of Adam, which was about sixteen miles north of the place where they crossed. The waters just divided, stood up, and the Bible says they crossed on dry ground. This site today is called Tel El Demaya. Now, of course, there are always skeptics and liberals that whenever there's a miracle in the Bible, they want to doubt it. They want to try try to find a natural explanation. They say, oh, you know, there was an earthquake on December 8th, 1267. And when that happened, the high banks of the Jordan collapsed right at that very spot, damming up the river for about ten hours. This is what happened at that time. It was just simply an earthquake. It wasn't a miracle. Really? Mr. Liberal Well, that you know, if it was a mirac if it was an earthquake, then it would still be a miracle. If it was a natural cause of an earthquake, the miracle then would be in the timing. Because the Bible says right when the f the priests put their foot in the water, their feet in the water, that's when it all happens. God could have used natural causes if he wanted to, but none of that allows for the text because the Bible says that this was predicted. We saw this in verse 13 and verse 15. The timing was exact, as I said And this took place at flood stage when the Jordan was so wide, and the Bible says that water was held in place for many hours. And the soft, wet soil became dry. Look at verse 17. And the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the Lord stood firm on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan. That's a miracle there The water was immediately dry, and they crossed over on dry ground. This is a miracle, beloved And by the way, chapter 4, verse 18 tells us that as soon as everyone crossed, that the waters came back into the right place. Again, this is a miracle. And you know what? God will do miracles for his people. But you know, honestly, you think about it, the providence and miracles are related. Let me tell you the relationship. A miracle is when God suspends natural laws to do something that is outside of natural law. It kind of goes against the grain and it kind of brings all in wonder because it just totally is something that goes against what we were What we're we are accustomed to seeing. God suspends the natural law. He supernaturally invades time and space. He acts in a divine way where there's no human explanation. This is what we see here But if you ask me, providence, the everyday providence of God, to me is a greater miracle than a miracle. You say, why? Well, because it is God accomplishing his own purposes And the way God does it is not by suspending natural laws. To me, he does it in an even greater way. God Blends all the elements of natural laws together, all the circumstances. He takes together all the contingencies, all the actors, all the people, and their Free agency decisions, all of their thoughts and their words, and he pulls it all that together and he makes it all accomplish his very purpose. To me, that's even bigger than a normal miracle But I want to tell you something, God does providential things for his people every day. God does things that are greater than miracles every day on behalf of his people. And God will do those things for you. We're thinking today about Memorial Day and the freedom that we have as a country. Do you know if you look throughout history You'll see providential acts of God that won us the freedom that we have. Go all the way back to the Word of Independence and General Washington fighting the war of independence. And I love reading in history where God just did amazing things to preserve that army, that they might win us our freedom. And I know that this is not a history course, so I won't go into all the details. My friend, God did miraculous things to give us the freedom that we have. And God raised up again heroic men and women. in his providence that paid the ultimate price so that we could have the freedoms that we have. We should expect these things from Almighty God on our behalf. As long as we obey him and we step out by faith and we trust in him and we honor him, God will continue to do great things for his people. But here's the second thing that we learn. We should expect miracles, but number two, we should erect memorials. Because this is what Joshua does. Look in chapter 4, look down to verse number 1. And it came to pass when all the people were clean, passed over Jordan. That the Lord spake unto Joshua, saying, Take ye twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe a man, and command ye them, saying, Take ye hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the priest's feet stood firm Twelve stones, and ye shall carry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place where ye shall lodge this night. And verse 4, and Joshua called the twelve men whom he had prepared of the children of Israel out of every tribe of man. And Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of the Jordan, take you up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel. That this may be a sign among you that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then ye shall answer them that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan. And the waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be for a memorial unto the children of Israel for ever. God knew that when he did this great thing for this nation, that they needed to be reminded about it. And again, beloved, we need to be reminded about the great providential things that God has done for us. So God sets up these memorials, and a memorial serves as a reminder because God said in Deuteronomy, lest you forget the Lord, lest you forget. I'm afraid that to some extent many people in our nation have forgotten the God that gave us the country that we had or had or have. It's hard to say that we're still a Christian nation. It burdens my heart. Because so many people seem to be turning away from the Lord. But we are still a nation under God, at least I hope we are. But we have short memories, and we need to be reminded. And when the danger is past, we often forget the God who helped us. So God says to them. Get get twelve men, one from each tribe, let them go down into the Jordan, pick up a stone. These had to be pretty hefty guys picking up a big stone. Carried up to the other side, the western side of the Bank of the Jordan, and then I want you to put up a memorial there, and that's exactly what they did. The men in verse 8 respond immediately, and they call this place Gilgal, because the name Gilgal, the Hebrew word just simply means a circle. And so what they did was they put a circle of stones right there on the western side of the Jordan, and those stones would be a memorial, would be a reminder of what the Lord did for them that day when he uh parted the waters. And not only was there a m memorial on the western side, but look at verse nine. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests which bare the ark of the covenant stood. And they're there unto this day. So they set up a memorial in the midst of the river as well. One in the middle of the river, one on the side, the western side of the Jordan. And this base became Gilgal, a base of operations for the children of Israel. That would be their base camp as they went to take possession of the land. And this would become a special place in the nation of Israel for many years to come. Israel's first king was crowned at Gilgal. David was welcomed back after Absalom's rebellion right there at Gilgal. Samuel often visited this place, Gilgal. Elijah and Elisha set up a school of prophets at this very place. So Gilgal became, I guess you could say, kind of a Arlington National Cemetery in a way, for the nation of Israel, a place where they went and looked at the stones. And the Bible says that when the children of the new generation would come there and look at those stones and they would say, What do these stones mean? What do they mean? It was a r it was the responsibility of the parents to explain to the children, why those stones were there, and what those stones mean. I have a fear that the younger generation of our nation is forgetting a lot of the history. of the things that God has done in our country. And a love and a patriotism seems to be waning for our country It is the job of parents to point out to our children the providential acts of Almighty God that gave us the freedom that we have, the freedom to be able to worship. And to love God the way we want to as a Christian people. So God sets up these memorial stones because the road ahead would be hard. This would be kind of a place of inspiration. I tell you, when we think about our fallen heroes, it should inspire us as Christians and Americans to be all that God wants us to be. The generations to come would need these as we saw here. Francis Schaefer says, the stones were to tell other the other nations around about that this God is different. He really exists. He is a living God, a God of real power, who is imminent in the world. So we need to set up memorials for our the sake of our children. And by the way Not just national memorials, but even memorials in our own personal life. Do your children see memorials in you, in your home? Do they see a worn-out Bible that is a memorial to the person that you are? A tear-stained prayer list? The best memorial to God today is a changed life when your children see God in you. You know, the church is a memorial. Paul called the church the pillar and ground of truth. I think what he meant with by that was the church in itself is like the stone that is set up. And it says to the world around that God is real, that Jesus is the Savior, He died for our sins, He rose again. Every time we meet here together in church, we are a memorial to the world. of the power and reality of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We should set up memorials. And we should constantly point to those memorials. This brings us to the third and final point. We should express meaning. We should expect miracles. We should erect memorials. We should express meaning. And again, when the children asked that question, the parents were to tell them, these stones really announce a presence When you look at these things, think about God. Think about what God did on this particular day, how He did this miracle for the nation of Israel. I don't know about you, but I had a tendency to look at history from a divine providence perspective. And when I look at memorial stones in a place like Arlington National Cemetery, I not only thank God for the men and women that are there, I thank God for the providential hand of God. in history that brought us to a free nation. I see the hand of God when uh anything that happens Because God is sovereign. It's his providential hand that brings things about. But also these stones acknowledge a principle. Look again in chapter 3, look down at verse number 6. And Joshua spake unto the priests, saying, take up the ark of the covenant and pass over before the people. And they took up the Ark of the Covenant and went before the people. In other words, they took the Ark of the Covenant. The Ark of the Covenant went down into the Jordan River, and then it went up on the other side. You know what that's a picture of? It's a picture of the cross, the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. The ark represents God. The Jordan River is a picture of judgment and death. You know where the Jordan River empties out into what is called the Dead Sea. And so crossing the Jordan is a picture of death. Jesus entered into the chilly waters of death for us, but he didn't stay in there, he came out on the other side. He rose again the third day. By the way, if you study the geography of this location, I've been there in Israel. This is the very spot where Jesus was baptized, right? Where the children of Israel crossed. Jesus was baptized at that very location. It's called the place of the crossing. That's where John the Baptist was baptizing. And again, all that points to Jesus Christ, his death. His burial, his resurrection. And I want to tell you, friend, that because of Jesus, his death, and his resurrection, I now have victory over sin because I put my faith in Christ. And you know what? When I did, he stopped up the flow of judgment and death for me all the way back to my father Adam. Remember the river was stopped all the way back to a little town called Adam. How appropriate Jesus stopped the flow of judgment for me all the way back to my father, Adam. And we have salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. But these tongues also affirm a purpose. If you look in verse seven of chapter three, it says, The Lord said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that I as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee God used this miracle to affirm Joshua as their leader, and God will do that. He will do great things to affirm a person, a leader. Jesus is our Joshua. Jesus is the one that was approved by God as the Son of God. But also, these stones accentuate a promise. They remind us that God promised victory and he gave it. And again, I would just say to you today, God wants you to be victorious in your life. He promises to give you that. And he will if you'll obey him and you'll trust him. But also these stones arouse people. Again, look in chapter 4, look down at verse number 21. Because again he says the same thing. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean these stones? Then you shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. These memorials were designed to stir hearts, to stir affections. And again, we we see this in our own Christian life. We see it in our nation as we think about the memorial stones of those who have died to give us freedom. When we think about it, did you know that every time we come to the Lord's Supper, it's a memorial celebration. We have our own little memorial day every sun that Sunday when we celebrate the Lord's Supper. We remember our Savior who died on the cross, who took the curse of sin upon himself to pay our sin debt. We remember his sacrifice for us. So what do we learn then? As we look at this story, we should expect miracles from God. You have a river in front of you, an impossible river. You know what? God wants to help you through that. He wants to do great things for you. But listen, when he does it, you better remember God. You better put up a memorial and tell others what God has done for you. Express meaning. to others so that God will get the glory, so that we will praise Him for what He has done. Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer. But with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you, have you trusted Jesus as your Savior? This is the greatest decision you can ever make. is to recognize that Jesus is the one who set the pattern of what real sacrifice is about. He gave his life so that we can have eternal life. I love the words of the hymn that says, when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died. My riches gain I count but loss and pour contempt on all my pride. Jesus died on the cross for you, the Prince of Glory, took your sins upon himself. So that you could have eternal life. And what you must do is put your faith in Christ. It's not what you do to get right with God, it's what Christ has already done. It's putting your faith in him. And if you haven't done that, I would encourage you today. Pray right where you are. And say, Lord Jesus, I believe you are the Savior, that you died for my sins. I not only remember that, but this very day I place my faith in your finished work. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. And He will save you. Some of you here today are facing troubled waters. And I want you to know that by the grace and power of God, you can cross that impossible river that is in front of you. Trust God. Watch Him work. And then don't forget what he has done for your soul. Tell others. And let it encourage them that face the same river. How many of you say I need God's help to cross a river in my life? Would you pray for me today, Preacher? Would you just lift your hand and say that's me? I need God's help to cross this river. Father, bless these with their hands raised. You know the river they face. Give them victory, Lord. Over these troubled waters. And may they never forget. And may they express praise in days to come for what you have done in their heart and in their life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.