Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Romans chapter six? We have been going through First Timothy on Sunday night, and I've kind of put that aside for a few weeks. to deal with the issue of victory over sin in our life. If you're a believer and your desire is to please the Lord and to be sanctified in the image of Christ, this is an issue that is a big issue. It's one that all of us need to learn as we learn sanctification, as we learn how to grow in Christ. The issue is how do we win this war that we have against sin? So look at Romans chapter 6 and look in verse 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. I read a rather unbelievable story where a young man forgot that he was married. After returning home from the honeymoon, the husband was three hours late getting home from work one evening because he absent-mindedly had gone to his mother's house instead of going home to his new bride. Yeah, a tip for you young husbands, don't forget that you're married. That's not a good thing to do. Now, while that sort of thing is rare in the realm of marriage, it's fairly common among those who are married to Christ. You remember that when you got saved, you were got married to the Lord Jesus Christ. We are joined to him as his bride, God's people collectively, so that we're now members of Christ, we're members of his body. We're identified with him in his death and in his resurrection, so that the power of sin has been broken. So you need not forget that idea. You need to for not forget the fact that you were divorced from your old sin nature. You could say your old tyrant husband, and now you are married to the Lord Jesus Christ. But we seem to forget this essential truth every time we uh perhaps fall into a sinner, we yield to a temptation, we seem to forget that listen, you have a new master now. You have a new uh husband. Now Paul is dealing with this very issue, but let me give you a little background of this. Paul is actually rebutting the charge that his teaching about God justifying the ungodly actually will lead to lysh licentious living. There were critics of Paul's gospel, and they said, Paul, if we believe the gospel that you preach, that gospel of grace, that gospel of once saved, always saved, then that would lead to someone sinning all they want to. And so the gospel of Paul was under attack. And so Paul is kind of rebutting this charge here in Romans chapter six. And what he's doing is he's proving that our union with Jesus Christ is completely uh opposed to anyone living in sin or continuing in sin. But that our identification with the Lord Jesus Christ frees us from the slavery of sin and allows us to walk in newness of life. And so that's what Paul is hammering home here in these verses. So notice again Paul he is anticipating the objection that has been made. In fact, really to get the context of this, you need to kind of look back look look back to chapter 6, look in verse 1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Actually, we need to back up even farther into um Chapter 5, because really um that's what he's talking about. When he says, What shall we say then? What does he mean? He's talking about these things. Back up to chapter 5, verse 20. Moreover the law entered that the offense might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound Then as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. And so The question is, is that if wherever sin abounds, grace does hyperabound or superabound. Wherever there's sin, God's grace overcomes it in the life of the believer. then the logical assumption would be then then it's okay for the believer just to continue in sin because wherever sin reigned, grace would superabound. And so Paul is anticipating that kind of an objection. That's why he says in verse 1, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And the word continue here is epimeno. Meno is to live in, to abide in. This is the same word that Jesus used in John 14 when he said, In my father's house are many meno, many mansions. But then there's the epi, the the the prefix on the front of it, to superabide, to just continue in. So Paul is saying, shall we continue in a state of sin? Can we, as Christians, live in a state of sin so that we can see the grace of God work all the more? Uh can we just abide in sin as Christians to live in it, to walk in it? And again, Paul is really posing the theological question, is there any link between justification and sanctification in the life of the believer. Can a person really be saved and yet continue in the same pattern of sinfulness? Can there be a divine transaction transaction that has no impact on a believer's life. Now many many Christians today would say would say yes to that. They believe that you can if if you've ever asked Jesus to come into your life, then regardless of how you live, that you're going to go to heaven. But that is basically saying that sanctification does not necessarily follow justification, and that it would be an error. Wherever there has been justification, there will be sanctification taking place. You mark it down. And so we're not talking about working for salvation. We're not talking about working to keep your salvation. What I'm saying is wherever there has been a genuine work. of justification where God saves a person, then God will accompany that work with the work of sanctification in their life. Some people say you can be saved and have absolutely no fruit in your life, absolutely no practical righteousness. And and friend, we I just don't see that in the Bible. Paul's answer to that kind of thinking Is this can a person just continue to live in sin just like before in order for grace just to continue abound? Look at verse 2. God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? God forbid that's the strongest negative in the Greek. And this is an example here of dynamic equivalence where the English translators of the King James Version use the strongest English negative that they could think of to match the strongest Greek negative that is written here in the Greek language. And so the negative is God forbid. But this is the strongest negative in the Greek, and it carries with it a sense of outrage. It is outrageous to think That because now that you're saved by the grace of God and you'll always be saved, God will deliver you into eternity because you're his child It's ridiculous. It's outrageous to think that because you are safe in the grace of God, that you can go out and you can just continue to live in sin all that you want to. A true believer that's been justified by the Lord Jesus Christ finds that type of thinking repulsive. Reprehensible. That's not the way a true child of God thinks. It's a twisted logic to suggest that God would delight in sin so much, our sin so much that He can display His grace all the more. And so Paul could not be stronger in the way that he answers this. God forbid. But then notice his argument on why this is so in verse 2. How shall we who are dead to sin Live any longer therein. Now, this is the whole idea that Paul's trying to get across here in this section of Romans chapter 6. The idea of being dead to sin. And this is something again I think believers need to remember. We need to understand because I think we forget it a lot We need to be reminded often about this that you, as a believer in Christ, you are now dead to sin. Now the word dead here is airist. Tense in Greek, which simply means past action. It's not present tense. You're not dying to sin. You're not in the process of dying to sin. That's not what he's saying. It's not future tense. It's not you shall die to sin. That's not the idea here. It's not imperfect. The idea of died and am dying is the action of imperfect in Greek. No. It's eris, which means it happened in the past. This was a past act. Where that you died to sin. And Paul's argument is simple that when a person receives Christ as Savior and Lord, he died to sin. At that moment When Christ entered into your life, when you were placed into Christ, and we'll see that here in just a minute, at that moment you died to sin. So it is therefore impossible for a Christian to remain in a constant state of sinfulness. And so that's what Paul is going to talk about here. He's going to talk about this whole concept of being dead to sin. You have been given a brand new master. And that master is the Lord Jesus Christ. Your old master was the body of sin, your old master was the sin nature, but once you were saved, you were divorced, you were dead to that sin, and now you are alive under Jesus Christ. Who is your new master? John Owens used to say a pastor has two problems. One problem is convincing unbelievers that they're under the dominion of sin. And the other problem is convincing believers that they're not under the dominion of sin. So that's what I'm trying to do with you tonight. I'm trying to convince you as believers that you're not under the dominion of sin. That's what Paul's trying to do right here. And there are three key words here in this passage, and this uh this simplifies it. for anyone who is wrestling with this idea of sanctification and wants to get victory over sin in their life. Three words here, we could say three steps to victory, three keys to victory, and they are simply this no. We're gonna look at the word no because Paul uses this word no here in chapter six a lot. And then he's going to use the word reckon, no, and then reckon is another key word here. And then he's going to use the word yield. And those are the three steps. You have to know some things. You have to reckon some things. And that's a word for some of the Southerners that are in here. You reckon it. And then you yield. And we have to understand that. So let's look at the first one, the word no. And I call this a matter of the mind Look at verse number three. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death? You know, ignorance is a key factor in hindering victory and sanctification in the Christian life. If you don't know this, then you're not going to have victory. You have to know this. Many Christians don't know this idea of you being baptized into Christ and being dead to sin. So here's the first thing that you have to know. Know that when you were saved, you were baptized into Christ. Now, the word baptize here in verse 3 is the question that a lot of people ask is: does it refer to water baptism? This is not the primary reference here. And when he uses the word baptism, what he's really referring to here is a spiritual reality. Water baptism is merely a symbol of a spiritual reality that takes place at salvation. We saw a beautiful baptism tonight. Little Coralyn, you did a wonderful job. She's not here to hear make her listen to this one uh You too. Corlin, you did a wonderful job, a beautiful testimony from a little girl who put her faith in the Lord Jesus Christ But what she did was an outward symbol of an inward reality that took place in her life the moment that she put her faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. One pastor was trying to explain it to a little girl. She wanted to be baptized, and the pastor wanted to make sure that she understood what baptism was. And so he began to talk about it. As he was gesturing to talk to her, he noticed that his hand made a shadow on the sand And then he suddenly had an idea, he said to the little girl, Do you see the shadow of my hand on the sand? Now that's just the shadow. The hand is the real thing And he said baptism is a shadow of the real thing. The real thing is that when the moment you got saved, you were actually baptized into Jesus Christ. And the water baptism is a symbol of that reality. So when you come to the Lord Jesus Christ, that's where the real baptism takes place. You are placed into Christ. Now, you've heard me say this before, I call it two-Adam theology. We're either in Adam or in Christ, and those that are in Adam, the Bible says die. And all of Adam's sin is imputed to them if you're in Adam. But when you get saved, what God does is he takes you out of Adam and He places you in Christ. And all those that are in Christ are alive. And all the righteousness of Christ is imputed to you the moment that you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Whereas Adam's sin was imputed to you And death was imputed to you in Adam. Now there's life imputed to you in Christ. And the righteousness of Christ is put on your account the moment you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That is the spiritual reality. And the reality is that you are so united to Jesus Christ. You're so one with the Lord Jesus Christ that When he died, you died. When he was buried, you were with him, and you were buried. When he rose, you also rose. The word baptism here is a transliteration of the Greek word baptisa, which means total immersion. And you've heard me talk about this before. When a Greek soldier dipped the end of his spear in blood, he would use that word baptisa when a ship would sink to the bottom of the ocean. The Greeks would use the word baptizo. When a woman was dying wool and she put the wool all the way underneath the dye. The Greek word used there was baptizo. And the point is that at salvation, you were, as a believer, you were fully immersed into Jesus Christ. You were placed in Christ. And water baptism is a symbol of that reality. And the and the illustration I love to use about this is Noah's Ark. It's such a beautiful type and illustration of salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ. Just as Noah was placed inside the ark, even so we were placed in the Lord Jesus Christ. The ark is a symbol of Christ. And even so, as Noah was placed in the ark, we are placed in the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, Peter uses that whole type there in 1 Peter chapter 3. Look you wanna might want to go there. Look at verse 18, because it's such a great verse. First Peter three eighteen for Christ has also suffered for sins the just for the unjust just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh But quickened by the Spirit. By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Look at verse twenty, which sometimes were disobedient once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark wasn't preparing, whereas you that is eight souls We're saved by water. You see the word by there? Saved by water. I have a lot of people that believe in baptismal regeneration. They say, well, you know that that That right there is teaching baptismal regeneration. Saved by water. And when you get baptized, you're saved by water. Water baptism doesn't save you. You know, you've heard me say this before. If I believe water saved you, I would come out here with a fire hose and just drowned all of you with a fire hose. If I believe that you were saved by water. But that's not what it's saying there. When the w the the uh preposition thereby is the Greek preposition die, which can be translated through They were saved through water. Remember, the illustration here is Noah. Let me ask you a question. Did the water in Noah's day save Noah? No, what what would happen if Noah just got into that water? He would die. Okay? Water wasn't going to save him, it was water that was going to kill him. Alright? He was saved through the water. What is it that actually saved him? It was being baptized into the ark. And it's the ark that went through the water. Noah was saved through the water because he was in that ark. Look at verse 21. Here's the type, the like figure or the type, whereunto, even baptism doth now also save us. And what baptism is he talking about there? He's not talking about water baptism. He's talking about and just to make sure you know that, look in parentheses where it says, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh But the answer of a good conscience towards God. We could literally say it like this. That's what he's really saying there. by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven. And so the point here is that Just like Noah was baptized, fully immersed into that ark, and it was that baptism that saved him. Even so, you are saved when you are placed in Jesus Christ. And water baptism is a symbol of that very real spirituality that took place. the moment that you trusted Christ by faith. And so therefore you have been in Christ. Write down a few verses here. Galatians 3. 27, Paul said, As many as you as have been baptized into Christ Have put on Christ. Notice where he says how he says that. As many of you as has been baptized into Christ, you've been immersed into Christ. You have put on Christ. He's saying there. So Paul equates the putting on of Christ with being baptized into Christ. Again, there are other verses that talk about this. In Colossians 2 verse 11, Paul said that in Christ ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands. And the putting off of the body and the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, buried with him in baptism, in which ye also are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God who has raised him from the dead. What he's talking about is the believers, the spiritual work that God does in your heart at salvation. Paul kind of equates that to What circumcision symbolized in the Old Testament, the cleansing of the flesh. That happens the moment you put your faith in Christ. And he equates it with being baptized into Jesus Christ. And we could go on. But this is the argument that Paul uses to say you can't continue to live in sin. Think about this. If you are in Christ and you are absolutely absolutely one with Christ, and again the principle here is identification. You're one with Christ. Wherever you go, Christ is with you. I mean, because you're so one with him. You're so baptized into him. You're so identified with him. You're so united to him. That wherever you go and whatever you do, you bring Jesus Christ with you. And that is the reason why a true believer cannot continue in sin. This is the argument that Paul uses to the Corinthians. Remember, what was the problem with the Corinthian church? They were listening to wrong teaching, and one of the wrong things that was being taught to them was this idea that as a Christian you have liberty, you can do whatever you want. You have absolute liberty, which led to licentiousness. And there were some people in the church at Corinth, namely the name of Christ, that were still living an immoral life. Uh they were still frequent frequenting the old pagan temples and being a part of some of the rituals there, which included um ritual prostitution in some of those Greco-Roman temples. So listen to what Paul says. This is 1 Corinthians 6. 15. Paul says, Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? What's he saying to the Corinthians? Don't you understand that now that you are Christian, all of your body belongs to Christ. You're members of Christ. You're one with Christ Shall I then, Paul says, take the members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? God forbid. So you see there, he's using the argument of your oneness, your identification, your baptism into Christ. As a reason why you can't go and do those things. Because when you do that, you're taking Christ with you. And so Paul's argument is that if the believer does these things, he's actually joining Christ to a harlot. God forbid, what a horrible, horrible thought. But Paul's talking about the believers oneness, the believers union. So here's the next thing to know. Let me move on here quickly. You have to know that you are Baptized into Christ. But also you have to know that we are identified with Christ's death and resurrection. And this is an extension of the the the first principle that you're baptized into Christ. Getting back to the illustration of Noah's Ark When people think of the Ark, you know what they think about? They think about a big boat, you know, with a uh you know a bow and a starboard and port side and so on. That's not how it was designed. Um It I according to research, uh it was not a boat, it was a big wooden box that was kind of blunt on both ends. Um you know, uh notwithstanding the arc ill uh illustration there in Kentucky, sorry about that, but whatever. But its dimension was the same as a wooden coffin When Noah got under the ark, he died to the old life. So it was really just, if someone back then would have seen this ark, it was a gigantic version of an ancient coffin. And that's appropriate. You know why? Because when Noah and his family got onto that heart, you know what happened? They were dying to the old world. They entered into that ark. They were baptized into that ark. And they died to the old pre-flood world And all the things that went with that pre-flood world, they were now dead to all those things. Even so, when you got saved, you became dead to the old world. To the old life. When you entered into Christ, you died to all the things of the past. That's our position in Christ. When a person comes to faith in Christ by divine miracle. Uh he basically you're what you're doing is you're dying. You're attending your own funeral, you could say, to your old life. to the old world, to all the things that you used to do. That's what it means to be dead to sin. You're dying to all of that. And so, therefore, because a believer is dead to the old world and a new creation, then that's why we cannot habitually sin. We now live in a different realm. And so We could also say that, look in verse 5, where it says, as Christ was raised up by the dead from the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. And the newness here is the word chainos. It's a quality of life. We walk to a new quality of life. There's a new pattern of life. There's a new righteousness that's part of our pattern that's opposed to the past, which was characterized by habitual sin, you see. So we have to know that. Know that we are identified with Christ's death and resurrection. And also know this, um that the body of sin is destroyed. That the body of sin is destroyed. Again, knowing this. This is again this principle is just continuing on in the logic of it, that the old sinful self has been destroyed. It's been destroyed. Paul's saying you should know this. This should be common knowledge to you. It's not you anymore. Let's go back to the illustration of Noah's Ark again. Noah had two lives, the one he lived before the flood, before the Ark, before he entered in, and the life that he had after the Ark. Before the Ark, you know, he lived it to the old world. If Noah had written the autobiography, it would be in two volumes All right, the first volume would be the old anti-deluvian life, the old pre-flood life. And volume two would be the new life. Noah's old life was destroyed. And then his the old world was gone, his old lifestyle was gone. This is what Paul means when he says the old man is destroyed. When Paul talks about that, look um look uh look in verse six, knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. The old man here, Pelos, which refers to something not merely old, but worn out by use. Paul's saying our old nature has been worn out by use. It's therefore useless. It's fit only to be discarded on the scrap teeth scrap heap. Our old nature is what we were before salvation. We were depraved, we were damned. And so the old nature then is that adamic nature. And so Paul says, now that you're saved, and when Noah came out of that ark, that's a picture of being resurrected to new life. You know, that ark, again a picture of Jesus having set on Mount Arat according to the Bible, having just allowed the billows of judgment to flow over it, is a picture of Jesus Christ who resurrected out of that grave. victorious over sin, death, and judgment. And we, whatever happened to that ark, happened to Noah because Noah was in that ark. That's why we can say, you know, whatever happened to Jesus happened to me because I'm in Christ. In the mind of God the Father, I was in Christ. When he died, I I died with him, when he was buried, I was buried with him. When he rose, I rose with him, and I rose to walk in newness of life. And again, that is the principle that he's giving us here. And now we put on the new man Now we have a new life. This is volume two of my life. Volume one is all over with. This is volume two, and it doesn't include that old adamic nature controlling me. I died to sin I died to the old world. I died to the old life. And that's what Paul is saying you need to understand and count it as true. Now let me say one more thing before I move on here. The word destroyed in verse number six doesn't mean that it was actually completely eradicated. Because there are some that teach that when you get saved, the sin nature is eradicated. It's it's gone. You no longer have a sin nature. There are some people that believe you can pray hard enough and long enough. And that if you do that, then the sin nature can be completely eradicated from you. And that's what the word destroyed here, they say, actually means. But that's not what the word here means. And when I think about this, I think of the the book I read by Harry Ironside called Holiness, the False and the True. Harry Einstein grew up in Salvation Army, and according to the theology that he got when he was younger, he believed this idea that his sin nature can be eradicated, that it could be taken from him. If he prayed long enough, he could get the second blessing And had the sin nature gone. And so he had been serving the Lord hard and they they sent him to a retreat center to take you know some time off. uh weeks off have a little sabbatical and he decided that when he went to this retreat center he was going to get the second blessing. That was his goal. And so he decided he would pray. One night he decided to pray all night long for God to give him the second blessing and to eradicate the sin nature and take it completely from him. And he prayed all night long and he said when morning came He felt such a peace from God, such a joy that he was absolutely certain that the sin nature had been totally destroyed in him, taken from him. And he said he got up and began to walk back to his room where he was staying. And on the way back to his room. He felt sinful thoughts rising up in him and evil desires rising up in him. So that by the time he got to his room, he was discouraged. realizing that he had not gotten this in nature. And then he thought to himself, he went to his room, closed the door, sat on the bed, and thought, how can I get this? And then he remembered one woman that was there at that retreat center And he thought, if anyone has the second blessing, it's her. I need to go to her and I need to ask her how to get this second blessing. And so he got up off the bed, he walked toward the door, but before he can grab the door handle, there was a knock on the door. And when he opened the door, it was this woman. This very woman. And she said, you know, sir, I've been trying to get the second blessing in my life. And I thought if anyone had it, it surely has to be you. And so I came to find out from you how to get the second blessing. And they began to read the Bible closer and came to the conclusion that the word destroyed here doesn't mean that the sin nature is absolutely eradicated. This word destroyed here uh catego in the Greek, it doesn't mean eradicated, but what it means is to be inoperative or to be invalid or ineffective, we could say. For example, Paul used this in Romans 3. 3 when he said, shall there Israel's unbelief make the faithfulness of God Katargeo? without effect. It can't mean destroyed there because you can't destroy the faithfulness of God, right? So it can't mean that there. And then in Romans 3. 33 Paul said, do we make void? Catergeo? Do we destroy the law through faith? God forbid We can't destroy the law. Alright? So that again, that cannot be what that word means there. We can't destroy the law. We can make it of none of fact. But we can't destroy it. And then in Romans 4. 14, Paul said, if they who are of the law be heirs, faith is made void. And the promise made of no effect, katargeo. There the word is used and is translated made of no effect. Now that's the same Greek word that is used here. And I think it's correctly translated here in this verse, made of no effect, Romans 4. 14. And so this is what we're talking about with the believer's sin nature. It loses its dominance. Our sin nature is not completely eradicated. It's still there. But it loses its dominance. It loses the previous effect that it once had on us before we were saved. Let me give you another illustration of it. Romans 7. 2, Paul said, The woman who hath a husband is bound by the law to her husband, as long as he liveth, but if the husband be dead, she is loose same word, catergeo, from the law of her husband. Does that mean that she's destroyed? Eradicated? Of course not. That's not what the verse is saying. The woman is not destroyed. It just simply means that her marriage no longer has any effect. And so that is the the idea of the word here. The body of sin. That could be the sin nature that controls us, that's in us, before salvation, that body of sin. Has been that controlling power, that power has been broken. It is no longer dominant. It no longer has that same effect. And we have to understand that. And again, I say to you, beloved, if you're in Christ and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you have the power to simply say no No to the sin nature. No to the temptations of the flesh. And so we need to remember that Let us never forget that our old selves died with Jesus on the cross, that the tyranny of sin over us might be broken. And it no longer has that same effect. Now there's another thing to know here. Look in chapter again, chapter 6, verse 8. Know that just as Jesus died to sin, we died to sin. Look in verse number 8. Where it says this, now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we also sh shall live with him. So here Paul is using Christ as an illustration of what it means to be dead to sin. In verse 9, knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more, death has no more dominion over him. What does that mean? Jesus died once He's not going to die again, beloved. His relationship with death is over at that point. He died once, he'll no longer die again. Death has absolutely no dominion over Jesus. You got that? It can't touch him anymore. His relationship to death was that he died once and now it's completely over. That's what it means to be dead. He died to death, we could say. And then in verse 10, he died to sin. For in that he died, he died unto sin once. But that in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Then we can say the same thing about Jesus' relationship with sin. And you might remember I mentioned this a few weeks ago when I was talking about 1 Peter, when Peter was talking about, you know, he that die has died has ceased from sin. As Peter's using the same idea that Paul's using here, and that is Jesus had a relationship to sin. What was it? He died for sin one time, and after that, he has nothing more to do with sin. It's over with. Now, he is dead to that. It's completely over. During his ministry on earth, he had to have a relationship with sin. He was tempted, but he never sinned, and he had to bear our sin, that once he did that, it was done. It was all over. And so we have to understand that principle, it applies also to the believer. Likewise In the life of the believer, when we became saved, we died to sin. That relationship is over. Sin is done. We now have a new master, I should say, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And you have to know this. Paul says, know this. Understand this. And then here's point number two. It might sound a little bit repetitious, but then reckon. Reckon it to be true. Alright? Count it is true. Look at verse eleven. Likewise, reckon ye yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is a matter of the heart. You just simply count it as true. You believe it. That's his point right here. You need to understand this in your mind. And you need to simply count it as being true. That's true of me. You know, just make a calculation that this is true in my life. I am now dead to sin. And that's the way it is. And again, you have two biographies. Volume one is your old life, volume two is your new life, and volume one, the old nature was alive in you, sin was alive. But in volume two, sin you're dead to sin. It's over with. Volume one ends with our death in Christ. Volume 2 begins with our resurrection in Christ into this newness of life. And so we have to understand this. We have to reckon this is true. And then for sake of time, I just need to make this final point. There's more I could say about that. That's what preachers say when they run out of material. There's more I can say about that. But then here's the next thing. Yield. Yield. What do we do now? We understand that we're dead to sin and we have to count it as true. We have to Reckon it to be true, but then yield is a matter of the will. Look at verse twelve, where he says, Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body That you should obey it in the lust thereof. Here's the negative command. Don't yield your members, and he's talking about the members of your body. Don't yield those things to that old sin nature. Because that old sin nature is going to still call out to you as if he's in control. He's like a shunned old boss. He's not your boss anymore. And and uh Martin Lloyd Jones gave this illustration. He said, but just say there's a big field and there's a road coming right down in the middle of the road And he said, in my previous life I was in the old field and my old master was the sin nature and it was com it had me chained and it was telling me what to do. But once I came to Christ, I crossed over into the other field, and now my new master is gracious and kind, and that's Jesus. But as I'm here in this new field serving my Lord I can still hear the cries of my old master from the old field across the road. And he's still trying to tell me what to do. And there are times to my shame that I yield To those cries to the old master. And what's Paul saying here? Don't yield yourself to sin. Don't yield your members to sin. What's that imply? That you have the power to not do this. You have the power to not yield. Verse 13, neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God. As those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Here's the positive command. That you have the ability. To take your whole self and yield it to God, all your members as an instrument of righteousness unto God. And this is really what Paul means in Romans 12 when he says That because of the mercies of God, we present our bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable unto God. That's worship You want to know what worship is? It's Romans 12, 1 and 2. That's the summation of worship. It's what we are, it's who we are. It's yielding myself because of the mercies of Christ and salvation, because of what Christ did for me now. I yield myself completely, body, soul, and spirit, every part of myself, every member of my body. I yield it completely as an instrument of righteousness unto God. Present my body as a living sacrifice. My body My whole self can be used as a weapon for righteousness unto God. And what's the whole point? Here's the conclusion of it. Look at verse 14. This is what Paul wants you to see, wants you to understand. Look at verse 14, for sin shall not have dominion over you. That's the bottom line right there. And let me just say, as a believer, if you're allowing sin to have dominion over you, you're not living up to what God has called you to. And you're not using the resources that God has given you. And there's some things perhaps you forgot. You forgot you were married? Okay, you're married to Christ. Don't go home to mom. Don't go home to the old neighbor. Go to Christ. You're married to Him. Don't forget that. That old relationship is over with, it's gone. Know these things, reckon to be true. Yield yourself as instruments of righteousness unto God. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, again, we are so blessed by your word and what it teaches us about the new life that you've given us in Christ. Lord, help us to remember these things. Lord, honestly, we forget them. We sometimes get so distracted by the things of the world, by the call of the world, by the call of the flesh. By the distractions that Satan will give us. He wants us to forget this. He wants us to forget our new master, our new standing, our new life. Our new identity. He wants us to forget that we've been baptized into Jesus Christ. Because if we forget those things, then we'll start acting like we did before we met Christ. So Lord, help us to remember. Help us to know this. Help us to count it as absolutely true. And to yield every part of us to Jesus Christ as an instrument of righteousness unto God. We pray all this in Jesus wonderful matchless name. Amen