I want you to take your Bibles tonight, and I want you to open to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. As you know, on Sunday night we are going through a series in 1 Corinthians And tonight I want to talk about portraits of the church in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Now, as we know, the church At Corinth was a church that was filled with problems. And Paul writes this letter to correct the problems that they were having. And the very first issue that the Apostle Paul deals with is the issue of division in the church. and how the church needed to be unified. How many ever read the Peanuts cartoon strips? You know, Lucy and Linus, right? Linus was watching TV. Lucy came in. She said, turn the channel. Linus said, why should I? Lucy said, well because you see this hand, it doesn't look like much now. She said, when I bring these fake fingers together in unity like this She said, This becomes a force to be reckoned with. Linus said, What channel do you want? And we can say the same thing about the church. The church to the world may not look like much But when the church comes together in unity and love, the church is a force to be reckoned with. And that's why Satan, his motto is divide and conquer. And someone has said that whenever God opens the windows of heaven to bless us, Satan will open up the gates of hell to blast us. And that's so very true And so the church needs to come together, the church needs to be unified. And this is the issue that the Apostle Paul is dealing with here when he's talking and writing to the church at Corinth. Now we know that we have three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. And Adrian Rogers once described the flesh as like a pool of gasoline He said the world is like a match, and Satan is the one who strikes the match and throws it into the pool of flesh, causing a fire. And I think that's a good analogy. Well, with that in mind, Satan kind of struck the match and he threw it at the church of Corinth, and the result was a firestorm of things that was happening here in this church. And so Paul writes to emphasize the importance of unity and maturity and growth in the church at Corinth. And so what he does here in chapter 3 is really he's going to give just three analogies, three metaphors, we could say, three portraits of the church. Illustrating the importance of spirituality and the importance of maturity in the body And the importance of unity in the body. So with that in mind, I just want you to see, first of all, the church is like, write down number one, the church is like children in a family. Just think about that. That's the first portrait right there The church is like children in a family. Look in chapter 3 and look at verse 1. And I, brethren, cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk. and not with meat, for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able. Now, Paul is saying that, you know, what we're like is we're like children in a family And he's talking to the church in Corinth. He says to them, you haven't really matured yet. You're still babes in Christ. And so the church is a family. In a later portion, Paul's going to call himself a spiritual father. In fact, just jump over to chapter four and look at verse number fourteen, because Paul will use this metaphor. He says, I write not these things to shame you. But as my beloved sons, I warn you, Paul's been writing some some hard things, but he said, I'm not writing this to shame you. I'm writing this as you're because you're my beloved sons. Look at verse 15. For though ye have 10,000 instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Paul said, I am your spiritual father. Now you might have a lot of teachers, you might have a lot of instructors, but you're only going to have one spiritual father. And I'm your spiritual father because the Lord used me to begot you or to as to bring you into the family of God through salvation by sharing the gospel with you. And Paul's talking about the 18 months that he ministered there at that city of Coran. and preaching the gospel and building a church, laying the foundation of Christ, helping them to mature in the faith. And so the idea is that we're all in the family of God We have spiritual parents, we have children in the family, new believers are a sacred trust. But now the problem here at the church at Colorin, again, was a lack of maturity. They were still acting like babes And this concerned the Apostle Paul. He said, You are base. I couldn't I fed you with milk and not with meat, for you're not able to bear it. Neither yet now are ye able. And so he's giving some indicators about a person's spiritual maturity. You can tell the level of a person's maturity in Christ by the food. Isn't that true physically? We know babies t need milk. And we know their maturity is a uh their food changes, their diet changes as they mature. And so Paul's saying the same thing spiritually, your maturity is according to your diet And he's saying, I've speaking to you as a father, and you're a spiritual baby, I've begotten you in Christ, but the problem is you haven't matured. I want to give you more than just milk. I want to give you meat, but you're not able to bear it. You weren't able to bear it then when I was with you, and you're still not able to bear it. Now it's always a concern when a person doesn't grow past the point in their spiritual life where they're able to take in the mean of God's word. And when we talk about the meat of God's Word, we're talking about the things that are the depth of the Scripture, things that are deeper than just the milk of the Word. And so now Paul uses two terms here that will help us to understand what he's talking about. Look in verse 1 again. He says, I brethren cannot speak unto you as unto spiritual. But as undercarnal. Now, what does he mean by spiritual? Now remember the context of this. If you were here with us last time, in chapter 2, Paul was talking about God's wisdom being superior to man's. And it's superior in the way that we receive it, in the way it's perceived. And when we receive God's wisdom, we have to receive it through spiritual illumination. We can't just depend upon the empirical methods alone. We have to have the Spirit of God teach us truth. Now, that's what he just got done talking about in chapter 2. And then he says in chapter 3, verse 1, I couldn't speak unto you as unto spiritual That is, you are not walking on a spiritual plane to where you're able to receive the truth of God's word. Let me tell you something, dear friend, when you come to God's house, you need to be ready to receive the word of God. That means you need to be yielded to the Holy Spirit. You need to say, Holy Spirit, open my eyes, open my heart, help me to see what your word says. Show me things from the Word of God. And friend, if you come with a heart like that, you know what? God's going to give you something You know, even a even a bad sermon, if they give the word, you're going to get something from it. Right? I mean, and so if you're just w hungry and you say, God open my eyes, if you're spiritual, then God will give you something. But he says to these Corinthians, I couldn't speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. Look at the word carnal there. The word carnal literally means fleshly one And it's referring, I think, to the fallen human nature that we still have inside of us. Even though we're saved, we still have that adamic nature. And you remember that when we get saved, we have a new nature. The Holy Spirit dwells within us, but we still have that adamic nature. It's still there And friend, although we are no longer debtors to the flesh, like the Apostle Paul taught in Romans 8, that sin nature is still there. We don't have to listen to the old sin nature. He's no longer our master But if you're not careful, that ulcent nature can still dominate you. And that that ulcent nature can still control you if you let it You see, a true believer is not someone who's characterized by a continual unbroken pattern of sin. Now they're living in victory, they're living above sin. And uh they might fall from time to time, but they'll get back up, they'll confess their sins, they'll go on and walk for God. But there is such a thing as a believer who can get into a carnal position spiritually, to where the old sin nature is once again dominating them The old sin nature once again is in control because you have yielded that control and you're walking carnally rather than spiritually. I believe that true believers can lapse into periods of carnality in their life But now let me make something very clear. I think that carnality is a position that a believer can get into spiritually. I don't believe it's a permanent position for a Christian. You say, what do you mean by that? I believe that you can lapse into carnality, but you're not going to stay there If you're a true child of God, you're not going to stay there. You say why? Well, because if you're a child of God, you know what God's going to do to you? He's going to punish you. He's going to chastise you. He's going to spank you to get you back to where you need to be. And let me just say this if a person who claims to know Christ can live at like a lost person, And live a carnal life and never feel any remorse or any conviction from the Holy Spirit, and God never chastises a person like that. My advice to that person would be: you better make sure that you're saved. You better make sure you know the Lord, because a believer might lapse in the carnality, but they won't live there permanently. And I fear sometimes in the church we may give a person a false sense of assurance of salvation by creating a carnal Christian category and say a person can live there permanently and still be a Christian. I don't see that in the scripture. You can lax there. You can live there for a time, but if you're God's child, God's going to get you out of there And you say, well what if God punishes me and a person doesn't repent? God will take you home, dear friend. Or he might take uh anyone home that's his child. God's not going to let a a person who's truly saved continue to live that way and embarrass the name of Christ. God will punish that person. But here Paul is saying, listen, I couldn't speak unto you as under spiritual, but as unto carnal. Look at verse 2. I fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it And then, so there are some Christians then that are not growing past the ability to receive the mean of the Word of God. And that's what Paul is saying here. You know, many times in Scripture, physical food is used to speak of the Word of God. It's called milk, it's called honey, it's called bread, it's called meat. And we know that me, of course, again, speaks of the more deeper things of the word. In fact, just hold your place here in 1 Corinthians. Go to Hebrews chapter 5 real quick, just to kind of give you a little parallel passage regarding this. Look at Hebrews chapter 5 and look at verse number 10. Actually, drop down to verse 11 there. Hebrews 5. 11. And the writer is saying, of whom we have many things to say, hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. And the writer is saying, I want to say more, but it's hard to utter these things because you're dull of hearing. I've heard people say, well, you know, I've heard dull preaching. Well, the Bible doesn't talk about dull preachers, it talks about dull listeners. Mr. Fate. He says I you say you're boring, I'm not boring, you're boring. It's all of hearing And the writer here says, I've got more I want to say. Look at verse twelve. For when the time you ought to be teachers, you have neither one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not strong meat. For every one that uses milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness. for he is a babe. But strong me belongeth to them that are of a full age, even those who by reason have you have their dissenses exercised to discern good and evil. And so, spiritually speaking then, to be able to receive the meat of the word is to grow to a level where you're able to understand some of the more difficult or deeper things of the Word of God and you're able to use discernment To discern between truth and error. That's growing. And this is what the writer here is saying in Hebrews. And the Apostle Paul has the same idea. He's saying to the Corinthians, you're not walking the way you ought to walk because you're not mature enough And you're still receiving the milk of the word when you should be receiving the meat of the word. And so one of the ways that you measure maturity is diet. Well, uh what about you tonight, dear friend? Are are you gr have you grown past the milk stage and you're into the meat stage? By the way. Um, we always like to go back and get milk. I mean we never get to the point where we never want milk ever, right? But if a baby you only need once milk But as you grow and mature, you're going to add to that meat. It's always good to go back and go back to the basic ABCs of the Christian life. There's nothing wrong with that. But you add to that. And so Paul says you haven't grown yet. I think the same is true a lot of times in churches across our country today. Many congregations are not spiritually spiritually mature, they would be satisfied with just a few stories and they don't really want to go into the depth of the Word of God. But friend, if God gave us His word, it's because He wants you to know it. He wants you to understand it, he wants you to live it. And so we need to grow past the milk stage. And so a person's spirituality is according to their diet, but also discord. Look at verse three. For you're yet carnal. Whereas there is among you ending and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? And so, you know, the thing here is that the Apostle Paul is saying, you know, here's another indicator that your spiritual maturity is not where it needs to be. There's a discord. One saying, I am of Apollo, I'm of Paul, I'm of Apollos, and so on. And look at verse 4. For one saith, I am of Paul, another I am of Apollos. Are ye not carnal. And so this is another factor of maturity. You know something about children? Children like to fight in fuss. You know that? Maybe it's just my family. Uh you all look like well that well not in our family here, you know. Children just like to fight. They just like to fuss. And uh children like to be identified with heroes. And that's exactly the way the Christians in Corinth were acting. They were fighting over who was the greatest. Some were saying, I am of Paul, another I'm of Apollos And you remember I told you this was kind of the behavior of the Greek culture back then, lining up with their teacher, pointing out the deficiencies of other teachers, and praising the virtues of your teacher. And that was what was going on. And Paul says, you're walking carnally. You're acting just like everyone else. And there's strife, there's contention among you. You can tell the maturity of a body or a church by this one thing, how much discord is there, because mature believers don't want to have discord in the body. They know that there are things that are so much more important for the cause of Christ. And so diet is one way, discord is another. Paul said you're walking carnally, you're walking just like other men. And then discernment. Look in verse number five. Who then is Paul and who is Apollos? But ministers by whom ye believe, even as the Lord gave to every man. This is another factor. Not only diet. and discord, but discernment. You see, they couldn't seem to understand that they were all on the same team. That they were all working together. And there was no competition among true servants of God. We're not competing against one another. We're all instruments in the hands of God so that God can use us To further his kingdom and his purpose, that's what Paul says. He says, Who then is Paul? Who is Apollos? But ministers We're just ministers, by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man. It's where we get the word deacon, and it simply means someone who is a servant, a menial servant. It was often used of a waiter Someone who would who would uh wait on tables. And Paul was saying, in effect, no one builds a movement around a waiter or erects a monument to a waiter. Why are you treating us like superheroes? We're just ministers. We're just servants. And we serve for the glory of God, not for men. And so the church then is like a family, and the church needs to mature. It needs to grow. And your maturity is determined by your diet. It's determined by your discord. It's determined by your discernment. Now, number two, not only is the church like a family, but write this down. The church is like children in a family, but secondly, the church is like crops in a field. Crops in a field. Look at verse number six. Here's the next picture Paul gives. I have planted, Apollos watered, but God what? God gave the increase. Verse 7, so then neither is he that planted anything, neither is he that watereth, but God that giveth the increase. Now, Paul uses now an agricultural illustration to explain the church. He said the church is like a garden. It's like crops that are put in a field. I like what one country preacher said when he was preaching on this. He said, we need in the church three rows of squash. Squash indifference, squash criticism, squash gossip. He said we need four rows of turnips, turn up for meetings, turn up with a smile. Turn up with a visitor, turn up with your Bible And then he said, we need five rows of lettuce. Let us love one another. Let us welcome strangers. Let us be faithful. Let us truly worship God and so on. So Paul is saying, look, this is what the church is like. It's like crops in a field. And Paul said, I come along and I plant And Apollos, he might come along and he might water that, but God gave the increase. But look at the word one there. Look at verse 7. So then neither is he that planteth anything, neither is he that watereth, but God gives the increase. Look at verse 8. Now he that planteth And he that watereth are what? They're one. They're not in competition. They're not out competing to see who's the best farmer. No, they're just doing what they're supposed to do. And who's the one who gives the increase? It's God. So what is Paul emphasizing here? First of all, he emphasizes a diversity of ministry. God says Paul, Paul says, I plant, and Apollos comes along and he waters. What does that mean? That as servants of the Lord we all have our different Gifts that God gives us, the way he uses us, he's going to use us differently, according to the giftings that he's given us And so Paul had the gift of coming along and planning. He could start a church. He could he was a pioneer missionary. He could go into a place where the gospel hadn't been preached. He could preach the gospel. He could plant the seed. Apollos, what was his gift? He could come along later and he could water what was planted, and he could help it to grow more and more. And so that's the idea here. God gives different servants, different giftings, so they they can fulfill different Purposes in the church. That's another reason why, you know, we don't go around comparing one with another because God has made us all different. God has given us different giftings, different abilities, and so on. And that's just something that we need to accept. You know, some churches They complain about what their preacher doesn't have rather than being thankful for what their preacher does have. This is the gifting that God has given, that servant of the Lord. Be thankful. This is the way God made them and created them And they're fulfilling a purpose in the kingdom of God. Each of us has our own work to do. But here's the real thing. Here's the other thing. Diversity of ministry And here's to me a very important point, humility of spirit, because look what it says, God gives the increase. Who is he that increases the field? It's God. Let me tell you something, friend, if if anything real and lasting happens in the ministry, it's God who does it. It's God who does it. It is his kingdom. He's the one who builds the church. A farmer can plow, a farmer can plant, a farmer can water, but a farmer can't make life come. A farmer can't synthesize a seed and make life grow out of that seed. You ever think about the miracle of the seed and what it's able to do? No man can create that. No man can do that. Only God can do that. He's the one who does. I was reading an article uh from the Associated Press. It was released about a study done in an agricultural school in Iowa. And this is what it said. It reported that the production of one hundred bushels of corn from one acre of land In addition to the many hours of the farmer's labor required, listen to this, four million pounds of water, six thousand eight hundred pounds of oxygen, 5,200 pounds of carbon, 160 pounds of nitrogen, 125 pounds of potassium, 75 pounds of yellow sulfur, and other elements too numerous to list here. In addition to these things, which no man can produce, no man can produce any of that. But in addition, it means rain and sunshine at the right time. That is critical. This article estimated that only 5% of the production of a farm can be attributed to the efforts of the farmer. 5%. Five percent, that's it. The rest is up to God. God is the one who does it all. You see, once we plant the seed of the Word of God and we water that Friend, that's all we can do. And we have to sit back and say, the rest is up to heaven. It's up to God in heaven. Remember that parable Jesus gave in Mark chapter 4 where Jesus said the kingdom is like a man who sows seed in a field? And after he says this each, what does he do? He slept. Goes to bed. He gets up, he checks on it, he looks at it, it grows, but he doesn't know how. The Bible says the earth yields fruit of herself automatized automatically. It just happens. But I can't figure out how a plant grows I just know that God does it. I know I can plant a seed and water it, but friend I surely am not making that thing grow. Only God can do that. And that's what Paul is saying here. And Paul is trying to change the thinking. of these Corinthians that are attributing too much power to man, too much ability to man, and not enough to God He says, look, God is the one who gives the increase. You know, I think sometimes today in the church growth movement here in America that we attribute way too much to preachers and ministers regarding the growth of the church. And I think that by doing so, God doesn't get the great glory that he deserves. when it comes to the church. I think that sometimes there are certain preachers that actually think they can manipulate growth. And friend, again, that is out of our hands. And so we see then the diversity of ministry. We see the humility of spirit that a minister ought to have, but also the unity of purpose in verse number eight. Again, now he that planteth and he that watereth are one. And every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labor. And so each person will get rewarded for their faithfulness. We just labor together. Friend, I want to tell you our reward is not here. It's just not here. Don't look for it here. I know the world likes to give out awards and pat each other on the back. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with recognizing Giving honor to whom honor is due. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about eternal reward. Our eternal reward for the labor that we do is in heaven. There are numerous things That servants of the Lord do, that nobody sees here on earth. Nobody knows about it. But God sees it and God knows. And the reward then comes from heaven. And so the church is like children in a family, and it needs to mature. And the church is like crops in a field. And there needs to be a unity of purpose as we work and labor in the field. But then, number three, the church is like construction on a foundation. And look in verse number 9. Paul, again, he'll switch portraits or metaphors. Verse 9. For we are laborers together with God. Ye are God's husbandry. Ye are God's building. Here Paul switches. You're a building. Look at verse 10. According to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he builds thereon Now, in order for a building to go up, and by the way the church is he's talking about a temple here, a building. But in order for a building to go up, you need several things. First of all, you need the right builder. And Paul says, you know what? I am a master builder. He says, according to the grace which God has given unto me. Paul's not bragging. Paul's just saying, look, this is the way God created me. This is my gift. This is the grace that God gave me. By the way, if you have a gift It's not you, it's God who gave it. It's according to his grace, not our ability. Paul says, by the grace that he has given me, I'm a wise master builder. Paul wasn't bragging. He said, look, this is what I do I know how to build. And the word builder is architecton. That's where we go to the word architect. In Paul's day, it had the idea of a designer and a builder. And so Paul is saying as an apostle, he had the special ability, again, to go into a city, to preach the gospel, to lay a foundation. And to begin building. He could design and build that building there as he preached the gospel. That was just Paul's gift. That's what he could do. But notice what he says here in verse number 10. Again, according to the grace which God has given unto me, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation. But Paul says, now another might come and he might build thereon. You know, you need people to know how to lay the foundation, but also you need people to know how to come along and build on that foundation. That's another gift. And Paul said another might come and build on that foundation. When Paul wrote this, where was he? He wasn't in Corinth anymore. He was in Ephesus. He had already laid the foundation in Corinth, and he had moved on. Another person had come in and built on that foundation that Paul had laid. But notice what he says in verse 10. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. So you need the right builder. And you need the right foundation. Paul would lay the foundation. You say, what's the right foundation? There's only one foundation, friend, that's Jesus Christ. That's right. The foundation is Jesus. The church is built on the gospel of Jesus. It's not built on plans and programs and entertainments and tricks. It's built on the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what? If if if a church has another foundation other than Christ, you know, and I've I've discovered this, I've experienced this in ministry. Here's a church, and boy, here's a crowd of people. And however, the foundation of this church wasn't necessarily Christ. This church started based on other things. Program, pet, personality, anything else. And if a person comes in there and they start preaching the Bible, you know what's going to happen to that foundation? It's going to get blown away. Because let me tell you something, when the Word of God is preached, whatever is not of God that's in front of you, it's going to get destroyed. And whatever is of God, you know what's going to happen to that? It's going to get built up and it's going to flourish. That's what God meant when he told Jeremiah. He said, I want you to preach my word. I want you to pull down. I want you to destroy. I want you to root out And then I want you to build, I want you to plant. Now, Jeremiah didn't go in and try to destroy. He just simply preached the word. And whatever needed to happen, it would happen. If you preach the word and what needs to happen is there needs to be some tearing down done, you can rest assured that the word of God will do the tearing down. But if when you preach the word, what needs to happen is building up, then the word of God will do the building up. The word of God is sufficient to do what needs to be done That's the whole point. And that's why Paul says you better be careful. I lay the foundation called Christ. You better be careful how you build on that foundation. You better make sure that you're building with the right thing on the foundation called Jesus. That's the whole point. There has to be the right foundation, the right builder. And the right plans, which again is the preaching of the word, the right materials. Look in verse number 11. For other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Verse 12. Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, you see, any builder knows that when you use cheap materials, the cost will be greater in the long run. And so you have to have the right materials. And I think what the Apostle Paul is referring to here is the motives, because later on he'll talk about when the building is tested. by fire, but I think it's the motives here when he talks about the gold, silver, and precious stones or wood, hay, and stubble. The question is, when you serve, why do you serve Why do you do it? That's important. Is it for the glory of God? Or is it for some other reason? Um when I was over in London, I visited St. St. Paul's Cathedral, just a beautiful, beautiful church built by Christopher Wren. There's a story that that's famous over there about one thing Christopher Wren went through St. Paul's Cathedral while it was being built and he looked at one workman and he said, What are you doing? And he said, Well I'm just shaping this stone to put it in over there He asked another person, he said, What are you doing? He said, Well, I'm just I'm just making money to feed my family. And he went to another man, he said, What are you doing? This man said, I'm building a church for the glory of God. There's a difference in how you do your work. Motives really do matter. So you need the right builder, the right foundation, the right plans, the right materials, but also you need the right building inspector Look at verse thirteen. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. You see, buildings have to be checked. They have to be inspected carefully when they're done. And so there's going to be a building inspection one day for all the work that we do. All the building that we do, it's going to be inspected. How? By fire. Notice the time of the fire. Look at verse 13. Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it. What day is Paul talking about? He he's talking about the day when as Christians we stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And we'll be judged. Our works will be judged. Now listen, that's not talking about being judged for salvation. We've are our sins have already been judged on the cross. For the believer, there's no condemnation You say, well then why will we be judged? God will be judging our works that we do. Of what sort that they are. And that will happen at the judgment seat of Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to as he has done, whether it be good or bad. And so there's going to come a day when the works that I have done will be judged by Jesus. It will be judged by fire. You see, I believe that a lot of people that we call great today, at the judgment seat, some of their works might go up in smoke. And some people that we've never heard about that have been laboring in the Lord in obscure places, when the fire of judgment comes, their works will prove to be gold, silver, and precious stones. We don't know who the best servants are. We think we do, but we don't. We really don't. And you see, so as a Christian, I don't fear the fire of hell. I fear the fire of heaven. What's going to happen one day when the Lord judges my works? And notice what the Lord says here in verse number uh 14 13 every man's work shall be made manifest for the day shall declare it because it shall be reviewed by fire and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. Verse 14. And if any man's work abide which he hath Built thereon, he shall receive a reward. In verse 15, if any man's work be burned, he shall suffer loss Because he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. So there's the time of the fire, there's the test of the fire. When the Lord tries our works, whatever's left over after the fire If it's gold, silver, and precious stones, then we will be rewarded based on that. And so that's what will happen in that day. Our works will be tried. So there has to be the right building inspector and then the right workman. So look in verse number 16. Know ye not that we which are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you And if any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy, for the temple of God is holy, which temple you are. And here he's referring to some people in the church. that may not be a constructive worker, but a destructive worker, depending on the way they live. Others will be rewarded. for the works because they have done well. And so these are the three portraits that Paul gives us in the church. The church is like children in a family. The church is like crops in a field. The church is like construction on a foundation, and one day all those works will be judged. So what's the exhortation for us? We need to make sure we're maturing, grow up. We need to make sure that we are working together as one. Knowing that God is the one who gives the increase, just labor together in unity. The church needs maturity. The church needs unity. And then, friend, we need to be careful how we build We need to make sure that we're doing what we do for the glory of God as we build for the Lord Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but when I go and stand before the judgment seat of Christ one day, I want Something that I can give to Jesus. I want something left. I want the reward to last. I want my building to stand the test of fire one day when I get to heaven. And so friend, again, you know uh you know how we make sure of that? We keep the glory of God foremost. We do what we do, not at a selfish motive, but for the glory of the Lord, for the glory of God. Let that be our focus. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for how practical your word is. We thank you for the church that we get to be a part of the body of Christ. And Lord, we're all together in this family. And we are members one of another. And we're accountable one to another. And we see so many times in Scripture where you exhort us to encourage one another. I need the encouragement of your people, and they need my encouragement. We need to Encourage each other on to spiritual maturity and good works. And I pray tonight that as we're here and we're under the Word of God that we would examine and evaluate our own heart. And look into our heart to see have we grown spiritually? Are we still wrestling over the same things in our life? Are we still being defeated by the same sins? That we've been defeated by years ago? Or is there has there been progress? Is our diet the meat of the word? Are we always distracted by discord in the body of Christ? Are we able to use discernment? Lord, may this be a time of evaluation in our own life. And Lord, help us to labor together Knowing that, Lord, you're the one who gives the reward. You're the one who gives the increase. And Lord, you get the glory for that. And Lord, help us to be careful how we build. May we do what we do for your glory. So speak to our hearts tonight, Lord, examine our hearts. in light of your word. And may we walk in a way that is pleasing unto you. And Lord, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.