Would you take God's word tonight and open please to the book of Revelation chapter fourteen as we continue our study in Revelation? And tonight we're going to look at verses six down to verse thirteen of Revelation chapter fourteen. And I've titled the sermon tonight, Three Reasons People Go to Hell. Because what we see here in this passage is a contrast between God's judgment and between those who are blessed. And the Bible tells us in verse 11, look in Revelation 14, 11, and the smoke of their torment ascends up forever and ever. And they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, and whosoever received the mark of his name. And here is the patience of the saints, here are they that keep commandments Keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Right, blessed are the dead which die in the Lord, from henceforth, yea yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors and their works to follow them. So we hear we see here a contrast between those who die in the Lord and those who do not It's a tragedy to die outside of Christ. Now, in our study in Revelation, it tells us here that those who follow the Antichrist, who take the brand of the beast, who worship him. The Bible says that they will be cast into hell, into torment, and the Bible says the smoke of that torment will go up forever. What a terrible thought. I don't know too many thoughts that scare me any more than the idea of an eternal hell. And I'll be quite honest with you, I don't like studying hell. I don't like talking about it. But if I'm going to be faithful to the Word of God and preach the whole counsel of God, I ought to preach what everything that the Bible says. There are certain things that that we struggle with, and this is one of those things. Would to God that every person came to Christ. We're the God that every person called upon Jesus. But we know according to the scripture that's not going to happen. In fact Jesus told us in Matthew 7 there's a broad road that leads to destruction, and there's many that are on that road There's a narrow road that leads to life everlasting, and the Bible says, few there be that will find it So last week we spoke about the triumph of heaven. We spoke about standing before the Lamb of God, singing before the saints of God. We talked about spot being spotless before the throne of God. This week we speak about the tragedy of judgment, the tragedy of hell. One of the greatest tragedies, in fact, the greatest tragedy for any person is to die without Jesus Christ. Someone wrote this, loved ones will weep over my silent face, dear ones will clasp me in sad embrace. Shadows in darkness will fill the place five minutes after I die. But faces that sorrow I will not see, and voices that murmur will not reach me. But where, oh where will my spirit be five minutes after I die? Naught to repair the good I lack, fixed to the goal of my chosen track, no room to repent, no turning back, five minutes after I die, mated forever with my chosen throng Long is eternity, oh so long. Then woe is me as my soul be wrong, five minutes after I die. Now, beloved, we're all going to face death. The question is, what's going to happen at death? And that's the most important issue. And again, the Bible says here in verse 13: for the believer, blessed are the dead who die in the Lord. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ, the greatest day of your life will be the day when you die. Think about that. How can that be? Because you're going to go to heaven. You're going to be in the presence of Christ. There's there's in his presence is fullness of joy at his right hand. The Bible says there are pleasures forevermore It is a thrilling uh uh thing to think about spending eternity there in heaven with the Lord Jesus and loved ones and saints that have gone on before us. But again, um For those who don't know the Lord Jesus, it's not blessing. It's a curse. It's the greatest curse. Now, again, as we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to look at these things. And uh again, I would much rather preach about heaven like I did this morning than about hell, like I'm going to preach on tonight But we have to be aware of what the Scripture says with respect to eternal judgment or the wrath of God. Now I know that there are some people out there that would criticize preachers who preach on hell and and say that, you know, they are basically uh sadistic or they're old fashioned or they're cruel. But I like what R. G. Lee wrote. He said this, is it cruel to tell a man the truth? Is it cruel to arouse sleeping people whose house is on fire? Is it cruel to jerk a blind man away from a rattlesnake? Is it cruel to declare to people the deadline of their disease and to tell them which medicine to take? I'd rather be called cruel for being kind than to be called kind for being cruel. And besides that, the greatest preacher of hell ever was our Lord Jesus Himself. If you read the Gospels, what you'll find is that Jesus spoke often about heaven, but beloved also, he spoke very often about hell and the reality of hell. And too many people today want to try to explain it away. They want to deny the this this eternal punishment or eternal uh damnation and they don't want anyone to think that God's gonna s that that God would send actually send a person there. But the Bible says in Proverbs 285, evil men understand not judgment So, why why do people go there? I w I I want you to see three reasons here in Revelation 14. They're not plainly stated, but they're implied. As we look at the passage, we will see these. Number one, if you're taking notice, write down rebellious procrastination. Rebellious procrastination. Look at verse six. And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth. And to every nation and kindred and tongue and people, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to Him, for the hour of His judgment is come, and worship Him that made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of water And so here John sees in this vision an angel flying in the midst of the heaven. And the Bible says the angel has the everlasting gospel to preach to men. Now there are two questions that immediately arise when we see this verse. One question is this, is this the same gospel that we preach right now, or is this some other gospel? Some say that this is a different gospel message that this angel has. I've read some commentaries that have said this is not the same message of the gospel of grace that we preach in the church age. What they say basically is that there is a distinction to be made between these two legitimate gospels. In fact, there are some dispensationalists that say this is the gospel of the kingdom. This is not the gospel of grace. This is another legitimate gospel. In fact, let me quote to you what one wrote and said. He said, quote, this has nothing to do with the preaching of the gospel during the church age. It is everlasting because it concerns the Creator as the only object of worship. But let me be quick to say, beloved, that the notion that there are two different gospels is ridiculous. It's absolutely ridiculous. The Bible says that there's only one gospel. And we see here, notice it's not a gospel that we see here in this passage, but the gospel. It's the everlasting gospel. Okay? And Paul said this, but though we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel than the gospel that you've received from me Let him be what? A curse. So if this angel's preaching another gospel, he's accursed. This is not another gospel. The word for gospel here is Euangelion, meaning good news Again, there's only one gospel, and it's everlasting, beloved, because the gospel gives everlasting life. It is the good news that Jesus Christ came to die and take the wrath of God upon himself and offer salvation as a gift because of his finished work on the cross. No other news offers everlasting life. And it's for those who dwell on the earth And so the scene here is this angel who's in the midst of the heaven. And the word mist here, it's referring, the Greek word here is referring to the point in the sky where the sun reaches its its apex. And so this was a time when the angel would be most visible. But this time the world, by this time the world has suffered. Uh if we are interpreting a futuristic an interpretation of Revelation, which we are, and we're going chronologically through the book, by this time the incredible devastations of the seal judgments and the trumpet judgments, all these things have already taken place. And during this time, the unbelieving world will have heard the gospel preached by the hundred and forty-four thousand and some other means as well, the two witnesses by countless thousands of believers. But now That's all done. The two witnesses are gone by this time. The 144,000 are gone. They're at the throne of God in heaven. Many believers have been martyred. And so here this angel comes with the everlasting gospel. Now, why does this angel have it? Or why does this angel preach it? Well, again, let me give you some views here. The Pretter's view is that this is after the destruction of Jerusalem. And this is the gospel that will be preached into all the world before the end comes. Matthew twenty-four fourteen says, In this gospel the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations then the end will come. And so the more of the view that this has already been taken place, this judgment, this happened at the destruction of Jerusalem, the angel is now proclaiming that the gospel from here on out will be preached unto the end. But that there's a problem with that view. Didn't God trust the gospel to the church? Why is an angel proclaiming the gospel? He didn't entrust it to angels. He entrusted it to us, the church, the people. Now the preterists say that this angel then cannot be taken literally. This is not a literal angel, this represents the church. That's that's the the the way they see this. The futurist view Says this the reason the angel now is proclaiming this everlasting gospel is that this is a final call Again, notice in verse number seven, saying with a loud voice, Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is That is, things are coming to a close. In Revelation 10, the angel declared, Time is no more. God's clock is winding down. God is consummating all things. One day you'll hear the final the gospel for the final time. You don't know when that time will be. None of us know when that time will be. And you know one reason why people go to hell is because they just keep putting off. Making that decision. They just procrastinate. They just keep putting it off, putting it off. I remember when I was a teenager and I got saved. I think I told you this before. We began, I just began witnessing to my friends, and I had a a teenage friend of mine, I remember his name, remember that day that I could still see his face as I tell this story. We were talking and I was sharing with him how I had trusted Christ and I was talking to him about how he needed to trust Jesus Christ as his Savior. And I'll never forget what he said to me. He said, you know what, I got my whole life ahead of me He was 16 years old. He said, I have my whole life ahead of me. I'm not going to do that right now. And just a few weeks later, he was killed in a car accident. In the car on the way home from school, he he got into the passenger side and there was a terrible accident, and there was only one person in that car that was killed, and tragically it was Doug. And he thought he had his whole life ahead of him. You never know when you're going to hear the gospel for the last time or we have your last opportunity. Don't put off receiving Jesus Christ as your Savior. D. L. Moody, by his own admission, made a mistake on the 8th of October, 1871. He tells the story how that he had been preaching in the city of Chicago that particular night he had drawn his largest audience yet And then his message was, the title of it was What Will You Do With Jesus? And he preached a great sermon on Jesus the Christ. But by the end of the service, he says he was tired. And he concluded his message with a presentation of the gospel. And then he said this. Now I'm going to give you a week to think it over. And when you come together again, you'll have the opportunity to respond. And he said the soloist began to sing, but before the final note, the music was drowned out by the clinging of bells and the wailing of sirens, because that night was the great Chicago fire. And Dio Moody said he knew that there were people that had heard him preach that night that had died in that fire. And he said, I'll never again preach a gospel without giving someone the opportunity to repent right there, to to ask them To command them to repent and trust the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, the Bible tells us in Ezekiel that we are responsible, that there's blood on our hands when we fail to warn the wicked. There's a responsibility that all of us have to uh to give people the word of God and impress upon their heart The need to trust Jesus Christ. I like what Spurgeon said. He said, any person who dies and goes to hell should have to leap over the body of a Christian who's pleading with them to come to Christ. And I believe that's true. And I believe that's the responsibility of all of us is to get the gospel out because people are dying all around us every year. Millions die. Some by disease, some by Disaster, some by decay and others by design. We don't know when our last day will be. People talk about, you know, near-death experiences and they'll say, Well, this is the closest I've ever come to death. The closest you've ever come to death is today, because you're one day closer to the grave than you were yesterday. Each day that passes by, we're one step closer. We're one step closer. And so we need to make sure of our soul. Don't put off trusting Jesus Christ. Many years ago I woke up one morning and turned on the television and there was uh scenes of Oklahoma City. Some of you might remember many years ago the the bombing that took place there. A madman pulled off a truck. with explosives in front of that building and that that that explosion tore into that building and so many innocent people died including innocent children that died And I remember looking on TV and seeing a l a young lady who had gone to our Christian school when we were down south. Her name was Nikki Chestnut. And Nikki had a picture of her mother and saying, if you see this woman, please let me know. She was on Good Morning America. And they found Nikki's mom a few days later as they were digging through the rubble and they were extracting bodies from that place. Her mom went into work that morning. She had no idea that that would be her last day We never know what's going to happen. That's why we have to make sure of our soul. Now the reason people procrastinate is because of certain things they have a rebellious heart and they rebel against several things. First of all, they rebel against the fear of God. Look what it says in verse number 7, saying with a loud voice, fear God The angel encourages response by saying, Fear God. You know the problem with men today is they do not fear the Lord. And people do not believe that God's going to send people into an everlasting place of judgment. There's no fear of God today. The Bible speaks of the last days when men will not fear the Lord, and I see so much of that today. But also because They rebel against the glory of God. It says in verse 7. Fear God and give glory to him. You know one of the greatest ways that people give glory to God is by repenting and turning to Christ. It's by recognizing that Jesus Christ is all he claimed to be. And when we repent of our sin and we turn to Christ, we give glory to God. But people don't care about that. The Bible says one of the greatest indictments against man is that when men knew God, they what? They glorified him not as God They don't care about the glory of God. That's another reason of the hardness of heart. But then also they rebel against the judgment of God. Look again in verse 7: Give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come Men forget that they're going to receive judgment, righteous judgment. The Bible says it's appointed unto man once to die. And after that the judgment. You're not going to escape judgment. Paul Harvey likes to tell this story about a man named Gary Tyndall. He was charged with robbery. He was standing in a courtroom in California before the judge And Gary Tyndall asked if the judge would allow him to go to the restroom and and they did. And so he was escorted to the restroom. It allowed him to go inside. He crawled up into a little space up in the ceiling. He thought he was going to escape. And he found a little spot and he started s Crawling through the ceiling tiles. He was on his way out. He crawled about 30 feet when the ceiling tiles gave way and he fell down right before the judge's bench in the courtroom You're not going to escape judgment. Judgment is going to come and men men think think that they're they can escape somehow. Standing before God and being judged, but you will not escape that time of judgment. They rebel against the judgment of God and they rebel against the worship of God. Notice what it says here: Worship him. that made heaven and earth and the sea and the fountains of water. And so the greatest act of worship, again, is to respond to Jesus Christ. And to call him Savior and Lord. One reason people are judged, one reason people go to hell is because of rebellious procrastination. But here's number two, write down this. Religious fornication. Look at verse 8. And there followed another angel saying, Babylon has fallen. Is fallen the great city because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication. Now the angel makes an another angel comes with another announcement Another reason men go to hell is because of false religion. Now, Babylon is a city, but it's also a system of false religion. So let me just entertain this one question here. This is another question that we have to deal with when we come to this passage here in Revelation, that is, what does Babylon represent here? What does the city Babylon represent? Or is it literal? Are we to take this literal? Or is this symbolic? Well, again, there's disagreement on the different interpretations of Revelation. Again, a preterist. What they'll say is that, and by the way, they don't agree on this. Some preterists I've read say, this is this Babylon here represents Jerusalem. And then others say, no, Babylon here represents Rome. But if you take the view that this is the literal city of Jerusalem, which I think a lot of people who believe all these things have already taken place in the past. If you say that this is the literal city of Jerusalem, then it presents some problems. You say what problems? Well drop down to verse number 10. It says this, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God which is poured out without m mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb Verse 11, and the smoke of their torment ascends up forever and ever, and they have no rest day or nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever received the mark of his name. And so again, if you take the view here. That this is the this is this Babylon represents the literal city of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem in 70 AD was already judged. Then you have to believe that the judgment that is spoken of here in verses ten and eleven is already in the past. Now again that presents some problems. You say, What's the problem? Well, because it says right here that the smoke in verse eleven of their torment, the smoke of their torment ascends up for what? Forever and ever. Now again, what does that mean? If you take the position That this is Jerusalem and it was in the past, then what does it mean that the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever? Then you would have to take the view that that's not literal. That's gotta be symbolic. And now all of a sudden what you're doing is you're using the arguments that annihilation is used to talk about hell. Did you know that there's a view out there of hell It's called the annihilationist view, and this is the view that says that when a person dies and goes to hell, they're not there forever. They're only there for a time. They burn up, and after a time, when the judgment is over, Then that's it. They are annihilated there in hell. They are destroyed. And part of the argument that they use of to talk about that is to say, well, uh a lot of the references about eternal smoke and eternal torment and eternal fire That's not literal. We can't take that literal. That's symbolic, and it speaks about something else. That's the same argument that's used here. Because, you know, I I've been to Jerusalem. I don't see the smoke of torment going up over there right now. I've been there. It was already destroyed in 70 AD, but yet the Bible says the smoke of the tormenta ascends up forever and ever. Also, look at the again in verse 11. And they have no rest, day nor night, who worship the beast. Now, if the beast is Nero If the beast is and the mark of the beast is all Nero and the Roman Emperor there, then again those who took the mark, they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image. And whosoever receives the mark of his name, they're the ones that are going to be judged, they're the ones that are going to be tormented. The Bible says in verse ten, they're tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the Holy Angel. Again, how am I not understand that? How am I to understand that if that's already in the past? That's already taken place there. You know, the futureist view says that this is speaking about Those during the tribulation period who will take the mark of the beast, the Antichrist. This is yet future It's in the tribulation period when the Antichrist will take over, and part of his agenda will be false religion. And that's what Babylon stands for. And by the way, let me also, in fairness, say dispensationalists don't agree on what Babylon represents either. Um some say that Babylon represents false religion. And there are other dispensationalists or futurists in the way that they interpret Revelation and they say that Babylon, that's literal, that there's going to be a rise of Babylon in the last days. Over in Iraq, keep your eye op on that because that that country, that city will rise up towards the end days. It will become a dominant world power again. It will have to be destroyed in the end. And so this is a literal destruction of Babylon that is going to come. So some will say this is still a literal city that's going to rise up out of the ashes. Some say that this is symbolic and it represents false religion. Say, what do you believe, Dr. Harmon? I believe what my church believes. No, no, I'm just kidding. That's one of those answers where you try to evade. I think that this is I think that there's a sense in which This is literal and figurative for false religion. This is talking about false religion here And so what he's talking about here is the false religion. That whole system set up by the Antichrist that points people away from God. That's what is going to damn the soul of people. Because they believe not the truth. They hold on to some false religious system. And false religion in the Bible is used with the metaphor of what? Spiritual adultery. Fornication. Look in verse number eight. And and there followed another angel saying, Babylon has fallen, has fallen that great city because she has made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her Fornication. Look in chapter 17 real quick. Flip over to chapter 17. Look at verse number 2. Again, it's talking here about the great whore that sits upon many waters. With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and with the inhabitants of the earth have been made to drink with the wine of her fornication. And it goes on to say here, so he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast full of names of blasphemy. having the seven heads and ten horns, and the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet color and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand, full of abominations and filthiness of her Fornication, and upon her forehead was a name written Mystery Babylon the Great, the mother of harlots, the abomination of abominations of the earth, and I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus here. Notice how many times fornication is used here. You see, the Lord Jesus has his true church, which is the bride, and the Antichrist has his false church, which is the harlot. And so I think that this is speaking about symbolically false religion. You know what damns people to hell is believing a lie, false religion. Think about the fallenness of it. You know, the hardest people to win to Christ are people that are religious, but they don't have the truth. They have some form of religion. They believe something, and the heart of man is going to worship something, because man is a worshiper. He's created to worship, but he doesn't worship the true God. So he makes up his own religion or his own God. And they think that they have the real thing. Jesus said, If your light be darkness, how great is that darkness? And then the forcefulness of it This whole system will affect the whole world. False religion captures many, many people in its grip. And so uh don't don't be surprised when many people uh seem to be who seem to be religious will one day hear those words, depart from me, I never knew you. Satan comes as an angel of life, false religion is very insidious, very much so. And then also the foolishness of it, the Bible compares false religion to drunkenness and fornication, both of these things. And so the question is, are you trusting fully in Christ? Are you trusting fully in the true gospel? Now let me give you a third thing here. Another reason why people go to hell, because of religious procrastination, because of um excuse me, rebellious procrastination, religious fornication, number three righteous indignation. This is what we see. Look down in verse number nine. And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast in his image, And receive his mark in his forehead or in his hand, the same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation And he shall be tormented with f with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and the presence of the Lamb And the smoke of their torment ascends off forever and ever, and they have no rest, day nor night, who worship the beast and his image. And whoever receives the mark of his name. And so here again we see this is God's judgment. This is a judgment of a holy God upon a sinful people. But again we have to ask ourselves, what is this judgment? Is this hell, which I believe this is referring to? Again, if you take the view that this is talking about something that already passed, then you'd have to believe that all these symbols here, we can't take them literal about hell, and so therefore the question is then what And by the way, this is one of the strongest passages in the New Testament on the punishment of hell. But if this is not talking about hell, you've kind of eliminated that. What is it then? It's a judgment from God using these symbols of something that's happening forever and ever, and smokes went up forever and ever Is that to be taken symbolic or is this to be taken literal? Well, I think this is literal, and God is a God of wrath. And make no mistake about it, friend, those who reject the gospel will suffer eternal judgment in a place called hell. Forever. I find no passage of scripture that would say that hell is just temporary, that you go there for just a time. And then you're you're you're you're no longer there, that you're burnt up. And and there's a big debate about that among scholars even today in this area of eschatology, the last things that is is this really forever? Is is hell literal or does this symbolize somet a symbol of something else? And I see nothing in Scripture that would say that hell is anything but eternal and a literal place of suffering that I pray no one in here tonight will ever have to experience. Or ever have to go to. Because this is God's ultimate wrath. And notice the mark of identification he speaks of in verse number nine. The people during the tribulation who will not Repent and follow Christ. These are the ones that follow Antichrist. And they will receive this mark identifying them with the Antichrist. We see the mark of identification. We see the cup of indignation in verse number 10. And notice the indignation is stumu. It means rage, fury. The word wrath is orge, an outpouring of anger. And notice it's it gives the image of a w of drinking the wine of the wrath of the f of God Now, in the ancient days, wine was normally diluted with water, so it wasn't so strong. When people would drink it, they would just dilute it down with water. But here the idea is the wine of God's wrath will be undiluted. He's not going to hold back. But those who do not repent They will receive the undiluted wrath of God. And this should be a warning for all of us. To make sure of our own soul and then to pray and to plead with those around us that we love, that they would come to know Jesus Christ and they would escape the wrath that is to come. We see the mark of identification, we see the cup of indignation, we see the smoke of incineration. Look again in verse 11. And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up forever and ever. And they have no rest. Day nor night, who worship the beast in his image, to receive the mark of his name. And so notice it says the smoke of their torment is going to ascend up continually. I think this is an indication of eternity. It's going to continue on and on. And the f the flames of hell will not die out. I read an article that for over decades there's been a burning deep within the earth in a small community in Pennsylvania that has about twelve hundred residents. Fifteen different federal, state, and local agencies have spent millions of dollars trying to extinguish the fires that are there in this one particular place. And y and they say that people that live there can actually touch the earth and feel the heat Beneath them as they touch the earth. Deep holes and crevices vent hot smoking gases and and into the air. One one citizen said this Uh standing by a hole, they said, you can hear the fire roaring. It's an eerie sound, like the the beating of a thousand wings. And government officials have indicated they're no longer willing to attempt to put the fire out. They say it's futile. Can't quench that fire. And so they let it burn. And so as the flames continue to burn without restraint the people there, the town, they keep asking for someone to come and put these flames out, but they won't do it. When I read about that, I thought about hell, you know, there's some out there today that's trying to extinguish the fires of hell. But friend, they'll be unquenched. Jesus warns us about this in Matthew twenty-five, verse forty-one. He warns of the of a greater fire, he said, that will not be quenched. And then finally I want you to see this. The voice of invitation. Look at verse 13. Start at verse 12. Here's the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord. From henceforth, yea, saith the Lord, that they may rest from their labors. You know what heaven's going to be like? Place of perfect rest. A place of perfect blessedness and perfect rest. It's hard for us to imagine that. You know, I have this Apple Watch. And it tells me every morning I have this app called pillow, you have this app? And it tells you how well you rested the night before And it'll give you like I don't know how they they they do all that, but basically um they they you know I'll get up and my watch will tell me out of a you know a perfect night of rest would be a hundred percent. All right. I've never gotten a hundred percent. I've always I'm always around sixty-five or seventy percent to be honest with you. And my watch will say, you know, you spent this much time with a light sleep, you spent this much time in rim sleep, you spent this much time in deep sleep. You're in bed this this much time and this is how long you were asleep while you're in there, you're awake this much time. And so, you know Sometimes I wake up in the morning and I feel like man I got a good night's rest and I look at my watch and say you got a really poor night's rest. You're at you're at fifty percent I'm like, then I felt I felt like I slept good. You know. One of these days I'm gonna wake up and it's gonna say a hundred percent and then I'm gonna die of a heart attack, you know. I would love to get a perfect night's rest for my watch to tell me, you know, you rested perfectly last night. That probably is not going to happen here with me. Probably not going to happen with you either. Do you know when we get our perfect rest? When we get to heaven, the Bible says that we'll be perfectly blessed and we'll rest from our labors. And the Bible says our works will follow us there. The things that we do here now, it matters. It matters. Because while we're gone, The influence of our life will continue on until this whole consummation is done and all the rewards are passed out. But those who are already there in heaven, their works are following them. And they're there in heaven and they're blessed. And they're at perfect rest. What a joy heaven is going to be. Now we see the contrast here, don't we? The cursedness of Hell, eternal judgment versus the blessedness of heaven and knowing Jesus. And so I would just say Your eternity will either be perfect rest or it'll be perfect wrath and torment. And I would just plead with you to make sure that you know Christ. Make sure of that. And then if you know. Can I challenge you to just get a prayer list and start praying for people around you that don't know Christ? Start praying for their soul. Ask God for opportunities to share Christ with them. And don't give up Don't ever give up praying for someone. Don't ever give up witnessing to someone. Because it's never too late until they take their last breath. It's never too late. We should be pleading with people to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, this is a fearful passage when we think about the judgment that is to come. Your word teaches us about your mercy and your love, how we love to learn about that. But it also teaches us about your wrath and your judgment. And that, Lord, this is a part of your holy nature. It's a part of who you are. And so, Father, may we be warned by this. May we understand, Lord, that your word is true. And that this is given to us as a warning to all, so that they would make sure of their soul, that they would put their full faith in the risen and returning Christ. And if there's someone here tonight that's not made that decision, I pray that they will not allow this day to pass without getting that matter settled. And then Lord, having settled that matter, Lord, give us all a burden for the lost. So easy just to forget about the lost world. And just think about ourselves. But Lord, may we not have that inward focus. May Lord you give us a heart to see people come to Christ. And Lord, may we not rest until the desire of our hearts is fulfilled and we see people around us that we love come to Christ. Because Lord, we know that it tells us in Scripture, you're not it's not your wish, you're not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. We know that there are going to be some who will not repent, who will not come To Christ. But Father, you have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. You have no pleasure in punishing. You would rather have mercy and forgiveness. So, Lord, give us that same love. Help us, Lord, to have a burden for the lost. And use us, Lord. Use us to see people come to Christ. And bless these words to hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.