Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of First Thessalonians? First Thessalonians chapter two. as we are doing a study here in this wonderful letter. And as you find that, would you stand for the reading of God's word, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2? Starting at verse one. For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain. But even after that we had suffered before, and ye were shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention. For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak not as pleasing men, but God which trieth our hearts. For neither at any time use we flattering words, as ye know. nor cloak of covetousness, God is witness, nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children, so being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because you were dear unto us For ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail, for laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you. We've preached unto you the gospel of God And you are witnesses of and God also how holily and justly and unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believed. As ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father doth his children, that ye would walk worthy of God who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory. Thank you so much. You may be seated May God bless us this morning as we study His Word. Pray with me. Father, thank you for your holy word and the instruction and the benefit that we get from it. Lord, help us today. Lord, we know that when we go to Scripture, we need your help always to open our eyes to behold wonderful things. So speak to our hearts today, Father, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to start out this morning by asking you two questions. You don't need to answer these out loud. Just kind of answer them to yourself. First of all, are you a disciple of Jesus Christ? And that is an easy one to answer. You either are or you are not a disciple of Christ. Jesus said it like this if ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. Those who are Christ's true disciples continue in the Scripture and grow in Christ. Now, if you answer yes to that question, the second is a bit more intimidating. And that's this. Are you discipling others? That is another part of being a disciple of Christ. Jesus commanded his disciples to go and to make disciples of others And as a disciple of Christ, the direction and aim of our life is to obey our master and to do his will and to go and to make disciples of others and teach them to do the same. A diva says this about discipling. Discipling is deliberately doing spiritual good to someone so that he or she will be more like Christ. That's a good way to remember that. Again, discipling is deliberately doing spiritual good to someone so that he or she will be more like Christ. In the Great Commission, Jesus commanded his followers go and might make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. Now that command to go and make disciples is just not directed to pastors and missionaries. It's directed to every believer. If you are a disciple of Christ It's your responsibility to go and disciple someone else. Every Christian here, if you're saved, you have a spiritual gift that God has given you, and you're to use that gift in serving Jesus Christ. And part of the command to love others involves helping others to be what God wants them to be. That's discipling. So if you're a disciple, God wants you to love others, use your gift to serve others so that they can become more like the Lord Jesus Christ. And so all the church should be involved in discipling. Discipleship should not be a program that you sign up for, you know. It should be a culture that we have here in the church. It should be a lifestyle in the church. Begins in our home, begins with parenting and discipling our own children, and then it should ripple out through the entire church where we're helping one another to grow in Christ. Now in our passage here this morning, Paul is basically remembering his ministry among the people at Thessalonica. And as if you've been with us in our study, we saw that the church at Thessalonica had a glorious start. The people there received the message of the gospel and they repented of their sins and they turned to God from idols to serve the living and the true God. They become they became followers of Paul as Paul was of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were really an example to all the other churches, Paul said. From there the word of God sounded out all throughout Macedonia. Paul is now reminding the Christians in Thessalonica of the manner in which he and his associates had when they came and they ministered among them. And by studying this, what we learn is how to When others to Christ and how to disciple them. This is what Paul shows us. What we see here in the passage this morning are what I call three portraits of discipleship. The text really answers this one qu one question. What does it take to do discipleship? What does it require of me? And I want you to see these three portraits here because it answers that question. Discipling others requires, first of all, here's the first portrait, the truthfulness of a loyal steward. We see this in verses 3 down to verse 6. Paul presents to us a picture of stewardship. Look at verse number 4. But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel. That is, Paul says, God entrusted to us this wonderful gospel. We are stewards therefore of the gospel. A steward owns nothing, but is put in charge of everything that belongs to his master. You might remember the story of Joseph in the Old Testament. He was a steward in the household of Potiphar. He owned nothing, and yet he was in charge of everything. We need to remember that if you're a believer, you are a steward of the gospel. All believers are stewards of the gospel and the word of God. God gave the gospel to Paul Paul, as a good steward, gave it to Timothy. Timothy was to teach the gospel to others who will be able to commit it to others also, 1 Timothy 2. 2. That's the stewardship. The main responsibility of a steward is to be faithful. The Bible says this in 1 Corinthians 4. 2. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. And it's on the basis of this faithfulness that we will be tested and rewarded when Christ comes. So have you been found faithful as a steward of the gospel? Paul thought it was a privilege. He says, you know, we have been allowed to be put in trust with the gospel. It was a wonderful privilege. The gospel is a treasure. But it's not a treasure to be hidden, it's a treasure to be invested. Notice how Paul was faithful with the gospel. Notice the manner of his ministry. Look in verse number one. He says, For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance and unto you that it was not in vain Paul is saying, me coming to you, sharing the gospel, was not vain or empty, is the word there, kinos, worthless. It wasn't a worthless endeavor. We may be tempted sometimes to think that when we share the gospel and we try to disciple others, it's in vain. But nothing you do for Christ in that regard is in vain. If you look at Paul's ministry in Macedonia and Thessalonica, you might say, well, it's kind of a failure. I mean, he was constantly creating hostility. He was being beaten. He was being chased out of town. I mean, his ministry didn't measure up to the success standards that we have in churches today. But Paul didn't measure success the way we do today. Despite the tumult which surrounded his visit, despite the misunderstandings, despite the mob violence, Paul said, you know, my visit to you was not in vain. In fact, there were many Jews and Greeks that were had turned to Christ. And then look at verse two. But even after that we had suffered before and were shamefully entreated, as you know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention. Paul was faithful, even though he suffered for sharing the gospel. You know, if you want to do discipleship, then are you willing to pay a price for it? If you have to suffer, are you willing to share the gospel even though you may have to suffer for it? That's what happened with Paul. Paul said, You remember how we were shamefully entreated? The Greek word here, hubriso, before we get the word hubris, refers to public disgrace. When Paul was sharing the gospel of Philippi, many there in the city sought to disgrace him publicly. He was publicly beaten. He was thrown into jail. Well you remember that story uh when they were in jail, Paul and Silas, they began to sing praises at night. Someone said they should change the name of that prison to Sing Sing. They were singing praises to God or earthquake came, Shuch the Gill. But none of these things hindered Paul. You would think that When he went to the next city, he would be a little reluctant. But no, verse 2, he says, We were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God. Even after experiencing such bad treatment and being and suffering. Uh Paul did not change the message. Paul would not dream of doing that. You know why? He was a loyal steward of the gospel. He preached the same gospel in Thessalonica that he preached in Philippi. Paul said, we were bold to preach the gospel with much contention, the word contention agone, where we get the word agony. Even though it was a life or death struggle in some situations, Paul was courageous and he continued on. That's a good steward. But then also the message of his ministry. Look at verse 3, where he says, For our exhortation was not in deceit, nor in um of uncleanness, nor in guile. And Paul here, I think, is defending himself from the critics that said, you know, he was a deceiver, he was teaching wrong things, he was teaching heresy, perhaps This was the antagonism of the Jews who accused him of ignorantly reading the Old Testament. But these charges were completely false. Paul said, I didn't preach an error. I spoke to you the truth. This is not a message that I made up. Think about it. If Paul made up a message, do you think he would make up a message that would bring such hostility? If you're going to create his own gospel, he would say something that made everybody happy. That's what false gospels are eight days of your life. That's a man-made gospel. The true gospel doesn't say that. Paul says, My message was not a deceit, but notice the motive of his ministry in verse 3 where he says, nor of uncleanness, and this speaks about the motive It's a cathyros, where we get the word catharsis, the alpha negative in front of it negates it. We would say catharsis is a cleansing. Paul said, My motives were not impure. He was living to please God, not men. And so Paul's ministry was not to be popular. Look at verse 6 where he said, Nor have men sought we glory. Paul lived with a Godward focus. His motives were not to please other people. His motives were not to boost his own esteem or to build a following for himself. His primary action was to glorify God. But notice the method of his ministry in verse 3 where he says, nor in guile, the word guile here means to bait a hook. Paul wasn't using some form of trickery. That's what a fisherman does when he puts a nice big worm on the hook. He says to the fish, I want to bless you. And that's not what he's doing. He's after him. You know, he wants to make him a meal, you know. Paul says, I didn't bait a hook. I'm not using some form of trickery. I don't use any popular marketing strategy or tone down the gospel in any way like some people do today. You know, many churches have resorted to using methods in ministry that are unworthy of the gospel. But that method, a meth your method can undermine your message. Like Paul said to the Corinthians, Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect. You can make the cross of none effect with the way that you he preach it. And so Paul says, I didn't do any of that. Part of his methods were not pleasing men, as we saw in verse 4, nor flattery. Look at verse number 5. For neither at any time use we flattering words, as you know. nor a cloak of covetousness. Flattery is a form of manipulation. Flattery uses the words words in service to self-interest. Teeping up nice sounding things in order to um obtain some kind of personal favor. Paul didn't traffic in that kind of deceit or flattery. He wasn't pleasing men. He wasn't usually flattering. He wasn't covetousness. Verse 5 again. He didn't use a cloak of covetousness. That is someone who hides their greed in a religious coat. You know, he wasn't preaching for financial benefit to try to get money out of the people. In verse number nine, he'll say, I worked with my own hands, so that the gospel was not chargeable. He didn't do it for the praise of men, as we saw again in verse 6, nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we were might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ. Pressure was not a something that he uses. In verse 6, when he says, when we might have been burdensome as the apostles of Christ, the burden that he's referring to there was the demands that power can make. Paul didn't he wasn't on a power trip. He didn't pull rank as an apostle and use his authority to pressure people to do things. The gospel didn't require that. No, he simply believed in the power of the gospel to do the work. And he preached it, and when he did, God used it And there was no deceit, no trickery, no manipulation, no pressure, no desire for him to gain financially. He just was a f loyal steward of the gospel and the word of God because he believed in the power of that gospel and the word to do that work. By the way, line me up behind Paul. That's what I believe. That's where I stand. What does it require to disciple others? It requires the truthfulness of a loyal steward. But here's the second portrait. It requires the gentleness of a loving mother. Look at verse 7. But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherishes her children. And Paul here is using the image of a nursing mother. Now it might seem odd to us that Paul would use this image of a of a nursing mother, but Paul has used parenting metaphors before. He used the image of a mother when he wrote to the Galatians in Galatians chapter four, verse nineteen, he said, My little children of whom I travail and birth again until Christ be formed in you. He pictured himself as a mother who first labored and gave birth to the Galatians, and then later on worried over them so that they might grow and be healthy into spiritual maturity. So he used that mothering idea there. But also he used that of a father in 1 Corinthians 4, 15, when he says, For though you had 10,000 instructors in Christ, Ye have not many fathers, for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. Paul said you might have a lot of teachers, but you only have one spiritual father, and that's me. So he uses these kind of metaphors. Here he compares himself to a loving mother. The idea is gentleness, tenderness. There's no tenderness quite like a mother's tenderness. He's identifying himself with maternal love. Paul said, that's what we had among you. Whatever difficulties the Thessalonians may have presented, Paul answered that with patience And with kindness and with gentleness. And when you disciple other people, you know what? When people are one to Christ and they come to church, they don't, they're not You know, all of a sudden perfected and presented as perfect when they come. You understand everybody, all of us, we all have our issues, don't we? And when you're discipling others and you want them to come to spiritual maturity, it requires gentleness. It requires patience for them to grow and to mature in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the way Paul was. He wasn't an authoritarian, commanding orders. No, he was patient and gentle like a mother. That's a great lesson for the church today, because maybe we haven't always been patient with new or younger believers or those who need to grow in Christ. You know, new believers need this gentleness. What they don't need is to be given a mold and say you need to fit into this mold. If you don't fit into this mold, you're not right with God. I remember when I first got saved, I was just a few weeks old in the Lord, a teenager, and I was this was this church here was very young, and there was a man teaching Sunday school who He doesn't come here anymore, by the way. And he wasn't there very long during those early years. I think he gave Pastor Johnson some trouble and moved on. Thank the Lord. But anyway, um he was teaching the class at that time. I was a newly saved teenager. Went to this class. I had, you know, long hair down on my shoulders, red hair. And this man was uh you know asking me to he asked me to stand up and read a verse of scripture, I remember. And I said, sure I was shy, but I went ahead and stood up and he gave me the verse, 1 Corinthians 11, 14, he said, read this verse. I read it. The verse was, does not nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it's a shame on him. And after I read that verse, he said, What does that mean, Jerry? I said, Well, I guess it means that if I have long hair, I'm ashamed to God. And then he said, well then why you still have long hair? I was kind of devastated by that. I thought that God was displeased with me somewhere. I thought that I had incurred the wrath of God. So I went to the barbershop the very next day. And I said to the barber man, just cut it all off, make it short. I mean by the time he got done with me I looked like a rusty brillopat It took some time for me to realize that God was not unhappy with me. Thank God we had at grace people who lovingly, tenderly taught me and discipled me in the Word of God. And I realized that God was far more concerned about my heart than he was my hair. And that when God begins to make changes on an individual, it happens slowly as they learn the Word of God. And as those changes are made inwardly, they begin to show up outwardly. That's the way sanctification takes place. You know what younger believers need? They need to be tenderly fed the Word of God. And it's the Word of God that changes hearts. You know, how a mother feeds her children is almost as important as what she feeds her children. And so, in order to disciple others, you need to have that gentleness of a loving mother. Look at verse 8. Paul goes on, he says, So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls Because you were dear unto us. Paul says, we were willing to give you not just the gospel, we were willing to give you our very life. Again, I think he's referring to a mother's love there. A mother who gives her whole life to her children. This is a classic example of biblical love. Love is not just a feeling. Love is selfless, sacrificial acts on the behalf of someone else. And Paul is saying, I love you so much, I'm willing to give you my own life, my very soul. It's easy to stand up and teach theology. It's a little bit harder to get down with a person and love them and walk through them with to through the valleys with them and and get involved in their life and help them along. That's what discipling is. Paul spent time with the Thessalonians. He loved them. He shared their joys, their heartaches. And by the way, that's what Jesus did with the disciples For for three years, he was with them all the time. They were with him. They watched everything that Jesus did. He taught them. He was with them through all the experiences of life. So what does it require to disciple others? It requires the truthfulness of a loyal steward. It requires the gentleness of a loving mother. But here's the third portrait that Paul gives us. It requires the faithfulness of a laboring father. Continuing with this parenting metaphor, Paul compares his ministry like that of a father. Look in verse 11, what he says in verse 11. He says As ye know how we exhorted and comforted in church, every one of you as a father doth his children. So Paul said, I was like a father among you. encouraging you and helping you. Notice the fatherly things that Paul did as he discipled the Thessalonians. First of all, there's his work, if you look in verse 9, for ye remember, brethren, our labor and travail For laboring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you. We preached unto you the gospel of God. Paul worked hard. He labored. The word labor here is working to the point of weariness. A father works for the sake of his children. Paul worked for the sake of the Thessalonians. He was a tent maker by trade. And so during the day he would employ his trade. He would make money to take care of his own self. And at night he would preach the gospel to them. Why did he do that? Because he knew that the Thessalonians didn't have a lot, and he didn't want to come in just charging them for his services. He didn't want the gospel to appear chargeable in that way. And so he labored himself to take care of his own needs because he didn't want to be a burden to them. And so he made the maximum effort to disciple these believers. He was willing to go the extra mile. We see his work. We see his walk. Look in verse 10. Notice what he says. And ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and blamably, unblamably we behaved ourselves among you that believed. Paul not only worked like a father, but he walked like a father. As with all leaders, a father's duty is to set an example. And allow those to watch that example. Proverbs 23, 26, My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. A father is responsible to live a godly life. before his children. And Paul is calling upon the Thessalonians to remember what they saw. So Paul said, look, you remember how I was when I was with you? You saw, you remember Look again in chapter 2 verse 1 where he says, For ye yourselves know, you know this about me. Chapter 2, verse 2, again, where he says, We were shamefully entreated as you know at Philippi. Chapter 2, verse 5, he says, we didn't use flattering words, as you know. You know this. Chapter 2, verse 9, again, where he says, For you remember, brethren. You saw all this. You remember our life? This is what I want you to be like. A disciple will become like the teacher. That's why it's so important that we as believers be a good example. Someone said your walk talks and your talk talks, but your walk talks louder than your talk talks. Luke 6. 40 says, a disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone when he is fully trained will be like his teacher. And Paul says, you saw my my manner, how holy that means really towards God. I I lived a holy life towards God. Justly. It's honest and righteous. That's towards other believers. He was always honest and righteous. And then also unblamably, that's towards the lost. Towards God, it was holy, towards believers, he was honest, towards the lost, he was blameless. Paul was an example to the Thessalonians and they followed him. We see his work, his walk, but then also his words Look at verse eleven. And as ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you as a father does his children. You know what? Sometimes children need encouragement from their father. And Paul uses three expressive terms, exhorted to come alongside and encourage. This is the idea of someone who is down. You know, that's all part of discipling. That's why it's important to be here in church because when you're here you encourage other believers. You and you comfort other believers. You fellowship and and you and you exhort one another. And then the word comforted, it's the same idea, but it has the action of a physical touch, a pat on the back. Sometimes a person just needs a hug or a pat on the back. And to encourage them from a father. I remember when I was a kid I played Little League. And um I remember one year we were in the championship. I played first base. We were winning. It was the last inning. All we had to do was get three outs. Guy off the bat hit a ball towards me. I charged it like you're supposed to do. And I charged right over because it went right under my legs. Guy got on base and that led to a rally which caused the other team to win the game. I felt like I had lost the game for the team. I I can't tell you how devastated I was. I was, you know, twelve years old And I remember going home, sitting on the couch, and I was just crying. You know, I cost us the championship. And I'll never forget my father coming over and sitting with me and talking to me and encouraging me. And and just uh his arm around my shoulder. I can't tell you what that meant to me as a kid. And that's what Paul's saying here. That's how Paul was for the Thessalonians. You know how I encouraged and comforted like a father does his own children. You know, sometimes again, people just need to be affirmed and embraced. You know, I read a study where one time it says that from the UCLA that a person needs Eight touches a day just for emotional stability. Eight meaningful touches a day just for emotional stability. And you know, you have this, you know, people around us, they have this emotional tank, and sometimes it's on E and they just need that tank to be filled. They need to be affirmed and encouraged. And a meaningful touch or meaningful words helps to fill that void, that tank. That's what a father does with his family. But that's also what happens in discipleship in a church. People need to be comforted, to be charged. That is, that's kind of a asking someone, encouraging them to go forward. to do good. That's all part of discipling. That's part of what Paul did. What's the goal? Look at verse 12. That ye would walk worthy of God who hath called you under his kingdom and his glory. That's the whole purpose. That you might walk worthy of God. God has called us into his kingdom. Now we need to walk worthy of that calling. So To be an effective discipler, it requires the truthfulness of a loyal steward. It requires the gentleness of a loving mother It requires the faithfulness of a laboring father. And my prayer is that we will build here at our church a climate of discipleship where we are deliberately helping one another to become more like the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. That's what God has called us to do. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, I pray that you will help us in this calling that you've given us, that we would be faithful. Like a laboring father, that we would comfort and encourage, go the extra mile to help people in Christ. That we would be gentle and loving like a mother. Encouraging others along in their growth, that we would be truthful and loyal like a steward of the gospel and which you have tr entrusted to us, that we would not compromise it in any way. That we would preach the pure gospel, the true Word of God, with the confidence, Lord, that you'll do your work through it. Help us, Lord, to have a climate here of love and discipleship. Where the anyone that comes in, Lord, is welcome and they feel and sense the love of Christ. They're welcomed With a love that is surpassing anything that they've ever experienced in the world. Lord, we know this is what is pleasing to you. Help us, Lord, to make disciples of others. To be bold like Paul was bold in our gospel. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask you and Are you a true disciple of Christ, friend? Have you trusted Jesus as your Savior? He came and died for your sins on the cross, that you might have forgiveness and eternal life. And right now, if you'll just reach out to Christ in faith, He'll save you right where you are. Would you just be willing to pray Say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Because the Bible says, him that comes to me, I will know why is cast out. Oh friend, he loves you and he wants to save you today. Would you please reach out in prayer? Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? Anyone here? Can I pray for you? See, I'm trusting Christ here and now. I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. Anybody here? I'm putting my faith in the living Christ right now. God bless you, friends. And then if you are a disciple, would you just pray and say, God, help me to disciple others? To encourage others along in the faith. Let that be your prayer today. Father, thank you again for all that you're doing in hearts Lord, make us disciplers. Give us these qualities, Lord, so that we can see people grow in Christ. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.