Take your Bibles now and open to the book of Matthew, chapter twenty-six. Matthew twenty-six. We are on Sunday morning going through the Passion Week. And we come now to Thursday of the week when our Lord Jesus was going to go to the cross. And so much is is going to happen on Thursday of this week. In fact, it's here in chapter twenty six. This uh this is a long chapter. It's got seventy-six seventy-five verses in it And I know you're nervous now. Don't worry, I'm not gonna preach on all 75 verses this morning. I'll hit 74 of them instead. No, I'm just kidding. This is just a long narrative. There's so much going on. And there's really the only way to look at this is to get a bird's eye view. But what I just want you to see what our Lord went through on during the Passion Week And on this particular day, the thing that he had to deal with. This was the hour of testing. All throughout Jesus' ministry he kept saying, My hour is not yet come. My hour is not yet come. And now, however, he's saying it's here. Look in verse 18. And he said, Go into the city to such a man and say to him, The master saith, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at thy house with my disciples. And so Jesus realizes now it's the time. It's getting close to the time when he will go to the cross and bear the sin of the world. On Sunday of that week he came into Jerusalem. He presented himself as the Messiah. On Monday, he cleansed the temple. He cursed the fig tree. And then on Tuesday, he had his dispute with the religious leaders, and that's where Jesus gave three parables all affirming his authority as the Messiah. Also, along with that, on that day, he was busy teaching. And we see the material that's in chapter 22, 23, and 24 is where Jesus is teaching about the end times. It's the famous Mount Olivet discourse. So all day Tuesday he's he's teaching, he's dis uh disputing with the religious leaders, and then on Wednesday, the Bible doesn't really say much about What took place, I think Wednesday was pretty much a day where Jesus stayed in Bethany. Bethany was just outside of Jerusalem, just beyond the Mount of Olives, a little village where he stayed with Mary and Martha and Lazarus and their home. And so on Wednesday was pretty much a day of rest. In chapter 26, this records the events again that take place on Thursday and then into Friday. And so Although this chapter has a lot of verses, if I could just summarize everything that's going on in one word in this chapter, it would be this word, preparation. It's all about preparation now. Jesus prepares his disciples by telling them, in just two days, I'm going to be crucified. There's a woman at Bethany that prepares Jesus by anointing him with a precious ointment. Judas prepares to portray Jesus. He meets with the religious leaders, the chief priests. The disciples prepare the Passover room and prepare things for the Passover meal that Jesus will have with them, and it's there at that Passover meal where Jesus will institute the Lord's Supper And Jesus himself will prepare by going to the Garden of Gethsemane and praying and getting himself ready to go to the cross. And there, of course, from the Garden of Gethsemane, he will be arrested and then go to trial. And really all this takes place in three different locations, at Bethany, and then into Jerusalem, and then to the Garden of Gethsemane. So three different locations appear in this chapter as Jesus is preparing for the cross. But the thing that really stood out to me when I was studying this chapter is really this. You know, during the hour of trial, not many people remain faithful to Jesus. That's the thing that I see here. It's surprising. During this crucial time, during this hour of trial, Jesus is pretty much alone. Not many will stay faithful to him. And what this narrative does is it forces us to examine our own heart and ask that one question. During the hour of trial, will we be faithful to Jesus? Will we We like to think that we will, but this again, this really forces us to examine our hearts. And so what I want you to do is just show you these scenes. Again, we can't spend too much time. We would love to spend a lot more time in each of them. We'll kind of give a bird's eye view of these different scenes as Jesus is preparing to go through the cross. So here's the first. Notice four different responses. That's what I want you to see here in this. Four different responses to the Lord Jesus. First of all, there's the response of the religious leaders. They plot against him. Look at verse number one. Chapter twenty six. It came to pass when Jesus had finished all these things he said unto his disciples, ye know that after two days is the feast of the Passover. And the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. So again, Jesus prepares his disciples. And again, these verses indicate to me that he's in complete control. He's right on the divine timetable. He knows what is to come. In fact, in verse 3 it Matthew describes, then assembled together the chief priests and the scribes and the elders of the people under the palace of the high priest who was called Caiaphas. And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. But they said, not on the feast days, lest there be an uproar among the people. So here are these religious leaders They all gather together at the high priest's home, a man by the name of Caiaphas. Josephus, the historian, tells us that his real name was Joseph. Caiaphas, and that he was a man who was deceitful, he was treacherous, he was conniving. And in fact, every time you see Caiaphas in the new in the New Testament, he's always trying to figure out a way on how he's going to take care of Jesus or or kill him. He's really an enemy of Jesus. He wants to get rid of him. And so here these religious leaders, the Sanhedrin, and they meet together and they think they're trying to figure out a way to lay hold of Jesus. All throughout his and basically they've been trying to do this since the beginning of his ministry. But they couldn't do it. You know why? It wasn't Jesus' time. God wouldn't let that happen. But now is the time. They're meeting together And they basically say, you know what, we can't do this on the Passover because if we try, there's too many people. At that time, Jerusalem was swelled with millions of people. They wanted to take them secretly. They didn't want to cause an uproar. By the way, Judas later on will help them do it secretly. But now they just are trying to figure it out and they want Jesus out of the way They just want him dead. They don't want to submit to his authority. Jesus, through teaching and his life and his ministry, destroyed their whole hypocritical system and they want him out of the way. They don't want to submit to him They just want him dead. And so they're plotting against him. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, people are still plotting against Jesus today. That's not something that has stopped. It always, or I should say, it never ceases to amaze me around this time of year as we're going into the Easter season, how that we begin to see on television or in documentaries and TV shows and even uh uh news media, how that they try to portray Jesus as someone other than what the Bible says. They're always taking shots at him, as if the church fostered a myth, as if he really didn't resurrect from the dead. You see all this propaganda out there, you know why? Because the world still hates Christ. They're still taking shots at him. They still want them gone. This shouldn't surprise us Psalm 2-2. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. It's still going on. But remember what Jesus said back in Matthew 22? He said, look, I'm the stone that the builders rejected. And you either stand on this stone or you'll be crushed by it. You can't get rid of Christ. He's God's anointed. And so some will plot against him. But secondly, notice that some will worship him. There's another scene that we see. Look in verse 6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, there came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head as he sat at meat So here's another beautiful scene. This is in total contrast to the first scene of the religious leaders. The religious leaders should be worshiping Christ. But they don't. But here's a single woman who steps forward, and Matthew focuses on her, and she gives to Jesus the kind of worship he deserves. Jesus was in Bethany. The Bible says he was in the home of a man by the name of Simon, the leper. That is, this was a man who was healed from his leprosy by the Lord Jesus. He's been healed, he's been cleansed. And in an effort to show gratitude to Jesus, he has a meal for Jesus and the disciples at his home. And John's gospel tells us that Jesus was there and his disciples were there and Mary and Martha and Lazarus were there. And while Jesus is having his meal, and keep in mind back then when they ate a meal at a table, there were pillows around the table, and they would recline on an elbow. And so Jesus is kind of reclining as he's eating there. And a woman comes. Matthew doesn't name who she is, but she comes and she takes this flask of ointment. Very, very precious, the Bible says. And it's very costly perfume. In fact, Mark's gospel says that it was worth over 300 denarii. And today's standards that would be about $130,000. This is expensive. And what does she do? She takes that vial of a alabaster vial. And she breaks it and she pours it on the head of Jesus, it says in verse 7, as he sat there. And she pours all of it on. She doesn't take a portion of it and anoint him. She pours all of it on his head. Why does she do that? Did you know it was the custom back then to anoint the heads of important people at a meal like this? If they were an important guest, you would anoint them. But what she did was unprecedented. She poured the whole flask on Jesus. Spurgeon said this: the beauty of this woman's act consisted in this: that it was all for Christ. And no doubt when she did that, the whole room exploded with a beautiful, beautiful, wonderful scent. The scent of that perfume. Why did she do that? The more important the person, the greater the anointing. How important was Jesus? He was the most important person ever. So she pours this whole thing on him. Why? She understands who he is. She knows he's the Son of God. He's the Savior of the world. And by doing this, she's not just anointing him. She's what? She's worshiping him. She's saying, I'm pouring out my soul to you. In fact, if you combine all the records of the gospel You'll find that this woman, not only did she pour the oil on his head, but also on his feet, and she with her hair wipes the feet of the Savior. The Bible says a woman's hair is her glory. She surrendered her glory to the Lord's and worship the Lord Jesus. This is just incredible worship She's saying, just as this perfume is poured out, even so I am pouring out my soul before you, Lord, at your feet. And she offers her most expensive earthly possession. This was probably a family heirloom. This was probably passed down, this this flask of expensive perfume, and yet she pours it all out in an act of indescribable worship to the Lord. You know another reason they would anoint someone? They would anoint someone before burial. Did you know in this day Jews uh when they would bury someone just before after they died, just before they were buried, they would anoint them with all kind of ointments. And and perfumes. Why? Because they would visit that tomb and the corruption that would take place would bring extension. So they would give the ointment to overpower those the corruption that was taking place So after a person died, they were normally anointed. Now, she accepts the fact. She knows Jesus is going to die. She's listened to his word. She knows he's going to go to the cross. She knew that in his death lay her redemption and the redemption of all the world. And she knows that he's going to be raised the third day. That's why she anoints him before him. She doesn't anoint him after he dies, she anoints him before he dies. Why? Because this is not natural. Jesus, he's not going to see corruption. His body's not going to stay in that grave. He's coming out. And so why use it after he dies? Why not use the ointment before he dies? as an act of worship. And so there's a kind of kind of an implication in this that she understood that he was going to resurrect from the dead. And by the way, this woman, her name was Mary Matthew doesn't give her name, but John's gospel does. And this is Mary, who is the sister of Martha and Lazarus. She saw the resurrection power of Jesus. She saw Jesus raise Lazarus. She knew that he was coming out of that grave. And so she anoints him. beforehand in an act of worship and in an act of faith saying, I know that he will not stay dead. That he will rise again. Now notice the disciples' response. It was different. And when the disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? That's a surprising response from the disciples. But again, if we look at John's gospel, the one behind this was Judas. He was the one holding the money bag. He was the treasurer among them. And Judas was the one kind of instigating this. Look at verse nine. For this ointment might have been sold for much and given to the poor. I mean, why this waste? I mean, we could have taken this and sold it and we could have given the money to the poor and they were kind of justifying, you know, that this could have been had a better use. And again, this was Judas, and John says this in his gospel. Judas said this not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. And having charge of the money bag, he used to help himself to whatever was put in it. He was taken out of the money bag. The only poor person Judas was thinking about was himself. And Jesus rebukes him in verse ten. When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? For she hath wrought a good work upon me, for ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always For in that she hath poured out this ointment on my body, she did it for my what? My burial. Nothing poured out at the feet of Jesus is a waste. Nothing. Reminds me of the story of William Borden. You've probably heard this illustration a lot, but it fits so well here. William Borden was the son of a millionaire. His father was the owner of the Borden Dairy Factory. And when he graduated from high school, he sent his son around the world on a trip as a present. The senior president. And when William Borden went around the world, he got a burden for the hurting people of the world. He said, I'm going to be a missionary. And he re he surrendered his life and he wrote in his Bible, No re- No reserves Then he went to college at Yale, and when he graduated from Yale, he wrote in his Bible, No Retreats. And by the way, while he was at Yale, he was used greatly there on that campus. He really brought revival there. He started a Bible study and he had organized a plan where everyone would hear the gospel that was a student at Yale. And in his senior year, 1,000 of the of the students out of a uh uh members from a thirteen hundred or enrollment of thirteen hundred, one thousand of those students were going to his Bible studies. But when he graduated from Yale, he wrote in his Bible, no retreats, even though he was given great offers to do other things. And he went to Egypt to study the language. to reach Muslims in Africa and he got a disease and he died at the age of twenty-five. And someone would say, man, what a waste. What a waste. But in the back of his Bible, he wrote no regrets. Before he died, he wrote, no regrets. No life poured out at the feet of Jesus is ever a waste. Nothing. So some will plot against him, some will worship him, some will betray him. Now look at the next scene. It moves on. Look at verse 14. Then one of the twelve called Judas Iscariot went unto the chief priests, and he said unto them, What will ye give me that I will deliver him unto you? And they coveted together with him for thirty pieces of silver. And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him. Now Matthew focuses the next scene as it shifts over into the Passover meal. And Matthew in his gospel, he doesn't focus on the new institution of the Lord's Supper the way Luke does. He focuses on the actual Lord's Supper and the elements of it. Matthew will touch on that, but really what Matthew focuses on in his gospel is the fact that it was during this Passover meal that it was revealed who the betrayer was. Up until that time nobody knew who it was. It was a secret. And it was at this supper that it's revealed. And so we see that Judas secretly goes to the chief priest. He probably went to Caiaphas's house that were probably still there, as we saw in the beginning of the chap of the chapter. And he goes there and he probably negotiates a price, and the price was thirty pieces of silver. That was the price. Here is Judas, one of the disciples. The Bible says he was one of the twelve, and he had even received power to heal. And Matthew 10 seems to indicate that he even had that power. But you know the test of true salvation is not miracles. It's obedience to the Word of God. And so he's not really one of them. Remember what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount? Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will come into the kingdom, but he that doeth the will of my Father. Many will say, Lord, Lord, haven't I done all these wonderful works in your name? And Jesus will say, I never knew you. Judas is an illustration of this whole thing. He never knew Jesus in an experiential way as to say that he was saved. He had an association with Jesus and the disciples, but he was never really one of them. A lot of people like that today in church. There's an association, but there's not really true life. And so Judas makes the plan to b to betray Jesus Then we see the preparation for the Lord's Supper, or for the Passover rather, in verses 17 down to verse 20. But drop down to verse 20. Now when the evening was come He sat down with the 12. Here's Jesus and he's sitting down with the 12. They have the room prepared. It's the Passover meal And Jesus is with them, and no doubt they're enjoying their time, but then things change in verse 21. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. That changed the atmosphere. You ever have a nice dinner and someone bring up a subject and you think, do we have to talk about this right now? Nice time and all of a sudden Jesus says, one of you. is going to betray me. The word betray here, paradidomai, literally to officially deliver over, like you're giving over a prisoner for judgment. One of you is going to deliver me over. And again, this is all in keeping with God's divine timetable. Now is the time to bring it up. Because it's going to happen. And the disciples grieve, verse 22, and they were exceedingly sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? They're all evaluating themselves now. They begin this own their own self-evaluation. Sometimes I wonder if this if this is not where the beginning of evaluating yourself for the Lord's Supper began. Here they're all saying, Lord is it I They never suspected Judas. Judas was a treasurer. You don't give someone the position of treasurer unless you really trust them, right? They didn't suspect him. And Luke 22 says they began to discuss this among themselves. They start talking about this among themselves. No doubt some were pointing at others. And then Jesus says in verse 23. And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. They're saying, Lord, which one is it? Is it I? And Jesus said, Well, it's the one who dips his hand in the dish. That's the one. Well that doesn't really help Because all of them have dipped their hand in. What's he talking about the dish there? Well, at the Passover meal, there would be a dish of crushed fruit and nuts. It was kind of like a sauce. And you would break unleavened bread and you would dip the bread in and you would pass the dish around. They would also take bitter herbs and dip it into that dish. And so by that time everyone had dipped their hand into the dish So this doesn't really help. This only adds to the tension. The one who dips his hand into the dish. And so now notice the next verse. Then the Son of Man goeth as it is written of him, but woe unto that man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It had better Uh it had been good for that man that he had not been bored. It would be better for him that he not had been born. So Jesus kind of puts a divine perspective on what's going to happen. He says, the Son of Man is going to go, that is, he's going to go to die. He's going to have to be betrayed so that he can go and die for sin, but woe be to the one who betrays him. Now what he's saying here is that look, this is predicted, this is prophesied In fact, we know this. The scripture speaks about it in the Old Testament. He would betray by a man for 30 pieces of silver. Jesus in fact in the Gospel of John quoted Psalm 419 that the scripture might be fulfilled, the Bible says, he quoted from that. Verse and so he knows this is prophesied in the Old Testament. This is prophesied in Scripture. Jesus said in John seventeen, he said, Of those that you gave me I kept None of them is lost but the son of perdition that the scripture might be fulfilled. So this is all part of God's plan. He has to be betrayed. Well, someone would come along and some have reasoned this way. They say, well, if it was portrayed in Scripture that this had to happen, doesn't that alleviate Judas of any of the responsibility? No, it doesn't Because Jesus said, Woe be to that one who betrays the Son. It'd be better for him that he not be born in again. This is another place in scripture where we see divine sovereignty and human responsibility colliding together, not in a bad way, but they're concurrently dwelling together. This was all part of God's plan. It was ordained that it happened And yet Judas, he didn't do this unwillingly. He did what he wanted to do. He did what he desired to do. He wasn't an unwilling state. He was a willing devil. He did what he wanted to do, and yet what he wanted to do was exactly what God said had to be done. And he's not alleviated of any responsibility here. In fact, he will be judged for that wickedness. God's sovereignty turning evil into his own righteous purpose doesn't make sin any less sinful or the sinner any less guilty But look at verse 25. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? Now he's keeping along with the pretense, isn't he? He's already taken the thirty pieces of silver. All the disciples are saying, Lord, is it I, is it I? Well he didn't want to be singled out. If he didn't say anything, he'd be singled out. They would st start to suspect him. And so to play along with the game, Judah says, Lord, is it I? Is it me? And Jesus, notice what he says, and he said unto him, Thou hast said. That is to say, you said it with your own mouth. You just condemn yourself. Now, not all the disciples heard that exchange, because again in John's Gospel, John says that Peter asked John, What did the Lord say? What did the master say? Who was this? And then Jesus said to John, it's the one to whom I dip the bread into the dish and give it. And in that moment, right after that, Jesus takes the dish, he takes some bread, dips it into the dish, he hands it to Judas. Judas takes it. And then Jesus says, whatever you have to do, go and do it and do it quickly. And he did. When he took that morsel, he sealed his destiny and then he left. And then after that, Jesus begins to institute from the Passover what we now know as the Lord's Supper. But here's the point I want you to see in this. There are some people like Judas today. I hate to say it, but it's true. Some people that are associated with Christianity, associated with Christ, but there's no real life. Judas got all the privileges that the other disciples got. He heard the teaching of Jesus. He saw his miracles. And yet at the end he denied him. He turned away from him. He betrayed him, which demonstrated that he was not connected to the vine. He was never really one of them. And by the way, that's why the scripture tells us constantly, it warns us to examine ourselves, to make sure that we are in the faith. Brethren, give all diligence to make your calling and your election, sure, Peter says. Better examine your heart. So we see from the religious leaders, some will plot against them. From the woman at Bethany, some will worship him. From Judas we see some will betray him. And then let me give you the last thing here. From the disciples we see that some will fail him. Some will fail him. Look in verse number 26. And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it, and he broke it, and he gave it to his disciples, and said, Take eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and he gave thanks And he gave it to them saying, drink ye all of it. For this m is my blood of the New Testament which is shed for many for the remission of sins. But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it with new with you in my Father's kingdom. So at the Supper, Jesus institutes the Lord's Supper as we know it today. It came out of the Passover meal. Jesus basically is uh Shutting down the old covenant with its feasts, and he is ushering into new covenant that would be paid for by his own blood. And then in verse thirty they sing They go to the Mount of Olives. They leave Bethany. They're traveling now towards the Mount of Olives. This is probably later on in the evening. It's getting closer to late in the evening. They sing a hymn. And as they're on their way, Jesus does something that is shocking. Look at verse 31 again. Then said Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night. Boy, again, that kind of brights the mood. All of you are going to stumble. All of you, and the word offend here, scandalizo, means to stumble, to fall. All of you are gonna fall tonight. All of you are going to fail. And then Jesus quotes the scripture in verse 31. For it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered. They have to be shocked at this. You say, what, Lord? Yeah, you're all going to fall tonight. You're all going to fail me. You know, Jesus knows our heart, doesn't he? He knows the weakness of man. And again, I think they were shocked, but now Peter, he steps forth. And look at Peter. Uh don't you just love when Peter constantly corrects Jesus about stuff? Verse 33. And Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, I will never be offended. Jesus everyone else might fail, but not me. I'm a cut above the rest of these guys. They might. I will never stumble, Jesus. I will never be offended in you I will give my life, but I will not fail. I'm too strong. I cannot fail. Think about the pride here. I mean here he is contradicting Jesus. I mean Jesus just quoted scripture to him. And Peter's saying, I know better than Jesus and I know better than the Old Testament scripture itself. I'm not gonna fall. Worst form of pride. I'm too strong. I can't fall. What does the Bible say? Let him that think that he stands, take heed lest he fall. And notice how Jesus responds to him in verse 34. And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, this night before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. What did Jesus mean when he said before the cock crow? You know, most people think that roosters only crow at the dawn. I wish that were true. It's not true. I was in Africa, in Uganda, uh s staying in this place. It wasn't a five star hotel, I promise you. Right outside my window there was a rooster. African alarm clock, they call it. He started crowing at 230 in the morning. He didn't stop. He kept crowing. Two thirty-three crowing. I thought his clock was off. And if I had a gun I promise you I would have shot that thing. They don't crow at dawn. They start right around three. And you did did you know that the Jews divided the night into four parts? Evening was from six to nine. Midnight was from nine to twelve. From 12 to 3, you know what the Jews called that time? Cockrow. Cockrow. From 12 to 3. And this period was so named because roosters began crowing just before 3 in the morning. Now keep in mind, when Jesus said this to Peter, it was probably somewhere just before midnight. And Jesus was saying to Peter, Look, Peter, before the cock crow. Before the end of this period, before three, before it gets past three. In just a few hours, you're going to deny me three times. Three times. And again, Peter's response to them in verse 35. Peter said to them, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee? And likewise also said all the disciples. You know what? They were learning a valuable lesson that night, and we need to learn the same thing. You know what it is? It's how weak we really are. I'm gonna tell you something, friend. We can't be what God wants us to be and what he needs us to be on our own. We need the help of the Lord. We need the strength of the Lord. We need to depend upon the Lord. We need to recognize our weakness. And when we recognize our weakness and trust fully in the Lord, that's strength. That was a lesson that they needed to learn, and no doubt Peter learned this lesson. And by the way, I'm glad that the Lord doesn't cast us aside when we fail him. Because all of us would be cast aside. He tells Peter and the disciples later on, Look after I resurrect, just meet me in Galilee. He wasn't done. And he doesn't give on us when we when we fail. He's still with us. He's still working on us. But notice real quickly the supplication. Look in verse 36. Then cometh Jesus with them unto the place called Gethsemane. And he said unto the disciples, Sit ye here while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebene, and began to be sorrowful very heavy Then said he unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful, even unto death. Tarry ye here and watch with me. And he went a little further and fell on his face and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless Not as I will, but as thou wilt. So as Jesus comes down the Mount of Olives, he's going now into the city of Jerusalem, as he's descending down, as you get halfway down, Mount the Mount of Olives. Just off to the left there's a little garden called Gethsemane. And Gethsemane actually means olive press. In that garden are all kind of olive trees. There's a gate around it, a walled gate a fence or a wall with a gate. I should say a fence around it with a wall and a gate. And at the gate, Jesus tells his disciples, wait here. He takes into the garden Peter, James, and John, and Jesus begins to pray. And we know according to Luke that he prays so fervently, so intensely that he sweat drops of blood. Because he knew that he was going to have to bear the sin of the world. And Jesus said, he praised and he said, Father, if it's be possible, let this cup pass from me. When I first read that as a young believer, I thought, is Jesus reluctant to go to the cross? No, that's not it. You know what it is? This is the natural reaction of holiness. He knows that he's going to have to bear the sin of the world. And he wasn't shying away from his responsibility. He wanted to do the will of the Father. He wanted to go to the cross. But being holy, he naturally would shrink back from sin. Yes. That's what he's shrinking. This doesn't do anything but show how holy Jesus is. And he says, Lord, nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. And he looks over in the disciples and guess what they're doing? They're sleeping. Let me tell you this one thing and we'll be done. Did you know that there's a document written about the time of Jesus called the Tractatioma, and it talks about what a high priest would do when he was getting ready to go into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement to sprinkle the blood on the mercy scene. That says that what what the high priest would do before that Monumental day is that he would stay up all night long preparing himself to go into the Holy of Holies because he knew that that was a very fearful thing because If a high priest would go into the Holy of Holies unprepared, it could mean their life. So the high priest would stay up all night praying and getting himself ready for this incredible thing And you know what the high priest would always do according to this document? He would take with him two or three younger priests to help him pray And you know what would happen? When the high priest began to fall asleep as he was trying to pray through the night, the younger priests would snap their fingers and they would say, Sir High Priest, Sir High Priest, wake up. Keep him awake. Here's Jesus. He's the great high priest. He's getting ready to go into the Holy of Holies. The cross is the mercy scene. His blood will be sprinkled at the cross. And satisfy the wrath of the Holy God. And he's preparing himself to do that. And he takes Peter, James, and John. They're the young priests that are supposed to help him. But it's not the high priest Jesus who's falling asleep. He's a greater high priest. It's the younger priests that are falling asleep. And Jesus says, couldn't you just watch with me for one hour? And after a while, two or three times, Jesus said, sleep on, my hour has come. And so if there was any time in his ministry when he needed his disciples to be faithful, it was then. Yes. But they were not. And so we go back to the original thought of this sermon. When the hour of testing comes, will we be faithful to Jesus? Will we be faithful? That's the question that all of us have to ask. All of us have to evaluate our own heart. Where do I sit in here? Will I be faithful to Jesus during the hour of trial? You may even be an hour of trial right now. Will you remain faithful to Jesus? Let's bow for prayer together So, Father, we thank you again for this wonderful word And Lord, as we look into the things that are taking place here, Lord, we again are at all our Savior. Although others may fail, our Savior remains faithful. Steadfast. And Lord, I pray that as we read this, that we would examine our own heart to know where we are. And may we determine in our heart that we can do nothing in our own strength. May we confess today our weakness. May we confess our failure. And may we, Lord, get new strength. That when the hour of testing comes, we not fail you. That we be there with you. Lord, use this to challenge us with heads bowed and eyes closed. How many here today would say, I need the strength of the Lord? today. I'm in the hour of trial. I need his strength. And I'm praying, I'm with a lifted up hand, I'm asking him for strength. I'm confessing my weakness. I'm asking for his strength today. Would you lift your hand and say that's me. God bless you. God, grant them strength. Anyone else? Friend, if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, I just hope that you'll see through this narrative, and as we continue moving to the cross, that the reason Jesus suffered the way he did, the reason he's going to the cross, is to die for your sins. To pay for your eternal salvation. And if you've never trusted him, now is the day. Now is the time Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. Use them to stir us, we pray. In Jesus' matchless wonderful name. Amen.