Would you take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Revelation, chapter 2? As you know, on Sunday nights we're going through Revelation, and right now we're looking at the seven churches of Asia. Asia Minor, and the Lord is writing to these churches, and as he's writing, uh he's commending some of them, and then he's also correcting some of them, and as he examines these churches, we're getting messages that we can apply to our own heart and examine our own life in light of what the Lord says here. Now we look at the church at Ephesus and we saw that this was a church that did a lot of works. But they were operating without love for Christ. And Jesus wants us to love him supremely. And then we looked at the church at Smyrna, and this was a church that was suffering. And Jesus had nothing for commendation for this church And it's a this church inspires us to be faithful no matter how difficult things might get. And then we looked last week at the Church of Pergamus. This was a church that Well, it had done some good, but they compromise by uh marrying the world, you could say, or compromising doctrinal truth, and the Lord warned them to repent or he would come and he would fight against them with the sword of his mouth And now we come to the next church here, as we look in Revelation chapter 2. We look down at verse 18. We come to the church at Thyatira. And look at verse 18, and unto the angel of the church to Thyatre write, These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet like fine brass. Now let's talk as we get into this about the city, and then we'll talk a little bit about the church and then the correspondent, and then we'll get into the main body. of this. But first of all, the city. Now this city of Diatira, just a few facts about it. This was the smallest of the seven cities mentioned in the letters to the churches. This is also the city that we really know the least about There are some things that we do know, however, that are worth mentioning. First of all, this was a city that was founded by Alexander the Great. This was some time uh some 300 years before the Lord Jesus Christ. And and his sir the soldiers of Alexander the Great worshipped Apollo. He was their patron god. And Apollo was called in that day the son of God. And so when the city w was started, they set up uh the main temple there uh was a temple to uh uh Apollo. there in that city. Now the name Thyatara means unceasing sacrifice, and it probably got its name because this was kind of a military buffer city. If an army was invading They would first come to Thyatira before they would invade the bigger, more well known city, the richer city of Pergamos. And so you could say that Thyatira was there to kind of hold back the the army until Pergamus could be warned and get themselves ready. Now as a result of this the city of Thyatire was destroyed and rebuilt many times during its history. And one thing that was this city was noted for was um a a particular dye uh they were known for in the woolen industry. They had a dye that was kind of purple, it came from a certain s shellfish And the way they got this was um is this was a little creature that was uh basically brought up out of the sea by divers, and then they would just out of this little creature they would just get a few drops of dye. So you can imagine uh how expensive this was, the whole procedure of trying to get this certain kind of dye that would use they would use to uh to turn things purple, a beautiful color of purple that they would use. Now you might remember that in the Bible Lydia was called in Acts 16, 14, a seller of purple of the city of Thyatira. So this is where she made her money and uh and and perhaps uh it was her that brought the gospel. We're not exactly sure. It could very well may have been her that brought the gospel originally to this city. But here's something you should really know about this city. They had in this city ancient what we kind of like a l labor unions. They were called guilds. And every tradesman had their particular guild that they were a part of. The city had a lot of bronze smiths there because they were workers of bronze. known for their silver. They had the finest silver in the ancient world. They had the finest silversmiths in the ancient world. There were other industries in the city, you know, bakers, wool workers, dyers. po uh those who were worked in pottery and so on. And so um in order to do all of that and and to engage in trade, you had to be a member of your local uh uh uh guild or labor union um in order for you to be able to buy and sell. This was basically a a closed shop or a closed town, you could say, and you had to be a part of these labor unions before they would let you. And also these labor guilds, what they would do is they would hold great festivals for all the members of their particular guild. Now the problem was is when they would hold these festivals, they were held in the temple of Apollo that was there in the city. And again, he was the patron god of the uh the military garrison that was there in the city. And again, he was called So they would have these grand festivals there at this temple, and the people that would come there Um we had talked about this before, if you'd be with us in our study. They would eat and they would fellowship and they would involve themselves in sexual immorality in these temples. That was all part of the rituals that were in these temples. And so um basically then what's a Christian to do in that circumstance? What what can they do in that environment? Um, you know, it it it was said that if you did not go and you didn't participate, that you would anger the god Apollo And if you angered him, uh, then your he would not help you in your particular trade and in the buying and selling. And so the result of that would be that you would be expelled from the guild that was there. You lost your job. And so what was happening was Christians were forced to participate in these things or risk losing their job. And so they were hitting them right where it hurt the most. They were hitting them in the pocketbook. And so every follower of Jesus Christ there in that town had to make a choice. It was either Jesus or it was their career. It's also worth noting that in that city, that particular city, there was a priestess or a female oracle that claimed to be able to give uh divine words from her particular God. Now that's the city. Now in that environment, a church was planted. Now again, we don't know how the church if I attire was started. It was very possible that the gospel came through Lydia, who was saved at Philippi. You remember that story in Acts chapter 16 when the apostle Paul went to the city of Philippi, shared the gospel, and the first convert there was Lydia. the cellar of purple. Or it could have been some believers who learned the gospel at the city of Ephesus and they went out evangelizing and they went through this particular city and people got saved. We're not exactly sure uh how the church started. It may have been founded by a woman, but one thing is for certain as we study this, what we're going to find is that it it was corrupted by a woman. I titled the sermon When Jezebel Joins the Church. And that's because the Lord calls attention to a particular woman in this church Named Jezebel. Look in verse number 20. Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee because thou sufferest that woman, Jezebel. which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed to idols. And so here the Lord calls attention to a particular problem that was there in the church. And again, we're reminded as we read this that what the Lord wants from his church is he wants people that are fully devoted to him A pure church, people that are pursuing holiness in the fear of the Lord, a church that stands firmly on the truth of who Jesus is. truth of his word and who will not compromise his word at all. Will not tolerate compromise. So that's the church. The correspondent. Notice how Jesus introduces himself. I love the way he introduces himself in verse eighteen. Look at it again. And unto the angel of the church of Thyatirah, right, These things saith the Son of God I'd love that he emphasizes that because remember, in the city there was a temple to Apollo, and Apollo was known as the Son of God. It's as if Jesus was saying, I am the real son of God. And also notice that he says in verse 18 that who hath eyes like a flame of fire. I think that you remember the city of Thyatira had silversmiths and bronzesmiths that made the finest metals of the ancient world. And here Jesus is referring to the refining fires of those industries that were there in that city. He said, My eyes are like the flame of fire, that refining fire that the the city knew so much about Jesus said, My eyes are as a flame of fire. He sees the works of our hands, but more importantly, he looks deeper than that, and he sees the motives of our heart, he sees the thoughts of our mind. He, as the all-seeing one, And then also notice he's not only the saving one, the son of God, and the searching one, but also the sovereign one, because again it says in verse 18 that his feet are like fine brass. And again, that uh the people there would understand fine brass, the bronzemiths there especially that were a part of that city that produced fine brass. And so Jesus relates that to himself. And in the Bible, brass is a symbol of judgment. It's a symbol of authority. And so I love the way the Lord introduces himself to this church in a way that they would understand based on their local context. Now what I want you to see here are three areas that this this the all-seeing one, the sovereign one, the Son of God Is going to judge in this church. Notice number one, he commends their service. Now, always the Lord commends a church first, and we see this again with Thyatira. Look at verse 19. I know thy works and charity. and service. And also it says charity and service and faith. Notice their charity. We see their motive is love. And so here Jesus sees their works. He commends their works. They were a church that were busy for him, and the Lord sees that and knows that. And again, beloved, that's a reminder to us that whenever we do, we do it for the Lord. The Lord is watching and he sees those things that we do. And I'm grateful for a church where people are involved and people serve. I'm thankful for the people here at Grace that serve in many ways. The Lord sees that and the Lord knows that. But also see their motive. They labored out of love. You remember that the church of Ephesus they left their first love. But the Lord doesn't say this here about Thyatira. John Stott wrote this. He said Thyatira not only rivaled Ephesus in busy Christian service. But exhibited the love which Ephesus lacked. We know that what we do we should do out of love for our Savior. And they seem to have that. Jesus said, I know your charity, I know your love, and your service. The word for service there in verse 19 is Diconai. It's where we get the word deacon. It also means minister, anyone who really serves. It's a word that was used of Jesus, the Son of Man, came not to minister to, but to minister or to serve. So again, this is a church that's busy, they're serving. He sees that. He sees their motive. He sees their ministry. He sees their means of faith. Again here in verse number 19. I know your faith. And uh we could really translate that word faithfulness. The people not only did they serve, but they were faithful at it. You know, it's hard to find people that are consistent and faithful And that would just continue on. And uh one preacher said, um, the people in my church are like alcohol cells or they disappear after I put 'em in water. But then he says, I know your men the uh your patience, their mentality, and verse number nineteen, and thy Patience, the word hopomone, steadfastness, endurance. This has the idea of persevering through difficulty. Like the church at Smyrna, they had to endure, they had to go through difficult times. And so here's a church that was persevering, and they didn't quit. And then I like this where he says this in verse 19, and thy works and the last to be more than the first. Now, there are people in this church and they didn't quit. They just continued serving. In fact, they did more at the latter end than they did at the beginning. They were come becoming more effective. They were adding works. They weren't subtracting. They were continuing to be very, very faithful. They were moving forward. You know, sometimes there's this mentality on the part of God's people where they serve in a church and they serve and they, after a while, they say, you know what, I've done my part, I'm done, I'm going to be a spectator now. And they sit back and they watch everyone else because they have this mentality that I serve the Lord enough. After all, I don't want to burn out. So instead of burning out, they decide to rust out. And they don't really get involved anymore. They don't do anything. If the Lord was ever worthy of your service in the beginning, he's still worthy right now. If you love them and you serve them out of love, then why are you not serving them anymore if you serve them out of love? And so here, these people, Jesus says of them that their works and the last to be or more than actually in the first. And so there's a lot of good things again about this church. We can commend them just like we see some of the good things in the other churches that the Lord pointed out. But there was a problem. And what was the problem? Well, as I said before, Jezebel joined a church Notice the second thing, he confronts their sin. We saw already where in the beginning he commends their service. Now he confronts their sin. Again, look in verse 20, notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants, to commit fornication and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. Here, after the commendation, Jesus says, I have a few things against you. We saw before where Jesus said, I have something against you to one church, but here Jesus says, I have a few things. That should get their attention. That would get our attention, would it not? Here's the problem. Look at the word suffereth. You are tolerating a member in your church to teach things that are not right. A member that is immoral, a member that is sinning to do to teach others to do some of those same things, that's a problem. And again, what we see here, the Lord wants purity out of his church. We see this all throughout the New Testament, right? I mean, Jesus taught us that when we see an erring member, and we talked about this on Wednesday night, you see someone erring from the faith, you go after him. In Matthew 18, we're taught that when we see a believer that is sinning, and they're in a pattern of sin that was going to be destructive for them or for the name of the Lord, we are to go after them and we confront them. And here's a there's a problem because they're letting this woman dominate in the church and she's doing things and she's teaching things that are not right. They were tolerating it. Remember the church at Ephesus, they would not tolerate it. In fact, go back to chapter 2 and verse number 2, where it says of the church at Ephesus, I know thy works and thy labor and thy patience. How thou canst not bear them which are evil. They they couldn't tolerate sin in that church. They wouldn't allow it. In fact, it says in verse 2 again, and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them to be liars. When everyone in the church at Ephesus stood up and said, I speak for the Lord, I have a word from God, I have the authority of God, I'm an apostle. What would the Church of Ephesus do? They would test them to see whether that was the case or not. And they found them to be liars. And they were defending the truth and purity of the church by doing that. But here we don't see this with the church at Zyatai, where they're not doing that. There's a woman in the church who went around stirring up trouble and leading others to sin. And there was no one in the church that had enough courage or conviction to stand up and say, no, enough. We're not going to allow this. They didn't want to rock the boat. But by not wanting to rock the boat, they were allowing her to sink the ship. And who was she? Well the Lord calls her Jezebel. Now most commentators agree this was not a real name. This was a symbolic name given by our Lord. I'm sure it wasn't a real name. By the way, if anyone named Jezebel wants to join this church, I'm gonna have to really take a second look at that or a second thought of that. Just kidding. Just kidding. But the Lord uses this name for a very specific reason, because He's referring to the the person that is very well known in the Old Testament, the woman. And when you say that name, Jezebel, everyone pretty much knows who you're talking about because she is infamous because of her wickedness in the Old Testament. You remember? We went through the study of First Kings on Wednesday night and we spent some time talking about Jezebel. She was the notorious daughter of a priest of Baal by the name of Eth Baal, who was the king of the of the Sidonians, who married the king of Israel, King Ahab. Ahab was a wicked man, but when he married Jezebel, she pushed them to a new level. And what was the problem with that? Well the problem was She set out to systematically replace the worship of Yahweh in Israel with the worship of Baal And the worship of Baal was just an incredibly um uh uh immoral, uh filthy, vile religion that had all kinds of just um uh uh uh rituals that it dealt with sex and immorality that is not fit to even talk about if you ask me, some of the vile things that were done in that And Jezebel was set on replacing the the worship of the God Yahweh with Baal. That's why under her All these high places were set up all over Israel. What's a high place? That was, you know, the land of Israel is filled with hills on these high places. They would put up altars. And in the case of the worship of Baal and Asheroth, they would set up these groves with these poles, and there were all kinds of filthy rituals that went with these uh high places and they were all over Israel and she was set on uh see uh Baal worshipped And God rose up a prophet by the name of Elijah, and you might remember his name, uh Eli is my God is Yah is a shortened form of Yahweh. My God is Yahweh. Against all of this Pagan immorality and idolatry. Here's a prophet of God standing up and saying, My God is not Baal, my God is Yahweh. And he was there to stamp out the religion of Baal. And that was the ministry of Elijah. But under Jezebel, temples of Baal were set up everywhere. And she was teaching the Israelites. to commit idolatry and commit immorality all over. And now Fast forward here into the New Testament, here is a woman in a church at Thyatira that is doing some of the same things As Jezebel did in the Old Testament, the Lord uses that name to designate this one woman. Because again, verse 20 She is teaching them to commit fornication and to eat things sacrificed unto idols. We we don't know. She's probably a very attractive woman, no doubt, possessed of charming personality and a persuasive tongue, forceful rhetoric, she's able to persuade people. And this woman was basically causing people in the church to compromise what they believed And to do these things that God knew was just an abomination and a sin. Now, notice that she calls herself a prophetess. What's a prophetess? This is a a woman who claimed to be able to speak the word of God. An inspired word of God. I have a word of God for you. Maybe she was modeling herself after the prophetess of the one of the mystery religions that was there in the city of Thyatira. Maybe she kind of fashioned herself after that. And she claimed to speak for God. Let me just say this, beloved. If anyone comes to you claiming to speak a word of God to you, you better be careful about that. And you better make sure, you better test that with the word of God. I've had all kind of people come to me and say, God told me to tell you this. And a lot of times it's just things for me to do. You know. I also want to say, look, why don't you do it? You know? I've already got enough to do. God never said anything to me about this. Be careful of people that come to you and want to say that God told me to tell you this. She calls herself a prophetess. She claimed to get a direct word from God. And what what was she doing? Here's what I think was going on here. She was telling the believers in the church that it was okay to go to those festivals. You know, if you're part of the guild of the city And they have these festivals at the Temple of Apollo, then it would be wrong for you not to go. Go ahead and go there. I have a word from God, and God says, go, go, it's okay. Go and Eat there, eat meat sacrificed unto an idol there in the temple, and go ahead and participate in the in the rituals that are there that include immorality. There's nothing wrong with that. God's saying it's okay. That's what she's doing. She's seducing the believers there and teaching them that it's okay. Now remember what I said last week that when the Apostle Paul was dealing with this issue of eating meat sacrificed to idols, and he was dealing with it at the church at Corinth In chapters eight and nine he was saying that it's okay to go to the Agora to the uh to the marketplace and buy meat there. It may have been sacrificed to an idol, but if you buy it there and you take it home and eat it That is a matter of Christian liberty. You have the liberty to do that because we know that there's nothing wrong with that. They're not really false guys. Now they're demons, but they can't really, you know contaminate the meat spiritually. So it's okay to take that meat home and eat it. That's a matter of liberty. If you feel the liberty of doing it. Now if you offend another brother in doing that, then you should love your brother not to wish to restrain and don't do it That is a matter of liberty. What is not a matter of liberty is going into a pagan temple and sitting down in that temple And eating meat in that temple with the pagans that are there, because to do that is an act of worship in itself to eat that meat in that ritual in that place, that is wrong. And Paul made that very clear in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. That's when he said, don't do that. Don't go into those places. Because don't you realize that you are sharing a table with demons, you're fellowshipping with demons when you do that? You don't do that. That's wrong. Christians should never do that. But here's this woman, and she's telling the believers at this church, it's okay. God gave me a word. I have a word from God. It's all right. You can go there. And you can but after all, if you don't do it, you're gonna lose your job. You shouldn't lose your job over this. God doesn't want you to do that. So yeah, you have you have the the freedom to go into the Temple of Apollo and go ahead and eat meat there and go ahead and commit immorality there Wow. We don't know her theology. It was probably the theology of the of the Nicolaitans that the Lord had mentioned earlier at the Church of Pergamos. And what was that? That's just the theology of loose living of of grace. Oh, it's all grace. I have the liberty to do whatever I want. Anti-nomianism, which is the idea of living as if there are no rules or no laws. Here she's telling them, you know, don't be so foolish as to believe those people that refuse to go into the temple and participate in these festivals. All things are lawful. This woman was a problem. in the church. And there were people there that were letting her do this. And she claimed to be giving deep truths from God. But look what the Lord said. These are not deep truths of God. Look at verse 21. And I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. Drop down to verse 24, but I say uh but unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine And which have not known the depths of Satan as they speak, I will put upon you none other burden. What I wanted to show you in verse 24 is that the Lord calls what she's saying and doing the depths of Satan. She's not teaching the deep things of God. She's teaching the deep things of Satan. Now the people there again that were listening to her, they were believing They were being seduced by her, and she was leading good people away and leading them to compromise. These Christians here should have been like the Bryants to search the scriptures. To see if these things are so to test the spirits to try and see if this was from God they were not like that. Again I tell you it It's your responsibility as a believer to know enough of the Word of God and pray and seek God that when you hear teaching, that you make sure that it is solid, biblical, it is sound, because you know what? There's a lot of bizarre stuff out there. Being taught in the name of Christianity. But notice her insensitivity in verse 21. But I gave her space to repent of her fornication, and she repented not. You know, God is so gracious. He is even giving this woman time to repent. He gives warnings and he gives people time to respond and to repent of their sin. But she doesn't do that. This is God's long suffering. You know, sometimes people interpret the long suffering of God as if God is giving them an okay to go ahead and continue to sin. But the Bible says it's the long-suffering of God that should lead us to repentance. The fact that God is patient with us should cause us to repent. And so God gave her time, but she would not repent. But notice her immorality then. Look at verse 22. Behold, God says, I will cast her into a bed. And them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds. What does God mean when he says, Behold, I will cast her into a bed? What does that mean? Well, I again I think the Lord is playing on what's going on there. in the temple because if you went into the temple there and you participated in those rituals, everything that took place in there took place on a bed. Did you know back in this day when they sat down to eat meat, it wasn't sitting down on chairs and tables like we have today. That's not the way they would do it. If you went into an ancient temple back then, sometimes these temples served as restaurants, kind of, you know. You go into one of those temples, they had cushions all around with these short tables. And when you go in, you would lay down on those cushions, you would lay down on the bed, so to speak, and you would recline on your elbow, and that's how you would eat. It would be a big feast with people laying down on beds. there. And so whatever took place in those temples, it all took place on a bed, even the ritual that involved um that immorality. And so Christ is basically saying, if you like bed so much, I have a bed for you. It's a place of tribulation. This is a bed of affliction. I'm going to cast her onto a bed of tribulation. And all those that join with her, all of those that participate with her in this ritual, this immorality. They're also going to be part of this great tribulation except they repent. Even in this morning here, again, the Lord is extending grace, except they repent. Here a second time he asked her and her followers to repent. And what if they don't repent? Look at verse 23. And I will kill her children with death. And all the churches shall know that I am he that searches the reins and hearts, and I will give unto every one of you according to your works. Here's a serious warning from the Lord. Those who continue in this way, unrepentant, Then the Lord would kill her children. That's all those that she has seduced, all of those that are part of this. God says, I will kill her children with death. Now, we talked about this on Wednesday night. It is possible for a believer to sin in such a high-handed fashion. In such a stubborn, continuous way that after the chastisement and warnings of God, they don't repent, and the Lord just might call them home. He might bring death to them. And we see this in the scripture in several places. The Lord warns in 1 John 5:16: there is a sin unto death. Paul warned the Corinthians not to approach the Lord's supper in a careless way because that's the reason some of them were dead among them, or sleep is the word that Paul uses there. So this is a serious warning. You know what? God is serious about sin in the life of his people. This is something that we should learn from this. God is incredibly serious about this. It's not to be overlooked. God wants his people to walk in righteousness, practical righteousness, in purity and in holiness. And this was such a disgrace to the name of the Lord that these believers would do this. And so there's a serious, serious threat from the Lord to repent. Let me give you the last thing. I want you to see he comforts their saints. That's the last thing. Not everyone in this church was compromising in this way. There were some that were standing. But look at verse 24. But unto you I say, and unto the rest, in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine And which have not known the depths of Satan as they speak, I will put upon you no other burdens, but that which ye have already hold fast till I come, but that which ye have already hold fast till I come And he that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. As the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers, even as I received of my father. And I will give him the morning star. And he that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says unto the churches. Again, not everyone in the church had been seduced There was a faithful remnant, and God said he would place no afflictions on those in the church that were faithful. And then he promises a future reward. He tells him, hold fast till I come. Keep standing firm. Don't be persuaded by what others are doing. And then he promises a future reward. I love where again he uses the word overcometh in verse 26. Again, one of John's favorite words. It's used to describe a true believer that has victory over the temptation of the world. That's how you know they're truly gods, because God has given them the ability to overcome the world. And he gives them two promises that they will reign with the Son of God. When Christ comes, he will rule with a rod of iron There will be instant judgment. And uh he basically says that you will uh rule with me. I will give power over the nations. And he shall rule with them with a rod of iron. And so basically Jesus is granting a portion of this to us who are faithful. To those who know Christ in the kingdom, they will rule with him. But then here's the second thing. Also, he says, I will give him the morning star. What is the morning star? Better yet, who is the morning star? In ancient Babylon, all the way back in those days, Venus was considered the morning star, and this was the ultimate source of authority. But in Scripture, Jesus is called the bright and morning star. In Revelation 21, he's called that. The morning star is the star that shines the brightest just when the darkness of night is over, when the dawn is coming. It is the star that shines the brightest. And Jesus says to those who stand firm, I will give him the morning star. That is, it's Christ himself. Jesus himself. There's a special closeness and blessing that Jesus is promising. And Christ is the the one that we desire. He's the one that we want to fellowship with, and here is Jesus giving this wonderful promise. of closeness and glory with Christ. Now, in closing, let me just give you a few thoughts and we're going to be done on this sermon. But what do we take away from this? What do we learn from this church? Serve Christ faithfully because you love him and don't quit. Keep being faithful, right? I mean he commends them before because of that. The real question here is this, how valuable is Jesus to you? What is he worth to you? Would you value your job over him? Would you value your career over him? You value your finances over him? How valuable is he? You know in retail today they have what is called a loss leader. I'm not a salesman or anything, but this is what I read. That means that you sell something up front And you lose something when you sell it up front, some piece of merchandise, and you do that in order to get more people in your store so they will buy it. You guys understand that trick out there, right? You know, you ever do that? I I've done it. I've bought that for real cheap and then I just don't go back to the store. But that's what merchants will do. They'll what they call it the lost leader. They give you something up front. And they take a loss on it because they want you to get m they want you to get more or buy more. And it seems to me that a lot of times in our Christian life Losing your job for Jesus or losing something valuable because you stand for Jesus is kind of like a lost leader You pay a price up front, but the gain in the end is really big. It's really big. You may have to pay a price today or in this life for standing for Christ, but I want to tell you. that in the end the reward is going to be far greater than any price you paid here to stand for Christ. And that's what Jesus is basically telling this church. You stay faithful. I've got blessings for you. I've got things that this earth can never give you. Rewards that are far exceed whatever you may lose by standing firm for me. Another thing we learn is be careful to search the scriptures for yourself to make sure that you're taught right that these things are so. Another thing I say I pull from this is never, never Tolerate sin. Not in your own personal life, not in the church. Christ wants a pure bride. And then number four, remember the evidence of someone who is an overcomer is they keep Christ works to the end. And then I would just say this, beloved, make sure you have Jesus Christ as your morning star. Make sure you know Christ, that He is your Savior. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Again, beloved, I would just ask you to search your heart, examine your heart. Do you have the morning star? Is he yours? Do you know Christ? Have you trusted him as your Savior? And what's Christ's worth you? How valuable is Jesus to you? Do you value Him above all things? I was talking to our Bible school class tonight, and I said, I think the pinnacle of Christian growth and maturity is to value Christ above all things. That's where we need to be spiritually. To value God, to treasure God, to value Christ above all things. And that's what God wants of us, And we have to really ask ourselves, is that true of us? Is that true of me? That I value Christ above all. Father, may it be so in our hearts. That we learn to loosen our grip on the things of this world and the treasure Christ far above all of it, realizing that all the blessings The promises, the rewards that we have in Christ so far exceed the things of this world, that if ever we are called to stand for Christ and pay a price by losing some of these things, that to us it's it's nothing It's nothing. We're willing. Because of the exceeding value that we find in Christ, in Christ alone. May it be so in our heart and our life, Lord. Bring us to that place. Thank you, Lord, for your word again, how it challenges our heart, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.