As you find that, listen and follow along as I read a few verses with you tonight. I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. Neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men of skill. But time and chance happens to them all. For man also knoweth not his time, as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them. This wisdom have I seen under the sun, and it seems great unto me. There was a little city and a few men within it. And there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city. Yet no man remembered that same poor man. And then said I, Wisdom is better than strength Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. The words of the wise men are heard in quiet more than the cries of him that ruleth among fools Wisdom is better than weapons of war, but one sinner destroyeth much good. I was reading this week about an Olympic swimmer from Australia, a man by the name of Ian Thorpe. He was hailed as the fastest swimmer in the world during his time. He was expected to go and compete in the 2004 Olympics, and he was expected to win the gold medal. No one really had ever challenged him, especially in the 400-meter freestyle. That was his best event But during the Olympic trials, when he was getting into starting position, a terrible thing happened. When he got up onto the blocks getting ready to jump into the pool at the start of the race. He slipped suddenly off the blocks and stumbled and fell into the pool. Well, that disqualified Thorpe from ever competing. You see, because the way the rule works that if you jump into the pool before the start of the race, you're immediately disqualified. And if you're disqualified from the Olympic trials, then you can't compete for the gold medal. Well now, the distraught swimmer went to the judges and went to the three-panel jury to to just plead his case, but they would not even hear him. Rules are rules. Even on a technicality like this, he would not be able to compete. All the people of Australia got in an uproar. They couldn't understand. This this just didn't seem fair. Here was this young man who uh worked so hard and sacrificed so much to be the best in the world. And indeed he was the best. He was the fastest swimmer in the world. And yet he would not win the gold medal But Ian Thorpe uh combination by saying, I accept it. And now everyone else has to accept it as well. Now his demeanor and attitude during that time showed great poise and wisdom, and he may not have won a gold medal, but he certainly won the heart and respect of his nation by submitting us or by demonstrating a submissive attitude. And that is exactly the lesson that I think Solomon is trying to teach us here in Ecclesiastes chapter 9. Life is uncertain. We may work hard to reach a certain goal, but there's no guarantee that things will work out the way that we think They will. This is a hard lesson to learn and yet it's a needful lesson for all of us because let's face it, there's a sense in which we all feel if we work hard and we do the right things and we play by the rules that we should prevail. We should succeed. And if things don't work out the way they're supposed to, we feel like it's not fair. Life is not fair. There's a violation inside of us. where we rebel against the way things are. You mean I I mean we would think that if a person studied hard, made good grades, went to college, graduated with honors, then went to graduate school, and continue to excel in education, we would think that a person like that should graduate, get a good job, make a big six-figure income, and be successful in their life. You would think that that would be the case, right? You would think so. But Solomon says you better guess again. There are no guarantees in this life. C. S. Lewis said this. He said, every human being appeals to the common law of fair play. Fairness is kind of a natural instinct we carry inside. Uh and and it seems to be planted in all of us, he says, at birth. And if things don't happen the way we think they should happen then we that fairness is violated. But Solomon reminds us that life does not play by the rules. Life is filled with complexities, life is filled with uncertainties and mysteries and not everyone is going to have a storybook ending to their life where they live happily ever after. Now, so let's look at this because Solomon delves into this just a little bit deeper. And I want you to remember the context of Ecclesiastes chapter nine. In fact, go back to verse number one, and let's be careful to set the stage here so that we can understand what Solomon is trying to say In verse 1, he says, For all this I consider in my heart, even to declare all this, that the righteous and the wise and their works are in the hand of God. Now Basically, what he's saying here is that, in this first statement in verse 1, is that the righteous and the wise, both alike, are subject to the same Uncertain future is anyone else. It doesn't matter whether you're righteous or you're wise. There's an uncertainty to life. In verses 2 through 10, Solomon discusses this idea with regard to the righteous. And he reminds all of us that death is certain and it's coming. And then because of that, we should enjoy life. We should enjoy the gifts of God. But just because you're righteous doesn't mean that things will happen the way you think they should. And now he's arguing the same idea with those who are wise. The wise are also subject to an uncertain future. Now, with all that in mind, what I want to show you tonight are four truths. That we can bring out of this passage that'll help us to understand the point that Solomon is getting at. If you're taking notes, right down here is the first point, the premise I want to talk about the premise. And then next to that, right, man's abilities does not guarantee his future. Man's abilities does not guarantee his future. Things will not go as we think. Look in verse number 11 now in chapter 9. And look again what he says. I returned and saw under the sun. Now when Solomon says I return, he means that he's coming back to an idea. He's coming back to a premise. In case you haven't noticed, the book of Ecclesiastes kind of has a circular structure. That is that there's a certain amount of themes that he goes back to again and again and again. Have you noticed that? It's kind of like circular. We're going to come back to a theme that he's mentioned before. You may sit here and hear a sermon on Ecclesiastes and say, well, he's already talked about that. Yes, he has. And he's coming back around to it again. But it's kind of like a ever-widening staircase. You ever go up a staircase that it gets wider and wider as you ascend up? You come back back around to the same place, however What Solomon does is he elaborates a little bit more on this idea. Or he will correct that idea. He'll come back around to the same theme and he'll say there's something else that I've noticed about this. Or there's a conclusion that I come to now about this that I did not previously hold. That's what he's talking about here in verse 11. I have returned back to this idea and I saw, that is, he's making a correction. He held to an initial view, and that view changed. His premise changed. And his premise was that you would think that if a person worked hard and planned carefully, that that would ensure their success. But now he sees that that is not the case. And in order to hammer home his point, he gives five quickfire illustrations. It's kind of like driving a nail into a piece of wood. He's emphasizing this one point by five hard strikes on five quick illustrations. Look at the first one. He talks about a runner in verse 11. The race is not to the swift. That is, the fastest runner doesn't always win the race. If you don't believe that, you need to read the story of the tortoise and the hare. We've all known that story. The tortoise is not supposed to win the race. The hare is supposed to win. He's faster, but it doesn't happen. In May of 1954, Roger Bannister was the first runner to run the mile under four minutes. But just a few days after that, there was a runner from uh Australia by the name of John Landy, and he ran the mile under four minutes, and he set a world record, and he was considered to be the fastest runner in the world. And so these two met together on a race that was called the race of the century, where they would race each other, the two fastest men supposedly, but Landy was definitely the swiftest. No one had come close to his world record And as they were running, Landy was leading throughout most of the race, and on one occasion he c looked back over his left shoulder to see where Bannister was, and when he did, he kind of broke stride and stumbled just a bit and Bannister passed him on his right side and he won the race. He didn't break the world record, but he he won the race. Now Landy was the fastest man, but he lost. Very simple. The fastest, the swiftest doesn't always win. But then next the soldier in verse 11. Nor the battle to the strong. The battle is not always won by the strongest army. In 1815, Napoleon was at the zenith of his power. His army was considered invincible. He swept across the battlefields of Europe. garnering victory after victory, leaving destruction in his wake, until finally he met the armies of the Duke of Wellington, the Allied Alliances, the Allied Armies of the Duke of Wellington or Duke Wellington I should say. And they were ready for the battle. Napoleon had set up his strategy. He was utterly confident of victory. But something happened that night. A storm came in. And he could not maneuver his guns the way he thought. And that pause in the battle allowed Wellington to bring in reinforcements and Napoleon lost. Here is this mighty commander in this mighty army that could have crushed these troops, but they lost And one writer commenting on this said, a cloud traversing the sky out of season was suffice to make that mighty emperor crumble. The battle isn't always to the strong. But also he mentions the wise in verse 11. He says, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise. Ordinarily, we would think someone who had good skills and decent wisdom and things like that would be able to make a good living. And understand some of the problems of life, but we understand that that's sometimes not true as well. Sometimes the wise are not able to earn their bread. And then along with that, the understanding again in verse 11 Nor yet riches to men of understanding. The word understanding here has the idea of a high intelligence, a high IQ. This is someone who's incredibly smart. You would think that someone who is genius-prone or incredibly smart would be able to live a life where he's rich. But not all geniuses are rich. In fact, I was reading a story this week of a man by the name of Leo Grant. He was a homeless man who was discovered through a series of circumstances to be a computer genius. Here's a computer genius and yet he's living on the streets. Many geniuses die poor There's the story of the scientist Nikolai Tesla. He was a world-famous inventor. We had to thank him for many things that we have today. For instance Alternating current was an invention of Tesla. Radio, wireless technology, neon lamps, x-rays. You say, well, this man must have been a millionaire to invent all of that. No, he died penniless in 1943. in a New York hotel that he lived for for ten years. They were merciful to allow him to live there. The other hotel had kicked him out because he was unable to pay the bill. And so there he died, penniless and lonely, a genius who invented all of these things, and yet he was poor. And then the skillful, look in verse number 11. Nor yet favor to men of skill. You would think that a person who has great gifts, here we're talking about the gifts of an artist, people who are able to bless us with what they do With how they write or how they sing. You would think that someone skilled like that would be favored and would be loved. But again, that's not necessarily the case, Solomon says. Again, there's a story of Van Gogh. heard of that name he is an artist and his paintings sell for millions today but did you know that while he was alive his work was not very appreciated and he only made the whole time he was alive for all of his paintings you ready for this a total of $109 And yet when he died after that, his works were appreciated, and now they sell for millions. And then there's a story of Herman Melville. That name might sound familiar to you. Melville was the author of the novel. Which is a a masterpiece in American literature today called Moby Dick. Did you know that, however, he wasn't really recognized or appreciated as a writer? And the work that he wrote was not really considered a classic until 30 years after he died. He died in 1891, broke virtually unknown and unappreciated by anyone. And on we could go. So Solomon says, look, the race is not always to the swift The battle is not always to the strong, nor bread to the wise, nor riches to men of understanding, nor favor to men of skill. Well, what happened Why is that so? Here's the second point, not only the premise, man's abilities do not guarantee his future, but here's number two, the problem. The problem, and next to that, write this. Unforeseen events frustrate our plans. Unforeseen events. Look again in verse 11. But time and chance happens to them all. Now what is Solomon talking about here? There have been some who have pointed to this phrase time and chance, and they try to infer on that the idea of luck. Oh, he's talking about luck here Just bad luck. Is this luck that he's talking about? Well let me just tell you, beloved, there's no such thing as luck. In fact, Luck is a false God. Did you know that in the Old Testament, God got angry at King Ahaz, the king of Israel? You know why? Because the Bible says he made an offering and sacrifices to the gods of Gad and Meni. Who's Gad and Meni? The word Gad is a reference to the God of luck and fortune. And many is the God of chance or destiny. That's in Isaiah 65, 11 and 12. God got angry at King Ahaz because he was praying to the God of luck. He was praying to the God of chance. It provoked the anger of God. By the way, there are still some people that believe in that today. Their faith is all based on luck or chance In fact, that word luck, we probably hear it every day. It's such a part of our vocabulary, even among the Christian vocabulary. But let me tell you something, friends, there's no such thing as luck or chance. There's only a God in heaven who is sovereign and who is in control of all things. The Bible says in Ephesians 1. 11 that God works all things to the counsel of his will. Everything is under his wise providence and under his sovereign That's either if God is actively working out his plans, making things happen, or sometimes he may be passively allowing and permitting events to happen. Either way, he only permits Those events that are a part of his purpose and plan. But either way, God is in control. And what happens in life is not arbitrary What happens in life is not a chance event. Everything has a purpose. So when Solomon here mentions time and chance, he's not referring to bad luck. Look at the word time there. It's the same word that is used in Ecclesiastes 3. 1 when it says there's a time for every matter. There's a time for every purpose under heaven. In the words of Martin Luther, you should understand time here to refer to every appointed time and outcome. Every appointed time, God has appointed certain things. And look at the word chance. This is a word again that refers to a providential event. It refers to something unforeseen, an occurrence that just comes upon us quickly. And and normally when this word is used in the Old Testament, it often refers to things that we would interpret as bad things. Things that catch us off guard. Let me read to you what James Smith said on this. He had a good word He said, God may allow things to transpire that frustrate those who apparently have all resources and gifts at their disposal. He may allow their efforts to be thwarted. All human efforts are liable to be changed or controlled by circumstances beyond man's power. A higher hand than man's disposes events, and successes conditioned by superior laws which work unexpected results. I think that's so true here. And in the context of this, if you look at verse 12, it is clear that Solomon is talking about events that are not good events, events that we would interpret as something bad. Look in verse 12, for man also knoweth not his time. As the fishes that are taken in an evil net And as the birds that are caught in the snare, so are the sons of men snared in an evil time when it falleth suddenly upon them. And simply to say life is out of man's control. He may think that he's in control, but he knoweth not his time Some think when it says he knows not his time, he may be referring to death here, but I don't think he's referring to death. Again, I think he's referring to some unforeseen event that takes place in a person's life that frustrates their plans. A diver, or excuse me, a swimmer, who has trained hard for the gold medal, slipping off. the block. An unforeseen event. Now, to really again vividly illustrate what he's saying, he uses these two illustrations, like a fish caught in a net. Here's a fish just swimming along, minding his own business, and then suddenly he's caught in a net. And then a bird and a snare? Now both of these analogies suggest something that happens unexpectedly Something that happens swiftly and suddenly. And that's normally the way trials sometimes come upon us. In James chapter 1, verse 3, James says, when you fall into divers temptations. And the word there fall as the idea of something that happens surprisingly, suddenly. And so life is unpredictable. We have to understand that. Now let me give you the third point First, the premise, man's ability does not guarantee his future. Then there's the problem, unforeseen events frustrate our plans. But then number three, write down the parable. The parable. Even wisdom is vulnerable to the uncertainties of life Even wisdom is vulnerable to the uncertainties of life. Now what's happening here is that Solomon is anticipating an argument. It's something like this. But what if you're really wise? Isn't it true that if you're wise, you can kind of navigate around these uncertainties and these mysteries of life? Doesn't wisdom trump all of the uncertainties of life? Can't a wise man manage all the contingencies and adjust to make certain his future? Well, Solomon gives us a little parable to teach us that although wisdom may be very valuable, wisdom is still vulnerable. Wisdom is strong, it's mighty, it's valuable, however, it has its limitations. Look at verse number 13. This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seems great unto me. Now what he's saying here is that here's a great illustration. Solomon said, I'm going to tell you a really good bit of wisdom here, a great story that illustrates my point. Now he's going to tell a story here. Some scholars argue that he's telling about an event that really happened, something that he really saw. And in fact, there are some scholars that take a lot of time trying to pinpoint this actual historical event Which goes to demonstrate one thing that some people have too much time on their hands. That's not really important here. Some argue that this is just a parable that he's using to tell his story. That really doesn't matter. The point is he's using here now an illustration to elaborate on his point that wisdom is vulnerable to the uncertainties of life. Now, look at this story. First, there's a small city in verse 14. There was a little city and few men within it So here we're first we have a very small city. This city is easy prey to any ambitious king who wants to expand his empire. It is susceptible to attack. And part of the reason is, is in verse 14, there are few men in it. That is, we could say, few fighting men in this city to protect it. It is weak It doesn't have mighty warriors. And sure enough, here comes a king against it. Look again in verse 14. And there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built up great works against it So we see a great king here. This king comes and he sets up his mighty weapons of war. And by the way, there's a purposeful contrast that you see there in verse 14 between the small little city and the great king and his great weapons, the Hebrew Godol, huge mighty weapons So there's a contrast. That is, these great weapons are raised up against the walls of the city. They're high enough. They're big enough to look over into this city. There's no hope here. It was ripe for a fall. So we see a a small city, a great king, but then notice next, a wise man. Look in verse 15. Now there was found in it a poor, wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city, yet no man remembered that same poor man. In the city was a poor, wise man. And even in that statement where Solomon says he's poor and wise, He's illustrating the point about the uncertainty of life and the limits of wisdom. If this man is so wise, why is he poor? Because things don't turn out sometimes the way we think. If you're wise, there's no guarantee of riches. But notice the phrase where it says, and he by his wisdom delivered the city Now I want you to pay attention to me. If you haven't up until this point, please pay attention from here on out Listen, look at the word delivered here. I want you to look at the word delivered. Notice the verb is past tense in English delivered. And that is a good way to translate this Hebrew verb. in the past tense because in the Hebrew, and I'm I don't want to get too technical, but I need to explain this here to you. In the Hebrew it's a perfect tense verb which is normally deli uh translated past tense So again, this is the correct way to translate it. However, there are times when a perfect tense Hebrew verb is used to describe, listen to me now, potential action rather than completed action. Now, how do we know whether we translate this as potential action or completed action? Well, as in many cases when you're dealing with Hebrew verbs, the context determines that. I think this is one case here where it's talking about potential action. So we could say it like this, listen. And he could have delivered the city Potentially. And read it that way. And he by his wisdom could have potentially delivered this city. You say, well, why do you translate it like that? Well in verse 16, they despise his counsel and his wisdom. Now, by the way, let me just say that Hebrew scholars are divided on this. Some say no this is completed action. Others say no this is potential action. I believe that the context of this demands that this is referring to what could have been. What could have happened I agree with the Hebrew scholar Isaacson, who translates it like this. Now there live in that city a poor man, but wise, and he alone might have saved the city by his wisdom. So the idea is the city is not saved. It could have been delivered. It could have been saved by his wisdom. He was wise enough. He had the plan He was able to negotiate with this great king. He had all of that ability. But what was the problem? Why didn't the city get delivered by his wisdom? Well here's the fourth part of this. Allow ruler. Allow ruler. Look in verse 16. It says, Then said I, wisdom is better than strength. Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is what it's despised. And his words are not heard. And in verse 15, we could back up there where it says, yet no man remembered that same poor man. That is to say, no man took heed or they listened to the counsel of this poor man. So picture it like this. When they called together a city council meeting in an emergency session They brought in some of the men, and they went around getting their advice, and here is this poor wise man who gave his advice. However, they didn't regard it. Here was this man of great skill, great ability in their midst, and they didn't value him. They didn't appreciate what he said. He was overlooked. He was even despised by some. He could have delivered the city But his counsel was not listened to. And then Solomon says in verse sixteen, Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength Now, some commentaries read this statement and they focus on this as if this is the major point. This is not the major point here. This is kind of a by-the-way statement. We know that wisdom is better than strength. But the point is, is that wisdom can be easily ignored. That's the point. Even sound wisdom can be thwarted by people who will not listen That's what he's saying here. And why didn't they listen to him? Why didn't they heed his counsel? Because look in verse 17, it kind of again gives us a clue. The words of the wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools. There's again a contrast between the words of the wise, which are what? They're quiet. They're not very assertive. And then there's a contrast between the loud cry of a ruler who rules among fools. Now get the picture. Think about it with me again. Here is the town council. They gather together in an emergency session. The city is under siege. What shall we do? The one poor wise man gives his counsel. It is sound. It is brilliant. It's a plan. It will work. It will deliver the city. But at that same council there is a loud, vociferous, loquacious ruler That one commentary, Michael Eaton, says he calls him the local district governor. He also has a plan. And by the way, those that are listening to them, Solomon here calls them fools. This man has a plan, and he's very loud. He's very boisterous. And Solomon says the fools are listening to him. He's boisterous. Volume and verbosity trumps the quiet words of wisdom here in this council. Because such is the nature of wisdom. Wisdom by nature is humble. Wisdom by nature is gentle. Wisdom by nature is not loud. It doesn't demand the spotlight. Wisdom refuses to assert itself In fact, write down a verse in Proverbs 20, verse 5, Counsel in the heart of man is like a well of deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. You know what that means? That means that when you want good, wise counsel and you go to a wise man, you're going to have to draw that counsel out. You know why? Because he's not going to just give it out freely That's not the nature of a wise man. He compares it to a well of deep water. Wisdom in the heart of a man, counsel in the heart of a man is like water in a deep well How many of you ever walk by a well and the water just splashes out on you automatically? Hey, come here and get a drink. I've got some water for you. That doesn't happen. If you want water from that well, what do you have to do? You gotta draw it out. You gotta pull it out. Such is the nature of wisdom. A wise man will allow you to draw out his wisdom, but he will not give it freely. And so it's not proud. It's not boisterous. So here you have this quiet, wise man, and he loses out against this loud and loquacious ruler. You say, what's the point? Here's the point. Wisdom is vulnerable. Therefore, it cannot guarantee a definite outcome. Even wisdom as strong as it is, even wisdom as valuable as it is, is not exempt from the uncertainty of the woman. You see, here's the way it should have happened. They should have come together in a town meeting in this crisis. Everyone could have said a word and hear this poor wise man would give his counsel and everyone would see that counsel for how wonderful it is. And they all said, this is the plan, this is what we will do. And because of his counsel, the city is delivered, and everyone lives happily ever after That's the way the story should have gone. But it didn't go that way. Why? Because, look at verse 18. Wisdom is better than the weapons of war. But look at the last part of verse 18. But one sinner destroys much good. It only takes one sinner to undo the words of the wise. Now, what's the point in all this? I mean I got to the end of this study and my my first thought was silent, why are you telling us all this? What is the point here? If Solomon were here today, we would ask him, why? Why are you telling us all this? Well, let me give you the fourth point. And this is the principle. We already talked about the premise: man's ability does not guarantee his future. Number two, the problem, unforeseen events frustrate our plans. Number three, the parable, even wisdom is vulnerable to the uncertainties of life. But then here's number four, the principle, man must submit to the hand of God and trust him fully. That's the reason for all this. Man has to submit to the hand of God and trust him fully. Now this principle is not clearly stated here, but it's what Solomon is getting at. And towards the end of Ecclesiastes, it all builds up towards that one thing, of trusting fully in the Lord, not relying upon your own wisdom and your own plan. And we need to hear this, and you know why we need to hear this? Because that is our tendency. That is our default mode, is to depend upon our own wisdom, to depend upon our own strength, our own counsel. And Solomon is warning us not to do that. In fact, God puts complexities in life and uncertainties in life so that we won't depend upon our own wisdom, so that we'll come to God and get His Wisdom and trust in him fully. Here's a verse that you know very well. Trust in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not to thine own understanding. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths Now let me close by just showing you the New Testament parallel. Go to James chapter 4 real quick. But you just look at this. I want us to look at this for just a few minutes, and then we're going to be done. But when I studied this here in Ecclesiastes chapter 9, I often wondered if James was thinking about this when he wrote these verses in James chapter 4. But even if James wasn't thinking about what Ecclesiastes said, surely God was, because these verses are so closely aligned and so parallel. In James chapter 4, verse 13, he's warning us about being presumptuous about the future. He's warning us about making our own plans. Based on our own wisdom. Look in verse 13. Go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then vanishes away, for ye ought to say if the Lord wills We will live and do this or do that. So what's James describing here? A first century businessman who's making his plans? And James says to that man, Go to now, listen up here, you that are planning everything out. He plans the period today or tomorrow He's got his schedule out. He says, this is what I'm going to do. He plans the place. I'm going to go into this city. I'm going to buy and sell. He plans the procedure. I'm going to get gain. He plans the profit. I want to make money here. But all the planning that he does doesn't take into account the complexities of life. Because in verse 14, notice what James says, whereas you know not what shall be on the morrow. You don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. None of us here can can predict tomorrow. We just don't know There's complexities in life that we don't know are coming. There's the uncertainty of life. And then there's also the brevity of life. Because look again what he says in verse 14. What is your life that is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then it vanishes away? Life is so Uncertain and it's so brief, James says. So what is his counsel? And verse 15, notice what he says, for you ought to say If the Lord wills, I'm going to do this or I'm going to do what is this? This is change James is teaching us here to go ahead and make your plans. There's nothing wrong with planning. In fact, planning is good. Even God makes plans. But when you do that, you better remember God. You better not plan independent of God. You better submit your plans to God to the absolute sovereignty of God. You better acknowledge that He is in control. And you better say, if the Lord wills I will do this or I will do that. You see the problem with these people here that James was referring to, they were saying, my will be done. Instead of God's. James says you ought to say if the Lord wills. And by the way, if you read through the New Testament, you're going to find out that Paul always would inject this when he made plans. For example, in Acts chapter 18, verse 21, Paul told the Jews of Ephesus that he would return and he would have a renewed ministry among them if the Lord wills If the Lord wills. To the Corinthians, he planned to visit them. He said in 1 Corinthians 4. 19, if the Lord wills. We see this expression a lot. So Paul was always dependent upon the Lord, and he was always submissive to the sovereign will of God in his life. And so what's the What's the application for us? We have to trust in the Lord because we don't know the future. Now, friend, I I believe in carrying a modest life insurance policy to protect my family. And I have life insurance. If anything happens to me, my wife, she'll be taken care of for a while. I don't want to make it too high because I don't want to tempt her to do anything. But I try to plan for the future contingencies and things such as that. And I believe in saving and I believe in investing and I believe in using all your money wisely. But let me just say it is impossible to cover all the contingencies of this life. It's impossible. Our economy may crash, our country may be overrun by someone else. Retirement investments may fail. I want to tell you there's only one true source of Security. You know what it is? Trusting in God. That's it. That's our only true source of security. And this is the one thing that Solomon is pointing at Depending upon God, trusting in God with all our heart. May we live each day fully dependent upon God, fully in submission to his sovereign hand. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, Lord, may these truths register deep within us. We're so prone to forget some of these things. And although we may not vocalize it, we seem to have in our heart an entitlement mentality Where we think that this is what should happen for me. This is what ought to happen. And yet, Lord, we know not what the future holds. Things don't always go according to plan. And so, Lord, may this cause us to fear you and to trust fully in you. And while we make our plans here, on the one hand, to submit everything that we do to your sovereign will. And Lord, to say if the Lord wills. And Lord, may that not be just a meaningless cliche May that represent a true, full submission from our heart of what you're doing in our life. Lord, we know this is a way to peace. for us who know you, to live in submission to you. And we pray all these things in your name. Amen.