Good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Take God's word, please, and open to the book of Psalm 119. As you know, we're going through Psalm 119. And tonight we're going to deal with verses 121 on down to verse 128. Psalm 119. And I want to talk tonight about the time for God to work. Is it near does it seem like when you're in a hurry, red lights are a lot longer? I heard about a young man who sat at a red light one evening. He was frustrated. He was already late. He was getting all kind of text messages and and uh d and And uh he slapped the steering wheel and was talking to the red light. That doesn't work either when you're talking your car to the red light. And uh suddenly uh right in front of him an elderly man with a cane was slowly crossing in front of him. And uh what seemed to him then as a pointless delay actually had a purpose to it. The delay gave someone weaker uh time to cross safely. You know, a lot of times we treat the trials that we go through like red lights. And uh they're kind of obstacles to us in the momentum of life. We don't let it want to be slowed down And we treat trials as if they're these hindrances, these giant hindrances in our life. But in God's sovereign timing, delays are not hindrances. He has a holy purpose for all of his delays. And that's something that we need to learn in the Christian life. Now, here in this passage that we're going to look at in Psalm 119, We're going to see that. The um this is the uh this stanza here from verse 121 down to verse 128 seems like it's written from one of those moments in life when Things are not going the psalmist way, and justice seems to prevail, and it seems as if God is silent. The key verse in this section, I would say, would be verse number 126. It is time for thee, Lord, to work Have you ever said that? Lord, I need you to work for me. I don't need it tomorrow. I need it right now. Lord, please work. The hardest thing to do in the Christian life sometimes is to wait on God's timing. That's never an easy thing to do. You know why? Because we're such an impatient people. And God is not in our time. He's not on our calendar. But let me just remind all of us of something that we already know, but we need to be reminded of it, and that is God's time is always right. And his way is always perfect. So we need to learn this discipline, and it is a discipline. It's a spiritual discipline of learning to wait upon the Lord in faith. Waiting on God is a Christian's way of saying, God, I trust you, even when I don't understand what's going on. I don't understand why I have to wait But I still trust you in all of this. And so this stanza will give us some help when learning to wait on the Lord. Really what it shows us is uh that waiting time is not wasted time if we wait with the right heart and the right attitude, and we can learn from reading this stanza of Psalm 119 some godly attitudes that we need to adopt if we're going to learn to wait on the Lord in faith. And here's the first thing I want you to write down, supplication. And then that's after that you can write, I have done right. Look in verse 121. I've done judgment and justice. Leave me not to mine oppressors. Be surety for thy servant for good. Let not the proud oppress me. So while the psalmist is waiting on the Lord, what is he doing? He's pouring out his heart to God. He's speaking to the Lord. And that's what we should do. When you're waiting on God, just tell him all about how you feel. Tell them about your circumstances. What does the Bible say? Cast all of your care upon him because he cares for you. And this is what the psalmist is doing here. Now he's not claiming to be sinless here. He was just simply saying, Lord, I've always tried to do what is right. I'm always trying to obey you and walk in your way. And he's pleading for God to uh to not in arrogance but in honesty, he's pleading for God to move on his behalf Again, he said, I've done judgment and justice. Don't lead me to my oppressors, Lord. Lord, I've tried to do what's right. I don't understand why I'm suffering injustice. But again, he doesn't plead uh merit, but he does it plead uh integrity. This is not a it's not self-righteous to say, God, Lord, I've tried to do what's right. I'm trying to walk in your way. Sometimes when we're doing right, life will hand us trials. And it's not because we've done anything wrong, but it's because we do what is right. That's because we live in a fallen world We suffer at times for doing the right thing. And so the psalmist is telling God all about it. He's pouring his heart out before the Lord. And really his supplication revolves around three requests. First of all, rescue me. That's what he's saying in verse 121. Lord, don't abandon me. Don't leave me to these who are oppressing me. He needs deliverance. He's waiting hard for God to work on his behalf. And so he's he's asking the Lord for his help. Um He fears abandonment. Maybe he feels at times like he's abandoned. And if we're honest, we may all feel that way at times. We pray so hard about certain things. And it just seems like we're not getting any response, we're not getting any answers. And so there are times when it seems like all the odds are stacked against us. That's how the psalmist feels here. But when you feel that, cry out to the Lord, Lord, rescue me, help me. But here's the second request. Represent me. Look in verse 122. Be surety for thy servant for good. Let not the proud oppress thee. When he says surety here, the Hebrew word is an interesting word, and it means to pledge oneself on behalf of another or to stand as a guarantee for someone else. It's kind of a legal or financial term. Assurety is someone who takes responsibility for another person's obligation or another person's debt. So if that person fails to fulfill that debt, this person who is surety will come in and say, I'll take care of this. And there's a sense in which legally this is someone who represents someone else. So he's saying, God, represent me here. Be surety on my behalf. We see this word used in the Old Testament, for example. Judah, in the story in the Old Testament in Genesis chapter 43, Judah pledges himself to be surety for his brother Benjamin. This is when They're asking Jacob to allow Benjamin to go down to Egypt to meet the who they didn't know was Joseph. They thought he was simply the Prime Minister Prime Minister of Egypt. And Jacob was reluctant to let Benjamin go And Judah stands up and this is what he says, I will be surety for him, talking to his father. Of my hand thou shalt require him. I'll be a pledge for his safety. I'm going to represent him. My hand, you can require him in my hand, basically is what he's saying. And so Judah promises to take personal responsibility for Benjamin's safety in Egypt. But if you go to the New Testament, who is our surety? That's Christ. Christ is our surety. Write down Hebrews chapter seven, verse twenty-two. By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament or covenant. That is, we could say this makes Jesus the guarantor of our Our better testament, our better covenant. That is to say, Christ is the guarantee of the new covenant. What does that mean? Well, that means simply that Jesus, as our surety, took full responsibility for our sin debt. He stood in our place on the cross. He bore God's wrath for us. He's our divine advocate. He's our surety. And so here the psalmist is crying out for that. He's saying, Lord, be my representation, be my surety. We could say it in today's terms, you know, I need a good lawyer. I need a good advocate, Father. It be that for me. This is bold faith. This is bold faith on behalf of the psalmist. So he's waiting and he's learning to trust in the Lord. But also another request is respond to me Respond to me, not only rescue me and represent me, but respond to me. Look in verse one twenty three. Mine eyes fail for thy salvation For the word of thy righteousness. And so his eyes are tired of scanning the horizon for help. It's a poetic way of saying, God, I'm exhausted from waiting. I still believe that you're going to answer me. I still believe that you're going to come and help me. But I'm looking for that salvation and I'm waiting and I'm exhausted. And so he's been looking and looking. Can you relate to that? Has there been a time when you're just looking for the Lord to answer and to help? There's going to be times in the Christian life when you pray urgently for deliverance from a trial or from a pain, and it just doesn't happen the way you want it to happen. It doesn't come when you expect it. But faith again says, God, I trust you. Your timing is perfect. I trust you anyway. And the psalmist knows that God's going to come. He knows his word will deliver him. So what's our first instinct instinct? What's your first instinct when you go through a trial? A lot of times what we want to do is we complain sometimes to the people around us. Or we vent to people around us horizontally. But faith is venting to God vertically. That's faith, that's prayer. And that's what the psalmist is doing here. He's pouring his heart out before the Lord. He's telling God all about it in his supplication. He's casting all this care upon the Lord, and that's what we're to do when we're waiting for God. We're to wait in supplication. Tell God all of what's going through your heart and your mind. Uh waiting should strengthen our faith. It shouldn't take away from our faith. It's designed to build our faith. When God has us wait. He's trying to strengthen us. In 1704, Alexander Selkirk was a Scottish sailor who was marooned on a remote island in the South Pacific. The island was called the Mas Atoria. Now they call it Robinson Caruso's Island, but at that time it was completely uninhabited and unknown. He had no companion, he had no ship, there was no certainty of rescue. And so he was trying to survive there on that island. And he survived by hunting goats, eating wild turnips, and catching rainwater. His only companions on that island were wildcats and rats. At first He waited for a ship to come, and none came, and he fell into despair. He longed for rescue. He would pace along the shore, uh again waiting, scanning the horizon, looking out, his eyes failed for Salvation. Days became months. Months became years. He waited on that island for over four years He was completely alone. He later said his Bible became his greatest comfort. He would read the Bible aloud. He would sing psalms. He would pray for deliverance. But he kept scanning the horizon day by day, looking for his salvation. But eventually his sir his soul learned to trust in the Lord in a new way. And somehow in all that waiting he found contentment On February the first, seventeen oh nine, a privateer ship under the command of a Captain Rogers spotted a fire on the shore of that desert island, deserted island. And uh it was a of course a fire that Selkirk had built and lit. And he was finally rescued. And his rescuer said, you know, he was healthy, strong, but spiritually deepened. He said Rogers, uh, the Captain Rogers described him. He said he was clothed in goatskins. Speaking with composure and praying and thanking God for his deliverance. O'Sellkirk returned to Britain to change men And later his story inspired a writer by the name of Daniel Defoe who wrote a book called You Got It, Robinson Caruso. That's where the whole story came from, a true story of this man. I mean Selfir could understand these this verse 123, mine eyes fell. for thy salvation because he lived with those words literally, his eyes straining over the horizon, waiting for his deliverance, waiting for a shift to appear. But in silence, he turned to the lord to the word of God And he learned to trust in God in a new way. His salvation did come. It didn't come when he wanted it to come. It wasn't soon enough for him. But it did come in God's perfect time. And you may feel a little bit like that. You might feel stranded, maybe stranded emotionally, spiritually, situationally, and you're waiting for God to show up. Well, I can promise you this, God has not forgotten you. He has not forgotten you. Though your eyes failed, God never forgets And his deliverance is real. So we see here one attitude, supplication. I've done right. But here's another attitude I see in here. Number two, write down submission. I am your servant. I am your servant. And we see this in verses 124 and 125. While he's waiting on God to work on his behalf, he's determined to maintain a submissive spirit before the Lord. So twice in this section we see The expression, I am your servant. I am your servant. Look at verse 124. Deal with thy servant. Calls himself a servant in 124. And then in verse 125, I am thy servant. Now this is not a cry from a rebel. It's not like he's crying out and saying, you know, why aren't you helping me after all I am your servant? That's not the essence of this. It's a posture of surrender. Lord, I'm your servant. It's a sense of submission. Lord, I don't understand why you're not moving quicker, but I'm your servant. I'm submitted to your will to what you have. And so he's uh he asked God for two things in his submission to the Lord, in his waiting on God with this obedient, submissive spirit, he does ask for two things. First of all, give me mercy. Look in verse 124 again. Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy. And the word here is the word kessid. We've looked at this word before. The psalmist was used it several other times in Psalm 119, a very rich theological term. It means it could be translated mercy or loving-kindness or steadfast love. Some say it's grace, it's the grace of God, but it's it's God's mercy, it's it's his undeserved favor towards us. God is merciful to his people What we get from him is an expression of his mercy, his loving kindness, his kessid. In a war-torn country, a rebel leader was captured after years of attacking the king's forces. And the law was clear because of that he deserved death. And on the day of his execution, the king unexpectedly arrived. Instead of ordering this man to be executed, he stepped forward and he said, For the sake of my son, I'm going to pardon you. My son, who once rescued your life, for the sake of my son, I'm going to pardon you. And not only that, I'm going to give you a home and a land, and I'm going to make you one of my household And the rebel leader broke down, stunned that the king's mercy was so abundant, and not only sparing his life, but giving him all those blessings Along with that. And that's a picture of God's Kesset, of His mercy, of His loving-kindness, because God's done the same for all of us. God is rich in mercy. This is how the Bible describes God so many times. There's a few references you can write down. Psalm 34, verses 6 and 7. The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abundant in goodness and truth Keeping mercy, that's the word there, Kessid, keeping mercy for thousands forgiving iniquity and transgression. This is God's own self-revelation. So Moses. Moses was saying, God, tell me, show me who you are. And God said, well, let me tell you who I am. Let me reveal to you who I am. And this is God's self-revelation. I'm the Lord, the Lord merciful, gracious, long-suffering. This is God's nature. Psalm 86, verse 15, but thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion. Gracious and long-suffering and plenteous in mercy and truth. Plenteous means overflowing. God is overflowing in his mercy. And then Psalm 103, verse 8, the Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. And then Psalm 136. This is repeated in every verse in this psalm, 26 verses. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endures forever. God is a merciful God. So the psalmist here is saying, Lord, be merciful to me. And then notice what he says also in verse 124, and teach me thy statutes. The psalmist wants to also learn God's word as a his response to God's Kesset, his love, his grace. What is his response? He wants to learn more about God's ways He wants to walk more in God's word. You see, that's the right response to God's grace. A lot of times people think, well, if I believe that doctrine that God saves us, one saved, always saved, God gives us all this grace, I would sin all I want to. Well, that just shows that you don't really understand what God's grace really is all about, because the grace of God that saves us is the same grace that teaches us. And it's that grace that also works in our life in an active way to help us learn to be restrained from sin and walking in disobedience. When we understand God's grace, we're not going to want to sin all we want to. We're going to want to obey God. I already sin all I want to Because you know why? I don't want to. I don't want to. And that's the spirit of someone who understands the goodness of God's grace. Teach me thy statue. Write down Titus two eleven, for the grace of God that appeared that that bringeth salvation has appeared to all men, what does this grace do? Teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. world. That mercy that forgives also instructs. But then here's a second thing he prays for. Give me wisdom. Give me wisdoms. Psalm 125 verse 125. I am thy servant. Give me understanding that I might know thy testimonies. When we don't understand what God is doing, we need to understand what God has said And when we're going through a trial and we can't figure out why God's doing that, we just need to learn more of God's word. Pray for God to give you wisdom. This reminds me of the prayer that James tells us to pray in James one when he says, you know, if any man lack wisdom, let him what? Ask of God. That's in the context of going through trials. If you're going through a trial and you don't really understand why What all is going on? Just ask God for wisdom. This is what the psalmist is doing here. Give me your wisdom. And God in his time will do exactly that. But then I want you to see also not only supplication, I have done right, submission, I am your servant. But here's number three, satisfaction, I love your word We see this in verses 126 down to verse 128. We've kind of reached the summit of this whole stanza. This is kind of what I call the emotional climax, because it's right here where he kind of cries out with this urgency, it's time for thee, Lord, to work. God, it's time for you to work. It's kind of his emotions have kind of led up to this. And now he's pleading, God, please work. And Notice the next part of that in verse 126, he said, for they have made void thy law. He's not just concerned about himself. He's not just concerned about his own personal justice and protection. But another thing that really motivates him to ask this of God is because he's grieved because God's word is being ignored. There's a sense in which God is not being glorified and honored the way he should be. And so this is motivation for the psalmist. And so he's praying, God, I see your word being violated all over. And so I'm praying for you, Lord, to work. So what we see here in these last few verses are three reasons why he's asking God to work, and they're related to his love for God the Word. His love for the Word of God. First of all, the treatment of God's Word, again in verse 126, for they have made void thy law. You can measure the spiritual and moral condition of a society by how God's word is treated. How does society treat God's word? I mean, it's not hard for us to understand that, right? Does our society today reverence and respect God's Word? No, absolutely not. We could say this same thing that Psalmist said, Lord, that they've made void your your word. And made void here means to nullify, to break, to treat like it's worthless. The psalmist is describing people who have rejected God's authority either by their rebellion against God's word or their absolute neglect. And so the culture around him just totally disregards the word of God. And he sees around them spiritual and moral decline. And he's filled with righteous indignation. And he's not, this is not a demand. This is just an urgent, heartfelt plea. God, please work. Look how they're treating your word. And look how your name is being blasphemed. And again, we see the same thing today. Many governments and institutions, they're trying to redefine marriage. They're trying to find uh redefine gender and sexuality, all disregarding what God's Word says Completely want to disregard what the Word of God says. I remember I think I told you before I was asked to pray down at Maryland's state capitol. Um and I agreed to do it and they said, Would you please hand in your prayer before you pray? So I wrote out a prayer and sent it to them by email. And the day that I was the day before I was going to pray, they called me and said, Uh, Reverend Harmon, you can't pray this. You can't use Jesus' name in this prayer. Really? So you want me to come and pray this prayer and not use Jesus' name? So let me get this right. You want me to offend the Father, so I don't offend anybody in the chamber. I don't think so. I would rather offend you in the chamber. You want me to come to God outside of his son Jesus? Because it might offend someone. That just goes to show you that's a farce. That's not prayer. You can't pray to the Father outside of Jesus. That offends the Father. That's just a religious show. That's not real prayer. If they were really concerned about honoring God and calling upon his name, they would call upon the name of Jesus first. Because there is no prayer without Jesus. Absolutely no prayer without Jesus. But that's what our governments are like They're more concerned about offending their constituent than offending Almighty God. Removing God's word from public life, there's efforts to ban scripture, prayer, and public and the uh the display of God's word on places and on walls and certain places, schools and courtrooms and public spaces And so on on we could go. We live in a society today that is making void God's word or God's law. I think of the the one congressman that really angered me when I heard him say this on television It was one of the congressmen who said, It is not the concern of this Congress what God's will is. Basically said that, you know, this this Congress is not concerned about the will of God. Well, you oughta be You ought to be. Because really, there is no law outside of what God's Word says. God's Word is the final authority on all things. Of course, they would disagree with that. But we see the same thing in our society today. And that's why the psalmist is praying, Lord, it's time for you to work Look how they're making void your law. And we can relate to that. But there's another reason why he praised this with urgency, not only the treatment of God's word, but the treasure of God's word. Look in verse 127, therefore I love thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold. Notice the word therefore at the beginning of this verse. It kind of links us with the previous verse. We also see therefore in verse 128, so it shows the logical connection to the previous verse. How does the psalmist respond when God's word is treated as worthless? He responds by describing God's word as priceless. The more the world makes void your law, the more I love it. The more they think it's worthless, the more I realize how priceless it is, how valuable it is. In effect, the darker the surrounding The brighter his affection shines for the Word of God. And so this verse reminds us that a true believer's love for God's Word is not diminished by opposition, it's actually magnified. The more the world hates the Word of God, the more I'm going to preach it. In fact, the harder I'm going to preach it. And the more we need to stand on it. And he says, your word, Lord, is more valuable than gold, fine gold. In the ancient world, fine gold was extremely purified, refined so many times. This was how kings measured their wealth by how much fine gold they had. For example, King Solomon received 666 talents of gold annually. That's about fifty thousand pounds in modern weight, worth billions today. And so the this gold he used to buy alliances, to build projects and have international influence. So gold was highly valued in that time that diet, especially fine gold. But here the psalmist is saying, yet even though this fine gold is so valuable, God's word is so much more valuable than that. It's so much more precious. Why? Well, gold mat no matter how beautiful it is, it's temporary. It can be stolen, it can be lost, it can be devalued. God's word is eternal. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word will not pass away, Jesus said. Gold cannot save a soul. It might buy you comfort in this world, in this life But it can't save a soul, and it can't give eternal life. For as much as you know you were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold and so on. But what did Peter say? But with the precious blood of Christ. Gold cannot guide your steps in righteousness. Only God's word can do that. Gold feeds greed, but the word of God feeds godliness Remember the story of Moses when he was Pharaoh's in Pharaoh's court, he was the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He had access to all of the fine gold. of Egypt. And yet he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God, rather to enjoy the pleasure of sin for a seizing, esteeming the approach of Christ greater riches than all of the treasures and wealth in Egypt Moses' decision shows us that the riches of God's promises far outweigh the value of treasure, earthly treasure. And so, how much do you value God's word? Imagine being offered a full vault, a vault that just filled with pure gold, and you could you could have it all. Under one condition, if you gave up your Bible forever. Now to the world, that would be the obvious choice, but to the believer. Who knows the incredible eternal value of Scripture? It's unthinkable. Because all gold can do is give you temporary pleasures. It can do nothing for your soul. It can do nothing for your eternity. But then finally, the truth of God's word. The treatment of God's word motivates them to pray. The treasure of God's word says, Lord. I want you to work now and then the truth of God's word. Verse 128. Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right, and I hate every false way. And so he he trusts every part of God's word. Esteem here means to reckon, to regard, after careful evaluation. The psalmist has tested God's commands and found them entirely trustworthy. He finds God's word to be truthful in all areas, concerning all things to be right, he says. God's word speaks with authority on every aspect of life, of faith, of morals, of relationships, of worship, of justice. His judgments are not just partially correct. They're correct in every area. They're fully correct. And so it teaches us to hate all the false ways. We know truth and error because God's word is our authority. And we understand what Scripture says. It's the final standard for the believer. And so it's the truth of God's word that motivates him. So the psalmist is pleading for God to work. He's waiting on God to work. And he waits with supplication. I've done right. And he waits with submission. I am your servant. And he waits with satisfaction. I love your word. Years ago, a Swiss clockmaker built an elaborate timepiece for a cathedral, and the town gathered at noon to see it chime. But nothing happened. And the mayor was embarrassed and he demanded, since the clock did not chime, that it be dismantled. But the clockmaker maker said, well, why don't we wait till midnight? Wait till midnight. And sure enough at midnight, the bells rang, the gears turned, stars danced across the ceiling. It was not broken. It was simply on a different schedule. Beloved, you might be staring at the clock of your circumstances saying, Lord, I'm waiting for you to work. I'm waiting for you to work. But let me just remind you, God's clock is not broken. It's not broken. It's perfect. And when it seems like God is slow, remember, just keep praying with supplication like the psalmist. Pour your heart out, tell the Lord what you're going through. Be submissive. Say, Lord, I'm your servant. I wait in submission to you. I trust you, Lord, as your servant. And also keep loving God's word. Keep treasuring God's word. You know, we'll find that the wait was well worth it. When when it's time for God to work, guess what? When it's God's time for God to do his work, nothing can stop him. When his time comes, nothing will hold back what God wants to do. So we need to wait and trust the Lord. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, uh, thank you for the encouragement that we get from reading psalms like this. We know, Lord, there are many times in our own life when We seem to be in a hurry and we're not on your time. And it's times that like that, Lord, that we need to exercise our faith and realize, Lord, you know what is best. And you have a sovereign plan and you're working that plan. And we know that you work all things together for good to those who love you. So Lord help us to be as this psalmist. May our faith grow as we wait, not weaken, but may it strengthen as we wait upon you, Lord, to work for your glory. And we pray in Jesus' name.