Would you take God's word this morning and open to uh the book of Malachi? We were in this last week. I want to look at it again. The book of Malachi, the old last book of the Old Testament. So you go to the book of Matthew and you take a left. And you're right there at Malachi. Malachi chapter 1, or actually chapter 2 today. Would you stand for the reading of God's word? Malachi chapter 2, verse 1. And I'm going to read verses one to nine. And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. If ye will not hear, if ye will not lay it to heart, to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts. I will even send a curse unto you and will curse your blessings. Yea, I will curse, I've cursed them already, because you do not lay it to heart. And behold, I will corrupt your seed and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts, and one shall take you away with it. And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him of life and peace, and I gave them to him For the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name. The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips. And he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of But ye have departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at the law. Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as you have not kept my ways, but have been partial in the law. May God bless his word to our hearts today. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the instruction of your word. And Lord, I pray that you'll speak to us. Help me, Lord, as I deal with this passage to apply it to our own hearts here. today that we may be people that you've called us to be. For your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You ever hear a parent say to a child, it's time for you to get serious? You know, your report is due tomorrow, turn off the video game. Stop playing around. Get serious. It's time to get serious. That's really God's message that we see here in Malachi chapter 2. God is saying to the to the priests and to the people, you know, it's time for you to get serious. They were going through the motions of Worship and service, but their hearts were far from God. And really, this passage is directed to the unfaithful priests of Malachi's day. God's angry with them because of their failure to live according to their calling. Look in verse 1 of chapter 2. And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you. Now, somebody might read this and say, well, you know, this is directed to priests in the Old Testament. How does this apply to me? I mean, Pastor Harmon preaches out of the Old Testament too much. We're under the new covenant after all. Well, let me just say this, did you know all of the Bible is about Jesus, all of it. Every bit of it. Paul said to Timothy, from a child, You have known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation. And all scripture is given by inspiration of God. It's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness When Paul wrote that, he was writing to Timothy, a New Testament pastor, but you have to remember that when Paul wrote that, the New Testament canon of Scripture was not complete yet. When Paul said, From a child Timothy, you've known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise into salvation, what was he talking about at that time? He was talking about Old Testament scripture at that time, right? The Old Testament is all that the early church had in those days. Jesus said this search the scriptures for in them ye think ye have eternal life. And these are they which testify of me. Again, Jesus referring there to the Old Testament. Again, I say all the Bible is about Jesus. And uh one of the best ways to learn about the new covenant is to contrast it and compare it to the old. And so, although God was speaking to the priests in Malachi's day and saying, This is for you, Actually, God is saying to the church today, this is for you. It's for you too. You say, well, I'm not a priest. Oh yes, you are. Did you know that you're a priest? See, how's that? In the Old Testament, God had a priest for his people. In the New Testament, God has a people as his priests. If you're a believer, if you're saved, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you are a priest, according to the New Testament The Bible says this in Hebrews 12, 28, wherefore we receive a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear. The word serve there is the Greek word latrua, where we get the word liturgy. It's a word that was used to speak about a priest making a sacrifice at the altar. And what the writer there was saying is that basically you are a priest You are bringing offerings to the Lord. Do you realize that every time you come to church here, you're a priest bringing your offerings to God every time? I mean when you c got here this morning and you prayed, that's an offering to God. When you sang praises to his name, that's an offering to the Lord. The way you give in the offering plate, that's an offering to the Lord. We are all priests and we all give our worship and our sacrifice and our offerings to the Lord. In the Old Testament, there were certain guidelines you had to meet to be a priest, but in the New Testament, the guideline is if you're saved and you know Jesus Christ. If you've been saved, you are his priest. In the Old Testament, when a priest brought a sacrifice to the altar, sometimes the fire of God would fall from heaven and consume that sacrifice because God was so well pleased with the offering. In Leviticus 9. 24 it says, There came a fire out from before the Lord, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering. And when the people saw it, they shouted and they fell on their face. If God was pleased, he would just consume that. If God was displeased, sometimes he would consume the offerer The person who brought it. In Leviticus 10, Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, the Bible says that they offered strange fire. And a fire went out from before the Lord and devoured them, and they died before the Lord. Very serious thing. If you were a priest, that you offered a offering in the right way. It was a fearful thing to be a priest and to bring your sacrifice. You wanted to make sure that God was pleased with it. Now in the New Testament we don't offer animals, right? We don't offer like they did in the Old Testament, but what we offer are the things that I said to you, we offer the sacrifice of our lips, the Bible says in Hebrews We offer our praise, we offer our life. What does the Bible say in Romans 12? I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. You know what we give the Lord, we give him ourselves We give them our heart. That's all part of being a priest. Again in 1 Peter 2 9, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. He goes on to say that ye should show forth the praise of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. So yeah, you're a priest, beloved. You're either a good one or you're a bad one. You either offer to the Lord acceptable sacrifices or you don't. And when God is writing here through the prophet Malachi to the priests of this day, God was basically telling them you need to get serious about your calling, you need to get serious about what you're doing, because God hated their sacrifices. He hated their worship. Why? Well one of the reasons was again because they weren't serious about it. A phrase that we saw two times. Look in verse 2. Again, if you will not hear, if you will not lay it to heart And again at the end of verse 2, because ye do not lay it to heart, God is saying, you don't take this serious. You need to sober up. You need to get serious about what I'm telling you. These priests were so careless. They were so apathetic. They were in danger of bringing God's judgment on them, and they didn't even realize it. And they made some mistakes here. And I want us to look at the mistakes they made because I don't want to make those mistakes as a as a priest of the Lord, as one of his servants. I want to make sure that when I worship God that it's done in a way that is honorable to him, that's acceptable to him. So let me look at these three mistakes and I want you to see them with me. Number one They failed to take worship seriously. They failed to take worship. Again in verse 2. If you will not let here and if you will not lay it to heart, watch this, to give glory unto my name, saith the Lord of hosts. They weren't serious about giving glory to God. You understand that's what we do when we worship God? We are giving glory to his name. We are saying God is worthy of our honor. He's worthy of our praise. We glorify his name. But these priests here, they were not respecting, they were not fearing the Lord. They had an irreverent attitude when they came to the Lord's temple, and it was rubbing off on all the rest of the people. People were watching this and they were picking up on this attitude, and it was teaching other people to do the same Again, we looked at this last week. We go back to chapter one. Look at verse verse number six. A son honors his father, a servant is master. If I then be a father, where is my honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name? And you say, Wherein have we despised your name? They're always answering back to God. God, why how do we do this? We don't get it. They were just totally apathetic. And look at verse number 13 of chapter 1. And ye say, behold, what a weariness it is. And ye have snuffed at it, saith the Lord of hosts, and ye brought that which was torn and the lame and the sick, and thus ye offered an offering. Should I accept this at your hand, saith the Lord? Oh, you come to God's house and you say, Oh, what a weariness it is. Let's just check this box. Let's just get this over with. You know, something we have to do. There's no heart in the way that they worship. And when they bring an offering, again in the Old Testament they brought animals, they brought the animals that were sick or wounded. You know, if an animal was attacked by a predator and it was torn, uh they say, Oh yeah, let's take that one to church. Let's take that one and put it on the altar. That that would be exce you know, it's gonna die anyway. It's gonna burn up in the flames, so let's just take a sick lamb. Let's take a torn animal. Rather than giving God their best, they were giving God their worst. And they were offering what it says polluted bread. Bread is just one word that means any offering And any offering that wasn't the best, God said it was polluted, it was defiled, it's something that I don't want. And so they were despising God's name. by the way in which they were worshiping. They forgot who they were serving. They forgot how great God is Again, in chapter one, look down at verse number fourteen, where it says, But curse be the deceiver which hath in his flock a male and voweth to sacrifice unto the Lord a corrupt thing, for I am a great king. saith the Lord of hosts. And my name is dreadful among the heathen. They forgot how great God was They were not honoring God. And now in chapter 2, verse 2, God again says that you're not taking it to heart, you're not laying it to heart, that you would give glory to my name. And this is a key phrase that we see over and over again in Malachi where God says, My name. We see it in verse 6, chapter 1, verse 11 in chapter 1. Where God talks about an offering for my name, for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the Lord. And chapter one, verse fourteen, we saw it again, chapter two, verse two, chapter two, verse five, and on through the rest of the book. God's name refers to his being, his character, who he is. They were not honoring the name of God. They were not taking it serious. And God says, you know what, you better get serious. You better lay it to heart You understand when you come to God's house today, God expects the same reverence? I fear that we've gotten too careless in the church in America in general. You understand that when we come, we're coming to worship a great God. We're coming to worship our Savior Jesus Christ. We're coming to give to Him our praise. We're giving Him our life, the best of us. Like Paul says in Romans 12 1. We're giving him our we're making ourselves a living sacrifice to God, ourself. But here God is again angry. Because they didn't come with the right attitude. And God says, since you're not coming that way, I will bring a curse down upon you. Look again in verse 2. He says, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings. Yea, I have cursed them already, because you do not lay it to heart. This might be referring to Deuteronomy twenty-eight where God said, If you don't obey me Then I will exchange blessings for destruction. In verse 2, he says, I will curse your blessings. And the idea here is that God will reverse the blessings that you offer, and he will bring instead curses on them. Some people think this is a reference to the blessings the priest would pronounce over the people. And God says, I'm going to reverse those blessings, and I'm going to turn it around, and I'm going to bring back a curse upon you. And then God said this, look at verse 3, very fearful thing. Behold, I will corrupt your seed. What does he mean by that? Well, there's two different interpretations of that. What it could it could mean this. It could mean that Whatever seed they put into the ground, whatever they plant, whatever they sow, they're not going to get a good harvest because God is going to curse it. God's not going to bless them. He's not going to prosper them because of their pathetic worship that aren't taking it serious. Or it could mean this. Others think it could mean that he's referring to their actual descendants. When he talks about their seed, he's talking about their their children, their grandchildren, I will put a a curse or I will corrupt your seed in that way. And by the way, that is mentioned in Deuteronomy 28. of how God would um bring consequences to the present generation by what he does to later generations. And we see this illustrated in 1 Samuel, Eli, and his children, where God punished them because of their taking their ministry lightly and because they sinned against the Lord. And then along with that, God said he would shame them publicly again in verse 3, and will spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts. And one shall take you away with it. In other words, this is pretty graphic here. God says he will spread the refuse or the dung of the sacrificial animals on their faces. You don't think God's angry here? Well, Kaiser, he um he kind of softens it and puts it in modern terms. God says, you're gonna have egg on your face. And there's actually a play on words here. Seed is Zera, and spread is uh Zera. And so I will corrupt your zera by spreading zera on your or zera on your faces. And so that's the idea there. In other words, God says, I'm going to shame you publicly. Because of the way you've approached me. And so again, God is He's angry because they're not serious. And God says, You're going to recognize that this punishment is for me, verse four. And they shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. You're going to recognize that all of this is of the Lord, that the Lord is speaking to you. He was going to purify these priests. So that worship would continue. So number one, they failed to take worship seriously. But here's number two. Here's the second thing. They failed to take God's word seriously. They didn't take God's word seriously. What does God expect from his freece? What does he want? And again in verse 4 It says, And ye shall know that I sent this commandment unto you, and that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him of life and of peace. And and God made a covenant with Levi. We don't read a much about this. We we read a lot about the covenant that God made with David and the covenant that God made with Abraham and so on. But did you know that God made a covenant with Levi? And when he says Levi, he's not talking about an individual person. He's talking about a whole tribe. God said, In the beginning, I made a covenant with the whole tribe of Levi that they would be my servants. They would be my priests. In Deuteronomy 21, 5 it says, And the priests, the sons of Levi shall come near, for them the Lord thy God hath chosen to minister unto him and to bless the name of the Lord. In the very beginning, when God ne knew he needed priests, he said, I'm going to use the tribe of Levi. They're going to be the ones that will come near to me, that will minister to me And I will bless them. They will be my special people. And so God made a covenant with them And one of the reasons why and by the way it w we know that now, uh here in this this day in the New Testament, um we don't need priests in the sense that You know, we the Roman Catholic Church talks about having a priest and a person coming to get to God, they have to go through the priest. We have one priest now, his name is Jesus Christ, right? There is one God, there is one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. We don't need priests the way Israel did in the Old Testament. But God said there was a time when He wanted uh Levi to be their priests, and they were the mediators, they were the go-betweens for Israel They were to know God's law, they were to teach and apply it to Israel. They were to offer sacrifices on the behalf of the people And again, all those sacrifices we know pointed to Jesus Christ. Jesus was the fulfillment of all those Old Testament sacrifices. However, now we the church act as God's priests to the world. You know that we represent the world to God, we represent God to the world. And when the world looks at us, we should be representing God in a way that honors and glorifies the name of the Lord. That's the whole idea here. Now we're the ones that give instructions to the world. You know, Israel were a nation of priests, but they failed God. They disobeyed God. Now, here in this day, as we read in 1 Peter, we are those priests. And we represent God. And so we have to do it in a worthy way. And what does God expect of his priests? Well, look in verse number 5, where he says this, My covenant was with him of life and peace I gave to them for the fear of the wherewith they feared me and was afraid before my name. God expects a people that show reverence, that show the fear of the Lord. That's what the world should see in us, a reverence that we give to our God. We show a fear of the Lord And that's what God saw in the tribe of Levi. You remember that whole thing where um Moses was coming down from the mountain with the Ten Commandments, and what did he find? He found the people were engaged in idolatry. And you remember that story there in Exodus chapter 32 when Moses came down he was angry and you remember what he said, Who is on the Lord's side? And the first one to jump on Moses' side with him was the Levites. They all stood behind Moses. And that's why God favored them. God said they were, my covenant was with him of life and of peace. They demonstrated the fear of the Lord. When the people look at our lives, do they see a people that truly reverence and fear the Lord. And by the way, the fear of the Lord and love are inseparable. If you love God, you'll fear his name. If you fear his name, you'll love him. You'll be afraid in the sense that you don't want to do anything that will dishonor the name of the Lord. We will fear the Lord. We will love God's word. Look in verse 6. The law of truth was in his mouth. That is, he knows and understands God's word. He loves God's word. He's constantly talking about the truth of God's word. How much do you study and love the Word of God? If you're one of God's priests representing him, then you need to love and know the Word of God. Again in verse 6, he speaks truth and not error. He says, and iniquity was not found in his lips The word iniquity is a word that means to twist. He doesn't twist the scripture. He speaks the word of God. He's not afraid to speak the truth of God's word. He handles God's word correctly. That's what we're to do. Study to show thyself approved unto God, Paul said to Timothy, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. But then he walks with God again in verse number six. And he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. He walked with God If you're to be the person that God called you to be, if you're the church is to be the church that God wants it to be, we have to be a people that not only fear the Lord and love the Lord and love his word and learn his word, but also we walk with God This implies a close, intimate fellowship with God. There's a huge difference between knowing about God and knowing God. And God wants the people that will walk with Him, that will pray and seek His face. That cares about God's name, that gives glory to God, as we saw in verse number two. And then they they grow in the knowledge of the Lord. Look in verse 7. For the priest lift should keep knowledge And they should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. You grow in the knowledge of the Word of God. That means you have to study, you have to dig deep. I know that sometimes my sermons can be a little deep, some people tell me that. I don't apologize for trying to give you the depth of the word of God. You're not here to hear me, I have nothing to say. You're here to hear the word of God and what God has to say You see, you're the church. And Jesus is the Lord of his church. And when Jesus wants to speak to his church, you know how he does it? He does it through his word. So what I do is I just try to tell you what this says. I know sometimes it can get tedious, maybe. Forgive me. Not all sermons can be a grand slam. But I'm trying to give you the word of God. And so that you can grow in the knowledge of God's word. And then he says something else about them. He says that they should seek the law at his mouth. That is, he's accessible to others, that other people can come and learn from them. And that's what church, part of what church is all about. You know when people come, they learn that of course they learn from me. Hopefully I'm making the Word of God simple enough and clear enough that people will understand it and grow. But you know what? There's a lot of Learning that takes place after church after the final prayer is said, and you all are talking and fellowshipping. And you're and you're sharing God's word and you're talking to one another and you're encouraging one another. That's part of what church is about. That's why you're needed here in church. Sometimes people say, well, I, you know, I don't feel like going this Sunday, you know, uh, I have this and I have this, and it it really it's really not about you. It's really about you ministering to other people. Other people need you here. They need your encouragement. They need what you can offer. I tell you, growing up here at Grace, some of you know I started here as a teenager. A lot of my spiritual growth took place by hanging around godly saints after this service who would talk with me. Who would disciple me, who would encourage me. You know how much of that takes place in God's house with God's people. And people making themselves accept uh accessible. So that you can bless and encourage. And God says, this is what you need to be. You need to be a messenger of the Lord of hosts, so that people can come and learn knowledge and counsel from you, from you, from your mouth. Now the problem here is that the priests, they weren't fulfilling any of this. They were compromising their calling They were just disobeying the word of God. They weren't serious about any of this. Because look down at verse number 8. But ye are departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at the law. You're not serious. You fail to take God's word serious, and you've caused others to stumble This is a problem. Then let me give you the third and final thing here. They failed to take worship seriously. They failed to take God's word seriously. They failed to take sin seriously. Part of what they were supposed to do was to teach people the sinfulness of sin. Look up in verse number six again, look where it says, and did turn many away from iniquity. A true priest of God will help people deal with their sin and turn away from it. You say, how do we do that? First by hating sin yourself. Do you hate sin? We should be developing a hatred for sin. We hate it because it opposes the Word of God. We hate it because of what sin does to other people. It is destructive. And by the way, so no no one could teach that like the priest, because every time a person brought an offering to the Lord back then What would they do to that animal? They would kill it. They would slaughter it. What's the object lesson there? This is what sin does. Sin brings death. Sin butchers, sin brings destruction. That's the lesson the priest was to teach. And one day there's going to be an innocent one. Who is blameless just like this lamb represents, a blameless lamb, innocent lamb, represents the one who will be blameless and sinless, who will die a terrible death because of your sin, because of my sin. That in itself should cause us to hate sin. You don't hate sin, you need to look at the cross. You need to look at what what it did to Jesus, who had to suffer and die for it. That was That was the intention there is to show how ugly sin is, what it does, it brings death. We should We should hate it. Billy Sunday was famous for this quote. He said, I'm against it. I'll kick it as long as I have a foot. He said, I'll fight it as long as I have a fist. I'll butt it as long as I have a head. I'll bite it as long as I Teeth And when I'm old and fistless and footless and toothless, I'll gum it till I die. That should be the attitude of the child of God. We hate it. But here, they were not hating sin. In fact, they were causing many to stumble. They damaged the people of God. In verse 8, he says you've caused many to stumble at the law. And then they disregarded the covenant again in verse number 8. You've corrupted the covenant of Levi, and you have distorted the law in verse 9. You've been partial in the law, and they deserve the punishment of God. And God was punishing them because of Their attitude. So they failed to take worship seriously, they fail to take God's word seriously, they failed to take sin seriously. This is serious. And God was serious. And you know, when I read a passage and study a passage like this, I have to ask myself, what kind of priest am I? Am I guilty of any of these things? Do I fail to take the worship of God seriously? Is there times when I ignore things God said to me and His Word? Do I take sin seriously? What kind of priest are you? What kind of priest am I? Remember, Peter said we are a holy priesthood. We should be showing forth the praises of God to a world. That is in darkness, and God has called us out of that darkness into his marvelous light. This is a serious and solemn responsibility to be his people. We are to be the church, the people that God has called us to be. We represent him. I remember, and I'll close with this. I remember when I was in Bible college. My dad gave me a car to take to college. It was an old Nova. It was blue. It had uh the gear shift was in the the uh by the steering wheel. You remember those old cars? You know, you s you you would I don't know why they would ever put the gear shift right there by the steering wheel, but It was just an old car. It was uh it had a green door, it had a black fender, you know, it was one of those kind of cars. My dad kind of threw it together, you know. This will get you through school. Sometimes it would start, sometimes it wouldn't start. Just dependent. I just never knew what if it was going to start. And when it got really cold, the speedometer would just go back and forth like a pendulum. So I never knew how fast I was going. So on one of those cold mornings I got up and I was driving and again the p the speedometer is just going back and forth. I had no idea how fast I was going. And I was pulled over by a police officer. And he said to me, young man, do you know how fast you're going? I said, actually sir, no, I really don't. I explained to him the problem with the speedometer. He gave me a ticket anyway. No mercy. And I remember I had to go and appear before a judge in the court. And I remember going to court when it came time for me to stand before the judge He asked me what what I was doing and you know what I did. I said, I'll uh I'm I go to college. He said, what college? I told him, he said, what are you studying? I said, I'm I'm studying to be a minister He kinda got a look of disdain on his face. He really did. He just he kinda frowned. He was very critical. Your study for ministry, here you are in court for violating the law, speeding. I remember he was hard on me. He really was. A few days later, I remember this judge, I never forget him, I know his name. I can give you his name, I'm not gonna give his name. But I remember his name, and I remember a few days later, I picked up a newspaper. He was on the front page of the newspaper. His face. And you know why? He was arrested for accepting bribes. I wish I had known he accepted bribes when I stood before him. But I remember that whole ordeal, and I remember there were two things that I that really stuck hit home with me at that whole thing. First I remembered that as a servant of the Lord, I never want to do anything that brings shame to the name of Christ. That's the thing that stood out to me. Secondly, I uh that whole episode I think about the fact that I stood before this judge. He was a bad judge, he was a corrupt judge. One day, I'm gonna stand before a holy judge. Who is sinless. You know, the Bible says that God the Father has committed all judgment into the hand of his Son, Jesus. And one day we'll all stand before Jesus And we'll have to give an account for how we've lived our lives. Now let me just say this: Jesus is the Savior today He is the one who came and died for your sins. He he is the spotless Lamb that was offered for us that we might have forgiveness of sins. He's the Savior. Today He's the Savior, but friend one day He's going to be the judge. And let me say this, when you stand before Jesus, you want to make sure that your sins have already been taken care of. Already forgiven. Make sure you've trusted Jesus as your Savior. But even those of us who are saved and we know that we're saved, we still have to one day give an account before the judge for how we've lived our life. So friend, I don't want to live a life that's dishonoring to the Lord. I want to faithfully represent my Lord. And when I worship I want it to be acceptable. And by the way, worship is not just what we do on Sunday. It's how we live our entire life. That's what God was telling these priests here. God said to them, you better take it to heart. That's the message for us. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this warning that Scripture gives us. There are times when the Word of God Will encourage us, times when it will bring comfort, but then times when it will give us a stern warning. And Lord, this is what we see in Malachi chapter 2. Lord, we are now your priests. We don't live in the Old Testament. We live here on this side of the cross in the New Testament, and yet we're all priests of God. And we've all been given a holy calling. And we all have to live up to the calling in which you've given us. And Lord, all of us as the church and people in your church, we represent you to this world. So Lord, may they see in us people who Take it to heart that we worship you with true reverence and love, that we take your word seriously. May they see the obedience of our lives. May they see people who take sin seriously. We live in a world that constantly laughs at sin And doesn't understand its destruction. But may they see in us for the people who take sin seriously and because of what sin has done to many people, but also Because our Savior, you Lord Jesus, bore our sins on the cross that we might have eternal life. Lord, speak to our hearts. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I would ask you just examine your heart today before what you've heard before this chapter in Malachi. Is there some things that you need to deal with in your own life? What kind of priest are you And friend, if you're here and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, I want to give you that opportunity right now, right where you are, you can reach out and you can pray and you say, Jesus, save me. Come into my heart, save me, Lord Jesus. The Bible says, Him that comes to me I will in no wise cast out. And friend, I would plead with you today to make sure that you have trusted Christ as your Savior and your Lord. Father, bless your word to our hearts today. Use it, Father, for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.