Good to see you all here tonight. I encourage you to take your Bibles open, please, to the book of Nehemiah. As you know, we're studying Nehemiah here on Wednesday night. Nehemiah chapter three is where we're going to be uh dealing with tonight. The book of Nehemiah, chapter 3. And so tonight I want to preach on building together. Together we build. And really when we get to Nehemiah chapter 3, it's really a book about, or a chapter about working together, building together. It's just a lot of labor going on here in this chapter. One person said this, he said. Regarding uh work, he said, uh, I like work. He said it fascinates me. I can sit and look at it for hours. Some of you like that, you can just sit and look at work for hours. When it comes to the work of the Lord, really there's no room really for spectators. uh or self-appointed advisors or critics, there's always room for more workers in the work of the Lord. Now, when you come to Nehemiah chapter 3, in fact, let me just read a few verses with you so you can kind of get a sense of what I'm about to say. Then Eliasheb, the high priest, rose up with his brethren, the priests, and they builded the sheep gate. And they sanctified it and set up the doors of it even unto the Tower of Mia. And they sanctified it unto the tower of Hen uh Hanan, Eel. And next unto him builded the men of Jericho, and next unto them builded Zachor, the son of EMR, excuse me. I'll be doing that a lot in this chapter here. But the fish gate did the sons of Hasaniah build, also, who also laid the beams thereof and set up the doors thereof. and the locks thereof and the bars thereof, and unto uh next unto them repaired uh Mirimoth, the son of Eurijah, the son of Kaz, And so on. Now I read just a little bit of excerpt of that just to give you a kind of sense that it's like reading through a Hebrew phone directory. Only they didn't have phones back then. So this is was just one name after another. One name after another. In fact it just keeps going through, reading these names. But there's a purpose for all of this. And the reason I read that is because, you know, when people read the book of Nehemiah and they come to chapter 3, normally what they do is they skip over this. And they go straight into chapter 4. Because again, on the surface, what you see is an endless list of Hebrew names that are very hard to pronounce. And for the most part, these are unknown people, we'll read about them here in Chapter 3, and they're not your basic household names And then you really don't hear about them ever again. They're mentioned here. They come on the stage of scripture, then they exit, and many of these names are never brought up again. And if you read devotional commentaries on the book of Nehemiah, they ignore chapter 3. In fact, there is a famous Bible teacher, he's very successful. He's a writer. He wrote a fine book on Nehemiah, but he skips over chapter 3 as if it's not even in there. He doesn't even deal with it. And then one popular pup publishing company has a discussion guide that accompanies its commentary here on Nehemiah, and this is what it says. At the beginning of the third chapter, it says this. If your time is limited, this is a better chapter to skip over than others. That's what they tell you. It's probably a good idea that you skip over this. And then another commentator says it's it's a colorless memorandum of assignments. So many people don't pay attention to chapter three, or they will skim over it and then skip over it But I would just like to propose tonight and contend that really Nehemiah chapter 3 is a very important chapter in this book. I'm talking about the book of Nehemiah. I think it's one of the most important chapters because it's in this chapter that we actually discover how Nehemiah was able to rebuild the wall in 52 days. This is an incredible task of rebuilding the walls around the ancient city of Jerusalem, and he does it in 52 days. And again, this is this tells us how. Let me read you what another person said. This is Howard Voss. He said, what appears here at first blush to be a list of forgotten names and boring details of wall construction on closer examination becomes something quite dramatic and exciting. And then he goes on to say that this chapter records really an incredible feat. What we see as we come to chapter three is really Nehemiah's incredible gift of administration and organization. He was able to mobilize the people, organize the people, and just get them working. And that's a real gift. If you have the gift of administration and organization, that's a gift that God can use. This is exactly what God is using here. And so it also shows how that there's a great unity and teamwork that went with rebuilding those walls. In order to accomplish that task in 52 days, they had to be unified. They had to work together as a team And by the way, in the church, we're not building walls, we're actually building bridges, aren't we? We're trying to reach out and reach people for Christ. And just like Nehemiah and his people needed teamwork and unity, we need teamwork and unity in the church, don't we? in order to accomplish the purpose that God has given. In fact, uh if you ever read through chapter three, uh there are phrases like next unto him, we see that used a lot, next to them, after him, after them. This expression is recorded 28 times in this chapter. And again, it just shows the unity, the teamwork that's going on here in chapter three. Now remember the context. Nehemiah was a cupbearer for uh uh Artaxerxes and Shushan the palace, and he got word from his brethren in Judah that things in Jerusalem were not well And he was burdened about the fact that the city was in ruins, the walls were not built up. He agonized before the Lord in prayer. He fasted and prayed, and sure enough, God opened the door for Nehemiah, miraculously, to go back. With the king's blessing, not only with the king's blessing, but also with papers of approval to get all the timber that he needed, to have passage through the difficult areas. to where he got back to Jerusalem. And you remember if you were with us last time, that the first thing he did was he went out at night and he looked over all the ruins. And then he went and he challenged the people. And so we pick up the story here in chapter 3, where Nehemiah now is really going to give us a blueprint for teamwork and unity. And working together. And I think there's some things that all of us can learn here from this. So if you're taking notes, just write down a few things here. First of all Let me give you some ingredients that promote teamwork and unity in the work of the Lord. Here's the first one. A determined purpose for the work. There has to be a determined purpose. And you see, the why is as important as the what. Why we do, what we do, is very, very important. And so the question is, why rebuild these walls? Go back to chapter 2, because Nehemiah is going to tell them in verse 17 Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, the gates thereof are burned with fire. Come, let us build up the wall of Jerusalem. Watch this now, that we be no more a what? A reproach There's a sense in which we are a reproach to the nations. The Gentiles delighted in mocking their Jewish neighbors by pointing out the dilapidated condition of the city of Jerusalem And the Jews, meanwhile, what did they say about the city? They said, This is beautiful for situation. The joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. They like to boast in the beauty of Jerusalem, but how could they do that when Jerusalem was in ruins? How could God be glorified? This was the place where God said his affection, where God said his name, where God said his holy temple, if God loved Jerusalem so much. Why were the walls in ruin? Why were the gates burned? Why was the city still a reproach after many years? And so they wanted to rebuild the city, not just for themselves, but for the glory of God, for the name of God. By the way, you know why we do what we do here in church? It's for the glory of God. It's for the name of God. Not for our own name, but for God's name. Did you ever ask yourself, why do we congregate? Why do we have church? What's the whole reason for it? We're here for his glory. We're here to worship him for his glory. The Bible says, whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. The church is a repository of truth. We come to hear divine truth. It's the pillar and ground of truth. The church is to be a loving context where there is fellowship, there is mutual encouragement and edification. We build one another up. The church is to be a center that trains people in the Word of God. It is to be a place where the gospel is preached and where from here we go and carry the light of the gospel wherever we are into a dark world. That's why we are here. We do it for the glory of God. And that was the purpose for Nehemiah building the wall. Now look in chapter 3, look again in verse number 1. Notice again that then Elisha the high priest rose up with his brother, the priests, and they builded the sheepgate. I want you to notice that the first gate that they Mention here is the sheep gate. Why is that important? Because this was the gate where the animals walked through. It was close to the temple. This is where sacrifice would take place. This was in the northern corner, northeast corner. It provided access to the temple. And by beginning here, Nehemiah is establishing that The principle of worship and sacrifice that their relationship to God is first. In a sense, he's putting God first by mentioning this gate here first We must be sure that we're dedicated to the Lord and our worship and our devotion before we start any work. You understand that? Worship comes before work And we serve because of our worship. God's not impressed with your labor. He wants your heart. That's why we put worship ahead of work. So there has to be, first of all, a determined purpose for the work. But then I want you to write down number two, there should be a devoted person over the work. What brings teamwork? A determined purpose. But secondly, a devoted person. And of course, we know that Nehemiah was that person that God used to raise up to lead this work. And God will accomplish His purpose through people. But people need leaders to motivate them, to organize them. And what you'll notice is that all these people that are listed here in chapter 3, they had been living there for years. But the wall didn't get built. In fact, they may have tried, but they failed. The wall still wasn't built. It wasn't until Nehemiah got there and that he began to rally the people together. When he visualized it, when he mobilized the people, when he organized them, that the wall actually began to get Built. Now let me just give you a few principles here then about leadership in the MI because we can learn a lot of things about leadership. I was blessed just by looking at some of the principles that I can apply to my own life about leadership and so can you. Here's one. A leader must not mind if the credit goes to others. That's one thing I d learn when I read Nehemiah chapter 3. You know what I notice? That the name Nehemiah is not mentioned in chapter 3. Now there is a Nehemiah that's mentioned, but it's not the same Nehemiah in verse number 16. That's a different Nehemiah there. But Nehemiah's name is not mentioned there. I don't see Nehemiah using the first person. I don't see Nehemiah saying, you know, I did this or I was able to do this or I accomplished this We don't read about any of that. Nehemiah doesn't use first person pronouns. Instead of pointing to himself, you know what he's doing? He's pointing to the people Let me tell you who the people are that worked. And he gives their names. He gives their accomplishments. He doesn't care about who gets the credit as long as God gets the glory. And he's willing to let the people have that credit that they deserve. I don't read about them hanging a huge sign over the walls that said the Nehemiah Memorial Wall. He wasn't concerned about that. Again, he was concerned about the name of God. He was committed to the test. You know what? Just write write in your notes, Nehemiah 13, 31, the last verse in the book Where Nehemiah, you know what his prayer is, remember me, O Lord. He just wanted God to remember what he did. Lord, you remember me. He wasn't concerned about anything but that. So a leader must not mind if the credit goes to others. But here's another principle. A leader must motivate people. Again, these Jews were in the land for 90 years, but the wall hadn't been built. And when Nehemiah comes, you know what? He motivates them There are two words that we see over and over again in chapter three. There's the word repaired and the word built or builded. Built is used six times. Repair is used 35 times. And so these people were working hard. This was not a quick fix. They were doing a great job, working hard, doing their best. Why? Because they were motivated. Motivation is a key to getting things done. And we understand this, right? I mean, you ever put off a project, you know, cleaning out your garage? Or doing something else. Why? Because you lack motivation. And then suddenly something in you changes you. Maybe you have a thought and suddenly you get motivated and you think, I'm tired of looking at that A weed grown garden, I'm gonna do something about it. You get a s you're maybe you're tired of what the neighbors are saying, complaining about your yard, you know. Whatever it is, you begin to get motivated Now, Nehemiah was wise in that he motivated the people. And I think one of the things that he did that motivated one, motivated, excuse me, motivated them, was to give them a section of the wall that they were interested in The sheep gate, he gave to the priests. Other parts of the gate, he gave to people that lived there at that particular part of the gate. Look in chapter 3, look in verse number 10. And next unto them repaired uh Jediah, the son of Harumath, even over against his house. And next unto him repaired Hattish, the son of Hash Abniah. And so He's putting people close to their house. We see that in chapter 3, verse 10. And verse 23, we see the same thing. Uh after him repaired Benjamin and Hashab. over against their house. We see the same thing in verses 28 down to verse 30. You see, he knew that if he put them close to their house They would have more of a motivation and an incentive to do the job. You see, people have a tendency, maybe, maybe Nehemiah just said, hey, which part of the wall would you like to work on? And I'm sure there were some people who said, well, I'd like to work on this section of the wall, because this is right by my house. That way I know that this part of the wall won't come down if I work on it. You see, people have a tendency to support the plans they help initiate. And so a leader doesn't mind who gets the credit A leader must motivate and learn how to motivate. Number three, a leader must plan and organize. And again, if you look in chapter three, it just shows you the organization. We kind of get a bird's eye view of this great organization. There are 38 individuals who are mentioned here, 42 different groups that are put at different sections of the wall. What does that show Great organization on Nehemiah's part. It was a smooth operation when he put them all together Now remember we talked about this last week. Prayer and planning are not opposites. We need to plan. We also need to pray. We need to organize and we need to agonize. Nehemiah does both of these things, putting them all together. But here's another principle. A leader doesn't mind who gets the credit. A leader must motivate people. A leader must plan and org organize But here's another thing I see, a leader must delegate. And again, Nehemiah knew he couldn't do all of this himself. It was impossible for him to do that. So he has to entrust the work to other workers. And then he has to give them the authority to get the job done. So Nehemiah understands the importance of delegation. Nehemiah let go without letting up. He would give a person a certain area, let it out onto them, but he would still be there to encourage them and help them. O. S. Hawkins, he writes this. I think he had a good word. He said, delegation is the real secret to success, no matter what we are attempting. Long before the modern success gurus wrote about the need to delegate, we read these time-tested principles here in Nehemiah chapter three. And I I think it's exactly right. Nehemiah was a manager. But he was not a micromanager. And this leads to the fifth thing about leadership. A leader must oversee. You see, delegation does not mean dumping or dictating. That's two extremes. To dump something on someone and then walk away, that's bad leadership. You don't just dump something on someone else and then walk away from it. But also to dictate every detail is not to delegate with proper freedom. So you have on one hand one extreme where you just dump things on someone and walk away. Then you have on the other hand where you're dictating and you're micromanaging and this person doesn't have the freedom to grow in that position and learn. And so these are two extremes here Oh, as Hawkins continues, he said this, others think to delegate means to abdicate. Same thing as dumping. That is, they assign a task and not only let it go, but they let up. There's no passion of follow-up. Now Nehemiah is neither someone who advocates or dictates. He is a manager He lets go. He gives areas of the wall for people to work on, but he's still overseeing their work. He's still coming behind and looking at it. How do we know that? Well, he sets clear objectives. We see this in chapter three. He picks the right people. He holds them accountable. How do we know this? Because if you read chapter 3, you know what you're going to find? It's an account of how Nehemiah goes from one section of the wall to the other. And you know what he does? He writes down a report of who's doing the work and how they're doing. What does that mean? That means that he delegated certain areas to certain people, but then he would come along behind them and make sure that they were doing the job. And he would write it down. I think he went by. I think he encouraged people that were doing a good job. I think he coached people. He even knew who wasn't doing anything. In fact, look at chapter 3, look at verse number 5. And next unto them the Techolites repaired, but their nobles put not their next to the work of the Lord. How did Nehemiah know that? He was riding by and he said, these people aren't doing anything. These nobles, they're not putting their necks to the work. These other ones are. They're working well, but these are not. And he knew that some did more than their share. He saw some that were going above and beyond the call of duty. How do we know that? Look in chapter 3, look in verse 11. And Mokijah, the son of Haran, and Hashab, the son of Hahath Moab, repaired the other piece. And the tower of the furnaces. In other words, they didn't just do their section, but they went above and beyond, and they did another piece after that. Look at chapter 3, verse 19. And next unto him repaired Ezer the son of Yeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, another piece over against the going up to the armory at the turning of the wall. Here's another person or group that went above and beyond. They didn't just through their wall, but they did beyond that. In verse 21, we see the same thing. After him repaired uh Mirimath, the son of Urijah, the son of Kaz, another piece from the door of the house of Elisha, even to the end of the house of Elisha. And so he knows the ones that are going above and beyond. They're doing double duty. They did one part, and I can just imagine them coming to Nehemiah and saying, you know, we're done this. And Nehemiah says, you still want to do more? Absolutely. I mean we're in a groove here. Just give us something else to do. And they went and they did another part. But here's Nehemiah. He's overseeing. He knows the people. He knows their names. He knows where they are. He knows what they're doing. And he is writing it all down. He's giving a report. So a leader must delegate. A leader must oversee. And then here's another thing. A leader must give proper recognition Because again, he's writing all this down. And he's recognizing the people who are doing good, double duty. Here's another one. For example, look in verse number 13. The valley gate repaired Hainun, and the inhabitants of Zenoah They built it and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and a thousand cupits on the wall unto the dungate. In other words What we find here in verse 13 is a group of men and women working together, rebuilding 1,500 feet of broken walls. That's a big section. And Nehemiah records it. 1,500 feet. This is the equivalent to the length of five football fields. That's a long section of the wall to repair. That's huge. And then right next to them, there's one man who's working by himself. Look at verse 14. And the Dungate repaired Melkiah, the son of Rachob, the ruler of the part of Beth. Hasirim, he built it and set up the doors thereof and the locks thereof and the bars thereof. And so right next to them, here's a group of men and women. And they're working on a large section, and Nehemiah sees that and he recognizes that and he gives them approval and appraise for that. But then he sees one guy who's working all by himself You know why? Maybe it's because it's the Dung gate and nobody else wanted to work there. You say, what gate was that? That's the gate where they take out all of the trash of the city, all the waste of the city And it's right by the Valley of Hinnan. By the way, you know what the Valley of Hannon was? It was a garbage dump. They would just take it through the gate, dump all the garbage there, they'd set it on fire. The fire was constantly burning there Why? Because that's what they did with their tracks. They would burn it up. And remember, Jesus later pointed to this as an illustration of hell, where the worm dieth not and the fire is not quenched, the valley of Hinnan. But here's this guy, and he's working all by himself. No one else with them. And the MI sees that and he points it out. Here's a guy who's working diligently, single-handedly. Then there's another guy he points out, look at verse number 20. And after him, Barak, the son of Zebiah, earnestly repaired the other piece from the turning of the wall under the door of the house of Elisha, the high priest. Notice that phrase earnestly repaired. We could say it really it's the Hebrew word zealously. Or really the word actually means to burn or glow. And what does this suggest about Barak here? It suggests that he had a lot of energy. He was not just serving, he was on fire, he was working with energy, he was working with passion, he was working with diligence. And I can just see Nehemiah as he he rides past there and he sees this one guy and he's really working hard. And I can just picture Nehemiah saying, great job, Derek. Great job. But you know, the important thing is not so much that Nehemiah recognized every worker, but that God recognized every worker. God knew all these people. He saw what they were doing. And these names have been preserved for us here to look at and to admire. And again, this tells us that you know what? God was watching them. God's eye was on them. Because he puts them in recorded scripture. Don't tell me that these people here are incidental. They're here to teach us a lesson and that is God is watching the work that we do. He knows what we're doing. He knows how we're doing it. He knows the excellence that we use when we're serving Him in ministry. And God is watching. Do you know the Bible says one day we're going to be judged according to all of our works? I think that God writes it all down, just like Nehemiah wrote down what these people are doing. God will write down our labor, our works, and we'll be judged accordingly to those labors. And so a leader, he doesn't mind who gets the credit. A leader must motivate people. A leader must plan. He must organize He must delegate. He must oversee. He must give proper recognition to those who work. And then here's another thing. A leader must not get distracted by those who will not cooperate. And again, we go to chapter 3, verse 5, where the nobles they would not put their necks to the work. But you know what? Nehemiah didn't expend any energy on these nobles. Rather, he just worked with those who were willing. He just focused on those who were willing to work. He just passed over the others. You know what? In the long run, they're going to miss out on the blessing. If they don't work, they're going to miss out on the blessing of God. And so we see then a determined purpose for the work, that for teamwork and unity. We see a devoted person over the work, a leader who's leading this whole job. But then here's the third thing I see here. A dedicated people in the work. And really this is kind of an overlap because we already pointed out some of the people that were working. But what I want you to see here is the diversity of all the people, the different kinds of people. But look in chapter 4, verse 6, real quick. I want you to see their attitude. Look in chapter 4, verse 6. So built we the wall, and all the wall was joined together on the half thereof, for the people had a mind to what? Work. They were devoted, they were dedicated in their work. They had a mind to work And who did this include? We saw in verse 1 the high priest, Elisha. He was the high priest. He was out there working. Now think about that. What's a high priest wear when he he goes on to serve? He he wears those beautiful clothes, those decorated garments described in the Old Testament with the breastplate. I'm sure he laid that aside. But he had to probably, I can just picture him out there with his high priestly clothes on, working on that wall. He probably probably had to have them dry cleaned after that Here's a high priest and he's out there and he's working because he knows how important it is. Now one sad note, however, is Elisha, he didn't remain true to his calling, and later he'll partner with an enemy to create serious problems. We see that in Nehemiah chapter 13. But this is a reminder to us, it's not how important we begin a project, it's how we finish it. So we can learn a lesson even from that. There was the priests, there was rulers. We're not going to take time to read through all of them, but from verse 12 down to verse 19 is a list of rulers who helped the people. You know what else I see in here? People who lived a long way away. Some people lived in Jericho in verse number two. Verse 7 mentions people from Gibeon. So people lived from 10 to 15 miles away. They came in and they worked. Look at verse number 16 where it says, After him repaired Nehemiah, the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the half-part of Bethzer Unto the place over against the sepulchres of David to the pool that was made unto the house of the mighty. By the way, I I was there last year and I was at that place the little show and tell here the picture behind you is That very spot that's mentioned here in verse number 16 of chapter 3. The sepulchres of David, that's what I'm standing in front of right there. And not too far from there is part of the wall of Nehemiah that you can still see That's there in Jerusalem, even to this point. But this is the place where the rulers worked. And then there were craftsmen that were mentioned in verse 8. And also in verse number 32, there's craftsmen that were mentioned there. But here's the point: the Lord didn't need a thousand masons and carpenters. What he needed was just ordinary people that were willing to work. That's all. Just ordinary people willing to work. Verse three mentions uh sons and daughter uh sons and daughters in verse three the sons of Uh Hasaniah in verse 12, the daughters of Shalom, they work together, so we see dedicated families working. And you know what this teaches me? That uh Christian service begins at home. And here's families working together. And so the lesson is all kinds of people were working together, serving the Lord. What there had to be was just a humble, willing heart to serve, and that's what God wants. And the question is, do you have that? Are you willing to serve in that capacity, in that manner? Again, if you're not willing to serve and you don't want to get involved, you're going to miss out on a great blessing. You miss the blessing of seeing God do things. Let me share with you something. Last week, I was teaching a seminary class right here in our education building, and after the class was over, a seminary student came up to me and they said Do you know how I got saved? And I said, I have no idea. They said, well, years ago, I sent my children to the Iwana program here at your church, here at Grace, years ago And they said, I wasn't a Christian then. And he said, my children would come to your church here at the Awana program and they would get their verses and they would bring their verses home and then they would ask me to help them memorize their verses. And this person said, I began to sit down and memorize the verses with my children. And he said, You know what happened I got saved. I decided to receive Jesus into my heart and and and and for him to be my savior. And he said, so I got saved because of your wana program here at the church. I don't know if you ever knew that. I said, no, I had no idea about that. And they said, now I'm here and I'm studying and I'm learning theology at seminaries so that God will use me somehow in the work. Now, isn't that a blessing? Doesn't that make you awana workers feel blessed? God used all of your labor. And you know what? That's just one illustration. Who knows what else God has done through all of the labors That you do. But if you don't serve, you don't get those kind of blessings, you see. And so God just wants willing hearts that will serve. Now let me give you one final thing And we'll be done here. But we saw a determined purpose for the work. We saw a devoted person over the work. We see a dedicated people in the work, people who are willing from all types of backgrounds. Let me just give you one final lesson here. I want to talk about a distinct picture of the work. Because What I see here in these gates are really spiritual lessons in each of these gates. For example, in verse 1, it talks about the sheep gate. That reminds us of the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. Again, this was the first gate repaired, for without the sacrifice, there's no salvation. And so also note that the sheep gate had no locks or bars. You know why? Because the door of salvation is always open to a sinner, I think. And then there's the fish gate in verse number three. You know what that reminds me about? We're to be fishers of men, aren't we? After we're saved, we're to go out. fishing for men. And then there's the old gate and verse number six. And this speaks to me of the old paths, the old truths. Let me tell you something, folks, if someone comes along and says they have some new truth, you can rest assured it's not true if it's new. The word of God, the truth of God's word is not new. It's the old paths, the old ways. Then there's the valley gate in verse number 13, and that speaks to me of humility. And sometimes God will bring us through the valley. Because sometimes he has to break us before he blesses us. Sometimes he has to humble us in order to really use us. And then there's the Dungate. And this speaks of how we must cleanse our life. We have to get out all of the unclean things out of our life. We've got to remove all of the rubbish out of our life. Then we come to the fountain gate in verse 15, and that speaks to me about the ministry of the Holy Spirit who's like a fountain inside of us. And you notice the progression? There has to be humility, the valley gate, then cleansing, the dungate, and then the filling, the the fountain gate. And that's normally how God works. Then there's the Watergate that speaks of the Word of God. By the way, it was at the Watergate that Ezra actually began his Bible conference, we could say, that revival with the Word of God And you'll notice that the water gate does not get repaired. It didn't need to get repaired. And that again tells me about the Word of God. You know what? This doesn't need to be repaired. It doesn't need anything added to it. It does not fail. It doesn't need to be improved. And then we come to the horse gate in verse 28. And that's the idea of warfare. And as Christians, we have to understand that we are in warfare. And then there's the East Gate in verse 29. And that reminds me about the second coming of Jesus, because when he comes again, he's going to go through that eastern gate If you've ever been to Jerusalem, that eastern gate is it's all bricked up now. You can see it, it's bricked up. But do you think those bricks are going to keep Jesus from passing through that gate? Not on your life. The Muslims bricked it up because they didn't want the Messiah to go through there. If they think that's going to stop them, they got another thing coming. When Jesus comes, he will come down the Mount of Olives, down through the valley of Kedron, and up and through that eastern gate when he comes again. And then finally there's the gate in verse 31, the gate of uh Mifkad, and that speaks of God's judgment. The word actually means appointed appointed for judgment. And uh it carries the idea of judgment. And so certainly there's going to be a judgment one day. But think about it, as you review these gates, you can see the full picture of the Christian life. And those from the sheep gate of salvation to the judgment gate. But you know what? Thank God because of what Jesus did, we don't have to worry about judgment Because we have been saved. We've been cleansed. And so this is a picture to me of our own Christian life and things that we can learn from that. But I hope that this will encourage all of us. If you're not already, get involved and work together. Everyone has a part that they can do. There's something that you can do. And when the church comes together and when everyone's serving the way they should, you know what? The church becomes a mighty force for God. That's what God's will is. God doesn't want just a few people doing all the work. He wants everyone having a part, doing something in the work. I'll close with this. One of my favorite illustrations is the old Peanuts cartoon. Linus is laying on the carpet watching TV. Lucy comes in and she says, turn the channel. Linus says, why should I? Lucy says, because you see this hand, it doesn't look like much now, but when I bring these fingers all together like this, it becomes a mighty force, a mighty weapon. And Linus says, what channel do you want? And then he looked at his hand and he said, Why can't you guys get together like that? You know what? Why can't we get together and be a mighty force for God? That he will use us to do great things. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, help us to see these things, to learn these things in our own life. I pray, Father, that you would encourage us. You would give us grace and motivation to get involved if we're not already serving, doing something. To further the kingdom of God, to be used of you, that Lord, you would get us off of our apathy and get us. Moving and get us excited about the work of God. Just like we see these people here, these ancient people that all worked together for a great purpose, and ultimately it brought you glory. Lord, I pray that we'll learn from that. That will serve you with all our heart. Lord, thank you for the privilege of being saved. And Lord, that you would even choose us to serve in your work. What a privilege that is Thank you for those who do serve. We have so many here that already have for years been faithful in the service of God. I pray that this would serve to encourage them just to continue on for your glory. But use these principles, these things that we can learn here to help us to be all that we can be for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.