It's good to see you here tonight. I hope everyone had a good fourth, a good holiday weekend. And I want you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Colossians, chapter one. As you know, on Sunday night we're studying this powerful little epistle. And we're calling this series Christ is All You Need, which is the theme of this letter. Now tonight the title of the sermon is Total Reconciliation. So look in Colossians chapter one and verse twenty down to verse twenty-four. And as you're finding that, I heard about a family that was meeting together on New Year's Eve, a large family. They were going to have a family reunion on New Year's Eve. And there were two members of that family that were not getting along. They had quarreled. There was some hostility that had been in that family for uh a while, even uh throughout the year. And so one family member said to one of the ones that was quarreling, this is not the time for you to continue to hold that grudge You need to go over and be friendly and ask for forgiveness and wish your family member a happy new year. So the person said, okay, very well. Very reluctantly they went over and said, I want to wish you a happy new year, but only One. Just one. Yeah, that's uh that's not what we would call total reconciliation, right? And that's not uh the concept that want to talk about tonight tonight. We want to talk about total reconciliation. And that's what these verses really are going to teach us. Look at verse number 20. Let me read these with you, verse 20. And having made peace through the blood of his cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things in earth or things in heaven. And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works Yet now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblamable and unreprovable in his sight, if you continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel which ye have heard and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister. Now the concept again tonight is Reconciliation. We see in verse 20 the word reconcile, and again in verse 21, the past tense reconciled. Now this is an important term in Christianity. It's an important term in the matter of salvation. And if you're to understand your salvation, you have to understand this term. If you want to understand the theology of salvation, what we call soteriology, the doctrine of salvation. This is certainly one of those important words and concepts that you need to be able to grasp. And so I hope that you can grasp this tonight. Now, what is reconciliation? Very basically it's the removal of enmity and a restoration of fellowship between two parties. When two parties are at war and the war is over and there's peace, that is reconciliation. It was used about warring countries when they came to peace. In fact, the Anglo-Saxon word reconcile actually means making at one. The English word reconcile, making at one. And this is a word that sometimes we hear in divorce courts, perhaps when a couple are estranged and the judge wants to reconcile them before they pursue a divorce This is a word that we hear in the court of law to bring back this couple to bring reconciliation. It was certainly used in Paul's day in that way. In 1 Corinthians 7. 11, Paul uses the word reconcile referring to a husband and wife However, this word is not a word that speaks just about human relationships. In a theological sense, it is a word that really means To be reconciled in your relationship to God, not just horizontal with others, but more importantly, vertical to God. For God and man to be brought back together. For God and man to be reconciled Let me just give you the basic word that's used in the New Testament is the word catalasso. And it means to change or it means an exchange. It was used to talk about two people that would exchange a garment or perhaps a coin. And it has the idea of a change of attitude. Whereas there was one of hostility, now there is one of friendship. Whereas before there was one of hatred, now there is one of love And it's used that way in the New Testament. Write down 2 Corinthians 5. 19. Listen to this verse. To wit that God was in Christ. Reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation. God was in Christ reconciling the world. Powerful verse. Romans 5:10 For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And so it's used in that sense in these two verses, a change of attitude. Whereas God, there was warfare, now there's love And so it has that idea in the New Testament. God and man and the warfare. There's total reconciliation, just as it was before the fall of man, where there was complete and total fellowship between God and man. Now when we come to Colossians 1, however, the word that is used in Colossians 1 is not the typical New Testament word. Well, it is in a sense, but there's something different about it. And this is why I want to bring this out to you. The word that is used in Colossians 1, that we read in verse 20 and verse 21, the word for reconciled, is not cataluso. It is the word apocataluso. You say, what's the difference? There's a preposition added to the front of that word. And whenever in Greek they add the preposition, as I told you before, that always intensifies the word. It makes it much, much stronger. Not just Cataluso, but Apocataluso. Here is an intensification. We could say it like this, thoroughly reconciled, completely reconciled, totally reconciled. Now the question is why when Paul was writing this letter would he add the prefix to this normal Greek word? What is the reason for that? I think there's always a reason for everything when it comes to the inspiration of Scripture So why does he intensify the word here? Well, because when Paul was writing in Corinth in Corinthians, or to the Corinthians, or when he was writing to the Romans. He was not there was not a battle going on. He was not fighting against anything. He's not arguing against any false teachers. He's not defending the gospel and that and those situations. And so he's just making a basic statement. But there's something different here about this letter to Colossians. And it is that Paul is now away from the spiritual world. He is defending the gospel. He is fighting a counter-attack. From the Colossian heretics who were teaching all kind of weird, bizarre theology when it refers to the Lord Jesus Christ and his salvation. And a lot of this false teaching was infiltrating the church And especially in this area of reconciliation. Now, those of you that have been with us on Sunday night, you might remember what I told you about some of the basic pillars of the Gnostic heresy that was invading the church. And if you haven't been here, just let me touch on it real briefly. Remember that, if you were here, remember that the idea behind Gnosticism was that all spirit was good and all matter was evil. And so therefore the highest God didn't create. He sent out a series of emanations of beings that were less perfect, that were less of God. And from one one spawned another, and then another spawned another, and then so on, until there was this ladder of beings descending from the true God, each a little bit less God, each a little bit less good, each a little bit less perfect. Until finally there spawned one that was less perfect enough to actually create the material cosmos, to create the world as we know it. And so the whole point is that in order to leave this boxed universe, this boxed creation, to ascend back into perfection, that a man has to ascend this ladder of beings. He has to ascend this ladder of emanations. Now remember what they taught about Christ. Christ was simply one of those emanations. He was not unique in any way. He was simply one of those that you could pass through. And by the way, Gnostics. w comes from the word knowledge. They believe you had to have s special knowledge to ascend up this ladder. Special passwords as it were to get by some of these beings and some of them were hostile and so it took great wisdom and cunning to get back to this level of perfection. What evolved out of perfection can evolve back into perfection through this knowledge. And so the basic idea then was that one of these emanations could not reconcile you to God. And it took a series of them. And so since Jesus was just one of these emanations, Jesus alone was insufficient to reconcile you to God. That was their idea. That's what they were trying to say That's why Paul, when he comes to this word reconciliation here, he intensifies it. And he is emphasizing this one point that in Jesus Christ, he is all you need to completely, totally reconcile you to the Father. Jesus and Jesus only And so, now remember, last week we looked at verses 15 down to verse 19, and we just finished proving that Jesus was not some created being, but he in fact he was a creator. That's what Paul is telling us. He is the visible revelation of the invisible God, and in him all the fullness of the Godhead dwells in bodily remote form. And since he is God then, he is able without any other assistance to reconcile men to God. This is the train of thought. He is God, he's all the fullness of God, he's the revelation of God, and since he is God, the God man, he is fully able to reconcile. And so that's the idea that we come to when we come to verses 20 down to verse 23. Now, with all that in mind, I want to give you five aspects of total reconciliation. Five. Okay? You say that's more points than normal. That's right. You're going to have to listen a little faster tonight. Alright, here's the first point. Number one, the source of reconciliation. And by the way, these are basic. I'm not going to tell you anything you haven't already heard. But you know what? It's like the song says, I love to tell the story. And I love to hear it over again. And we need to hear it over again. This is basic foundational salvation doctrine. So here's number one, the source of reconciliation. And notice the source, look at verse 20. And having made peace through the what? Through the blood of his cross. There is the source. God the Father's plan of reconciliation was through the death of Christ on the cross. That's the source. Now remember the gospel message all starts with the holiness of God Any gospel that doesn't start with God's holiness is not starting at the proper beginning. It starts with the fact that God is holy, beloved. And since God is holy, therefore his holiness demands that sin be judged. And so God's wrath is provoked against anyone that would sin against him. And he demands for that sin to be punish. God who is holy hates sin, and his holy nature demands punishment for sin. And so that's why And Paul in Romans 1, when he begins his great treatise of the gospel, we could say, where does he start in Romans 1? He starts with the wrath of God revealed from heaven. Paul doesn't start the gospel message with the love of God. And by the way, thank God for his love and grace. Thank God that he is a God of love. And we need to preach that. But when Paul starts his gospel, he doesn't start with the love of God. He starts with the wrath of God. God's wrath is revealed from heaven. And this is the most fundamental thing that we need to understand. And Paul says in Romans 1: it's being revealed around us. Not will be revealed, it is being revealed. God's wrath is revealed constantly from heaven. Why? Because his holiness, his righteousness has been offended. It's been provoked. Now we here today in our society, we're careful not to offend anyone. In fact, we're so hypersensitive about offending anyone that we have to be careful of the things that we say and the words that we use. We're so careful about offending other people, but you know what? It seems like in our society today we're not really careful about offending God. We don't mind offending God In fact, we'll create laws to not offend small groups of people in our country, not caring that those laws may offend a holy and a righteous God. The problem with man today is not that we're offending others, it's that we're offending, or we have offended, a holy God. And the Bible says that his wrath is revealed from heaven. But thank God, friend, he's also a God of love. And although God in His Holiness wants to judge sin, God in His love does not want to judge the sinner. And here's the amazing fact, although God is the offended party, listen, God is the one who is seeking reconciliation. He's not asking man to take the initiative. God is the one seeking reconciliation with man. That's the love of God It should be man seeking reconciliation with God. But I want to tell you something, friend. Man is not smart enough to do that. Man doesn't realize his greatest need is to be reconciled to God the Father. That's his greatest need. And so what we see then in the New Testament is God is the one who takes the initiative to make the peace. It is God that is going after man. He could just banish us all to hell rightfully, but he doesn't And so he seeks reconciliation. Reconciliation is not the work of man, it is the work of Almighty God. And again, because man is so sinful, he doesn't understand his need. And so God the Father takes the initiative. And how does he do that? Well, we know that God has established this principle all the way from the Old Testament, from the very first in the very beginning as soon as man fell in the garden that there had to be someone innocent that would die for sin It started all the way with when when Adam sinned and Eve sinned, God shed the blood of an animal to cover them, and there the principle in siege form is established in the very beginning that someone innocent had to s suffer and die because of man's sin. And we see that principle all the way through the Old Testament. We see it through all the Old Testament sacrifices, whenever a workshop broad a animal, a lamb to the altar and they watched that lamb die, they watched the lamb's throat get cut and the blood spill out and death come. They understood again this concept in a very real, tangible way, that someone innocent Had to die for sin. And the sins of the individual was laid on that innocent one. And this all pointed to the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. God took the initiative to send his only begotten, sinless, innocent son to bear the sins of the whole world And this was God's method of reconciling the world to himself. You see, the one who would come would have to be the one qualified to be the reconciler or to be the mediator. Let me give you an illustration. Suppose there's a king and a beggar, and the king and the beggar have a controversy, and they need a mediator, and so the king says, I'll tell you what. I know a mediator. There's another king in another country not far away. He can mediate for us. And the beggar says, oh no. You two kings, you don't know what it's like to be a beggar. I don't want another king trying to reconcile this matter. He doesn't understand me. And the king says, well, what do you want to do? And the beggar says, Well, I know a beggar friend of mine right down here, and he can be the mediator. He can be the reconciler, and the king says, Oh no I'm not going to let you two gang up on me. He has no understanding what it's like to be a a king. And so you see the principle is they have to find someone that can represent each party. That's accepted by each party. And so someone stepped forward and says, Well, I know a king who became a beggar of his own initiative. And he understands royalty and common humanity. And they said, that's our mediator. You understand the principle? There had to be someone to be the reconciler, and that someone was Jesus Christ. And listen, beloved, he was both 100% God and 100% man. He understood God, he understood humanity. And he was the one qualified. And so what you have then is this great gulf between the thrice-holy God and sinful man And this chasm, this gulf has grown more and more through the corruption of sin through the years, and this gulf had to be uh to be bridged. Something had to happen. And so God the Father sent his son, the God man. And so we could say it like this. God took a pillar of deity here, and he took a pillar of humanity there, and he laid across those pillars the rough-hewn timbers of the cross. And that became a bridge that united God and man. It was through the cross and through the death of Jesus Christ that reconciliation was made possible for man to come to God. I read about a couple that were estranged. They were married and they divorced. There was great hostility. And the man who lived in another side of the country came back home to the hometown and he went to the grave of his son. They had a child that had died. decided to visit that grave. And he was standing there and he was re reminiscing at that grave. And while he was there, he heard some footsteps behind him and he turned to see that it was his astride. And the first reaction was to turn away. But they had a common interest, and it was that son that had died, and instead of turning away They embraced and they were reconciled right there at that grave. It was the death of that son that brought reconciliation to that couple And even so, friend, it was the death of God's Son, Jesus Christ, that God chose to use to reconcile the world, to reconcile man back unto himself. It was the blood of the cross, the blood that was shed. that satisfied the holy wrath of God that brought reconciliation. Again, look at verse 20. And having made peace through the blood of his cross. And so that's the source of reconciliation. That's why we sing, I must needs go home by the way of the cross, there's no other way but this. There's no other way to reconciliation except through the cross. If man tries to go another way, he will fail. Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, the life. No man comes under the Father but by me. And so that's the source. But then write down, here's the second thing, write down the scope. The scope of reconciliation. Look again in verse 20. It says, and having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself. By him I say, whether they be things on earth. Or things in heaven. Now, the by him, that again is Jesus. And God the Father's plan was to reconcile all things unto himself. Pantah, everything. That's the scope of it. And so what does that mean? This is not only salvation for sinful men, this is salvation. We can be reconciled to God But it goes beyond that. It goes on to subordination of all of creation being reconciled back to God. All of creation. You see, that's the idea there. Now you say, well what does that mean? Visible and invisible? Well, let's go back to the beginning. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And what does God the Bible say about God's creation? That when He created everything, it was good. The Bible says on the sixth day he looked over all of his creation. Write down Genesis 1. 31. And God saw everything that he had made. And behold, it was very good. And the evening of the morning were the sixth day. When God created everything, when he created this universe, and he created everything in it, both visible and invisible, it was all good. It was all perfect. It was all in harmony and in subjection to its creator. And by the way, this is why I don't believe that there was some pre-ademic race or there was some gap theory or something that happened between Genesis 1 and 2, which is really the the desire of some people to try to force so-called scientific facts in on the Bible to tip their hat to evolution, which is a godless system. Alright, let me get off my soapbox and get back over here to the Bible. But that's the bottom line. That's how I know there was no gap in verses 1 and 2. Why? Because when God created everything, everything was good. And if there was some pre-endemic race that had died out, and that explains the fossils today, that means there was death before the creation. How could God say everything was good if there was death? And how does that work with death and sin? The Bible says by sin death came. So you have death before sin, if all that's true. And you have it just put throws a monkey wrench into Paul's theology of sin. When God created everything, it was all good. Everything in the universe was good. Everything in the invisible world, the spiritual world was good. What happened? One word, sin. Sin entered in And there was the rebellion of Satan and his demons that went against God and they were kicked out of heaven. And now what do we see today? We see We don't actually see it by our eyes of uh literal eyes, but with the eye of faith and through the Word of God, the Bible talks about a spiritual warfare where Satan and his Demons are constantly rebelling and warring against Almighty God. That's why we have spiritual warfare today. And if you don't believe we have spiritual warfare, just read Daniel chapter 10. Read about the warfare that goes on when a believer prays. It's there. It's very real. That's the invisible world. What happened? The invisible world was no longer in harmony and in tune and in subordination to Almighty God like it was when God first created. And then in the visible creation there was the sin of mankind. And what happened with the sin of man? There came after that the curse And now we live in a cursed universe today, beloved. The heavenlies are cursed. Why? Because Satan lives there and his corrupt demons. And the earth is cursed. Why? Because man lives there. And man has cursed this earth through his sin And wherefore, as before the earth gave freely of all of its resources and all of its blessings, now it takes everything from man to subdue this cursed earth so that this world doesn't kill him. And if he doesn't try to subdue the earth, then this earth will overtake him. It will kill him. And we live in a world today that's seething with rebellion. With hurricanes and tornadoes and tidal waves and all these other things, extremes of heat and extremes of cold, and all these things bear witness to a creation that is now out of harmony with its creator. That's the problem that we have today. Man is ravaged by disease. Man is dying and the earth with him. It's a horrible tragedy. And even the earth knows its condition. Write down Romans 8. 22, for we know that the whole creation groans and travails and pain together until now. All of the earth knows its condition. It knows that it needs to be reconciled to its Creator. But now here's the good news. Paul tells us right here in Colossians that God is going to reconcile all things unto him. Everything. That is in the invisible world and in the visible world. How is he going to reconcile the invisible world? Well, I've got good news, friends. Satan and his demons are going to be cast into hell. That's what the Bible says in the end. They will be cast into the lake of fire. There'll be no more rebellion from him and his demons. But then also, friend, there's another thing. God is going to reconcile all the heavens and the earth. He's going to remake it all. And we know, and you've been taught very well eschatology, the last days, and how it's all going to fall out. The Lord's going to come back. There's going to be judgment and tribulation on the earth And then after that, Christ will reign a thousand years, and then after that there'll be another rebellion, and Satan will finally be cast into the pit. And then after that, God is going to recreate the heavens and the earth. Everything is going to be made brand new. And everything will once again be brought back into harmony. Let me read to you what Eric Sauer said in his book, in the book The Triumph of the Crucified. This is what he says, quote, the offering on Galgatho, that's the death of Christ, extends its influence into the universal history. The salvation of mankind is only one part of the world embracing counsels of God. The heavenly things were also cleansed. through Christ's sacrifice of himself. A cleansing of the heavenly places is required if on no other ground than that they have been the dwelling of fallen spirits, and because Satan, their chief, has for ages had access to the highest regions of the heavenly world. And he's saying there that God is going to cleanse it all. He's going to cleanse it all. And the whole basis for that is what happened at the cross. And by the way, did you know that all the creation is waiting for this? All of creation is groaning. And we saw this in Romans eight Listen to these verses. For the earnest expectation of the creature waitest for the manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was made subject to vanity not willingly. That is Creation was kind of a collateral damage of man's fall. Creation now is groaning and seething. It wasn't the animals' idea to rebel against God. It wasn't creation's idea to rebel against God. They were simply victims of what man did. And now all of creation is groaning and longing for the time when everything will be brought back into subordination to Jesus Christ. I I heard that when an orchestra director before he begins his symphony, that he'll get together with all the musical instruments and he'll get them on the same page. He'll get them on the in the same tune, on one tune. To get them in harmony. If he didn't do that, it would be a cacophony rather than a symphony. But he gets them all on the same tune. And they all play together in symphony. I want to tell you that God the Father is going to get all of creation, everything, in harmony on the same page, and the same tune. And you say, what is that tune? It is subordination and submission to Jesus Christ. Christ. That's all going to happen. All will be reconciled to him. Listen to Philippians. Wherefore God has highly exalted him, that is Jesus, and given him a name that is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, that's everything. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. That is reconciling all things. to Christ. And so that's the scope. Now let me give you the third thing. There's the source, the blood of Christ. The scope, all things will be reconciled, visible and invisible. But then here's number three, the subjects. of reconciliation. What is that? Look at verse 21. And you that were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind. By wicked works, yet now have he reconciled. Now when Paul says you, who is he talking to? He's talking to the Colossians And he points them out as proof of the power of Christ. And I love when Paul does this. Often when he's writing a letter, he'll point to the very people he's writing to and he'll say, if you want evidence of what I'm talking about, look at your own life He did that to the Corinthians. He said, look, such were some of you, but now you're washed, now you're cleansed. And now he points to the Colossians. And he's saying to them, if you want proof that Jesus Christ is all you need to be fully reconciled, totally reconciled to God the Father, look at yourself. He has reconciled you. You're brought into peace. You're brought into harmony. He reconciled you to God. You're a living, breathing testimony of the ministry of reconciliation. Because you now have peace with God. Your salvation is proof that full, complete, total reconciliation is possible. with Christ. Now he says, look what you were before. Again, look in verse 21. And you that were sometimes what? Alienated. That means estranged, separated. Paul's describing here, by the way, the condition of all men prior to salvation. You say, what were we like? We were alienated. We were outsiders. We were cut off. We were separated. All the way from God. And then look what he says again in verse 21. And enemies in your mind. What is he describing here? He's describing an attitude of hostility towards God. We could translate that hateful. Unbelievers are not only separated from God, but they have an ongoing, continual, seeding resentment, and hostility against Almighty God. And if you haven't seen that, friend, you haven't been paying attention. I mean, you just go somewhere and talk about Jesus. Mention the name of Jesus. See what kind of response you get. Now, believers around you will love you. But everyone else, you better watch it. You better duck. Because there's this hostility towards God. And it is so evident I saw a video the other day of a um a gay pride parade, and in that midst of that crowd, there were two courageous preachers who dare stand there with signs that had scripture on it. And you know what they did to these guys? They they pummeled them. They beat them. And you know what? That hostility that they have is really not directed to those men, it's really directed to God And I want to tell you something, friend. If Jesus were in this world today, they would crucify Jesus again. But they can't get at Jesus, so who are they going to get at? They're going to get at the ones that Jesus loved, his beloved, his bride, his church. And that hostility then is directed towards the people of God. The world hates God, it hates God's authority, it hates anything that has anything that reminds them of God. And it's this hostility that is there, that is seething. And then also notice what's the result of it? Look again in verse 21, that you were sometimes alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works. Here's the evidence of man's hostility and hatred towards God. What is the evidence of it? Wicked works. Now you look around at the wickedness in the world today, and what is that a testimony to? That the world is shaking its fist at God. They're hostile. And so they want to show that hostility. And what's the best way to do it? Wicked works. Friend, I want to tell you, as our pastor mentioned this morning, about the world's hatred and hating God in those verses. About generations that hate the Lord. And the way that they show that hatred is through the wicked things that they do. I want to tell you this decision from the Supreme Court is a fruition of the hostility that the world has towards all men. Almighty God. That's all it is. It's a fruition of that. And by the way, just like Pastor said this morning, a higher court has already ruled on this matter. And it's not going to change what we believe, one iota. We stand unapologetically on the word of God. But, friend, this is why wickedness is running throughout the streets I want to tell you something. Our founding fathers, you know what they said? They said this system of government, this democracy, or this republic, or whatever you want to call it They said that this system of government will only work with the gospel. They said that. You know why? Because the only way a democracy is going to work is if the people in that democracy are good people. And the only thing that can make people good is the gospel of Jesus Christ. But you take a bunch of wicked people and you give them control, and guess what you get? You get wickedness. There's a sense in which we in America here have put into positions of government the leaders that we have wanted and they're not godly. You know why? Because the people that voted to men are not godly And I'll tell you something, friend, that's why the only answer to this world is not political activism, and I'm not against that. If you want to do that, that's fine, but you'll be better served to go and preach the gospel. To go and share the gospel because the gospel is the only thing that's going to bring this world back together. It's the only thing that's going to reconcile man to God. And if that reconciliation is not there, all the rest of it is superficial. It's just a matter of time before the whole thing comes down because of man's hostility against God. And so there's the subject of reconciliation. Now let me give you number four, the state of reconciliation. Look at verse number 22. And the body of his flesh through death. Now here's the whole aim, to present you holy and unblamable and unreprovable in his sight. This is God's purpose. This is God's aim in reconciliation. His purpose is to sanctify us. His purpose is to make us like Jesus Christ. Notice the three words there. Holy, hagias. We know that word. To be separated from sin, to be set apart to God. Now that we're reconciled to the Holy God, we can be made holy, or we are made holy. Unblamable just means without blemish. This was used in the Septuagint to talk about the animals that were brought for sacrifice, they were without blemish. It also is used in the New Testament to speak about Jesus, the spotless Lamb of God. Reconciliation gives the believer a blamelessness before God. But then here's the next thing unreprovable. And this goes beyond blameless. And it means that we're not only without blame, but this means that no one can bring a charge against us. That's that word here unreprovable. Not only can are we blameless, but no one can come and bring a charge against you now. And that charge tick, and that's a good thing to know because we know that Satan is the accuser of the brethren, right? He's going to constantly bring charges. But the Bible says, who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? You can't bring a charge Satan and it can't stick. Now notice the key words in verse 22. The last three words, notice these, in his sight. We are holy, we are unblamable, we are unreprovable. How? In his sight. Now you know what this is? This is justification. Because the moment you're reconciled to God, guess what? You are declared holy and blameless and unreprovable in God's sight. In God's sight. And that's why, by the way, that God's attitude towards the sinner changes. That's why now there's no more hostility. That's why there's love now, because God now doesn't see you once you are reconciled through Christ. God doesn't see man as a sinner anymore. You know what he sees When he looks at the sinner after he's been reconciled, what does he see? He sees his son Jesus. You're no longer an enemy. You're his child. And he looks at you through Christ. And all the righteousness of Christ has been given to you, and so you're you're declared holy. And you're declared blameless. And you're declared unreprovable. And there's a total change in attitude then. This is the doctrine of justification. And so what we see here is that justification and reconciliation are inseparably linked together. You can't separate these two. That's why the hostility becomes love, because we have been declared righteous. Now let me give you the last thing, and we'll be done. We talked about the source. That's through the blood of Christ. We talked about the scope. He's reconciling all things. The subjects of reconciliation, that sinful man, the state of reconciliation, you're brought to holiness and blamelessness in the sight of God. Number five, the sign of reconciliation. The sign. Or we could say evidence. What's the evidence? Look in verse 23. If you continue in the faith. Grounded and settled and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard, which was preached to every creature which is under heaven, whereof I, Paul, am made a minister. There's the if there What's the ultimate telltale sign that someone has been reconciled to God? How do you know that you got it? How do you know that you've been reconciled? If you continue in the faith, grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the gospel So there's one word here. What is it? You're continuing in it. You continue. That's how you know. You continue on. You're not going to be reconciled to God and then walk away and live as if you're God's enemy. You've been reconciled. So you're going to continue in the faith. And that is simply this. This is the perseverance of the believer, right? You are not going to quit. You're not going to walk away. What did Jesus say in John 8. 30? Many believed on his name, but he said, if you continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed. You say, what about these people that come to church for a while and then they fall away and they walk away and never come back and we never see them again and they never are back in fellowship with God ever again? Well, did they continue? No. The proof of that you're truly reconciled, that you're truly saved, is that you're going to persevere. Now I'm not saying it's impossible for a believer to backslide. We know that's true. And it is possible for a believer to live in a carnal state for a time, but I want to tell you this, a true believer is not going to continually live in a carnal state. You know why? God the Father is not going to let him because you're God's child now. He's going to bring you back. He's going to punish you. He's going to spank you. And you will persevere because God's grace will give you the strength to persevere You'll continue. 1 John 2. 19, they went out from us, but they were not of us. Had they been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us, but they went out from us, that it might be made manifest that they were never of us. You say, well, they lost their salvation. No, they never had it. They never had it in the first place. Because if you really have it, you will continue in it. And there are so many verses on this, beloved. And I don't have to show you all, but just write down 1 John 2. 3. Hereby we do know that we know him. Here's how you know that you really know him. If we keep present indicative active, if we continually keep on keeping his commandments. And the commandments there is not the law. It's talking about the commandments of Jesus, his word. A true believer will continue To keep on keeping God's commandments. And you know what? You'll grow stronger. You'll grow settled in the faith. It says here in verse 23. You'll be not moved away from the hope of the gospel. God will not allow you to be totally moved away. You'll continue in it. And then Paul adds this little note here. This got hope of the gospel, which he have heard, which was preached to every creature, and we dealt with that before. He's saying it is in the process of being preached to every creature here on on earth that was preached in the known world that Paul was living in, but it has continued from that time until this, being spread throughout all of the world. This is the hope of the gospel, and if you truly know him, you won't be moved away from him. So if you continue. And so the sign- the source is the cross, the scope is all things, the subjects are you who were alienated. The state is that you'll be holy, unblameable, unreprovable, and the sign of reconciliation is you will continue in the faith. You will not be moved away from it. That's the bottom line. Elizabeth Barrett Browning married a man that her parents did not approve of. And because of that, her father disowned her. It would have nothing to do with her. And she wanted to be reconciled to her father, and so she wrote a letter every week to her parents. Beautiful letters, pouring out her heart. And after ten years of writing a letter every week, she received in the mail a box of all of those letters that had been returned to her, all of them unopened The parents refuse reconciliation. By the way, those letters are now read by students of English literature because they're a masterpiece. Had her parents read just maybe one or two of those letters, perhaps they would have been reconciled. But let me tell you something, friend. You know what this is? This is a letter from God Beautifully written. The most beautiful written document ever is the Bible. And you know what it is? It's a letter of reconciliation. It is God saying to man, be Reconciled to me. This is the greatest need for mankind today. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And if you're here tonight and you're not sure of your own standing before God, I just want to talk to you just a minute. Right there where you are. If you're not absolutely certain of your standing, Then friend, would I would you do this? Would you be reconciled tonight to God? He's reaching out to you. You say, how? The fact that you're here and you heard the word of God. And you heard about the cross, that bridge that spans that chasm of sin. And that it's the only way for a person to be reconciled is through Christ. Would you be willing to come to Him tonight? You say, What do I have to do? You have to just reach out in faith. Turn from your sin. Right there where you are. God will hear your prayer right there where you are If you'll pray and you'll mean it and you'll say, I want to be reconciled. I don't want there to be hostility between me and God. This is my greatest need. And I want to be reconciled through the blood of Christ, through the cross. Friend, if that's your prayer, would you be willing to pray this prayer right there where you are? I don't want to embarrass you, friend, but I want you to be reconciled. If you're not sure right there where you are, would you be be willing to say these words? Just say, dear Jesus I know that I am a sinner. And I have been alienated from God. And I need to be reconciled. And I know that you're the only way. I realize that I need to come to you and trust what you did for me on the cross. Please save me, Lord Jesus. Reconcile me. Be my friend. And friend, he will. He'll not only be your friend, he's your savior and your Lord. And friend, if you'll mean it, if you'll reach out in prayer by faith, reach out to Jesus Christ, friend, he will save you. save you. Based on the authority of God's Word. He'll save you. And friend, if you prayed that prayer, why don't you do me a favor? After the service, go up to Pastor Johnson, tell him, go up to Pastor Earl, or one of these. You say why? Because we want to pray for you. We want to encourage you. We want you to continue on in the faith and we want to help you along. We want to rejoice with you. You realize the greatest joy we have here in this church is to see people come to you. Christ. That's what we live for. And so, friend, we want you to know Him. Father, take these words. And Lord, use them. This is your word. And so, Lord, we trust in its power. And so, Father, use it to bring reconciliation to those who do not know you Thank you for the cross. Thank you for Jesus. And Lord, we believe that in Christ we need no other but Jesus to be totally reconciled. And we thank you for him. We thank you that we are complete in Christ. And we thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen.