Well, it's good to see you here today, and I ask you to take your Bibles this morning and open to 2 Corinthians chapter 4. 2 Corinthians chapter 4. I want to ask you to stand this morning. You've been getting up and down a lot, so I'm going to give you a break. Unless you just want to, you can go ahead and stand up. I mean Uh but anyway, uh look in chapter four and look in verse number s uh seven and uh let me just read this one verse with you. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. One day in 1947, a little shepherd boy was walking along the cliffs. He was looking for his sheep, one lost sheep that had run from his herd. And as he walked along the cave, he picked up a stone and he just kind of threw that stone into the mouth of the cave. And when he did, he heard a ping, and then he heard something shatter. And he went inside that cave and he saw in that cave clay jars filled with manuscripts. And that became what we now call the Dead Sea Scrolls because what he found in those clay jars were manuscripts of the Old Testament, and that was one of the greatest archaeological discoveries. Because now we see through those uh manuscripts the accuracy of how God's word was preserved uh in that time. And so you might say that there were treasures in clay vessels. But that is the theme of Paul's message here in this passage that we're going to deal with, verses 7 down to verse 15. Now you might ask, what does that have to do with me? Well, it has everything to do with you if you are a Christian, because Paul is using this imagery here to describe a believer. There's several times in the New Testament Paul will use metaphors. to help us understand who we are in Christ. It's important that you understand who you are in Christ and what you are as a believer. And Paul says basically we are we're common clay vessels, but in us there is a treasure. Again, look in verse number 7 of chapter 4. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now what does Paul mean by this? What's he getting at? And really to understand Paul's argument here, we have to understand the full context. So let me set the picture here for you. Remember, if you've been with our study, you know that Paul has been criticized by the false apostles at Corinth. They have infiltrated the church. They are teaching a brand of legalistic heresy And before they can get people to listen to them, they have to debunk Paul. They have to criticize Paul. They have to destroy the credibility of Paul in the eyes of the believers there. And so they launched this all-out attack on the Apostle Paul. They're using every opportunity they can to criticize his character and his credibility. And they got uh so low in their attacks that they began to even attack his personal appearance. They said, you know, he's weak. He's unimpressive physically. He's got a four a a poor physical appearance. In 2 Corinthians chapter 10, verse 10, they said this, for they say his letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak. And his speech is of no account or it's contemptible. You know, he's not much to look at and he doesn't really use the the rhetorical skills that we prize so much in speakers. And it might even be that Paul had an eye condition that was kind of repulsive to some of those that that watched him. You might remember that in Galatians when he was there, Paul said to the Galatians in chapter 4, you know It was because of my bodily ailment that I preached to you, and though my condition was a trial to you, you didn't scorn me, you didn't despise me. And later on he says Uh if possible you would have galped out your eyes and given them to me. You felt so bad for me, you would have given me your own eyes. So it's very possible Paul had an eye condition. And that might be because of that road to Damascus experience when he saw the blazing glory of Jesus Christ, and it blinded him, and his eyes were never the same. And so the false apostles, they said, you know, he's unimpressive. Physically, he's not much to look at. He's not really a great speaker. And he's a below-average person. That was their attack on Paul. Now, Paul had no choice but to defend himself. Why? Well, because if the false teachers could discredit him, then the people of Corinth would no longer listen to him, and he was giving them the truth. That means they would be open to the false teaching of these deceivers. And so Paul had no choice but to defend himself, not for his sake, but for their sake. Paul hated defending himself. He never used the first person, never said I, he always said we You know, i he was trying to in a humble way trying to defend himself. You see, the problem was that Paul had to defend himself, but he didn't want to come across egotistical. He didn't mean to come across as being arrogant or proud No one was aware of his shortcomings any more than Paul himself. In one place, Paul said, Look, I'm the least of the apostles. He said, I'm the chief of sinners. So how is Paul going to deal with this dilemma? How is he going to defend himself without coming across as being egotistical or proud or arrogant? And the answer for Paul was simple. He doesn't deny any of the allegations made against him by the false apostles of being weak, of being unimpressive. In his physical appearance. In fact, Paul says, you know what, you're right. I am weak. I am unimpressive. And then Paul uses the analogy of a worthless clay pot, but in that clay pot is a treasure. God chooses to place his priceless treasure in a humble container God, Paul says, put in me this priceless treasure. Now, what is the treasure that Paul is talking about here? The treasure that Paul is referring to is simply the glory of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Or we could say the glory of the new covenant and all that goes with it. This is the same thing that Paul said in Chapter 4 verse 1 when he said we have this ministry. The word ministry is one word that encompasses all that goes about with the new covenant, the fact that Jesus came and he died on the cross for us. that he with his blood paid for our sins and all the profound implications that come with Christ and his death for us. All that goes with it, the gospel that frees us from sin and death, that releases us from condemnation, that gospel that transforms us into the image of Jesus Christ, that gives us peace and joy and eternal life and satisfaction. All the glory of that new covenant, that whole message. And you remember Paul is contrasting the lesser glory, the fading glory of the old covenant with the surpassing permanent glory of the new covenant. Remember, he's been doing that. And while Moses had a glorious ministry, Paul's ministry was even more glorious because he was the messenger of the gospel, the messenger of the new covenant. So understand Paul's argument. He's being severely criticized because of his appearance and his weaknesses. He doesn't deny those weaknesses. He embraces those weaknesses. He holds on to them. Why? Because Paul's weakness only serves to show the treasure of the new covenant even more. It makes the gospel even more glorious. Paul's weakness doesn't take away from his credibility. It only adds to it. It adds to it. It ensures that whatever happens in Paul's ministry is not of him. It can't be of him. He's too weak for that. It has to be of God. The priceless treasure of the gospel is contained in a simple, ordinary, common, earthly vessel. So you know that whatever happens isn't because of the vessel. It's all because of God. And the word earth in there in verse number seven, we have this treasure in earthen vessels. This is the Greek word astra In the ancient world they would shape vessels out of clay, then they would put them in an oven, bake them, make them hard. They would make jars, they would make a vase, they would make Cups and plates and all kinds of other vessels. This is what Paul had in mind. They were all over in the ancient world. In fact, when I go over and do archaeology in Israel, we go to any site. What you know what you'll find all over under your feet Broken pieces of clay vessels that are still there. We call it ostraca. Broken pieces of these vessels. And they're all over. And they were used back in that day to do many things. They were used sometimes to uh to to hide maybe um money or or gold. Sometimes they were used uh to Um for the obvious reasons, if it was a plate or a cup, sometimes they were used for ignoble purposes like a bedpan or things like that. That's why Paul said in 1 Timothy, you know, we have vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor. We have vessels that are used for more glorious reasons, we have vessels that are used for not so glorious reasons But they were all over the place. They were they were really uh of no value. If you broke a vessel, you just simply replaced it with another clay vessel. They were very easy to get. This is what Paul was saying. I'm like one of those earthen clay vessels, but in me is the treasure that God has put, the treasure of the new covenant message, the treasure of the gospel. Now, why would God put his treasure in an earthen vessel? Why would he do that? Well, Paul gives us three reasons why he would do that. First of all, to demonstrate power in the midst of weakness. To demonstrate power in the midst of weakness. Again, look at verse number seven. But we have this treasure in earth and vessels. Why, Paul? That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. God delights in using humble people, common people, those who are overlooked by society. Why? Because it becomes obvious that the power is of God and not of the person. It's all of God. Remember what Paul wrote in 1 Corinthians? He said, For you see your calling, brethren, and not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world and the things which are despised has God chosen. Yea, the things which are not To bring to naught the things that are, and listen to this, that no flesh should glory in his presence. God has chosen the foolish things. Greek word moras, where we get the word moron. Means of no sense, dull, you know. I'm a Baltimoron, you know. Weak is without any strength Base that means not of noble birth, of low, insignificant birth. And the things that are not, literally the things which do not exist, almost treating you as if you didn't exist. It was the lowest most contemptible expression available in the Greek language. Things that are not. God chooses the common vessels. God chooses the nobodies. And he uses them to confound the world. He puts his treasure in normal clay vessels. That's why the wisdom of the cross is so superior to the wisdom of man. Because when you come to the cross, God takes nobody and makes them somebody. And it confounds the world. And God gets the glory. Because again the Bible says, let him that boast boasts in the Lord. And so the requirement for spiritual usefulness is just to be humble. And to see ourselves for what we really are, and to acknowledge that all the glory for any accomplishment it goes to God because it's his power. And Paul learned this. He understood this. And God used trials to remind Paul of this. Paul said, you know, because I had so many visions and God appeared to me so many times. God allowed this this thorn in the flesh to to to weaken me. And three times I asked God to take it away, and God said, No. Why, Paul? Because my grace is sufficient for you. And my strength is made perfect in what? In your weakness. And so Paul said, Well, therefore, I'm content with weakness. Therefore I delight in that, because when I am weak, then he is strong. He gets all the glory, you see. And so, you know, the problem with some people is not that they're too weak, it's that they're too strong. They uh they they think that their own cleverness is able to get it done. The world is filled with people who are enamored by their own abilities, their own cleverness, their own importance. And God doesn't need people like that. God needs people that understand who they are. You know, when God chose people to change the world, he didn't choose the learned scholars of Alexandria. He didn't choose the distinguished philosophers of Athens. He didn't use the eloquent orators of Rome or Corinth. He didn't use the self righteous leaders of Israel. You know, he passed by all of them. You know he chose humble fishermen Normal clay pots. Normal common ordinary people. God chooses humble people, and he puts in those clay vessels his glorious gospel that the surpassing greatness of the power will be of him and not of us. And it'll be very obvious that it's not of us. Now again, God uses his power to make you and I strong. How strong? Well look at verse number eight. Well Paul will give four parrot terms that describe how God strengthens us. Look in verse 8. For we're troubled on every side, yet not in distress. Now here I think scholars are thinking that Paul's using gladiatorial terms, a gladiator in combat. And so he says conflicts will not defeat us. We're troubled. The word troubled, hard-pressed, under strain. We're surrounded by trouble, and yet we're not defeated. We're not crushed is literally the Greek word there. Kind of like a maybe a vessel that's strained, but it's not crushed. We can go through a lot of hardships, a lot of difficulties, but God will not allow those things to crush us. Why? Because his power is in the vessel. Because of his power. Confusion will not discourage us in verse 8. We are perplexed, but not in despair. And this Paul's using a play on words here. The Greek words sound almost the same. Apurio and ex aporeo. And what he's basically saying, perplexed means bewood or confused. There are times when we don't know the way to go, we don't know what to do. There are times we may be perplexed. We could say it like this: when there seems to be no way, God will show us a way When we're at a loss, God will take care of that. He will We're not at a total loss When we're at our wit's end, there seems to be no way out. We're on the brink of defeat. God will not allow us to be defeated. Because he's in us. Capture will not deter us. Look in verse number nine. Persecuted but not forsaken. The word persecuted here, being chased down, hunted down, it's the idea of being hunted and captured. That's foreign to us here in America, but it was real in the early church, and it's real in some places in the world where Christians are actually hunted down. When I was in Korea I f I flew to various places, but one place was Jeju Island. We have a teaching site there and there were nine men who were taught, went through our DMIN program, and they they came to Jeju Island from China to study And they were graduated and sent back to China, some of them working in the underground church, and we could not post their faces for the obvious reasons, because they would be hunted down. For sharing the gospel, the good news. Paul says here that, you know, we might be hunted down. They may come after us. But that's not God's not going to allow them to discourage us. He's not going to allow that to deter us from what he has for us. We are conflicts will not defeat us. Confusion will not discourage us. Capture will not deter us. Casting down will not destroy us. Verse 9. Persecuted but not forsaken. Cast down but not destroyed. Catabalo is a word there from the imagery of the athletic world. Um has the idea of a wrestler being cast down, almost pinned, or a boxer being knocked down We could say it in our vernacular, knocked down but not knocked out. There are times we may get passed down, but God's not going to allow us to be counted out. We will not be destroyed. Why? Not because of the clay vessel, but because of the power that he puts in us. Because of the glorious Treasure that God puts in us. Why does God do that? To demonstrate power in the midst of weakness. But here's number two, to demonstrate life in the midst of death. Look at verse eleven. For we which live are always delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. So then death worketh in us, but life in you We having the same spirit of faith. So what is Paul saying here? Always bearing about the body, the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life of Jesus might be made manifest. You notice the contrast he makes here between Death, our death, and the life of Jesus. What does he mean by that? And what Paul is referring to here When he says, so that death works in us, but life in you, he's referring to all the suffering that he had to endure for being a believer. And verse 10 really is summarizing all the paradoxes that we read in verses 8 and 9. They amount to caring about the dying. The body of the dying of Jesus, and Paul's using that to refer to suffering for Christ's sake. There are times when you might have to suffer for Christ's sake. Now again, this might be foreign to us here. It may be a reality at some point, because when we're say we're called to not only share in the rewards of the gospel, but the reproaches of the gospel. Listen to Romans 8. 17. And if the children, then heirs of God, uh then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ, if so be that we suffer with him, that we also may be glorified with him. There are times when we may have to suffer with Christ. In Galatians 6. 17 he said, From henceforth let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus Christ, the stigmata. Don't let anyone question whether or not I'm real because I have the marks on my body to prove it. I've been persecuted as a believer and I haven't quit. And in Colossians 124 it says, Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church. Paul's saying, you know, I rejoice in these sufferings. I'm standing in for Christ. Jesus is no longer here. If he were here, the world will still be taking shots at him. The world would still be persecuting him. They would try again to crucify him. And since he's not here, he goes after those who represent him. And Paul says it's a privilege for me to stand in for Christ. I love doing that. When they see the treasure of Christ in me, they come after me. And they'll come after you as well. When they see the treasure in an earthen vessel, they will go after you. And this was a f a powerful rebuttal to the allegations of the false apostles. They argued that Paul suffered because This was God chastising Paul because of his secret life of sin, that he was really a hypocrite. But in reality, Paul Suffered at the hands of evil men because of his identification with Jesus Christ. It was those who hated Christ who went after him. And so Paul's Trials, far from being a sign of God's displeasure, were actually a badge of honor, Paul says for me, to stand in for Christ. And so Paul embraced the sufferings. Because the more the world came against the common vessel of clay that they saw, the more of the glory of God that would be revealed. By the dying of the life of Christ, by dying the life of Christ would be made manifest to the world And Paul said, but so my dying actually manifests more the life of Christ. That's what Paul meant when he said, I'm crucified with Christ, yet I live, yet not I, but Christ lives in me. The apostles courageous, faithful, patience, enduring of suffering manifested the power of the living Christ in his life. That's what he said. There's no explanation for the impact that Paul had on others except for the fact that it was the power of God in him. The power of God that flowed through him. And notice Paul says always. In verse 10, always bearing about. In verse 11, for we which live are always delivered unto death. Paul faced the prospect of death every day. When he says we who live, he's talking about believers, those in whom the treasure of the gospel of Christ dwells. The world hates them, the world is threatened by them, and so they come after them. Paul says. And we're delivered unto that that word there is the same word used to describe Jesus being delivered over for crucifixion. God allows us to experience this kind of suffering. Why? He has a purpose in it. What's the purpose? It manifests Christ in our dying. In this vessel of clay, it manifests the power of the life of Christ. And it's made manifest the more we suffer. When the vessel gets cracked, the more the light of the glory shines out. That's the whole point. There's nothing that encourages the body of Christ more than when we see other believers in our midst go through suffering and they do it faithfully. And they continue to be faithful to the Lord. And we see the power of God upholding them in their life. And you know what that does? That encourages me. That encourages others. Because we can see, it's not of them. It's we can see the Lord and his grace upholding them. The lost world sees Christ. They see that he's real. Some who claim to know Christ, when they go through hard times, they just totally drop out altogether. And we don't see the light of the glory in them because we don't see them at all. They're gone. Believers' suffering is a purposeful sacrifice that results in the power of God being unleashed. and people seeing it. And so God puts this treasure in earthen vessels to demonstrate power in the midst of weakness, to demonstrate life in the midst of death, and then number three, to demonstrate courage in the midst of fear. Notice verse number 13. We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believe, and therefore have I spoken. We also believe and therefore speak, knowing that he which raised up the Lord Jesus shall raise up us also by Jesus and shall present us with you. What gave Paul the courage to faithfully discharge his ministry, even though it involved all kind of hardship and affliction and suffering? Even though, as he said, he faced death daily, death worketh in us? When all that was happening to Paul, what gave him the courage just to continue on and to continue sharing the gospel? It was his belief. We could say it was his conviction. That Christ's resurrection guarantees his resurrection and our resurrection. It was understanding that and knowing that and believing it. And that belief, Paul said, propelled him onward. That's what he meant when he said in verse number 14. Or verse 13, rather, we having the same spirit of faith according as it is written, I believe and therefore I speak. Or I have spoken. We also believe and therefore speak. What Paul's doing there is he's quoting an Old Testament Psalm, Psalm 116, verse number 10. I believe, therefore have I spoken. And Paul saying, you know, I have the same spirit as that psalmist. I believe, and therefore I continue on. I have this conviction. Since I believe the resurrection of Christ is true, and since I believe the gospel is true, And I'm going to have a resurrection one day. That means I'm not afraid of death. And so therefore I'm just going to continue on. And so these afflictions don't scare me. And this again was Paul's answer to the criticism that he was given by the false apostles of his bold preaching and his bold living. Why, Paul? Well, because I believe, I actually believe the gospel message I preach. And so therefore, I'm not going to be afraid. I know That Jesus came out of that grave, and because of that, that means all the gospel is true, and that means I'm going to have eternal life. I'm going to have a resurrection. So why should I be afraid of death? If you're a believer and you believe the gospel, why should we be afraid of death? You know, when the world looks at the church and they see that the church has the same fear of death than they do, what kind of a witness is that? When they when they don't see any difference in the way we look at the prospect of death than they do, how does that show the glory of God? Do we actually believe the gospel? Then it should be displayed, especially in difficult times, especially in hard times. And that's what Paul is saying. His unwavering faith compelled him. It was impossible for him to believe the truth of the gospel and not Boldly proclaim it and live out the truth of the gospel in his life. That was an impossibility. It's belief in the gospel that gives us courage. That gives us conviction, even in the face of death. You know, this is October and uh October thirty-first That's the datum Martin Luther nailed his ninety-five thesis to the door that actually sparked what we now know as the Reformation. And He was asked to defend his charges. He was put on trial and he was facing the possibility of death. Literally he could be put to death if he didn't recant what he said. And so he was asked at the trial at the Diet of Orms there and To recant everything that he said. And this is what he said. He said, Unless I can be instructed and convinced with the evidence from Holy Scriptures and with open, clear, and distinct grounds and reasoning And my my conscience is captive to the Word of God, then I cannot and will not recant, because it is neither safe nor wise to act against conscience. Here I stand, I can do no other. God help me. He said, I'm not backing up. Because he believed the message that he actually preached, which was the pure gospel And so we need to have that same kind of conviction, the conviction of Paul, when he said, I believe, therefore I speak. And notice verse fifteen and will be done. Look at verse fifteen. For all things are for your sakes, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound to the glory of God. Paul's ultimate goal was that God be glorified by the saving gospel that would be spread to more and more people, and more and more people would get saved, and more and more people would join the chorus of voices that would give praise and honor to God. That was what he lived for. That's what he wanted. His goal was never his own comfort. His goal was never his own reputation or his own popularity. His goal was to see The gospel spread more and more and for more lives to be changed and for more people to sing and the praises and the glory of God And so God's plan is to use simple common clay pots to carry the priceless treasure of the gospel to needy people. It's all for their sake, Paul said. It's all for your sake. So why does God place the treasure of his glorious new covenant and common clay vessels to demonstrate power in the midst of weakness? To demonstrate life in the midst of death, to demonstrate courage in the midst of fear, and he gets all the glory. He gets all the glory. Let me ask you something. Do you ever complain to God because he hasn't given you a better clay pot? Are you ever jealous of the style and color and shape of other pots you see walking around? We live in a world that's so focused on the outward appearance. So obsessed with the outward appearance and temporary things. I think God wants to get our eyes off of the clay jars and He wants us to put our eyes on the treasure of the gospel that's in the vessel. And to share that glory of the gospel, that treasure with others. Let's bow for prayer together. Father in heaven, we come before you and we are humbled, so thankful for your grace that Lord you would look upon us. Just clay vessels. And you would put in us with your grace this wonderful treasure. That you would entrust to us the treasure of the grace of God, the gospel. And that Lord now, because of that, we're not we are common clay pots, but we're so much more than that now. Not because of us, but because of what's in us. Because of this treasure that you have entrusted to us. And so, Lord, help us to remember this: that Lord, in our weakness, Lord, you're made strong. In the death that we face, we are living in a dying world, in a dying body. But in that, the life of Christ is more able to be made manifest, the power of the life of Christ, in a dying vessel. And courage in the midst of fear. We're not afraid. We're not afraid of our weakness that this clay pot could one day dissolve because we know that we have an eternal home and that there will be a resurrection, that eternal life is real, and so therefore, Lord, we are not afraid. Help us to live out this glorious message in our life. And Lord, all around us are people that need the gospel. Help us, Lord, to do our part. Help us, Lord, to share this treasure that you've put in us. And if there's someone here, Lord, that has never come to Christ, I pray, Lord, that you would fill them with this wonderful treasure of grace. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to briefly ask you, are you absolutely certain that Christ lives in you? That the treasure of the glory of God in Christ is in you. Have you repented of your sin? Have you trusted Christ? Try and make sure of that. You can go to Him right now, right where you are. Reach out in faith and say, Lord Jesus, like the Apostle Paul, I proclaim I'm a sinner. I embrace the fact that I'm nothing. And I come to you and I ask you for forgiveness. I turn to you in true repentance. And I ask you to save me, cleanse me, forgive me. Empty, Lord, I empty myself before you that you might fill me with the treasure of grace. And pray that in meaning if you have, let us know. We want to encourage you. We want to pray with you. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.