If you take God's word this morning, open please to the book of uh Second Corinthians. Second Corinthians chapter four. This is a we've been going through Second Corinthians on Sunday morning. And look at chapter four. We're going to look at verses sixteen to verse 18 today. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? So reading these verses with you. Verse 16. For which cause we faint not. But though the outward men perish, yet the inward men is renewed day by day. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. While we look not on the things which are seen, but on the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God bless his word to our hearts today. May we submit to it. Let's pray with me, please. Bow for prayer. Father, thank you again for the privilege we have of coming together and learning from your word. eternal truth, Lord, that will change us here. So bless us, bless our hearing. Help me, Lord, to make your word understandable, clearly, preached to every heart. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This really is a continuation of last week's sermon because there's so much more to be said about this subject. We're considering the subject of treasures and vessels of clay. I read this week in 1991 a man went to a flea market and he bought a simple frame picture. Later he found out that behind the frame there, tucked in there, was a first edition copy of the Declaration of Independence. It was worth millions of dollars. And so it was hidden in this simple little frame that cost four dollars treasures in a simple container. That's really the theme of 2 Corinthians. Paul is using this imagery to talk about the life of the believer. This is why it's important to you and I because Paul is using this metaphor to help us understand who we are. in Christ. And Paul, look in verse number, back up to verse 7. This is the key verse in this whole section. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. What is Paul getting at by using this analogy? And remember the argument that Paul is using here in this passage. You remember that Paul is under attack, false apostles had come into the church at Corinth. And they were trying to teach a false do a false gospel. They were teaching legalism. And in order to do that, they had to debunk Paul's message. And they in order to debunk his message, they had to basically destroy the credibility of Paul. And so they attacked his character at every opportunity. And their attacks got so low that they even attacked his personal appearance. They said that he's weak. that he's unimpressive, that he's a four a poor physical specimen. That in second Corinthians ten they said his letters are weighty and strong, but his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible. That is to say that Paul was not a very imposing figure. He was not much to look at, and he didn't have the oratorical skills that they prized so much in Greco-Roman culture. And Paul may have even had a repulsive eye condition. He spoke about this in Galatians where that the the Galatian people were so compassionate towards the problem with his eyes that they were willing even to give their own eyes to him if they could And so the false apostles were attacking Paul's physical appearance. Now, Paul in 2 Corinthians has no choice but to defend himself. He has to in order for people to Uh believe him to trust him because he was preaching the true gospel. He didn't want them to be deceived by these deceivers. So he had no choice but to defend himself, but he didn't want to come across proud. He didn't want to come across egotistical. And so rather than denying the allegations that they made against him of his physical appearance, of his physical weakness, Paul embraces it Paul says, Yeah, you're right. I'm not very impressive physically. In fact, God in his wisdom has chosen to to put the treasure of the gospel in That's why Paul uses this analogy, but we have this treasure in earthen vessels. God chooses to place the priceless treasure of his word, of his gospel, in normal, common, earthly vessels, people just like us And the treasure, of course, is the glory of the new covenant, everything Paul talked about in chapter three, the message of Christ, how that he came. took our sin, paid our sin debt, and when we get saved, there's no more condemnation. All of our sin debt is canceled. He gives us his righteousness. He gives us the Holy Spirit, which gives us power to change from the inside out That's the work of sanctification. He gives us eternal life. All of these blessings being transformed to the image of Christ, eternal joy, peace. and satisfaction, all of that is in the treasure that God puts in normal clay vessels. So Paul doesn't deny his weakness, in fact he embraces it, because that weakness only goes to demonstrate his credibility. Anything good that happens in Paul's life or ministry means it has to be of God Couldn't be because of Paul. After all, he's just a weak common vessel. And so all this does is to show the glory of the gospel and the blessings of being in Christ all the more. That's why God puts the treasure in earth and vessels. Now last week we gave you three reasons. This week I'm going to give you three more In this passage. Let me just review with you the three reasons we talked about last week before we move on. Why does God put his treasure in earthen vessels. Number one, to demonstrate power in the midst of weakness, again in verse 7, we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us God delights in using humble, common, ordinary people who are overlooked by society. Why? Because it's obvious that the power is of God, not the person, and God gets all the glory. He has uh it's all the powers of him. How much power? Well, so much power that conflicts will not defeat us in verse number eight. We're troubled on every side, yet not distressed. Hard press, not distressed means crushed. We might be put in pressure, stressful situations, but we're not going to be crushed. Confusion will not discourage us. In verse, again, verse 8, we are perplexed but not in despair. And this simply means we might lose our way at times, but God will show us the way. Capture will not deter us. That is, persecuted but not forsaken. The word persecuted means hunt down and captured. Our enemies may capture us, but God will never forsake us. And then casted down but not destroyed. Verse 9, cast down but not destroyed. That's the the you uh a wrestler's term or a boxer's term. We might be thrown down but we're not pinned. We might be knocked down, but we're not knocked out. Why? It's all because of the power of God. It's all his power working in us. So God puts his treasure in earthen vessels to demonstrate power in the midst of weakness, life in the midst of death. Paul said in verse number eleven that uh we for we which live are always delivered unto death and what he meant by that is that we are always suffering for the gospel. We're always coming close to death. We're always suffering all these things. Why Because God is manifesting in our suffering the life of Jesus Christ. We may be dying, but the life of Christ lives in us. We may suffer, but that shows the life of Christ all the more. And then number another reason is courage in the midst of fear in verses thirteen and fourteen. Paul said, We have the same spirit of faith according as it is written, I believe, and therefore I have spoken. Verse 14, knowing that he which raised up The Lord Jesus shall raise us up by Jesus. What kept Paul going? How come Paul didn't get afraid of death when it came? Because Paul believed the gospel. That gospel that includes the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and his resurrection guarantees our resurrection. It guarantees our victory over death. And because Paul really believed the gospel, that gave him courage in the midst of fear as he was facing death all the time. But let me give you three more reasons why God put this treasure in earthen vessels. To demonstrate number four, spiritual renewal in the midst of physical decay. We just read this in verse 16. Look what it says. For which cause we faint not. But though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. But though we translate that even When or since. We could say si perishing is present indicative. It's a fact that our outer man is in the midst of perishing. Of course, the outer man is talking about what? It's talking about the physical body, right? We could say that our outer man, our physical body, is in the constant process of perishing or decaying. That's true for all of us. You don't believe that? Look at your pictures from ten years ago. And you'll know the outer man is perishing. The outer man is like an earthen vessel that is aging. And you know, uh what did someone say, you know, getting old is not for for sissies, you know. There's a lot of challenges that come with our outer man and uh and the vessel that is Perishing. But even though that is in true that is true, even though we're all in this process of aging, we don't think. That is to say, we don't lose heart We don't and the word faint here, the idea of give in to fear or lose courage or become like a coward, we don't quit, we don't turn back. Why? Because even though The outer man is perishing. The inward man is being renewed day by day. That inner man is the soul that lives forever. In salvation, we are reborn. Inwardly, our spirit is made new, and God is constantly sanctifying us inwardly. He is constantly renewing us inwardly. When we physically are at the end of our resources, spiritually, the inner man is being strengthened. The inner man is being renewed. This is just another paradox in the list of paradoxes that Paul gives here. When we are at our physical weakest, then God is making us spiritually strong. That's why Paul said, Therefore I'm content with weakness. I'm good with it. Because when I am weak, then I am strong. That is to say, God is manifesting his power and strength in me. Life's trials and troubles and difficulties only serve to build up or strengthen my inner man. You know why? Because all those things drive me to prayer. And it drives me to humbly depend upon God. That's why God puts that treasure there in earthen vessels to demonstrate spiritual renewal in the midst of Physical decay. But then there's another reason, number five, future glory in the midst of present groaning. Look at verse number 17. For our light affliction, which is but for a moment Worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Not only does physical suffering make us stronger spiritually, but also it enriches our eternal reward. Paul's physical suffering at the hands of his enemies only served to give him a greater heavenly reward. We all have to view our earthly sorrows from heaven's eyes. The greater the groans that we have here in this life, the greater the glory to come. Now let's face it, no one likes to hear groaning. But unfortunately, we live in a world where there's a lot of groaning going on. One man wrote this, he said, as I get older, I find myself groaning much more. I groan when I stand up after I've been sitting a while. I groan when I sit after I've been standing a while. I groan in the morning. I groan at night. I groan after I've eaten too much. I groan when I see certain things on television. I groan when I get another bill in the mail. When I don't feel I have enough time to get everything finished, I groan. We groan. Because we live in a sin-cursed world that is filled with suffering, is filled with sorrow, it's filled with stress, and we all long for relief. On this side of heaven, our life consists of groans. We groan in disappointment. We've grown in bereavement and sorrow. We've grown over our own physical pains, over our own limitations. And uh like Larry Crabs said when he wrote his book, he said, We were designed to enjoy a better world than this, and until that world comes, we will groan every day that we don't have it. I once uh uh heard of a seminar I was invited to go to called How to Live a Stress Free Life. Well I s didn't bother going to that because it's useless There there's no such thing as that. That's that's an illusion. That's a that's a dream. We experience groaning here. However, people want to somehow get out of the groaning that's here. Listen, Scripture does not promise us that we will ever escape groans on this side in this present life. But what the scripture does do is it promises that the groans that we have here will not compare to the glory that awaits us one day. That's the whole point. And Paul is comparing the earthly sorrows, the earthly pains, the earthly groans, to that future glory, and he's saying, look The the groans that we have here, they're light, they're temporary compared to the future glory, which is way look again in verse 17, for our light affliction. It's light, Paul, yeah, it's light. compared to the glory which worketh for us, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory. Now Paul uses the same argument in Romans. You might want to write down Romans eight eighteen, another beautiful verse on this. He says this for I rock I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory of the Which shall be revealed in us. What Paul is saying is: look, the best way to endure the trials and the pain and the suffering right now is to focus on that future glory. That's the best way to persevere through difficulty right now. And notice I call this Paul's calculation. He says, For I reckon. Paul must have been a southerner, someone said. I reckon The word reckon here from the Greek is logizomi, where we get the word logic. Paul used that word a lot. It has the idea of reasoning. It's really a math word. It's calculating in your mind. It's you know saying, you know, I Paul basically saying, look, I've thought this through, I've calculated it. And then notice this comparison the sufferings of this present world. Sufferings include all kinds of suffering And Paul says, you know, envision it like this, you have this scale in your mind. And on one side you put the sufferings of this present world, the present groans, and on the other side we put future glory. And Paul said, you know, I thought about this, I've calculated this, comparing the two, and what he's saying is the future glory so outweighs the present groans. It so outweighs it. That's an amazing truth. That's amazing, especially when you consider who wrote this. The Apostle Paul, who suffered like no one suffered except the Lord Jesus, of course. You're in 2 Corinthians, but go to chapter eleven. Let me just show you a little bit. But Paul's going to talk about his groans, his burdens, his suffering. Look in verse one. Would to God you would bear with me a little in my folly. Indeed, bear with me. Paul said, you know, look, please bear with me, and I'm gonna I'm gonna brag here a little bit. I'm gonna boast here a little bit You know, this is the section that Paul calls his boasting. And he has to do it again. Remember, he's defending himself. His teachers are attacking him in every way. And Paul is uh uh his his uh false teachers, I should say, are attacking him every way. And Paul is saying, look, since you you guys, you false teachers, you love to boast about things, you love to brag Paul said, I'm going to do a little bit of that. So he says to the people, bear with me here a little bit. I have to defend myself. I don't like doing it. Verse 2 says, I'm jealous over you with a godly jealousy. I don't want them winning. I don't want you listening to them and not listening to me. I don't want you being deceived by their craftiness. You want to know whether or not I'm authentic So I'm going to talk to you about a little of the sufferings that I've had to go for through. Look at verse number sixteen. I say again, let no man think of me a fool, if otherwise yet as a fool receive me, that I may boast myself a little. Please don't think of me as a fool what I'm about to do. Verse 17, that which I speak, I speak it not after the Lord. That is, I'm not following the Lord's example by doing this. But Jesus never boasted about his sufferings But in the end it'll glorify the Lord because God is the one who's brought me through all this. And then he talks about all the suffering. Look in verse 23. Are they ministers of Christ? I speak as a fool. I'm more if they claim to be ministers of Christ, me even more. You want to talk about suffering for Christ in labors more abundant and stripes above measure and prisons more frequent in death often. Verse 24. Of the Jews, five times received thy forty stripes, save one. Five times he was beat with thirty-nine stripes. With a rod. Verse twenty five, thrice I was beaten with rods, once I was stoned, thrice I've suffered shipwreck, a night and a day I've been in a deep And generals often in perils of water, and perils of robbers, and perils of mine own countrymen, and perils by the heathen, and perils of my own in the city, and perils in the wilderness, and perils in the sea. And perils among false brethren, and weariness and painfulness, and watchings often, and hunger and thirst, and fastings often, and cold and nakedness, and besides those things that are without That which cometh upon me daily, the care of all the church. Besides all these outward sufferings, within I'm constantly bearing the care of all of God's people in the church. I'm bearing those burdens. Not only the outward suffering, but the inward suffering. All of that. Later in Galatians, Paul said, Let no man trouble me, for I bear in my body the marks. Of the Lord Jesus. He had the scars to prove it. He had the scars that proved his groaning. And all of that. That's what Paul meant when he said, Death worketh in us, but life in you. I'm doing this for the spread of the gospel. And I'm coming close to death and I'm suffering, but all of that is for your benefit because even though it might be death working in us, it's life in you. That was the cost of spreading the gospel. That's a lot of suffering that Paul had to endure. But go back to chapter 4. Paul, he called all of that a light affliction. How could you say light affliction, Paul? How could you say that? Well, in comparison to the weight of glory, it is light. You put the suffering and the growings on one side, that's featherweight sufferings compared to super heavyweight glory The greater the suffering, the greater the reward, the greater the groan, the greater the glory. All the same. Our suffering comes from men, our glory comes from God. Our suffering is earthly. Our glory is heavenly. Our suffering is short. Our glory will be forever. Our suffering is trivial. Our glory is limitless Our suffering is in this mortal, corrupt body, whereas our glory will be in that perfect and perishable body. And so what's Paul's conclusion? It's not worthy to be compared. It's no comparison. When you add up the afflictions of this world, Versus the future glory. Again in verse 17, notice what he says. He says, For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, it's only for a time, worketh for us a far more exceeding That is one word in the Greek far more exceeding hyperbole, is where we get the word hyperbole. It means out of proportion. The glory is so much greater and better that it's out of proportion with the suffering that we have. The weight of glory exceeds all limits. It's beyond possibility of overstatement. We can't exaggerate it. It's so great. And this should bring hope to every believer who is suffering right now. If you stood beside the hospital bed of someone that you love. Or maybe you've cried your eyes out at a coffin. Or you've had your heart shattered because of a broken relationship. Or you're groaning maybe because you've been given a diagnosis of a fatal illness. Or you feel the loneliness of loss, or you're battling depression, or whatever. All of that is a light affliction compar compared to the future glory that will come. And so God places his treasure in earthen vessels to demonstrate spiritual renewal in the midst of physical decay, future glory, in the midst of present groaning. But here's the last thing. Eternal focus in the midst of a temporal world. Look what he says in verse 18. For we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. It's hard sometimes to think about heaven and our future glory because we really can't see them with our naked eyes. We it's easy to focus on this world because we see it around us, we feel it. But the things that are seen, Paul said, they're earthly, they're temporary. Temporal is the word here, pros kairos, something that does not last, that's destined to perish. All these things of this world, this alluring world, all of it's going to perish. It's temporary, you understand that, right? It's not going to last That's why Paul was not interested in the things of the world. He was not interested in amassing a fortune or having a palatial estate or a prominent career. All those things Paul says are going to pass away. The world is passing away, John said in 1 John 2. 17, along with all of his desires, but he who does the will of God abides forever. And so Paul said we need to focus our hearts on things that are not seen. Not on the things that are seen. The eternal things. We need to focus on the things of heaven. That's what he says here. Reminds me that Favorite story I love to tell. A little girl was walking with her father in the country at nighttime and she looked up and saw the beautiful stars shining. And she said, Dad, if the wrong side of heaven is this beautiful, just think of what the right side of heaven is going to look like Think about how beautiful that is. Paul says, look, we're not supposed to focus on this side. We're supposed to focus on that side. The things that we can't see with our eyes. Paul said in 1 Corinthians 2 9 about those things which things which the eyes have not seen, neither ear has heard. He says, It hasn't entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those that love him. And so we need to keep that focus on the eternal, on that future glory. And if we do, you know what that means? We can endure any trial. We can persevere through any sorrow. As long as we're looking in the right direction. A. W. Tozer used to remind us of the invisible world. Described in the Bible, he said, you know, that was the only real world. He said, I love that. If we would only see the visible world the way God wants us to see it. We wouldn't be attracted by it. We would be more focused on the invisible world, which is even more real. I love the expression C. S. Lewis used to use of this earth here. It's the shadowlands. That's more the reality. Sometimes you have trouble thinking about heaven is real. Let me tell you something, friend, it is more real than earth. It is more real. That's the real world. This is the shadowland. In Hebrews 11, the great men and women of faith were able to achieve what they achieved because they saw the invisible. Abraham all his life was looking for a city whose builder and found and maker was God. It was a city foundation made without hinge. You say, well, how do you do that? How do you look at the invisible? You know how you do it? You do it by faith. Faith in what? Faith in the Word of God. I've never seen Christ. I've never seen heaven, but I know it's real, and I know it's more real than here. Why? Because I see it here. I see it here and I believe it. That's how we see the invisible. That's how we look at it by faith. That's what the people in Hebrews 11 did. And so, why does God put His treasure on earth in vessels? To demonstrate power in the midst of weakness, life in the midst of death, courage in the midst of fear. Spiritual renewal in the midst of physical decay, future glory in the midst of present groaning, and eternal focus in the midst of a temporal world. And you know what? That's why we don't lose heart. That's why we don't faint. That's why we don't throw in the towel when suffering comes. You know, this week I uh I did something unusual. I l I found a YouTube video of the 1979 American League playoffs between the Baltimore Orioles and the California Angels I guess I've been wanting to see the Orioles win some stuff here, you know. So I found this video. I was fifteen years old when that playoff took place. I remember it well. I've I grew up at Oriol Sand. And I rem I began to watch the series and in game three of the Orioles they committed several turnovers and they allowed the Angels to get back into the uh into the game by the errors that they committed. I remember when I watched that, when I was fifteen years old, it devastated me. I was so stressed out. That was game three. All I had to do was win that game. They were going to the World Series. They were ahead. They made all these errors. It just messed up my whole day. I was devastated. But you know what? When I watched the replay, I it didn't affect me at all. In fact, I had joy. You know why? Because I already knew the outcome. I knew that in game four, Scott McGregor would pitch a five-hit shutout complete game. I knew that Pat Kelly would hit a three-run homer. I knew that Doug DeSensis would make an incredible defensive play that took the heart out of the Angels. And I knew that we were going to win the game eight and nothing. And win the series. I knew how that game ended. So I wasn't stressed. All the groans were gone. You know. You know, this week I sat by the bedside of my father who is uh in hospice care and his days are not long. And I heard his groans. It's painful. I know that you all have been there. I know you have But you know what? Even in the midst of sorrow I had joy and thankfulness. You know why? I know how this game ends. You know how it ends? Glory. Future glory. Let's bow for prayer. Father, how we are so very thankful for your word. It is the anchor of our soul. We thank you for these truths. We thank you for the blessing that you have put your treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power and the glory, Lord, is all of you. It's all of you. And Father, we do give you glory. We do give you thanks. We give you praise. And I pray, Lord, for those that are here today, who may not know Jesus Christ, who may not have that treasure, Lord, our hearts Desire for them, for that vessel to be filled with the glory of the gospel, for them to know Jesus Christ, to truly be saved. And I would just pray, Lord, that everyone here under the sound of my voice would search their heart and know for sure that that's a reality. That that treasure is definitely in this vessel. That we have repented and put our full faith in Christ. And so therefore, Lord, the groans of this present world, even though they may be painful, they're bearable. They're bearable. And it's all because of the beauty of the gospel This future glory that awaits all of those who know Jesus Christ. And for those that are not here, Lord, I pray that you'll save their soul, draw them unto yourself. For those that are yours, Lord, strengthen every heart. May this truth be an anchor for their soul. And may the the groans that they're experiencing now become light As they focus on the weight of that future glory. Father, thank you again for all that you do in hearts. And with heads bowed and eyes closed I just want to I want you to take a moment to examine your heart. And friend, I want to ask you, I want to invite you to Christ if you don't know him. In fact, I want to remind you that the Bible commands all men everywhere to repent. The gospel is not only a gracious invitation, and it indeed is that, but it's a command. It's a command. God says, believe Come to me, believe. Put your faith in Christ. You can do it right there where you are. You can reach out and You could say that wonderful prayer that was prayed by the man who was called the publican in Scripture. God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. Cry out to the Lord and tell him that. And you know what? He'll save you. And he'll fill this clay vessel with glory. The glory of the gospel, Jesus Christ. Father, thank you for your word. May it challenge every heart. May it save souls. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.