We're turned to Ephesians chapter two. Thank you so much for that beautiful song, Ephesians chapter two. And uh we're studying Ephesians here on Sunday morning and look in verse number four of Ephesians chapter two and as I read this together. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, has quickened us together with Christ. By grace you are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are you say through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works lest any man should boast For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, thank you for the privilege we have to worship here. Thank you for what we've already heard, the beautiful song. We rejoice in the great things that you have done, and we do give you glory, Lord. And Lord, as we come to the Word of God now, would you help us? To understand and to know the truth of Scripture. And Lord, may your word go forth for your honor and glory and change hearts and lives. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I want to talk about trophies of grace. During the uh baseball season, I'd like to try to go to a few of O's games. whenever I can and uh went to a few this year. But if you ever go to Camden Yards to an Oriol game and you go to club level by the way I'm spoiled, I always go to club level. And uh they used to give away clergy passes where the clergy could come in for free. And um the they stopped doing that and the next year they lost a hundred and twelve games. So I I wrote to I wrote to Ori Orioles organization, I said, if you ever want to win again you better give me back my clergy pass. But but anyway, if you ever go to club level there, they have a beautiful display case and in that display case are the three World Series trophies that the Orioles have won. There's a spot there for the next one. We're still waiting for that. But you can see that beautiful display case with those beautiful trophy trophies that are there And when I saw that, I thought about heaven. You know what heaven is? Heaven is one giant display case of trophies. And you might say, well, what are those trophies? Well, not what, but who? The question is, who are those trophies that are on display? And those trophies in heaven will be people that have been saved by the grace of God. You are a trophy of God's grace. If you're here today and you're saved and you know the Lord Jesus Christ, you will be on display in heaven because again, heaven is one big giant display case. I think about my father. He will have passed away two years ago this week. I think about uh his life. Uh he's there in heaven, I know that. I I I saw the gospel, the power of the gospel change his life I remember we were coming here to grace when I was just a teenager. Pastor Johnson was preached so powerfully the gospel of Jesus Christ. And my father came and he got under conviction and he got saved. And I want to tell you when God saved him, he transformed his life. I didn't recognize that man. I wanted to say to him, what are you doing with my father and who are you? But he wasn't a perfect man, but he was a man who understood and knew that he was a sinner. And he came to Jesus Christ and God transformed his life. I saw the power of the gospel before I ever heard it. He's a trophy in heaven. of the grace of God. Do you ever wonder why God saved you? You ever think, why me, Lord? Why me? Well Paul gives the answer. Look at verse number seven. That in the ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus That's the reason right there. So that God can show you off in heaven in his trophy case to show that you are a trophy. of God's grace. The Bible says in ages to come, God's going to put you on display. God's going to put me on display as trophies of his grace. We are going to be prize exhibit number one of the grace of God in heaven. Now, why is that? Why is that? Well, let me give you three reasons from our passage why we are trophies of the grace of God. First of all, there's what we were. What we were. Look at verse number five. Even when we were dead in sins. This is the second time And this is the condition of what we were before Christ. And this is the second time that the Apostle Paul uses the word dead to describe a person who was without Christ. And here he's talking about spiritual death. This is what you were before you knew Jesus, spiritually dead. Dead implies inability A lost person cannot comprehend spiritual truth unless God makes them alive. A lost person cannot respond to spiritual stimuli unless God first works to make them alive. There's no physical activity that a physically dead man can do. There's no spiritual activity that a spiritually dead person can do. And why are we dead? Well, the Bible tells us the cause. We're dead in sin. Look again in verse 5. Even when we were dead in sins. When Adam fell in the Garden of Eden, all of mankind was in him. The Bible says, therefore, all Romans 5. 12. Wherefore by as one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Now in that verse, Paul is using a certain verb form in the Greek called the air's form, which means completed action. You say, why is that important? Well, because when he uses this verb form, he's talking about everything that happened when Adam sinned. What happened when Adam sinned at one point in time? Sin entered into the world at one point in time when Adam sinned. But also there's another thing. Death passed upon all men. And it also it says, For all have sinned. And so at that one point in time, sin entered to the world Death passed upon all. At that one point in time, all had sinned. You said, wait a minute, I wasn't even born then. How could I sin? Because you were in Adam. You were inside of Adam. And when Adam fell, you fell with him. All of Adam's sin is imputed to your account You say, wait a minute, that's not fair. Well, if you have a problem with imputation, then you'll have a problem with the fact that not only did Adam's sin be imputed to your account, but when you get saved, Christ's righteousness is imputed to your account. Don't be so quick to say imputation is not fair. Because remember, the righteousness of Christ is imputed to you when you're saved. You see, there's three imputations in the Bible. Adam's sin is imputed to me My sin is imputed to Christ on the cross, and his righteousness is imputed back to me when I get saved. But at one point in time, all sinned, the Bible says. Adam was the federal head of the human race. All were born in, all were in Adam. And that's what is called total depravity. What is total depravity? It's the biblical teaching that every part of our being is affected by total sin, our intellect, our emotions, our heart, our desires, our goals. Paul said, I know that in me dwells no good thing. That is, in my flesh dwells no good Every part of man is corrupted because of the fall of Adam. The Bible calls it in Romans 6, slavery to sin. That means that we have a corrupt heart. The Bible says there's none that do there's none righteous, no, not one. There's none that's righteous. Now you might be thinking, well, wait a minute, I know people that are lost, and I know that they do good things all the time. What does that mean when there's none righteous? Well the the doctrine of total depravity doesn't mean that every sinner lives out the full measure of their depravity. That's not what that means. It means positionally before God, all of us have a sin nature, we're all totally depraved. And it means that that's our position before God. That doesn't mean that every day in our practical life that we live out the full measure of that depravity. We don't. Because man was created in the image of God, and there are still traces of the image of God in every person. You say, what does it mean to be created in the image of God? Well, that means simply that We have a moral aspect. We have an inner sense of right and wrong. God gives all people an inner sense of right and wrong. We still see that in people today. That makes us different from the animals. Some people want to make us just another category of animal. No, you were created in the image of God. Man is a special creation. You have a sense of right and wrong that the animal kingdom doesn't have. There's a spiritual aspect. You have the ability to have a relationship with God because man is a worshiper. That's the spiritual part of man But then there's also the mental aspect. We have the ability to reason and the logic. Now animals in the world, they have an amazing ability to do some problem solving in their own physical world. We've seen that, you know, with animals. But But you'll never see uh animals uh trying to solve abstract philosophical problems sitting around. You'll never see chimpanzees ever sitting around a table arguing about the doctrine of the Trinity. There's no such thing as the philosoph the history of canine philosophy. There's no book like that. No, God's given us the ability to reason He's also given us the relational aspect. But at the fall, all of those things were corrupted. All of those things were corrupted And our position before God is that we're totally afraid. That does not mean that there's no good in man. That just simply means there's no good in man that can satisfy Almighty God. Think about here's a big mountain, there's a pure spring that flows out of that mountain, the water comes out pure, but as it goes downstream and it passes by town after town and the sewage from those towns are dumped into that stream, by the time it reaches the bottom That stream is not what it once was when it came out of the mountain. You can look at it, you can test it, and find the original pureness of that stream is still there, but it's so corrupted. That's the nature of man. We still have vestiges of the image of God in us, but that image now bears the image of Adam. It is corrupted by sin. Total depravity means that from God's point of view, man has no righteousness that can satisfy God, that his righteousness, whatever goodness that he does It doesn't it doesn't register with God. It's like monopoly money. I like to say it's like man's righteousness is like monopoly money. You ever short of funds and try to go to deposit monopoly money in the bank Try and do that and see what happens. I'll say, wait a minute, this monopoly money doesn't spend here. Well your righteousness doesn't spend in God's bank. Totally depraved means that there's nothing you can do. You're corrupt. All of your nature is tainted by sin. Every part of us. Again, we don't live out the full measure of our depravity. But were depraved none the less. John Bunyan said he thought the best prayer he ever prayed still had enough sin in it to damn his soul Because we're all tainted by sin. That is, we have a corrupt heart, we have a carnal mind. That means we can't perceive or know or understand spiritual things unless God illuminates our mind. Paul said, this the world through wisdom knew not God, 1 Corinthians 121. There are people out there in their own wisdom and philosophy that are trying to find God, but you can't do that on your own. Because man's reasoning, even that, is corrupt. He has a carnal mind. Sometimes I hear people say, I found God. You didn't find God. You didn't even know where to look. You didn't even know how to look. Paul said to the Ephesians here in Ephesians 4. 18, having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart. And also it means that we have a captive will. That will is in bondage to sin. I spoke about this a little bit last week. People say, well, I have a free will. Yeah, your will is free. The only problem is it's in bondage. You say that doesn't make sense. What I mean is it's a limited freedom. And you might argue and say, well, I'm free to do whatever I want. I agree with that. The problem is it's what you want. The wonder that you have is broken. And that happened at default. Whatever you want doesn't line up with God, what God wants. That is because your will is in bondage to your desires. You ever notice people always do the thing that they desire the most? Why? Because the desire is what's supreme in you, not your will. Your will is governed by a strong compulsion, a sinful compulsion. Again, before you knew Christ. To illustrate it, I heard about an old prospector who came into town and a cowboy thought he would have some fun with him and he looked at this dusty old prospector and he said, Sir, have you ever danced? He said no and he took out his six shooter and he fired at his feet and the old man kind of gave a little dance. And when the cowboy was reloading his six shooter, he looked up and he was looking down the barrel with a double barrel shotgun And the prospector said to the cowboy, Young man, have you ever kissed a mule? He said, No sir, but I've always wanted to. He was free to choose whatever he wanted to do. But his uh his his freedom was under a strong compulsion at that moment. And so it is with every sinner. Every sinner is enslaved to desires, and that's what depravity means. We are imprisoned to our desires, our Our heart is corrupt, our mind is darkened, and we don't know how to find God in and of ourselves. That's what we were before Christ. But here's the good news, number two, what we are. Look at verse four again. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us. Verse Verse 4, I'll sorry what I've had then verse five, even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together. with Christ. Quickened means made alive. Made alive. You say, so what are we? If you're here today and you're saved, you have been resurrected by Jesus Christ. You've had a spiritual resurrection. He made us alive spiritually. And that's what salvation is. It's Christ resurrecting us. A beautiful illustration of this is in John 11, when Lazarus died. Jesus resurrected them. And Lazarus is again a picture of sinners that are spiritually dead. A lost person a person is not spiritually sick. They're spiritually dead. They don't need resuscitation. They need resurrection. And here's Lazarus in his grave, and Jesus comes along. What could Lazarus do to help himself? Nothing. There was nothing he could do. He had no ability. How did Jesus resurrect him? Jesus simply said, Lazarus, come forth. That's the power of the Word of God. Lazarus. Come forth. Lazarus, live. That's what happens at salvation. Jesus calls you by name and says, live. He resurrects us spiritually. Come forth that, my friend, is the grace of God But then also what are we? We are raised with Christ. Look at verse six. And has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. We are resurrected, but we're raised up With Christ. Uh when I read a verse like this, I think about a story I read years ago, a man by the name of Larry Waters. who lived in Los Angeles, a suburb of Los Angeles, in nineteen eighty two he decided to do something different. He would go out every Saturday and sit in his lawn chair just to, you know, past time. But he decided to do something different. He went out and he got forty two weather balloons, filled them up with helium. And then he connected him to his lawn chair. And then he strapped himself into his lawn chair. And he and he let the tether off of the lawn chair. He just wanted to rise up a few hundred feet above the neighborhood and look out at his neighbors But he miscalculated. And when he let the tether loose from his chair, the the chair went all the way up, three hundred feet, four hundred feet, five hundred feet. 1,000 feet, 5,000 feet, 10,000 feet, 16,500 feet It raced all the way up. Now he's up there. He's it was close to the LA International Airport, so now you have airplanes coming by. Had a guy in the airplane call the traffic control and say, hey, listen, uh there's a guy up here in a lawn chair. Uh they had to divert traffic from the LA International Airport for hours. Finally the helium began to cool and the and the the chair settled down back to the ground after hours. where the LAPD was waiting to take him away and jail Uh they asked him why'd you do that? He said, Well, you know, I'm trying to do something different. That was different all right. So what does Paul mean when he says, wait a minute, we are raised up together in heavenly places? Well, he's speaking spiritually here. When Paul talks about being raised up here to heavenly places, he's not talking to the resurrection of Christ from the dead here, but he's referring rather to his ascension up into heaven. Jesus took his place at the right hand of the Father. And guess what? We are there with him. We are ascended with Christ there. We're ascended with him in heavenly places. That's the whole point of this. And what Paul's talking about here is our spiritual union in Christ. Again, this is the central truth that Paul just keeps coming back to. You are one in Christ. You are one with him. Whatever happened to Christ, you're there with him. And that's what Paul's trying to communicate here. Again, remember I told you the phrase in Christ is used by Paul over and over and over again. Because he wants you to understand how united you are with the Lord Jesus Christ. And this phrase in Christ refers to this wonderful union. Theologians call this the mystical union of the believer. Mystical in the sense that we can't fully comprehend it. It's hard to grasp, I'll admit it. You may be seated right here in church right now. Your physical body right now is here in church. But you're also seated in heavenly places with Christ. And you say, man, I can't grasp that, neither can I. But God says it's a reality. It is a spiritual reality. And this is the central idea of all of salvation that you have been placed in Christ. This spiritual union that you have is so important for you to understand. You say, why? Because once you understand where you are seated, it will affect how you live and walk in this world. Once you really grasp that, once you really understand that. In the House of Representatives in Congress, all the Democrats sit on one side of the aisle, all the Republicans sit on the other side of the aisle. It caused one politician to say this. Here in Washington, where we sit determines how we stand. But the same is true of every Christian. Where you sit and understanding where you sit, it will determine how you stand in this world and how you live in this world If you understand that you are one with Christ, that you're seated with Him in heavenly places, it will affect you. That means you'll live with an affection towards heaven. We'll live as pilgrims, foreigners in this world. This world is not my home. I'm just passing through. I'm seated with Christ in heavenly places. Someone says, Man, I hope you make it to heaven. I'm already there I'm already there. That's our true home. And that means that I'm going to seek things that are above. My body is living here in this world, but my spiritual affections are living in the heavenlies. And I'm living for eternal things. We have to keep our feet on the earth, but our head needs to be in the heavenlies. Because we have been raised with Christ. That's what we are We're one with Christ now. What we were, we were dead in trespasses and sins, what we are, we were resurrected by Christ. We were raised with Christ. But then here's the next thing, what we shall be. Look at verse 7. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. And his kindness towards us through Christ Jesus in the ages to come simply means eternity. In eternity, we're going to be part of that great exhibition in heaven. And all the billions and billions of angels are going to look at us and they're going to marvel at the exceeding riches of the grace of God that got us here. Will be trophies of grace on display in heaven. The wonder will be how how did we get here? How do we get here? I heard about a census taker who was assigned to go to uh uh North Carolina in the backwoods. He was trying to find a town in the mountains and he traveled for hours and trying to find this place and finally he made it back there through the swamps and the rivers and the woods to find this little town and when he got there he saw one of the citizens and he said how in the world did you all get here And the citizen said, We were born here. You know, when we get to heaven, you know, we weren't born there. The marvel is going to be, how did we get here? How did we get here? And the answer is one word, grace. It's all grace. Our only answer is that we are a trophy of the grace of God. Let me tell you how I didn't get there, or I won't get there Look at verse 8. For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. There was nothing I could do to merit salvation by my own deeds or decisions. It was all the grace of God. You say, well, wait a minute, Pastor, I exercise my faith in Jesus. Well, notice what it says again in verse 8, for by grace you say through faith, and that is not of yourselves. Even the faith to believe, that doesn't come from you. God has to give you the faith to even believe in him. You don't have it of yourself. So I can't go to heaven and boast and say, I'm here because of my good faith. I made a good decision. It was my faith that got me here. No, God gave me the faith to even believe in him. It doesn't say that you're saved through your faith. It says that you're saved through faith, and that is not of yourself. That is a gift of God, lest any man should boast. So there's not going to be anyone walking around in heaven boasting. about how they got there. D. L. Moody said, I'm so glad that salvation is by grace and not by works, because we would have to sit around in heaven all eternity listening to people boast about how they got there. But no one's gonna be boasting in heaven. You see, faith is a gift that God gives us, just like salvation is a gift. And God's grace reaches down and says, I love you and I want to save you. And man's faith reaches up and says, I believe and I want to be saved. And that, my friend, is salvation. That is salvation. It's not of myself. It's not by works. Look in verse 9. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Remember, a dead man can do no works in and of himself. There are still some people out there that believe the great scale theory that when you get to heaven there's gonna be a giant scale and on one side's gonna be all your good works and on the other side all your bad works and if your good works outweigh your bad works. Then maybe you'll make it to heaven. Friend, that is nowhere in the Bible at all. Nowhere in the Bible. It's all by grace. The only relationships that works has with salvation is after salvation we do works. Good works Follow salvation. It doesn't bring it, it follows it. It reveals that you are truly saved You see, we don't work for our salvation. We work from our salvation. You see, friend, God doesn't need your good works, but your neighbor does He needs your good works. And so we don't work to merit salvation, we but we our works model Our salvation. Look at verse number 10. This is all part of being a trophy of God's grace. Look at verse 10. Notice what it says For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus under good works. This is why God wants to show us off. God's going to say, hey, this is my workmanship. This is a person saved by grace. And look at their life now. Look at what they did after they were a recipient of the grace of God. They're my workmanship. The word workmanship here, poema, where we get our word poem, means the result of art and skill. We are God's masterpiece of grace. And because we are saved by the grace of God, we then go and we show the world God's grace by doing good works in the name of Jesus Christ. Our works don't earn us salvation. Our works show that our faith is real. Our salvation is real. And so when a sinner is saved, it begins to work for their master, God in heaven is saying, That's my masterpiece. That's my workmanship. They were created in Christ Jesus to do these good works. God before ordained these works, the Bible says that we should walk in in them. When God saves a sinner and turns their life around and they begin to do good, that glorifies God. And God says, that's my trophy. That's my workmanship. I remember years ago when I was pastoring down the south, there was a woman who got saved. And a man in our church went by her uh her business. It was in a downtown area, downtown Memphis, and she had a store there, and the name of the store was My Three Habits, because she sold cigarettes, alcohol, and lottery tickets That's what she did. And the man went by the house and put a Bible there, or her her store, insurance man that that she dealt with, and he put a Bible there and he said, Look, read this Bible sometime. And it sat there for weeks. And finally, one day she picked it up. She began to read. He told her to start reading the Gospel of John. She began to read the Gospel of John. And she read the whole thing. She got under conviction and she wept about her sins. She wept about the fact that Jesus was the Savior and bore her sins on the cross. And she came to my office and she was weeping. And she was telling me all about this. And she said, Pastor, you know, when when do when do we stop weeping? You know. And you say, Well, did you lead her to Christ? Lead her to Christ. She was already saved. God had already saved her. And the Bible says, Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted. She wept and repented over her sin and God saved her and totally transformed her life. And one day walking out of church, she said, Pastor, I just want you to know I sold my store I said, You did? She said, Yes. She said, I can't do that stuff no more. I can't sell that stuff no more. She said, What I did is I bought a soup kit kitchen and now I'm giving out soup and bread to people for free. That is a trophy of the grace of God. She was saved to do good works for the glory of God. And friend, that's what we are. So we'll be trophies of God's grace because of what we were, what we are, and what we shall be. It's all of God's grace. H. A. Ironside the great Bible teacher. One time he was on a bus in Los Angeles and a rather peculiar woman came on the bus and sat down next to him. She was wearing a a bandana handkerchief around her head and she had a shawl. And then she sat next to him on the bus and she she turned to him and said, Would you like me to tell you your fortune for a quarter? And he said, uh, really, for a quarter. She said, yes. He said, well, I don't want to waste a quarter. Uh, are you sure you can get it right? She said, I'm absolutely sure I can tell you your future. And they said, Well, you know what? I tell you what, uh after thinking about it, I already know my future. In fact, I know my past, I know my present, and I know my future. She said, how? He says, because it's all written in a book. She said, really? He said, yes, the book's infallible Let me tell you about my past, what I was, and then he read Ephesians, this passage I just read. We were dead in trespasses and sins. He said, Let me tell you about my present, and then he read about, but God who is rich in mercy. And great in his love, wherewith he loved us, and his grace. And then he said, Let me tell you about my future. And then he read verse number seven, where it says that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and kindness So the woman got up quickly and said, I sat next to the wrong person and got off that bus. But I want to tell you something, friend. You're you're seated in the right place here today. Because God wants to take you from what you were to make you something different. He wants to change you by the grace of God that one day You in heaven can be a trophy of the grace of Almighty God. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your grace. We don't have the words to describe it. There are none. There's not enough. To describe your love and your grace. The fact that you're so rich in mercy, that while we were dead in our trespasses and sins, You made us alive. You sought us. You came after us. You rescued us. You delivered us. You raised us, and now we're seated in heavenly places in Christ. And one day we'll be a trophy of your grace Thank you, Father, for that. There's no greater gift, there's no greater gift in the world than to be a recipient of your grace. And how we thank you for that, Lord, how we praise you for that. And I pray, Lord, that every person here under the sound of my voice is absolutely certain of their own salvation. That they have reached upward to heaven as you've reached down to show your love, that they've reached upward and said, Yes, I want to be saved. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me We thank you for your word that says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Anyone who wants to be saved. It's available. And in grace, Lord, you give us that faith to believe. With heads bowed and eyes closed, if there's someone here and you say that's what I want, I'm not Certain of my salvation, but today I'm reaching upward to heaven and I'm saying, save me, Lord Jesus. Friend, let me tell you something. Jesus loves you. He died for you. He wants you to be saved. He wants you to come to him The very fact that you're here today is God working on you, God working in your heart, God drawing you. Would you reach out and say, Yes, I put my faith in God Christ. Anyone here? Say that's me, preacher. Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand? I won't embarrass you. Anyone here? God bless you. God bless you. Would you just pray right there where you are? Say, Lord Jesus, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. Lord Jesus, be merciful to me as sinner and save me. And friend, that's that's faith. That's reaching up in faith. Father, bless your word to every hearing heart. Save souls and strengthen the body of Christ for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen