Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. We begin a new series here in 1 Thessalonians. And uh we're gonna look this morning in chapter one, verse number five, down to verse number eight. And uh you don't need to stand today. We're gonna get right into it. I'll just read uh Verse here, verse 5. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. As a pastor, my greatest concern is that people truly know Jesus Christ, that they know that they're truly converted to Christ. To me, the most haunting verses in all of the Bible are in Matthew 7. Where Jesus said, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father which is in heaven. I um there have been times in my pastoral ministry when I've wondered if a person I was dealing with was truly converted. You may have had the same experience, perhaps you know someone who claims to believe in Jesus Christ, but their life simply does not back up. that claim. Or perhaps you've been wondering yourself at times whether your conversion, your salvation is real. How can a person know that they have been truly converted? I think this is the most important question of your life because it deals with your eternal destiny. And again, my heart's desire, my burden is that all those who sit under me, that you come to hear preach me preach, I I my desire is that you truly know and have a biblical understanding of your salvation. When Paul writes this letter to the Thessalonians, he was absolutely confident that the people he was writing to were truly converted to Jesus Christ. He was sure. Look at verse number four of chapter one. Notice what he says: Knowing, uh brethren beloved, your election of God. The word election there is simply synonymous with salvation. Paul's saying, look, I know that you are truly saved. How, Paul? How can you know this for sure? Well in this reading that Paul gives to the Thessalonians, he is going to remember back at what God did when he was there among them. And it's these things that he saw that convinced Paul that these people were truly converted. And so what I want us to see then are what I think called the ingredients that are involved in true conversion. Because this is what Paul talks about here with them in these verses. And what I see here are eight ingredients of true conversions. Now this is doesn't mean it's you know, all encompassing that this is all that it is. This is just a part of what the evidences are or the ingredients are to true conversion We see this in Paul's words here. So I want you to see the first one. Number one, true conversion requires a clear gospel message to be presented. Look at verse number five, where he says, For our gospel came not unto you in word only. Notice where Paul says Now, for then is uh is a word that's kind of transitional. He's going to give us the reasons why he knows that these people are saved. And he says, you know You heard our gospel. Paul said, our gospel came to you not in word only. When Paul says our gospel, what does that imply? That implies that there were other gospels being preached out there. Not just Paul's gospel. In fact, the Judaizers seemed to follow Paul around and everywhere he went, they seemed to follow him, and they would add to the message of salvation by grace through faith. They would add works. They would say, Jesus is not enough. You have to obey the law. They would want to add Moses to Christ. It was a gospel of works. It was a gospel of religious rituals. This happened to him at Galatia. That's why Paul wrote to the Galatians and said this. He said, But though we are an angel from heaven Preach unto you any other gospel than what I preach unto you, let him be accursed. There's only one gospel. Anyone who preaches another gospel, that is, they are not of God. Even though they uh report to be from God. You know many false religions were started by angels. Paul said, if an angel come and preach you any other gospel, let him be a curse or anyone. And so there are false gospels today, just like there was in Paul's day. And these gospels give a false hope. They add to the message of salvation something that the Bible does not. But Paul says to the Thessalonians, he said, look, you received our gospel, meaning the true gospel. Sometimes it was called the gospel of Christ. Sometimes Paul called it the gospel of God. Sometimes he called it the gospel of grace. What is the true gospel? Very simply, God, a holy God, must judge sin. And he is a God of love. He didn't want to judge you, so he sent his son Jesus to bear your sins. Jesus came, born of a virgin, lived a sinless life, obeyed all the law on our behalf. On the cross, God the Father took the sins of the world and placed them on Christ. And God's wrath, which should have fallen upon me and you, fell on Jesus. Salvation then was a is a gift that is paid for by the death of Jesus Christ. You come to Him by faith. You put your faith in what Christ did for you. On the cross. Repentance and faith, two sides of the same coin. You repent of your sin, you turn to Christ, you put your faith in Christ. It's by grace through faith alone plus nothing else. Anyone who wants to come can come and get this wonderful gift of salvation. This is what happened to the Thessalonians This is what Paul preached to them. Paul preached the pure gospel there to the Thessalonians, and they believed, and God did a mighty, wonderful work there among them. And Paul says, I know that you're saved because You received our gospel. It came to you not just in word, but also in the work of the Holy Spirit. But you received our gospel. Friend, have you received the true gospel of Jesus Christ? If you have, don't let anyone push you away onto any other gospel than that one. There's only one gospel. It is the power of God unto salvation. But there's another factor here. True conversion requires a clear gospel message. to be presented. But number two, true conversion requires the gospel to be presented in the power of the Spirit. Look what he said again in verse number five. For our gospel came to you not in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. Paul said, Look, when I preach the gospel to you, it was done in the power of the Holy Spirit. Now, what does that mean? Some people think that this refers to the miracles that Paul did among the Thessalonians. Um when he was there in Thessalonica. In the early church, God often did authenticate the gospel message with uh the works of the apostles, acts of miracles. Uh we call these sign gifts to authenticate. that the message was truly from God. For example, Hebrews two, how should we escape if we neglect so great salvation? Which at the first Began to be spoken by the Lord and was confirmed on us by them that heard him. Listen to this. God also bearing them witness both with signs and wonders, and diverse miracles and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will That might be what Paul's referring to here, but I think that what Paul is referring to here, more accurately I think, are the changes that took place in the hearts of the Thessalonians. When they heard the gospel preached through the power of the Holy Spirit. You see, when the gospel is preached, it must be in the power of the Spirit. Because let me tell you something, dear friends, it is the Holy Spirit that has the power to bring life. He is the one that uses his word and he brings life where there was deadness. He's the one who does the regenerating work. The same Holy Spirit that at creation hovered over the world and brought life and creation, the Bible says in Genesis 1. About that. It is the same Holy Spirit that brings regeneration. Second Corinthians 4 6, for the God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, when did he do that at creation? Has shined in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So it is God, the Holy Spirit, who does that. It is his regenerating power. That brings life. You know, I I think of the illustration in Ezekiel, in Ezekiel chapter 37, you might remember God gave Ezekiel a vision. He said, What do you see, Ezekiel? Ezekiel said, Lord, I see a valley of dry bones. He was in a cemetery where there were dry bones all around. And then God said, Preach to those dry bones, Ezekiel. And well first let me back up. He said, Can these dry bones live? Ezekiel said, Oh Lord, you know. And then God said, Well preach to him. Preach to him. And I know how he feels sometimes. But I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding, all right. You all look wonderful this morning. Let me uh let me redeem myself here. And you know what happened? He preached to them, and and what has happened? The Bible says that The Spirit of God came, and life came into them, flesh became upon those bones, and they began to live. And that's a beautiful illustration of the regenerating power of the Holy Spirit of God. Friend, I have no power. God is the one who has power. And he is the one who does the work. And when the Holy Spirit of God comes and he uses the word of God, there is life that As a result of that, spiritual life, salvation. This means true conversion doesn't depend on slick salesmanship or techniques or powerful rhetoric or convincing logic. Don't get me wrong, we need to be persuasive in our preaching. We need to be clear and upfront and firm. But friend, it's not the personality of the preacher that gets it done. It's not the giftings. It is the Holy Spirit that brings life. He's the one who does it. But then here's the third thing. True conversion comes through those who have full confidence in And the power of the gospel. Look what he says again in verse number five. He says, For our gospel came not on you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. And the assurance that he's talking about there is the assurance of Paul. In other words, Paul, when he preached the gospel, had total confidence that the gospel has the power to do the work. He believed in the power of the gospel. He wrote to the Romans and he said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to anyone who believes. So when Paul preached the gospel in Thessalonica, he preached it with a deep conviction that it would do its work. He believed it would change lives. When he went there, he was confident, he was bold. After he'd been beaten in other places and he finally made it to Thessalonica, you might think that he was a bit more cautious, but he wasn't. He was bold, the Bible says in his preaching. So he had the full conviction that the gospel will work when it is preached clearly in the power of the Holy Spirit Now the problem today is that many churches don't have that conviction that the gospel still works. They think the gospel needs help. And so you have a lot of places that use worldly techniques to market the gospel. The term marketing and the gospel should not be in the same sentence, in my opinion. They don't agree with Paul that the gospel is the power of God and the salvation. They think the gu the gospel needs help, and so therefore you have churches in America that run their services like a three-ring circus. They think, you know We just need to get people in. You know, there are ways to build a crowd, but there's a difference between building a crowd and Christ building his church. They think all you have to do is just use the right means, the right measures, have the right promotions And so churches in America are doing all types of things to gather a crowd together. In the book, Ashamed of the Gospel, the author writes this. He says, There seems almost no limit to what modern church leaders will do to entice people who aren't interested in worship and preaching. Too many have bought the notion that the church must win people by offering an alternative form of entertainment. And he's right. I've read of churches that you you know spend millions of dollars uh putting in their their churches these special effects systems that produce smoke and fire and laser lights. As if those things have any bearing on getting people truly converted or truly into the kingdom of God. I read of one church that sent their staff to Ballet's Casino in Las Vegas. They wanted to find out how to run a sh nice show. And they came back with all these ideas. And on one service, the pastor ended by ascending to heaven on invisible wires. Let me tell you one thing you'll never see here at Grace. You'll never see me ascending or descending on anything. That's ridiculous. You y do you actually think that if I was put on wires it would help people get into the kingdom of God? I mean some churches run a nice show, but what does that have to do with true conversion? What does that have to do with that? There's no denying that these antics work. I mean you look at some of these churches, they are they draw a crowd. But again, the question is not how big is a crowd. The question is is there true conversion? Taking place. Is there confidence in the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ? True conversion requires a clear gospel. It requires it to be presented in the power of the Spirit. It requires those who preach it to have full confidence in the power of that gospel. But then here's number four. True conversion comes through witnesses who live the gospel. Who live it. Look at again in verse number five, where Paul says He said, you know, in the last part of it, he says, as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. In other words Paul said, you saw us, you saw the way we live. Paul and Silas and Timothy were men of integrity. When Paul was there, he was not trying to get rich from the people. He was not living off of them. He wasn't trying to get praise from them. All he wanted was for them to know Jesus Christ. And so he labored among them. He had his own job. He was a tent maker. Paul said, I didn't take anything from you. Paul didn't want the gospel to appear chargeable to the people. And so he labored for on his own, taking care of his own needs, and gave them the gospel. And he was humble among them. He was gentle. He was caring. He was compassionate. That's living out the gospel. In fact, look in 2 Thessalonians 3, verse 7, Paul said this, for you yourselves know how you ought to follow us, for we behave not ourselves disorderly among you. Neither did we eat any man's bread for naught, but we wrought with labor and travail night and day that we might not be chargeable to any of you. So the Thessalonians not only heard the gospel from Paul But they saw the gospel lived out in his life. They saw his love. They saw his compassion. They saw his burden for them. If you're living a worldly life, you're not going to be able to be effective as a witness for Jesus Christ. People not only have to hear the gospel from you, but they have to see the gospel in your life. They have to see your transformed life. You do more damage than good for the cause of Christ if your life does not back up the truth of the message that you proclaim. Now I'm not talking about perfection. I'm simply talking about integrity Hypocrisy will turn people off. It hinders them from seeing the truth of who Christ truly is. And so the truth conversion Is comes through witnesses who live the gospel. Then here's number five. True conversion results in changed lives that desire to be like Christ. Look at verse number six. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord. The word followers here Meme is where we get the word mimic from. You ever see a little child mimic their parents or mimic their older sibling? That's the idea behind the word here. One little girl said to her dad as as he was out laying you know clumps of flesh freshly laid sod in the yard as she was following him, she said, Dad, if you don't get your feet muddy, I won't get my feet muddy. When the Thessalonians heard the gospel, they responded in repentance and faith. They were transformed. But you know what? They began to follow in the footsteps of Paul and Silas and Timothy. They imitated them. That's what Paul said. You became followers. You became imitators of us. The patterns of holy living that Paul had, they began to imitate that. We're talking about a place that was infested with Paganism and and idolatry. Not far from Thessalonica was the was the famous Mount Olympus, the supposed residence of the Greek god Zeus. And because of that, that whole area was infested with all types of idolatry And uh worship of Greek gods. But when the gospel was preached there to the Thessalonians, they turned to God, they turned away from their idols, and they began to imitate Paul and the fact that they lived a godly life. And let me say this about true conversion, is always marked by a desire to live a life pleasing to God. Justification always is accompanied by sanctification. Any justification without sanctification is a fabrication. You claim to be saved and know Jesus Christ. There's going to be a desire in your life. to live a godly life. Again, I'm not talking about perfection. I'm talking about a desire to follow Christ. I'm talking about a desire to keep his word. And to live a life of practical holiness, you'll have sin in your life, but you'll war against that sin. You'll battle with it. But the lives of the Thessalonians was changed. They threw away their pagan idols. They became imitators of Jesus Christ. You know, they were following Paul because Paul was following in the footsteps. of Jesus Christ. Paul became their pattern to follow as they were following Christ. You know what the church needs? The church needs godly patterns. Godly examples for people to follow. Can you confidently say to someone, follow me as I follow Christ? If you want to know how to live a Christian life, just watch me and follow me. That's not ego, friend. That's discipleship. Discipleship, the Bible says that a a person will be ful fully discipled when they become like their leader, like their leader. Master. That's discipleship. That's why Paul said to the Corinthians, be imitators of me, just as I also am of Christ. The ultimate goal is to be like Christ, to walk like Christ. But here's another ingredient for true conversion. True conversion results in a hunger for God's word Even in the face of persecution. Look again in verse number six. You became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. Another sign of conversion is a love for God's Word. Those who are truly converted want to know the Word. They want to understand God's Word. They're hungry for it It's like Peter said, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word that you might grow thereby. The Thessalonians received and hungered for it, despite the fact that it brought with it persecution. It brought with it suffering. When the Thessalonians were converted to Christ, they immediately began to be persecuted. And you might remember that Paul was in Thessalonica for a short period of time. You know why? Because people went were looking for him. They try they tried to run him out of town. Paul started a church in a house of a man named Jason. After he had been in the synagogue for three Sabbaths, the Jews kicked him out. They didn't like what they heard. Some believed. And others were converted. This church was started there in the house of Jason, but there were some that were stirred up. And they went to the house of Jason looking for Paul. And Paul had to flee Thessalonica for his life. But he left behind there a group of believers, and those believers were now suffering persecution because of their faith in Christ, because they did turn from idols and turn to Christ. But you know what? That didn't deter them. That's a sign of true salvation. There are some people that come to church and they Here and they come to Christ because they of the things that they think Christ will give them. Oh, he'll take away all my problems. If I come to Jesus I won't have any more troubles. There's this health, wealth, and prosperity gospel out there that says if you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you can be wealthy, you can be healthy, all these things God will promise you. Friend, that's a false gospel. You know, this idea if you trust Jesus, all your troubles will go away. What if trusting Jesus causes trouble to come? What if your troubles begin by putting your faith in Christ? You say, what do I want by that? You've you've got eternal life, you've got forgiveness of sins, you're reconciled to a holy God, which is the first thing that the gospel does for you And that's the first thing that we should be concerned about, but being reconciled to a holy God who will judge us if we don't allow our sins to be judged by Jesus on the cross. But some people they come to Christ based on these appeals by health, wealth, and prosperity preachers who say, oh, if you come to Jesus you'll get this and this and this and this and then when you don't get those things What happens? People walk away, disappointed. And you know what they say? Christianity doesn't work. That kind of Christianity doesn't work. But that's not what the gospel is. Jesus said this, Blessed are you when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is their reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets. If you get persecuted for your faith, you ought to rejoice. You say, why? Because that reveals that you're truly converted. Because they see Christ in you. They they persecuted the prophets, and now they're persecuting you? Well, I'll take that That do you see Christ in me? James says, consider it all joy, my brothers, when you fall into diverse trials, knowing that the trial of your faith works. Perseverance. Peter said, Beloved, um think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as some strange thing happened unto you. Peter is writing to believers who were suffering persecution, and they were going like, Wow Why is this happening? Peter's like, are you surprised? I mean they persecuted Christ and they see Christ in you and now you're bearing it. You see? When you become a child of God, you make a 180-degree turn from the world. Why would you be surprised if you're meeting the world head-on now? Why would you be surprised about that? That just is part of picking up your cross, counting the cost, and following the Lord Jesus Christ. You should expect it You should expect suffering. In fact, Paul told the Thessalonians this: look in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3, look in verse 3, where he says, That no man should be moved by these afflictions, for yourself know that we are appointed thereunto. Verse 4, for verily when we were with you, we told you that before that we would suffer tribulation, even as it came to pass, and you know. Paul said, You know, I told you about this. I told you that by putting your faith in Christ, repenting of your sin, it could cause you suffering, it could cause you tribulation, it could cause you affliction. But that did not deter the Thessalonians. You know why? Because they saw the pearl of great price. They saw the treasure hidden in a field. They saw that knowing Christ and having sins forgiven And having eternal life was much more precious than anything that this world could offer. And they were willing to turn from that to Christ, even though they had to endure affliction and suffering That's a sign of true conversion. It might cost you all to become a Christian, but are you willing? Are you willing? And by the way, joy doesn't come through circumstances, it comes by the Holy Spirit. Paul said, you did all of this with joy from the Holy Spirit in verse number six, he said. In much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. It is the Holy Spirit that gives us joy. No matter how difficult circumstances become, true Christians do not lose their ultimate joy because it is the Holy Spirit who dispenses it to the true believer. But then here's another one. True conversion results in converts becoming an example to others. Look in verse 7. So that ye were examples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achaia. The word in samples here is tupos, the Greek word where we get the word type means a pattern. These Thessalonians actually became themselves a pattern for other churches or other believers. This is the only verse in the New Testament where a congregation is viewed as a model for other churches to follow. This group of believers became a great example, Paul said to other believers. Their lives were worthy of imitation. You know, you're an example. Everybody here is an example. The question is, are you a good one or are you a bad one? Because everyone's an example. Whether you realize it or not. When new believers or new members come to grace, what kind of examples do they see here? Do they see examples of godliness, faithfulness? Younger believers are watching You watching us, what kind of examples are we? And finally, let me give you the last thing here. We said that true conversion Number one, it requires a clear gospel. It should be done in the power of the Spirit. It should be those who present it should have confidence in the message. It should come through those who live out the gospel. True conversion results in a desire to be like Christ. It results in a hunger for God's word despite persecution. It results in converts becoming an example to others, but the last thing is true conversion results in spreading the gospel to others Look at verse number eight. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place, your faith that God would have spread abroad, so that we not need to speak anything. The word sounded out here is ex echo, where we get our word echo from. To thunder out. This word is only time this is used in the New Testament. But it's used in other Greek literature to talk about a loud clap of thunder, or to talk about the cry from a multitude, or to talk about the sound of a loud trumpet. Paul is saying, you know, from you the gospel was thundered out. From you the gospel was trumpeted out. When these Thessalonians were converted to Christ, they were not quietly whispering here and there about Jesus. They were boldly trumpeting the message of the gospel all around to anyone who would listen. Friend, we all need to be bold witnesses in sharing the gospel. All of us. Several times in the New Testament, Paul prays, asked the church to pray for him. He said, Pray that I will be bold as I present the gospel. Now, if Paul needed to pray for boldness, I think we do too. We need to pray that God will make us bold witnesses of the gospel all around. But that's evidence of a person who is truly converted to Jesus Christ. They want everyone around them to know the wonderful message of salvation that they had just received. When I think about this, I think about the conversion of my father. Uh some of you older members know that, you know, my dad w came to church here when Pastor Johnson was preaching. The gospel, my father came here, this is all the way back in nineteen seventy-eight, I believe, and he came, this is like three buildings ago, over here in the original building. Pastor Johnson was preaching, and he preached Such a powerful gospel, and my father was converted to faith in Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you that I did not recognize him after that. I was almost like, who are you and what did you do to my father? Because he was a different person. And part of that was he began to share the gospel with everybody. Now my father had not learned the tactful methods of witnessing yet. So he was pretty bold in the way he presented the gospel. In fact, I think he made every family member mad at one time, you know And friends mad. But he wasn't trying to make them mad. He was just explaining that he was a sinner who had found the Savior Jesus Christ. And and he wanted others to know that But that's a that's a evidence of true conversion. This is what happened to the Thessalonians. Remember I told you that in Thessalonica there was a superhighway that ran right through that city. It was called the Ignatian Way. It was the I-70 of its day. And what would happen is people would travel along that highway, they would come to Thessalonica, they were there long enough to hear about what was going on with this group of people that turned from their idols and turned to Jesus Christ. They were there long enough, some of those very people witnessed to them. And some of them got saved. And they would travel that highway east and west. And all over the talk of Macedonia was what was going on in Thessalonica with these people coming to Jesus Christ. And Paul said so much so that I don't really need to say anything. Notice what he said again in verse number eight where he says Your faith toward God would as spread above it so that we not need to speak anything. Need not to speak anything. I can just imagine Paul out there, if he starts to share the gospel with someone, they say, I already heard that from somebody in Thessalonica They beat you to that. You know what a preacher's dream is to go out and make a visit only to find out that someone from your church was already there. You know, that's happened to me a few times. It's a blessing. And Paul says, look, you know, wherever I share the God, I find out that your faith to God is already spread abroad. So much so that I don't need to say anything. I don't need to add anything to what's happening there. Because these people who were truly converted to Jesus Christ began to share it all over. So those are the ingredients of true conversion. Now there are more in the Bible. We don't have time to go into it. John in 1 John gives some assurances of salvation, some tests, the theological test. a test about believing who Jesus is, the moral test about obeying Christ, the social test about loving others. I would just say this, beloved, in our day there are so many counterfeit gospels. So much counterfeit Christianity going on. I plead with you to make sure that you're truly converted to Christ That you truly know him. And then, beloved, help others to know Jesus. Help others. We have the only message that changes lives. This is it right here. This is the only thing that changes hearts, and we have it. So be bold in your witness. Share Christ abroad. Let other people hear about Jesus. Amen. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this wonderful passage in Thessalonians that reminds us of the evidences and the ingredients of true conversion. Lord, I pray for every soul here in this auditorium and for those that may be watching by live stream or may watch later. Lord, that they would have this matter Settled in their own heart of true conversion, that they know that they know Christ, and that Lord, they will not let anything keep them from being bold witnesses themselves. Lord, we live in a time and a day when the gospel message is needed more than ever. So Lord, help us to be faithful. Help us to be bold. Lord, do your work in our hearts just like you did in the hearts of the Thessalonians. Lord, let the Word of God thunder out from this place, Lord Because of the people that are here. Let it be trumpeted forth all over from east to west, because they're seeing the great things that God is doing in the hearts of the people of people who are here. And Lord, we ask this not for ourselves, but for your glory. For your glory and yours alone. Lord, I don't want people looking at our church. And attributing whatever good things happen to a man-made method or a program or a plan, but let them see the power of the work of the gospel and the Holy Spirit truly transforming hearts and lives. for your honor and your glory. Lord, you're the only one who deserves the honor and the glory for what you do. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to this morning Throw out an invitation to you right now. I want to tell you something, friend. Jesus loves you. He came and died for your sins. And he wants you to know him. He wants you to have salvation. And it's available right now. It's available right there where you are. The grace of God is such that it'll meet you right where you are. If you're willing to reach out in faith and say, Lord Jesus, I'm the sinner, please save me. I turn from my sin today. I turn to you, Lord Jesus. Wash me in your precious blood. Forgive me for my sins. I want to be your child. Friend If you in faith come to Jesus and pray that, you know what? He's not going to turn you aside. He'll forgive you for your sins. He'll give you eternal life. He'll make you a child of God. That's the greatest blessing that there is. And He's offering it to you right now if you don't have it. Jesus said, Come unto me all that ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Go find your rest in Christ. Anyone here like that? Can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand? Say, preacher, that's me. Right now, God bless you. Raise your hand, say, yes, that's me. Pray for me That's what I want. I want Christ. Just reach out and say this: God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me for Christ's sake. Save me, Lord Jesus. And he'll do it. Right there where you are. He'll do it. And friend, if you've prayed this prayer and you you want to know more, we're going to be here in the front afterwards. We'll have ministers up here. Why don't you come We can tell you more about Christ, how to know. If anyone has any doubt, we're here for you. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today, we pray in Jesus' name.