Well, I invite you to take your Bibles now. Would you open to the book of Nehemiah? You know we're studying that book here on Wednesday night. And tonight we come to Nehemiah chapter 9. uh I want to deal with this this whole chapter here. And you'll notice right away when you get to Nehemiah chapter 9, this is kind of a long chapter. This is 38 verses. And so we'll kind of get a bird's eye view and get the main idea of what is taking place here in Nehemiah chapter 9. But the title of the sermon tonight is True Confession. True confession. Now have you ever been in a public service where someone was asked to pray and they prayed a really long-winded prayer? Has that ever happened to you in a service? I'm ashamed to tell you this, but um when we traveled over to London And um you know when you when you go to a area that's a eight hour difference from what you're used to, and then right after that I went to church. I remember sitting in church and the man was uh got up to pray And he started to pray and I bowed my head and closed my eyes. And of course you know what happens when you have jet lag, right? I I kind of I kinda drifted off to sleep and uh I woke I I woke up and looked at my watch and it was ten minutes later and the guy was still praying. So I just went back to sleep. No, I'm just kidding. I I'm just teasing. I I stayed awake. But uh have you ever had someone just g do a long prayer? You know, there's a great story of D. L. Moody who once uh asked a certain brother to pray in a service in the Chicago Church. And he just kept praying and praying and ten minutes later he's still praying. And finally Dale Moody got up and he said, Everyone turn to page number three forty two while our brother continues to pray, we're going to sing. You know, hint hint, right? Anyway, I think of that when I look at this chapter here, Nehemiah chapter 9 is a long chapter, but really this whole chapter is a is a prayer. This is one long prayer. Now you remember when we started studying the book of Nehemiah, we said that Nehemiah was a man of prayer. And that there's some things about prayer in this book. Well, this chapter here is a long prayer. And let me just tell you that there are times when long prayers are appropriate. And that's especially when we're confessing our sins and we're praying for revival and renewal in our life. Because that's exactly what's happening here in chapter 9. This is what we see in this prayer. And the first two verses of the chapter kind of set it up. It tells us the the time of when this prayer, and we could call this a prayer of confession. When does it take place? It takes place right after the fell the celebration of the Feast of Tabernacles. If you were here last week, you remember in chapter eight that part of what they did after there was a reading of Scripture, they celebrated the Feast of Tabernacles. That began On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, remember that the seventh month was a very holy month for the nation of Israel. On the first day they began reading scripture, and then they heard things that they should be doing. They decided to have the Feast of the Tabernacles. And so that was observed in Israel for the first time in many years. And this is also following the ri the rebuilding of the wall and the recovering of the city of Jerusalem. uh the resetting of the gates, the restoration of order to a certain degree there in the city. And so this was this was a great time. But what happens is very quickly they go from feasting to fasting. Their mood changes quickly. Look at verse 1. Now, on the 20th and fourth day of this month, that is the seventh month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting and with sackcloth. And earth was upon them. And so this chapter then is the people of God getting serious, and they begin to confess their sins to Almighty God. And really the big idea in this whole chapter is very simple, that in order to have revival and renewal, there has to be great confession of sin. You say, I need revival in my life. I need renewal in my life. Well, that will follow when you get serious with God about confessing sins. And dealing thoroughly with sins in your life. Because that's what happens here. And so what we learn from this chapter is we have to daily, continually, habitually confess sin in our life. Now, I heard a radio preacher not too long ago, and he basically was questioning whether a Christian needs to confess their sins. And I've heard preachers Talk about this. I've heard certain Christians challenge this idea. And the argument normally goes like this, that if you're saved and you've put your faith in what the finished work of Christ Then you're justified before God. There's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. All of your sins are paid for, past, present, and future. And so therefore, if all of your sins are already paid for Then why do you need to confess your sins? And so they use that argument to say there's no need for you to practice confession. Now, let me just be the first to say, I agree that when we come to the Lord Jesus Christ and we put our faith in his finished work on the cross. That all of our sins are paid for. There is no condemnation. I totally agree with that, that all of our sins, past, present, and future are covered by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ because of that perfect sacrifice that He gave for us on the cross. But that doesn't mean that we don't have to practice the discipline of daily confession of sins. Now, why? Well, let me give you a few reasons why as Christians we need to continue to confess our sins. Here's the first reason, and by the way, this isn't in I'm not into the outline yet, this is kind of preliminary, alright? I'll let you know when I get into the main body of the sermon, all right? This is still an adoption. We why confess our sins? Well because you ready for this? Because God tells us to. Very simply. The Bible says, if we confess our sins, and it's the idea that we are to confess our sins. In fact, the verb there confess is a present indicative act, that is, a continual action And so there's the idea that as a Christian, we are to continually confess our sins daily. And when we confess our sins, we're not experiencing a new justification, but we are We have a renewed application of our justification. We're just simply acknowledging that we're applying what Christ has already done to those sins. But here's another reason. Not only does God command it, God tells us to confess our sins. But also we're to let the peace of God rule in our heart, right? Unconfessed sin gives us a lack of peace. Because if we have sin in our life, we don't have peace with God. And that should be true of a believer. The Bible says, let the peace of God rule in your heart. And when we sin, it troubles our conscience, does it not? It's something that troubles our soul. And so we have to deal with that. There's this lack of peace. You know why? Because if our conscience is working correctly. Then when we sin, there's guilt with that. We're reminded of that guilt. And so we will not have real peace with God until we deal with that unconfessed sin. The Puritan Richard Sibbs said that our conscience is the courtroom of the soul. And you know, in a courtroom there are different members of the court. There is the registrar who records the deed, there is the accuser, there's the witness, there's the judge, and there's the executioner. And the question is, well what part does the conscience play? What member of the court is the conscience. And Richard Sibb says in his analogy that the conscience is every one of those things. The conscience act is every member of the court. He's the registrar who records the deed He is the witness because he witnessed the deed, the conscience did. He is the accuser. He lodges the complaint against us, and he's the judge who will render us guilty because of that sin. He's also the executioner and he will punish us. And how does the conscience do that? With a lack of peace. There's no real peace there. And so unconfessed sin in the life of the believer will cause a lack of peace, and it troubles our soul But when we confess that sin, what is there? There's peace, right? But then there's another reason we confess our sins, and that is because if we don't, there's a loss of fellowship. Now, friend, we could never lose our salvation, right? Once you're saved, you're always saved. You are God's child. You are his, his grace has sealed you in Christ, you can't lose your salvation, but you know what you can lose? You can lose your fellowship with the Lord. You know, I use this analogy. My children, I have four children, they're all my children. I will never disown them We have a permanent relationship as father and children, but you know what? If they sin against me or I sin against them, that relationship can be disrupted. until we get it right. And that's true with your covenant relationship with God. Right. You are in as far as you're standing before God There is no condemnation. You will never see eternal punishment like a person who doesn't know Jesus. You are God's child, and that can never change. But you can lose your fellowship. And so we have to confess sins to stay in fellowship. And then, you know, another idea here is that unconfessed sin hinders prayer. Just write down Isaiah 59, verse 1. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God And a lot of times when we pray, our prayers don't really get past the ceiling because we have unconfessed sin in our life And here's the bottom line: God wants us to deal thoroughly with our sins. And so, with all that in mind, this is why Nehemiah chapter 9 is a good chapter for us to learn, because it talks to us about true confession. It just gives us some ideas about what is involved. What are the characteristics of true confession? So let me just give you six of them Really quick here that I see in the chapter. And here's number one, if you're taking notes, just write this down. True confession begins with the Word of God It begins with the Word of God. So look at verse number three. And they stood up in their place and read in the book of the law of the Lord their God. One fourth part of the day, and another fourth part they confessed and worshipped the Lord their God So this all starts with the reading of God's Word. And if you were here last week, you remember we looked in chapter 8 when Ezra the scribe came and he went to the water gate and they built a big platform and he stood up and he opened the scripture And there were perhaps, according to scholars, 30,000 to 50,000 people that had assembled there. And when he opened up to the scripture, remember what happened? What did the people do? They all stood up. Because they knew that he was reading not the words of man, but the words of God. And Ezra began reading the scripture to the people then. And you remember if you were with us last week, their response, in fact, go back to chapter 8 and look in verse number 9 and where it says at the latter part. That in the last second half of the verse it says, This day is holy unto the Lord your God. Mourn not nor weep, for all the people what? They wept When they heard the words of the law. You know why they wept? They wept? I think, first of all, because of the privilege of hearing God's word. But I think also included in that weeping was they saw that they were sinning against God, and there was conviction. And this picks up here again in chapter 9, verse 3. This is twenty some odd days later, and the reading of the Word of God is still happening in verse number 3. It says, and they stood up in their place and read the In the book of the law, the Lord, their God, one fourth part of the day. What does it mean? Ham how long is a fourth part of the day? That's about three hours So again, they're hearing God's word being read for three hours. And then what happens after they hear the reading of the word? It says, in another fourth part, they confessed and worshipped So there was the reading of God's word, and then there was the confession of sin. And that's a natural order. You know why? And you know this. Because what does God's word do when we read it? Doesn't it bring conviction to our heart? Very rarely do I, when I study God's Word, do I n do I not stop at some point and have to deal with things in my own life I have to say, Lord, I'm guilty of this. I need to get this right in my heart because that's what God's Word does. God's word brings conviction. You know, sins that perhaps are dormant in us, that maybe things that we've done that we forgot about. When we read God's word, we're reminded of that. Somebody said that sin grows in the dark. Sin is like fungus, it grows in the dark, but when it's exposed to ultraviolet light, it is killed. And sin is like that in the dark it grows, but when the light of God's word shines on it, it's killed And so that's what God's Word does. Now you might say, well, now I don't need God's word to confess my sins. My own heart can tell me what I've done wrong. Well, okay, I wouldn't depend upon your heart to do that. You know why? Because what does the Bible say about our heart? The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And the word deceitful is the proper, I may have told you this before, it's the proper Hebrew name, Ya'aqov, Jacob, the heart, halav, Is Ya'a. The heart is Jacob. Literally is how it reads. Now, what did Jacob do to his father? You remember that story? He lied to his father. And this is exactly what Jeremiah is telling us. Our heart will deceive us. It will lie to us. Your heart will say, you know what? You're really doing well. When actually you're not doing so well. Your heart will not give you an accurate diagnosis of your sin. You say, well, if my heart won't do it, then what do I have? And again, Paul said this in 1 Corinthians 4, uh 4. He said, I'm not aware of anything against myself, but I'm not thereby acquitted, I'm not thereby justified. Paul said, you know what? I'm looking at my life, I don't know anything that I'm doing wrong. But that doesn't get me off the hook. Because they went on to say, it is the Lord who judges me. And so we can't depend upon our heart to give us a correct diagnosis. We say, what do we depend upon? It has to be God's word. And that's why write down Hebrews four twelve, for the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword And it goes on to say, piercing, dividing the spirit of the joint uh excuse me, is the vision of the soul and the spirit and the joints and the marrow, discerning the thoughts and the intents of the heart. God's word is so sharp it can cut us spiritually. And it tells us what our thoughts are. It tells us what our motives are. And that's where confession of sin begins, when God's word is read and it reveals our heart. So let me go on to the next point. True confession begins with God's Word. But here's the second thing. True confession involves brokenness and repentance over sin. Just go back to verse number one. It says, Now in the twentieth and fourth day of this month, the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, with sackcloth, and earth upon them. So what were they doing? Well, first of all, they were fasting. They were going without food. They had put on sackcloth And they put dust on their head. Why all of this? Because these were all symbols of the mourning, the sorrow that they were experiencing over sin. There was a great brokenness in these people because again it was God's word that did that. And again, this is the effect of Scripture. It breaks us, it breaks our heart, or at least it should. I'm convinced that sometimes as Christians we're a little bit too glib and careless in the way that we confess sins. You know, we someone said we like to sin retail and confess wholesale. So we, before we go to sleep at night, we say, God forgive me for all of my sins. And that's all. But we never really stop to think about how damaging sin really is. And how sin disappoints God. And how sin, how God hates sin. We don't see it as horrible And so I think that there should be some manner of mourning and sorrow over sin in our life. We should take time to think about the devastating effect of sin. There should be some manner of brokenness. Over sins in our life. Thomas Watson said this: the eye is made for both seeing and weeping. Sin must first be seen, and then it must be wept over. But God's Word helps us to do both. See that sin and weep over it. There should be brokenness over our sin. We should confess them individually, specifically. I remember hearing a great preacher, John R. Rice. Anybody know that name? A great preacher of years ago. He's in heaven now. But one time he was talking about this idea of confessing your sins And he had a little ritual he would do every day. He would get on his knees during his devotions and he would read the Word of God, and then he would ask the Holy Spirit to help him help shine the spotlight of his holiness in his heart to see if there was any sin in there. And when the Holy Spirit would remind him of things that he had done wrong, he would write it down on a piece of paper. And he would go through All those things, write them down. And after he had written all of them down, he would confess each one. He would read and think about the scripture, how it applies to that sin How ugly that sin is. And when he had confessed each and every one of those sins, he said that he would tear that list up and then he would flush it down the commode. That's what he said he would do. And then he would remind himself that God separates our sins from us. He casts them down to the deepest sea. He separates them as far as the east is from the west. Once we confess those sins. that God forgives us of those sins. And so true confession begins with God's Word. True confession involves brokenness and repentance. Here's the third lesson. True confession recognizes the greatness of God. It recognizes the greatness of God. Now, this is again a long chapter, and I don't have time to go through this verse by verse So we're going to look kind of get a bird's eye view of these verses really from verse 5 all the way down really to verse number 35. And this is a long section, and it's a prayer of confession, but what And by the way, I'm going to give you homework. You need to read this chapter sometime this week. Just read it all. Read it in detail because what it does is it recognizes the greatness of God. And you know what it shows us? It shows us how merciful God is. How faithful God is, even though we are faithless. Even though in our human sin nature we walk away from God and we rebel against God, God just is continually merciful. And he just continues to forgive. It talks about in verse 17 his great kindness at the end of the verse. It talks about his great mercy in verse 31. And so let's kind of look at some of these things. Notice verse 17. Talking about the children of Israel, and they refused to obey, neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them. But hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage. And so he's talking about the rebellion of the children of Israel. Even though God delivered them from Egypt, he did great things, he showed them wonders. They still rebelled. But notice the rest of the verse. But thou art a God, ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness. And notice in the last phrase, and forsooketh them not. That's the character of God. Even though they were rebellious. Even after God did all those great things for them, and they were ready to go back to Egypt, they elected a captain, they had rebelled yet God. He didn't forsake them. He was ready to pardon. He was gracious. He was merciful. Look at verse 18. Yea, when they had made them a molden calf. And said, This is thy God that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought great provocations. Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsookest them not in the wilderness The pillar of cloud departed not from them by day to lead them in the way, neither the pillar of fire by night to show them light and the way wherein they should go, and thou gavest also thy good spirit to instruct them, and withheld not thy manna from their mouth, and gave them water for thirst. You get the idea here? So what is happening in this prayer confession? They're kind of going back and forth. This is what we did against you, God, and here's how you responded. You responded in Kindness and forgiveness and patience and mercy, all these things you just continue to do. Look at verse 29. And testified against them that thou mightest bring them again into unto thy law, yet they dealt proudly and hearkened not unto thy commandments But sinned against thy judgments, which if a man do, sh uh he shall live in them, and withdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear But drop down to verse 31. Nevertheless, for thy great mercy's sake, thou didst not utterly consume them, nor forsake them, for thou art a gracious and merciful what? God. So this kind of goes back and forth. Israel sinned, God was faithful. Israel rebelled, God was merciful. Israel walked away from you, but God, you stayed faithful to them. You get the idea here? We see 20 sins of Israel that are listed in this prayer. We see 70 characteristics, actions of God. Where he was faithful despite the sin of the people. And that's the point of this prayer confession. The only reason we can even confess our sins is because God is merciful, God is faithful And that fact alone should make us want to confess our sins. You know the worst thing about sin? It's against a good God. Our sins are against a holy, gracious God. We're created to glorify Him. We're created to enjoy fellowship with Him But when we sin against God, we shame his name. And the worst thing about sin is that it's against a God who is so very good And so that's what confession involves. The next time you're ready to confess your sins, don't just go through it very carelessly. Just remember how good God has been. Think about his faithfulness. Think about the times where we have not been faithful and yet God has. That is something that we should do when we confess our sins. Now, let me give you the next thing True confession begins with God's Word. True confession involves brokenness and repentance. True confession recognizes the greatness of God. But here's the fourth thing. True confession meditates on the consequences of sin. It meditates on the consequences. Now we already saw where the people's attitude changed quickly. They went from feasting to fasting very quickly. And really, we can see why at the end of this verse, I want you to look down at verse number 36. Because notice what they say, behold, we are thy servants this day. For the land that thou gavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof, behold, we are servants in it. Now look at the word servants there. That's not talking, he's not saying, Lord, we're your servants That's not what he's saying here. When he says, we are servants this day, the word there is ebed in the Hebrew, and it's the word for slaves. So we can say it like this. And their confession, they're saying, Lord, this day we're slaves. We're slaves in this land that you gave us. In verse 36. The land that thou gave us unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof, the good thereof, for behold, we are slaves in it. Look at verse 37. And it yieldeth much increase unto the kings Whom thou hast set over us because of our sins. Also they have dominion over our bodies and over our cattle, and at their pleasure, and we are in great distress. So what are they saying here? We're slaves. God, you've given us this really good land, and it yields great increase. But you know what we have to do with that increase? We have to give it to these kings who are over us. And most of the increase goes to them. We are slaves. They had total dominion over us, our bodies, our lives, our cattle. That is to say, they own us, they own our increase. We are slaves to them And why? Well the key is again in verse number 37 where it says, um, because of our sins. And you have much increase under the kings whom thou hast set over us. Notice the next phrase, because of our sins. This is what our sins has brought us. This is the consequences of our sin. It's put us into slavery. It's caused us to be under these kings. And what they're saying is it's nobody's fault but ours. This is what we've done. And here's the lesson. Sin will enslave. Sin will rob you of the blessings That God intended for you, when God gave that land to Israel, God intended for Israel to enjoy that land, to be blessed by that land, to enjoy the increase. But they weren't enjoying it. All those blessings went out the window. They went to somebody else. And they were slaves. And friend, that's what sin does. That's why we need to confess our sin, because if we don't, sin will enslave us. Someone said the sin that you enjoy today, you will endure tomorrow Because it will bring you under dominion. It will cause you to be a slave. Remember what Jesus said? Verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever committed sin is the dulas slave of sin. And Paul said the same thing. He said, Don't you know that whoever you yield yourselves to, whether sin unto death or righteousness, that you whose service you are? Sin unto death or obedience unto righteousness. If you yield yourself to sin, you're a slave to sin. If you yield yourself to obedience unto righteousness, you're a slave to Christ. And righteousness. But you are a slave to whomever you yield yourself to. And if sin is dominating you, you are its slave. And sin wants to dominate you. And so when we confess our sins, one of the things that we should do is we should think about how sin is a great destroyer and enslaves us. Sin destroys relationships, sin will destroy your happiness. Sin will destroy your sense of self-worth because it will tear you down. And so true confession involves Meditating on the consequences of sin. Let me give you the next thing. True confession seeks to glorify God. It seeks to glorify God. Now look at verse 33. This is a good verse, key verse. Howbeit, thou art just in all that is brought upon us, for thou hast done right, but we have done wickedly. Isn't that a good verse? After it's talking about all of what Israel has done and what they've had to endure, they say, you know what, God? Everything that came upon us, it you you've been right in bringing these things on us. You've done right We're the ones who've done wicked. You see, when we you know what confession, the word actually means the New Testament word confess is homo lego to say the same thing literally. And that's what confession is. Confession is agreeing with God about sin. And this is what they're doing here. God, we agree with you. We agree that whatever judgments we have suffered, we deserve it. Because of our sin, that's true confession. And that glorifies God. Why? Because it's confessing that God, you are holy, you are righteous, and whatever judgment you give, because you are such a holy God. And we deserve what we get. Remember when Achan sinned and Joshua said, Achan, confess your sin to the Lord and give, I pray, glory to God. Why did Joshua say that? Because Joshua realized that when we confess our sins We glorify God. Why? Because we're telling everyone around the judgment I'm about to receive or have received, I deserve it. God is holy. God is not wrong in the way he's treated me. Because if you're not careful, you can look at sometimes things that happen and you can think, why is God doing that? Is God being cruel? No, God is holy. And God hates sin and he judges sin. And when we confess our sin, we're glorifying him because we are confessing that he's right And whatever punishment that he wants to give. And so we glorify God in the way we confess sin. On the other hand, when we try to find an excuse and blame it on someone else, that's the opposite. We're we're kind of bringing a reproach to the name of God. We're impugning the name of God. Remember when Adam sinned and God came to the garden? And what did remember Adam? Lord, the woman that you gave me It's her. I'm I didn't ask for her. You gave her to me. And she's the one who did all this. And actually you put me here in this circumstance. You gave me this woman. So really what he was saying is, really, God, it's your fault, not mine Alright, this is all on you. That impugns the name of God. That's the opposite of glorifying God. No, when you confess your sin, you don't blame it on someone else. You don't blame it on your circumstance. You don't blame it on God. You take ownership of it, just like they did here in verse 33, and said, Lord. All that is brought upon us is right. You've done right. And by doing so, they glorify God. Let me give you the last thing here quickly. True confession begins with God's word. It involves brokenness and repentance. It recognizes the greatness of God. It meditates on the consequences of sin. It seeks to glorify God. But here's the last thing. True confession commits to a new beginning of obedience. Because I want you to notice what they did in the last verse. Look in verse 38. And because of all this, we make a sure covenant and write it down, our princes, Levites, and priests seal unto it. So at the conclusion of this prayer confession, you know what they do? They write down a new commitment of obedience to God. They don't just say they're going to do it. You know what they do? They write it all out. Here's our new commitment of obedience. Here's this covenant that we are going to make here with you, God. And we're going to not only just write it out, we're going to sign our name to it. What are they doing? They're committing themselves. They're renewing their obedience to God. And that's what happens when there's true confession. True confession is not at night, oh God, I'm really sorry for all my sins. Amen. And then you get up and you just do the same thing the next day. That's not true confession. And that's being careless in your spiritual walk. When you really are truly confessing your sin, there's going to be brokenness over it. There's going to be a desire to forsake it. To never ever do it again. There's going to be a real commitment and earnestness and righteousness in your life. There's going to be a desire to show everyone around you that your repentance is real. There's going to be a reverence for God. There's even going to be an anger over the sins that you committed. You're angry at that sin. And you want the relationship restored. And there's a zeal for holiness, and there's a desire for restitution, and all these things is involved in this commitment of a renewed obedience to God. And this is what they do. And if you look here at the beginning of chapter ten All the way down from verse 1 to verse 27 in chapter 10, what do you see? A list of names. What are those names? These are the people that signed it. They signed their name to it. And what they're saying is, God, we are going to obey you. We confess our sins. We're sorry for those sins. We mourn over those sins. And now there's an earnest desire to forsake all of that and be committed. In our holiness, and doing all these things that we know will please you. And that's true confession, a new beginning. You know what takes place here? This after this, there's there's revival in the nation. And really, when you think about it, there's just a handful of people here that are doing this. But you know what happens? It just spreads all over to the nation. And friend, that's how revival begins. Revival begins all with a handful of people. That say we're going to get right with God. We're going to get serious about this. And God honors that and brings revival from there and it spreads out. And there's a national revival that takes place here because of the reading of God's Word, the confession of sin. The desire to truly obey God. Now, I tell you this, if you want real renewal in your life and real revival, friend, you can have it. You just have to be serious about it. And you have to just do what you see here in Nehemiah chapter 9. You can have it. If you want that. Let there be this true confession in all of our lives. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, I as I read this chapter, I realize that you're a God who's so merciful and kind and gracious, reminded of it again and again. And how Lord you want to forgive us. You would rather pardon sin than punish him. You would rather show mercy than wrath. And you want us to be thorough and confess our sins, to receive forgiveness. And Lord, we thank you that you're that kind of a God, a great God, a gracious God And Lord, may that in itself motivate us to true confession. May we not play games, and may we sincerely uh deal thoroughly with our own sins and may we have a renewal a desire to be t thoroughly totally right with you in every way let this passage lord sink deep into our hearts And I pray, Lord, that it would bring revival and renewal in our own personal walk and in this your church, and let it spread to others. For your glory's sake. How many with heads bowed and eyes closed? And I'm not looking around. I don't want anyone looking around. Would you be willing right there where you are? I I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, but Maybe the Holy Spirit has dealt with you about some areas that you need to confess Right there where you are, I wouldn't wait. If the Holy Spirit has spoken to you about an issue, maybe when the word was being preached, right there where you are, would you be willing to confess that Ask for the cleansing, the precious blood to cleanse you of that sin. Let there be a personal renewal in your own life, right where you are. Just take a few seconds and pray. Ask the Holy Spirit to shine the spotlight of His holiness in your own heart, to wash you and make you clean. Again, thank you, Father, for your grace, your mercy, and your forgiveness, and the precious blood of Christ that cleanses us from our sins. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.