Would you take God's word this morning and please and open to the book of First Thessalonians? It's been our privilege to begin a study in this wonderful book. 1 Thessalonians, we're in chapter 1, and I would like to read verses 5 on down to the end with you. Will you stand for the reading of God's Word? 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Starting at verse five. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance, as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. So that ye were examples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achaea. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaea, but also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad abroad, so that we need not to speak anything For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, how that ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Thank you. You may be seated. This is God's inspired word, and may God help us to understand it this morning. as we study it. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for the privilege that we have of worshiping you here. Part of our worship is hearing your word and giving heed to it. So Lord help us to receive the truth. Lord, help me to speak it clearly. I yield myself now to your Holy Spirit that you'll help me, Lord, do what I cannot of my own do, and that is make your word alive and in hearts and lives. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This week I received two text messages warning me that some suspicious activity was taking place in my bank account. It was a fake uh bogus uh notification, of course. The Federal Trade Commission recently reported that uh text messages pretending to be from banks are up nearly twentyfold from twenty nineteen. Uh these are impersonators who are trying to scam people out of money. They they they make a text to you pretending to be from security departments at banks. They send out these emails or text messages or robocalls warning about fraudulent activity. What they're really after is they want your bank information. They want to get your information so they can either steal your identity or perhaps uh transfer funds to their own account. Uh and you know a lot of them are very convincing. You know, a good liar convinces people that he's telling the truth or he can steal their money. Satan is a liar, the Bible says, and he's the father of lies. But beloved, he's not after your money. If he can get you to believe his lies, you lose your eternal soul. And he uses many different scams to spread his lies. That's why it's so vital. That we be not deceived about what it means to be a genuine believer, about being truly converted to Jesus Christ We don't ever want to hear the words, I call it the most haunting words of Scripture, Matthew 7. 23, where Jesus says, depart from me, I never knew you. Now, in the first chapter here of Thessalonians, Paul is spelling out the reasons why he knew for certain that the Thessalonians were truly converted. Go back to chapter 1, look at verse number 4. Notice what he writes to them, knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God. Again, the word election there is just simply synonymous with salvation. Paul was convinced that these new believers were truly converted. Paul said, I know this, knowing uh your election of God. Now how did Paul know that? Well Paul was remembering back about what God was doing among this group of people when he went there. He was seeing the work of God, how God brought about true conversion in their life. And what we see here are what I call ingredients to true conversion. This is really part two of a sermon that I began last week. And uh we're going to continue on because again, this is what Paul's doing here in chapter one. He's giving the reasons why he was certain of their conversion into Christianity. And just to summarize what we already learned. If you were here last week, we said number one, true conversion requires a clear gospel message to be presented. Paul said in verse number uh four or verse five rather he says for our gospel came not on you in word only when Paul says our gospel he was talking about the true gospel that implies there were many gospels False gospels out there, but there's only one true gospel. Paul calls it the gospel of grace or the gospel of Christ or the Gospel of God You have to hear a true a clear gospel message. But number two, it has to be done in the power of the Holy Spirit. He said it came not in word only, but also in the power of the Spirit. It is the Holy Spirit that does the work of bringing true conversion. There's nothing I can do to do that. It is only the work of the Holy Spirit that brings regeneration. But also true conversion comes for those who have full confidence in the power of the gospel. Paul said in verse number five again, it came also in much assurance. And that is, Paul was confident. He had the assurance that if he preached the gospel, God was going to use the power of God to bring conversion. The gospel is the power of God. But the true conversion comes through witnesses who live the gospel. Again, Paul says in verse number five, as you know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. Paul didn't just speak the gospel, he lived it out God doesn't just call us to be witnesses with our mouth. We have to be witnesses with our life. Our life message should be the gospel of Jesus Christ. But then number five, true conversion results in changed lives that desire to be like Christ. Verse 6, you became followers of us and know the Lord. They began to pattern their life after Paul, who patterned his life after Christ. Ultimately, these new converts wanted to be like Christ. But also in number six, we said true conversion results in a hunger for God's word, even in the face of persecution. It says in verse six, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. Even though receiving Christ, repenting of their sin cost them, even though they suffered for it, it was worth it for them. They weren't getting saved in order to make for for Jesus to make their life more or to give things to them. They were becoming converted to Christ because They were uh afraid of the wrath of God. They understood that they were being saved from wrath. And they were willing to suffer whatever persecution needed to come because they were converting to Jesus Christ. They had joy that came from the Holy Spirit. Number seven, true conversion results in converts becoming an example to others. Verse 7, so that you were examples to all that believed in Macedonia and Achaea. They, their pattern of life was an example to everyone around. This church here was a church that others could pattern themselves after. And then number eight we said true conversion results in converts spreading the gospel to others. In verse number 8, where it says, For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia, but in in Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God is spread abroad. The word sounded out is the idea of trumpeting out. Uh the gospel was thundered out from Thessalonica. Uh there was a major highway that went right through that city. People were coming there, hearing about The conversions of these people and they were hearing the gospel and carrying it wherever they went. From Thessalonica, God did a great work, and the gospel was spreading out from there. Now that was last week's sermon. Some of you say, Well, thank God. I wasn't here last week. Thank you, Pastor, for that. I won't be doing that every time, so come. But I want to pick up from there. I want to continue on about true conversion. Number nine. True conversion results in converts receiving the true gospel. Look in verse nine. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you. Entering in here means entrance, or it could refer to an open door. Paul saying, you know, when we came, it was an open door. Your hearts were open to receive what we had. This word is often used to speak about an open door in the book of Acts. It's used in 1 Corinthians 16 9, for a great door and effectual is open unto me, and there are many adversaries. Paul knew that God had to open the door, that is, he had to open the hearts of the people for the gospel Or else his preaching would be in vain. It has to be a work that God does. And again, Paul's remembering back to how God brought that about. Go to Acts chapter 16. Hold your place here in 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Go back to Acts chapter 16. Let's just kind of get a little bit of the background of God leading Paul to Macedonia. Acts chapter 16 down in verse number 6. Paul is on his second missionary journey. He desires to go and visit the churches that he had helped to start on his first journey. He wanted to encourage them in their progress. As he begins to visit some of the places, he's wondering where to go next in verse number six. Now, when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia As Paul's trying to find direction, Paul wants to go one place, and the Bible says he was forbidden of God. I call this the restraint of the Spirit. God said no The Spirit sometimes will restrain us from going and doing certain things. You know, we don't know how these hindrances took place. It may have been just providential circumstances. It could have been a word from the Lord. It could have been a prophetic word. But whatever it was, God through the Holy Spirit said to Paul, No, I don't want you to go there. Don't do that. So Paul felt the restraint of the Spirit. Beloved, sometimes we need to remember to be yielded to the restraint of the Spirit in our life. When God closes the door, Don't go through that door if he closes it. That would be the worst thing to try to do is to try to bust through that door if God shuts it. We need to submit to the restraint. That the Spirit sometimes will give us in our life. I remember when I first learned how to drive, I had to go to a driving instructor, and this is a lady that had a special car. Um that had a uh she had a brake on her side of the car, the passenger side. And um first thing she introduced me to in that car was the brakes I was more interested in the accelerator. She was more interested in the brakes. Every time I try to accelerate, she would hit the brake on her side. Sometimes when she was trying to get my attention she would stop the car completely, talk to me, and then let off the brake, you know. Um I was m I again I was resistance against all those restraints. But that's true sometimes in the Christian life. You know, God must show us the breaks. He sometimes says no. That's what God did to Paul here. God restrained Paul from going one place. That's the restraint of the Spirit. But then I see the release of the Spirit, where God said, go, look down at verse 9. And a vision appeared to Paul, and at night And there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. Here is God's release of the Spirit. God had a planned for Paul to visit churches in a in Macedonia at that time. And so Paul obeys the Holy Spirit there. He goes to Macedonia and from there he goes to the city of Philippi. Look down at verse 12 and from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia. And while he was there, drop down to verse 14, and a certain woman named Lydia, cellar of purple, the city of Thyatira, which worshiped God, heard us, whose heart the Lord what? The Lord opened. God opened her heart. You see, when you listen to the Spirit, when you submit to the restraint of the Spirit, and then experience the release of the Spirit, what you'll get then is the results of the Spirit God was preparing hearts there in Macedonia. And the Bible says God opened her heart and she gets saved And then eventually from there, Paul goes on into the city of Thessalonica. Look in chapter 17, drop down in verse number two, and Paul, as his matter was, went unto them, and three Sabbath reasoned with them out of the scriptures, opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and risen. Again from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preach unto you is Christ, look at verse 4. And some of them believed and consorted with Paul and Silas, and of the devout Greeks, of a great multitude, and of the chief women, not a few. Again, God was working there. He was leading there and doing great things. Paul had a plan, but God's plan was better when he followed the leading of the Spirit. I heard of a pastor who was asked to preach in chapel in his college alma mater. And in the course of the sermon, he said this, God never did give me anything I wanted. He said, God never let me go to the college I wanted. Well, the president of the college was right there, his alma mater. He said, God never let me pastor the church I wanted. Well, some of his church members were there listening. And then he said this, God never let me marry the woman I wanted. Well, his wife was right there. He was getting himself into real trouble. But he closed by saying this. God never did give me what I wanted, but he always gave me something better. Rescued his own soul by saying that. And that's what will happen when you follow the leading of the Spirit in your life. God has something better when you follow His plan. and his leading. And God's plan was for Paul to go to Macedonia and go to the city of Philippi because God had already been working on hearts there, and then from there to go to Thessalonica. Again there, God was doing a great work People were converting to Jesus Christ. And God was doing great things. They were receiving the gospel. They were receiving the word of God. That's true conversion. True conversion comes when you receive the true gospel. But here's the next thing. True conversion results in turning to God from idols. Again, look in 1 Thessalonians, look in verse number 9 of chapter 1. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering we had onto you, how that ye turned to God from idols. Here's the next thing. Now the city of Thessalonica was infested with idols. This city of Thessalonica was only 50 miles from Mount Olympus, the supposed resident of the Greek gods. The chief of that god, of course, was Zeus. And the Thessalonikans were born and raised to believe in a plurality of gods. They were born and raised worshiping these idols. But within three weeks of Paul going there to that city and just simply preaching the gospel, many of these turned from their idols and they turned to God. That was an amazing thing. Just three weeks Just three weeks of preaching the gospel? That would be like a Catholic raised under the shadow of the Vatican forsaking Catholicism for the true gospel. It would be like a Mormon growing up in Salt Lake City, Utah, turning away from Mormonism to the true gospel. That would be like a Muslim raised in Mecca turning to Jesus Christ. And just three weeks of preaching. And look at the word turn there. Turn to God from idols. This is repentance, beloved. This word occurs often in the book of Acts to describe a proper reception or response to the gospel. Paul described this in Acts 26. 18 as opening the Gentiles' eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light. and from the dominion of Satan to God, that they might receive forgiveness of sins. In Acts chapter 9, verse 35. And all that dwelt in Lida and Siren saw him and turned to the Lord. Again in Acts 11, 18. When they heard these things, they held their peace and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life. And then in Acts 11, 21, and the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number of beliefs and turned unto the Lord. Sometimes the question is asked, what is the relationship between faith and repentance? The answer is that they're two sides of the same coin. Two sides of the same coin. If you genuinely believe, that's going to cause you to turn to the Lord If you genuinely repent, it's because you believe in Jesus Christ. You can't separate these concepts. They're both used in reference to salvation. Let's just suppose I'm I'm driving on I-95, I'm headed south, my car has a blowout, I I I'm on the side of the road, and if you ever see me on the side of the road, please come and help me. I'm not a mechanic. But just suppose you decide to come alongside and you pull up alongside the road and and you're helping me change my tire and you say, Hey, where are you going? I say, oh I'm going to New York. And you say, well wait a minute, uh do you realize you're headed south on ninety-five? Well yeah, I'm going to New York. Well no, actually you're not headed to New York. You're headed somewhere else. No, no, I know where I'm going. Thank you though. And you say, oh wait a minute, so you get a map. Or maybe you use your phone, your your map on your phone, and you show me, look, this is where you are, this is the direction that you're headed, here's New York, and here's Richmond, and you're headed south. And finally it dawns on me I believe what he says. So what do I do? The next exit, I'm going to get off that exit and I'm going to make the U-turn and I'm going to go the right way. That's repentance and you can't separate it from belief. I'm going to turn around because I believe the message. That's what salvation is. Salvation is all of us, beloved, are born headed in the wrong direction. We're all going the wrong way. And the message of the gospel tells us this. We're all sinners Headed in the wrong direction, we're going to end up in hell. But the gospel of Jesus Christ tells us to repent, believe on Jesus Christ, and you'll be saved. And when we hear that message, because we believe it to be true, what do we do? We make a U-turn and we turn towards God. That's repentance. That's exactly what the Thessalonicans did. They turned to God from their idols Now maybe you're thinking, well, that's interesting, but I'm not an idolater. I've never bowed down and prayed to any statues. This doesn't apply to me. Let me tell you something, friend, before we're saved, we're all idolaters. We all worship things in substitute of God. And otherwise, anything that usurps the rightful place of the living and true God in your life. At the root of all idolatry is the God's self. All those who don't know Jesus Christ that are not saved, they worship self. Self is at the center of their life We live for self. We live for our own selfish desires. Sins are simply acts of worship to self. That's all sin is. Covetousness and greed are offerings to the God of self. Abortion is child sacrifice to the God of self. It's all about self and what I want Many people, when they say they want to accept Jesus, simply mean they want to leave their self on the throne of their heart and just add Jesus into their life. That's not how it works, beloved. That's not salvation. You can't keep yourself on the throne of your life and say, I just want to add Jesus to my life. That's not true salvation. True salvation is when you stop worshiping the idol of yourself and you put Jesus on the throne of your life. You turn to God from idols. And Christ is in front. The Thessalonians did not just add Jesus to all their other idols that they had on their shelves. They got rid of all their other idols. And Jesus Christ became Lord and Savior of their life. That's what happened. They turned to God from all of their idols That's repenting. And by the way, when a person gets saved, they live in constant repentance. You don't just repent one time. But we live constantly. Once I turn and I start walking toward the Lord, I stay that way the rest of my life. I'm repenting every day of my life. You know, in Eastern Europe, the Christians there are scoffed at and they're referred to in a derogatory way as repenters. You're not one of those repenters, are you I kind of like that term. I want to tell you, I'm a repenter. I repented the day that I trusted Christ, and you know what? I've lived every day since then in repentance, walking towards Jesus Christ. And if we're truly believing Christ, we are repenters. So true conversion results in receiving the true gospel. It results in turning to God from idols. But here's the next thing, number 11. True conversion produces believers who serve the living and the true God. Look again in verse number nine, where it says, to serve, they turn to God from idols, to serve The living and the true God, the word serve duleo, we get the word slave, dulas. True believers are slaves to Jesus Christ. Now that's how Paul referred to himself. Many times he'll call himself the servant, the dulas of Christ. And the word dulos again, it just simply meant means slave. I am a slave to Christ. That's what happens. It's salvation. My life is no longer mine. It belongs now to Jesus Christ. A slave doesn't do his own will, a slave does the will of his master. A slave yields to his master Paul will expand on this concept in Romans 6. 16. He says, Is know ye not that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey his servants you are, to whomever you obey, whether sin unto death or obedience unto righteousness? Paul said, look, you are a slave to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. Now that you're saved, you are a slave to Christ. Again, Romans 6. 22, but now be made free from sin. And become servants to God, you have your fruit unto holiness. You're now a dulas, a servant, a slave of God. And the fruit of your life, therefore, now is holiness. Jesus is Lord and Master. I am his slave. And I live to do his will. Not my own will. I live to do his will. This is what the Thessalonians were doing. They were serving as slaves the Savior Jesus Christ. Don't you know that when you get saved, you're no longer your own? The Bible says you're bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your spirit and in your body, which are God's. You were not redeemed with corruptible things like silver and gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. God bought you with the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And now we live the rest of our life to serve Him. And serving Christ is not a burden. It is a delight. To serve our master, the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice, this is how Paul describes them. And notice the contrast here to serve the living and the true God. Before they were serving dead idols, idols that could do nothing for them. Now they're serving the living and the true God. The idols are false. God is the true God. And now they can see the difference, the contrast. Idols can do nothing for you, but God is our source of everything. The psalmist gives his critique of idols. Listen to this psalmist. It's beautiful. Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy, for thy true sake. Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God? But our God is in the heaven, he does whatsoever he pleases. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of man's hands. They have mouths, but they speak not. Eyes have they, but they see not. They have ears, but they hear not. Noses have they, but they smell not. They have hands, but they handle not. Feet have they, but they walk not, neither speak they through their throat. They that make them are like unto them, I like that. The ones who make the idols, you're just like them. What does he mean by that? In other words, you're as dead as the idols are if you worship them You're as weak and as lifeless as the idols are if you worship and trust in them. The Thessalonians turn from dead idols. To serve the living and the true God. And when you serve God, it's not just an activity you do every once in a while. It is a 24-7 mindset We serve God all the time. My life is his. And so when you come to churches, you have that mindset. I'm here to serve the living and the true God, even if it's just to encourage someone else. who came give a word of comfort to someone or to teach formally maybe a Sunday school class or do whatever service is around here. We are serving God with our whole life, every day that we live. is service unto the true and the living God. But here's number twelve. True conversion results in believers who wait expectantly for the second coming of Christ. Look in verse number 10. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he had raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath. to come. After Jesus resurrected from the grave and showed himself alive, he ascended to heaven. And it's understand the under it's important to understand that ascension because the angels told the disciples in Acts 1. 11 that this Jesus, this same Jesus which is taken up from you in the heaven, so shall come in like manner How did Jesus go to heaven? He went literally, physically, bodily. That's the way he's going to come back, beloved. Literally, one day, physically, bodily, Jesus will return. And the Bible says, every eye shall see him. The Thessalonians evidently learned about the second coming of Christ, and the Bible says they were waiting for Jesus Christ. They were waiting for God's Son from heaven. This the word wait here is an idea of anticipation. You're kind of, you know, there's a difference in how you wait. It's an anticipation with excitement, not dread. You know, the man on death row, he's waiting for his judgment day in the electorate chair. He does it with dread. But uh If you're waiting at a train station for a loved one that's on that train, you're waiting with anticipation and joy and delight. This is the way we wait for the Lord Jesus Christ. We anticipate him coming. And also there's a patience there. We're waiting patiently, but this doesn't mean that we sit around and we do nothing. No, we're busy serving, but as we're serving, we're waiting for Jesus Christ to come, knowing that he could come at any moment. We're waiting. You know, I I read where President Jimmy Carter, when he was the president, on a few occasions he would visit homes of common people. He would spend the night actually in a home of an average American. And uh if you got a call from the White House telling you the president was gonna be coming to your house and spending the night, would you get ready for that? I think what will happen is you would probably begin to fix some of those things that you have been procrastinating. You'd finally do all the cleaning that you probably need to do. In short, you'd clean up your act. You'd be waiting expectantly for the president to arrive and to stay with you. You know, the doctrine of the second coming in the New Testament is emphasized not so that we can fill out our prophecy charts. It's emphasized so that we will clean up our lives and we'll live in a way where we're ready for Christ when he comes. When Jesus, if Jesus Christ were to come today, would you be ready for his coming? How would he find you if he came today or tomorrow or this week? True conversion means that believers will wait expectantly for the second coming of Christ. And here's the last thing True conversion results in believers who know what they have been delivered from. Look at verse number ten again, where it says, And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus which delivered us from the wrath to come. The wrath to come. Now, the subject of wrath is not a popular subject today, even among Christians. We would rather talk about the love of God, we would rather talk about the mercy of God. You know, we kind of downplay the notion that God is angry with sin or sinners. We downplay the notion of eternal punishment in hell. And there may be even some who are embarrassed to even preach about this or talk about God's wrath and eternal punishment. And so what happens a lot of times is we water down the gospel. And we we present it as a great way to have a happier life. Oh, if you just come to Jesus, you'll have a happier life. But in doing that, what we do is we misconstrue the biblical gospel. We water down the biblical picture of salvation as God, you know, rescuing us from perishing. It becomes more like something like the make your life a little bit better here. But that's a misnomer, friend. Listen, the gospel rescues you from the wrath of God. There is a hell, beloved. There's a hell that burns with eternal fire. Salvation is being saved from that hell. God is a holy God who will judge all sin. Your sins will either be judged on Christ on the cross or you will be judged in an eternal hell. Because of the sins. And that's what it means when it says wrath to come. There are some that say, oh, the wrath to come here is talking about a esc uh a last days wrath, a eschatology type wrath. That's what he's referring to here. There's eternal wrath, there's eschatological wrath, then there's conic consequential wrath, the principle of sowing and reaping, there's cataclysmic wrath. The Bible says God's wrath is revealed from heaven. All the time. It's constantly being revealed against ungodliness and unrighteousness. But the specific wrath that Paul's talking about here today, I think, is eternal wrath. For those who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ. The sad news is: those who do not know Jesus Christ will spend eternity in a very real hell. Beloved, I don't want any of you to go to hell. I don't want any of your friends or family to go to hell. I want all to come to know the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what God desires for you. And that's what the gospel is all about. The gospel is that Christ has delivered us from the wrath to come. It's not about Christ giving you the American dream or making your life happier or better here. It's about you being delivered from the wrath of God. That's what salvation is. It's getting yourself reconciled to a holy God who will judge sin These Thessalonians they recognized what they were delivered from the wrath to come Either your sin is on Jesus because you have fled to him to rescue you, or it's on you, and you will face the terror of God's wrath. A true believer understands That God, through Jesus Christ, has delivered them from this wrath. And by the way, that's the reason why we endeavor to share the gospel with everyone. It's all about people being delivered from the wrath of God. That's why I agree with uh Spurgeon who said that Any person who dies and goes to hell should have to step over the body of a believer who's on their knees pleading with them to come to Jesus Christ. I believe that's so true. Oh, we need to get the gospel to everyone, beloved. Pleading with people, begging people to repent and to come to Jesus Christ. So examine your heart. True conversion results in receiving the true gospel, turning to God from idols, serving the living and the true God, waiting expectantly for the coming of Jesus Christ. And knowing what you've been delivered from. That you've been delivered from the wrath of God. So the question today: have you received the good news of Jesus Christ, that he died for your sins? Have you decisively turned to God from your idols, especially the idol of self? Do you live each day to serve the living and the true God? as his bloodbought slave. And do you look expectantly for his son to return from heaven? And do you tell others the good news about how Jesus can rescue them from the wrath of come? This is the evidence of true conversion. in your life. Let's bow for prayer together. I would just ask you My dear friends, please examine your heart this morning and ask yourself these questions. Have you received a true gospel? And turn to God from your idols, including the idol of self. Humbly repenting, asking Jesus to save you? Are you serving Your God, the living and true God. Are you expectantly waiting for Christ to come? Sharing the good news with others. This is what the church should be about. This is a model church here that Paul's talking about. This is what we should be doing as God's people I want you to take a minute and just pray right there where you are. Make sure of your own soul, beloved, your own salvation. Make sure of it If there's any doubt, would you just reach out in prayer right now, hear your prayers, your your thoughts, and just say, Lord Jesus, I'm turning to you today. Turning from my sin, I'm turning to you. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. Rescue me, Lord Jesus, from this wrath to come. Give me eternal life. And then, Lord, help me to serve you as your slave. Help me to serve you, the living and the true God. How many say that's my prayer this morning? Would you pray for me, Pastor? That's what I want. That's my desire. Can I pray for you? Anyone here like that? Anyone here? Are you absolutely certain of your conversion? And if you are a friend, would you just say, help help me, Lord, to live out true conversion the way the Thessalonians did? To live the way they did. To follow Christ. To follow Paul as he followed Christ. To follow that example, to be an example to others. Father, we need your help in all these things. We desire to please you, to be the people that you've called us to be. So help us, Lord, we pray. In Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.