Take your Bibles now and open, please, to the book of Matthew, chapter twenty-one. It's a passage we read just a minute ago. Matthew chapter 21 and verse 33. And Jesus said, here another parable. So he's going to give us here a parable in this uh passage that we're going to look at. And remember that we're dealing with the Passion Week. These are things that took place in the last week of Jesus' life before he will go to the cross and bear the sin of the world. A few years ago a family living in a beautiful home in West Palm Beach, Florida gave permission to a studio to film on their front lawn. They were going to film and use that area there for a TV show. And in the process, uh the the front lawn was destroyed. There were cars crashing and everything it was just terrible when they got done. Well the real owner of the house found out about it. It's it's it come to find out these people there were just tenants in that house. And when the real owner found out, he called down to find out what was looked what was going on with his house. And some awful mistakes can happen when you uh don't realize that you're just a tenant, that the house isn't yours doesn't belong to you. And uh this is really what we're going to talk about here in this parable today. The question comes is who is the owner? Whose vineyard is it? And that's what Jesus is going to deal with here in this parable. Now, Jesus, when he gives this parable here, is answering a question that was asked to him. Go back to chapter 21. And look at verse number twenty-three. And notice what question that he's dealing with here in ver chapter twenty-one, verse twenty-three. And when he was come into the temple, that is, Jesus came into the temple The chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching and said, By what authority doest thou these things? And who gave thee this authority Now, they were asking this question because now remember this is the Passion Week. This is actually on Tuesday. Jesus is now in the temple, and on this Tuesday, he's having a dispute with the religious leaders there. And so they come in while he's teaching and they ask him this question very directly. This is a confrontation between Jesus and the religious leaders, and they say, Who who gave you the authority to do these things? In our vernacular today, who died and left you, boss? Where where do you think you get the authority to do what you're doing? What were they talking about? Well, on Sunday of that week he rode into Jerusalem and presented himself as the king. And then on Monday, he cursed the fig tree, and then he went in, he cleansed the temple. He threw literally threw people out. And took control of the temple. Now it's Tuesday. Jesus goes back into the temple, and now he's teaching there. In other words, he's taking control of the temple. In essence, he's saying, This temple is mine And I'm going to teach here. And people were there, they were coming in droves to hear him teach as he's teaching there in the temple. And in the middle of all that, the religious leaders come into Jesus and they say, Who gave you the authority to do this? Now to answer this question, Jesus gives them three parables that really deals with that one question. Who gave you this authority? And of course we don't have time to go over all of these parables, but I think the key idea is in this parable here that begins in verse number 33. Of course, one thing that Jesus said, he asked them a question, he said, you know, the baptism of John, was it of heaven or was it of men? In other words, the whole ministry of John, where did he get his authority? Was it of heaven, was it of men? And they wouldn't answer that question because they knew if they said it was of heaven, they would be admitting that Jesus' authority was from heaven. Why? Because Jesus and John the Baptist were inseparably linked together. If they said John was from heaven, his authority was from heaven, then Jesus' authority would have to be from heaven, and therefore they would be wrong. And they're not going to admit they're wrong. And so they couldn't say yes, it was from heaven. They couldn't say no because Xian was so popular that the people wouldn't like that. It wouldn't be politically correct to say no. And so they said, we can't answer that question. They would be really good at running for office today. Can't answer that? And so Jesus says, okay. Well here's another parable for you to answer that question. Look at verse thirty-three. Hear another parable You don't want to answer that question? Let's let's give this parable here. And so this is the purpose of the parable here. Jesus, in a very skillful way, is going to show that in this parable of the vineyard, the owner of the vineyard is God. He is the son of the owner, therefore he gets his authority from the owner, and they're just tenants in the vineyard. They don't own the vineyard. God owns the vineyard And by extension, Jesus owns it because he's his son. And you forgot, Jesus says to the religious leaders, you are just tenants. You don't own it. That's what he's going to talk about. So he gives this parable here to prove his point. Notice the content of the parable. Now again, remember, it's Tuesday. In just three days, Jesus is going to die on the cross. And this official delegation of the Sanhedrin is right there in the temple, so you have to get this in your mind. He's in the temple. There are multitudes in there. They're listening to him. They're hanging on every word. Luke's gospel says they're hanging on every word that Jesus is teaching here. And then there's this confrontation with this group of the Sanhedrin in Jesus. And you know how people love confrontations, right? So now they're listening to this. And Jesus says, listen to this parable. Notice the planning. Look at verse 33. Here's another parable. There was a certain householder which planted a vineyard. Now this was very common in the land of Israel. Israel was the land, the topography is divided up into flat land, that's where they grew wheat. The hill section is where they grew vineyards. All over Palestine, it's covered with grape vineyards. And in this day, wealthy landowners would buy up some land, they would plant vineyards, they would put up a wall or a hedge of briars to protect it from animals and thieves. They would put in a wine press, sometimes it was dug out from the bedrock there. They would put in a tower, all the things that were done to make a good profit there in that Vineyard. So a landowner would buy up land and he would just s lend it out. Look in verse 33 again. There was a certain householder which planted a vineyard and he hedged it round about and digged a wine press in it and built a tower. And notice the next part of this, I call this the partnership, and lent and let it out to husbandmen. Notice that's plural. Not just one, but several. And then went into a far country. So here's this wealthy landowner. He has these vineyards. He leases the land out. He let it out to husband. He's leasing it to tenants. Again, this was very popular in this day to do this. One commentator says much of the rule Roman Empire was controlled by wealthy landowners whose income comes from the land, allowed uh them a complete life of leisure, and their estates were generally worked by tenant farmers. And that's what would happen. This this guy would be an absentee landlord. He would just Lease out the land, let these farmers come in and work the land, he wouldn't even be present. He'd be in a far country. And he let these these guys work the land and this was really a good deal. It was kind of a contract. They would work the land, they keep much of it, but they give a percentage to the landowner. When it came harvest time in the contract You give part of your fruit to the owner. And normally it was 25%. And so these tenant farmers, they don't own the land. They just worked the land and they had the freedom to work it. They could be as creative as they want wanted to. This guy wasn't looking over their shoulder. He wasn't even there. Most times he didn't really have a whole lot of contact with them And so this was a wonderful opportunity. This was a great privilege as well as a great responsibility. They can work the land, they can produce the crop, they can pay their percentage to the owner, and everyone might get a profit. And this these farmers could do this without having to purchase the land. This was a good deal for everybody. Now, by the way, everyone listening to this parable in the temple understood this because this was done all the time in Israel, so they could completely understand what was going on here as Jesus gave this story. Look at verse 34. This is the produce. Verse 34. And when the time of the fruits drew near, he that is the landowner sent his servants to the husbandman. That they might receive the fruits of it. That is, the harvest time had come. It's time for the owner to collect on his fruit. And the owner expected fruit. He had every reason to expect fruit. After all, he provided all the resources. He uh provided all the equipment they needed. He spared no expense. Built a wall to protect them. Built a tower to look out for enemy predators. He had every right to expect his percentage, the fruit that was due to him when harvest time had come. So what does the landowner do? He sends his servants, dulas. He sends his, actually the word slave, he sends his servants or his slaves. These are the official representatives of the landowner. Again, he's not there, he's away. So he sends his servant. and to collect the the the fruit. And so far everything in this parable is very normal. And the people there in the temple listening to this, they would understand it. The religious leaders completely understand this. But what they hear next is shocking. This is very shocking. Because look what happens next. Look at verse 35. And the husbandman took his servants and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another. Now, these tenant farmers did what was unthinkable to the servants of the owner. This was incredible. They were being treated so well by this owner. He was so generous. This was such a privilege to be able to do this to work his land and to wreak the profit from it. What a wonderful opportunity they had, what a wonderful responsibility they had. And to do this, that when the owner sends his servants to collect the fruit, instead of giving the owner what was rightfully his, instead of giving the owner the fruit that belonged to him, they beat The servants? Look what the word beat there in verse 35. Darrow means to flog, to whip, to flay, actually to remove the skin. Many times, when a person was beaten in this day, it was 40 stripes with a whip, which would literally remove the skin These guys beat these servants. Again, he's the official representative of the owner. So who is this directed to? Directed to the owner. Uh yeah, comes for the fruit? Okay. They whip him. They beat him. Now This was this was again the just put yourself in the listeners category. Those in the temple that are listening to this story, they would be thinking, man, those husbandmen, men, they were ungrateful, they were wicked, they were criminal And Luke's account reads like this. He proceeded to send another slave, and they beat him also, and treated him shamefully. It's the word to traumatize. And then in verse 35, they killed Another. The word for killed here is the idea of someone, it's an intense form of the word, someone who dies in pain, moaning, in agony. This is a cruel death. They didn't just kill him. They they did it in a cruel way. Dying painfully. And then it where it says, and they stoned him. Stoning was a kind of punishment used by uh Jews. It was their cat form of capital punishment. And so he sends servants, they kill some, they stone some, they beat some. Now, what would most owners do at this point? Most owners at that time would say, you know what, I'm going to have these guys arrested. This is a crime. Enough. But that's not what this guy did. He does what many would think were was illogical or unreasonable. He has superhuman patience. And so he's going to give these husbandmen a chance to do what's right. He's going to give them some more chances. So look in verse 36. Again, he sent other servants more than the first. That is, he sends a whole wave of servants more, more than he sent the first time. He just keeps sending them servants. I mean I would have been done after the first two. But here he just keeps sending them, one after another, waves of servants to come and collect the fruit that they owe. And they still don't pay. And verse 36 says, and they did unto them likewise. They did the same thing to the servants that he sent, this second wave as they did to the first wave that he sent. They kill them, they stone them, they beat them, they flog them. Incredible. This is beyond all human standards, this owner. As far as his patience, incredibly patient. Some would say he's not a good businessman at this point, but he sure is patient to get keep sending servants to collect the fruit. And then notice what I want to call the plot. Look in verse 37. But last of all, he sent unto them his son. saying, They will reverence my son. So after the brutal rejection and persecution of the owner's servants, the owner decides to send his son. Now, I think the people listening to this story in the temple at this point are thinking, you have got to be kidding me. You've got to be kidding me. You're going to send your son? Really? After what they did to all these servants? You're going to actually send your son now to them? Are you kidding me? Are you that patient? Are you willing to give that many choices? You're that long-suffering? And that now you're going to send your son to these same guys? But notice in verse 37. But last of all He sent them unto them his son. This is the last person, in other words, the owner saying, last one I'm going to send. This is the last opportunity you have. This is the last official representation of me that you're going to get. Last time for you to recognize my authority. This is my vineyard. This is the last opportunity you have to submit to my authority as the owner of this vineyard. And notice where it says, he says, they will reverence my son. His logic here, the word for reverence, is to be shamed into respect In other words, the logic is, you know, I'm going to send my son because when they see my son coming, they'll be so ashamed of the things that they've done in the past that his very presence will shame them into giving me the due respect that's due to me and the fruit. His very presence will shame them into being respectful. Maybe it is that they had a low view of my servants or my slaves that I would send. Maybe they didn't count them very much So, I'm going to send my son. They'll reverence him. Surely they'll receive him. Surely they'll recognize who he is. And give him his proper respect and proper authority. And by respecting him, they will recognize that the authority comes from me. Surely they'll do that. Look what happens, verse 38. But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir, come. Let us kill him. Let us seize on his inheritance. And so they see the air coming. They're discussing it. And they make this plot to take ownership of the vineyard. They say, you know, if we kill him, we could take the inheritance. Because there was a Jewish law It said property that has not been claimed, if an heir had died or someone in the family died, if no one claims that property, the first person can come along and claim it after a specific period of time. So they said, you know, we can kill him. And then we can go and we can claim all this for us. We can take control of that vineyard. Now heard these guys, these tenants, they had a marvelous opportunity. A marvelous responsibility. They were given a trust, and they violated all that. And they were out for themselves. They were merciless. They were selfish. They were wicked. And so now when they see the sun coming, they say, man, let's kill him. Now here's a key idea in this parable. They didn't kill the son because it was a case of mistaken identity. They knew who he was. They knew it was the son. And that's why they killed him. They didn't kill him because they said, well, we thought he was somebody else. No, they knew who he was. And they wanted the inheritance for themselves. And again, what's the issue here? Who owns the vineyard? Who has the right authority? Who's going to submit to God's rightful ownership? Now, if the crowd was uh shocked before now, they're really blown away. Look in verse 39 of what happens here. And so here comes the Son, and they and they caught him. And they cast him out of the vineyard and slew him. And the word for slew here is the same word for killed as used before. They truly and mercilessly killed him. A painful death. A horrible death. Notice the punishment. Verse 40. When the Lord therefore the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husband? I think by this time in the parable, remember, Jesus is in the temple, all these people are listening, the religious leaders are listening. And I think they're all on the edge of their seat. And here he kind of involves them in this parable. He kind of pulls them in even more because he's going to ask them this specific question. In verse 40, when the Lord therefore the venger cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen? And so he poses this question to the very religious leaders that had come to challenge his authority. He asks them the question, what's the owner going to do? And notice their response because they're right on in verse 41. And they said unto him, He will miserably destroy those wicked men. and lay out his vineyard unto other husband, which shall render him the fruits in their season. Exactly right. There's a play on words here in verse 41 in the Greek. The word for wicked is keychos And the Greek reads, he will Cecos destroy those Cecos men. Or we can say it like this, he will badly destroy those bad men. Exactly right. The only reasonable answer. You have to give the appropriate judgment. And these religious leaders, by answering this question What they don't realize is they just pronounce judgment on themselves. They just pronounce judgment on themselves. What will he do next? The owner will give the vineyard unto others. You see, this parable is not just a story, it's prophetic. Because in just a few days this is exactly what's going to happen. They will destroy they will kill the sun. Now Let's take another look. We saw the content of this parable. Secondly, just let's talk about the characters because really it's obvious to us, but let's just go over it. Who's the owner of the vineyard? That's God, right? He's the one who owns all things. He's the generous giver. He's the one who gives us all the resources and the gifts. He owns it all. The earth is the Lord and is the Lord's in the fullness thereof. The vineyard, who does the vineyard represent? Israel, right? And that's so very clear because in the Old Testament, the metaphor that is used most for Israel is the vineyard or the vine. That's used in Psalm 80. You brought a vine out of Egypt, the Bible says in Isaiah 5, my well-beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill, and he dug it out and cleared out the stones and planted it with the choices of vines and so on. And then he goes on to say, and now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard. What more was there for me to do to my vineyard that I haven't already done? And here in this Old Testament parable God says to Israel, what more could I have done for you than I've already done? I mean, I expect fruit. I've given you all these blessings. And so Israel is the vine. What about the tenant farmers? Who's that? That's the religious leaders, right? These are the ones who were given charge over God's people. They were the custodians of the vineyard. They had the responsibility of taking care of the nation, taking care of the people. These are the uh the the priesthood The elders, the rulers, the Sanhedrin. God puts all of that into their hands, all of that responsibility into the hands of the leaders. And then the owner goes on a long journey. What's that? That's 2,000 years of Old Testament history. The Lord just let them have it. He gave spiritual leaders there to Israel, and they had a responsibility. Now in Jesus' day, who is it? It's the high priest, the chief priests, the scribes, the Pharisees, the Sadducees. They had a spiritual stewardship of the nation. What about the servants of the owner? Who's that? That's the prophets, right? God sent prophet after prophet after prophet. And what did Israel do? Killed them? Isaiah was sold in two inside a wooden log. Jeremiah was beaten with thirty-nine stripes. He was later thrown into stocks and left there, and then he was put into a muddy pit Ezekiel was rejected. Elijah and Amos had to run for their lives. Zachariah was actually killed in the temple. All of Old Testament history bears witness to the way these prophets were treated, exactly the way Jesus said. Now, later on Jesus will accuse these Pharisees and Sadducees of having the same murderous ambition that their fathers had. In fact, look in Matthew 23 and look in verse number 29. Just flip over there real quick. Matthew 23, verse 29. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because ye build the tombs of the prophets and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous. That is, you know, woe unto you. He calls them hypocrites. You know why? Because now that these prophets are dead, oh, they they really build nice monuments for him. Give them nice flowers on their grave. But look what he says in verse 30. And say, if we had been in the days of our fathers, we would have not been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Oh, we wouldn't have done this. If it were us back then, we would never have done this. And Jesus disagrees. Because look what he says in verse 31 Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves that ye are the children of them which kill the prophets. In other words, you would do the same thing. Look at verse 34. Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets and wise men and scribes, and some of them ye shall kill and crucify, and some of them ye shall scourge in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city. Jesus said, yeah, you say that, but I'm going to send some more servants, and you know what you're going to do to them? You're going to beat them. You're going to crucify them. You're just the same. Same thing. Now in this parable, who's the son? That's Jesus. That's obvious, right? Jesus is the son of the owner. He is therefore the possessor. And the message here to the religious leaders is this: the vineyard is not yours, the vineyard is mine. I'm the son of the owner. You ask by whose authority I do these things? I do them by the authority of my Father. All of this belongs to me. Whatever comes from me comes from God. I have the right to cleanse the temple. I have the right to curse the fig tree. I have the right to teach whatever I want to teach in the temple because the temple is mine. The vineyard belongs to me. And again, in just a few days this parable which is prophetic will come true because they will take the Son and they will crucify him, not because they don't recognize who he is, but because they do recognize who he is. And they don't want God's authority over their life. And so they totally reject him. And then Jesus quotes a verse. Look in verse 42. And Jesus said to them, Did you never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected? The same that's become the head of the corner? This is the Lord's doing it's marvelous in our eyes. And Jesus is quoting now from Psalm 118, verse 22, the stone that the builders rejected. You know, a cornerstone in a building is the most important stone because that stone was specifically cut In a way in which it would direct all the other stones. If that stone wasn't right, then all the other stones which basically follow in that pattern Will cause the building to be unstable. So the cornerstone has to be exactly right. And there's a story in the Old Testament about Solomon when he built the temple the and the cornerstone was brought that the reject the builders rejected that cornerstone And then yet later they said, no, that cornerstone is the right one. It's perfect. And Jesus uses that. He says, you know, haven't you read that? The builders rejected the cornerstone. Who's the builders? Now he's kind of switching metaphors now. Same message though. The builders are the religious leaders of Israel, and they reject the cornerstone. Who's the cornerstone? It's Christ. But that cornerstone that was rejected will become the key cornerstone in God's foundation. And he'll prove it to be so because he will resurrect from the dead. So look in verse 43. Therefore I say unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given to a nation, bringing forth the fruits thereof. And verse 44, And whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. You see, friend, Jesus is the rock. You either stand on that rock, on the foundation of Christ, or you will be crushed by that rock. You either believe who he is, and you stand firmly on the foundation that he will lay, that foundation of the gospel, that foundation of salvation through his own death and resurrection. You either stand on that stone or you'll be crushed by that stone. And Jesus said to these religious leaders, here, that stone will grind you to powder. And he was talking about the judgment that was going to come. You see, Jesus is a stone that cannot be broken. People try to break him, but you can't. You will break yourself against him, but you will not break the stone. And so the Jewish leaders who follow on Christ and put him to death would themselves be broken into pieces, here Jesus says. Now, who are the future tenants? Well, that's the church. That's us. And now you know what God is expecting from us? Fruit. God says, I'm going to give this vineyard to those who will bear fruit. And that is the church. Now let me give you a few conclusions and we'll be done here today. You say, what can we learn from this? What can we learn from the parable? Well, number one, God expects fruit from his people. You know, now God has entrusted the vineyard to us. You know what he expects from you this morning? Fruit. He expects fruit. He's given you his word. He's given you the Holy Spirit. He's given you servants. Teachers. We've had a faithful pastor here for 43 years that preached the word of God to us. We have other faithful pastors here, Pastor Earl, Pastor John, Pastor Aaron. And you gotta even deal with me. We're all committed to giving you the truth. Amen. And God says, you know what I want now? I want fruit. I want fruit. We who live in America, we have been given so much And God says, I want fruit. But yet there are still people that are just living for self They're not living for the kingdom, they're not living for God, they're not living to bear fruit, they're just living for whatever can fill their own selfish desires. And God says, look, you have a responsibility. I heard about a young man that kept turning down a pastor. The pastor would say, I need you, well, I want you to teach the teens or do this. He said, I I just can't. And later he admitted that it was because it would interfere with his golf game. And finally he got under conviction. He said, You know what, I'm going to stop that and I'm going to serve. And after a few weeks of serving, the pastor said, Are you sorry you gave up your golf game? And with tears he said, I have more joy and fulfillment doing this. You know, you get more joy out of serving the Lord than anything else. God expects truth. But here's another thing I learned from this. God's great patience should motivate us to submit to the authority of Christ. You know, I can't I just can't believe sometimes the patience of God. He just keeps sending servants and being merciful and giving people other chances, more chances and more chances. But I want to tell you something. God sent his son Jesus and He's not sending anybody else. This is He's the last one. He is the one through whom God's last message of revelation was given. Everything God wanted to say, he said in Jesus. And if you don't accept Jesus, he has nothing else for you. That's it. Last of all, he sent his son. And he's been patient and he's waiting. And there are some people here this morning. He's been waiting for you. to respond to him and repent. And he's been patient with you. One of these days the patience will be over. God's great love and sending his son should motivate us to submit to him. I can't imagine How God the Father could send his wonderful, innocent, pure Son into a sin-cursed earth. And you just think about this. God sees all sin. You know, I think police officers sometimes are the ones that see the real ugly side of human nature. But that's nothing compared to what God sees. God sees all crimes, all sin, not only outward sin, but the sin that's in the heart of man. He sees it all. Martin Luther once said, it said, if I were God and the world treated me as it treated him, I would kick the wretched thing to pieces. And we can understand his feelings. But how did God deal with this evil world? God commended his love towards us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Charles Wesley said love so amazing, so divine God's judgment for those who reject his son should motivate us to submit to him. You know, this passage shows us not only the patience of God. And the mercy of God, it shows us the severity of God, because there does come a time when God says, enough. Enough And he brings judgment. That should motivate us to submit to him. Now, you might be thinking, well, now, maybe these guys really didn't understand that Jesus was talking about them. And could that be possible? No. Look at verse 45 and 46 as we close. And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them? They got it. They got it. You say, oh, that should have made them want to repent. That should have made them want to fall on their face and say, Oh Lord, forgive me. I'm so sorry. No, look at verse 46. But when they sought to lay hands on him, they just wanted to get at him quicker. They wanted to hurry up and get rid of him. Rather than submitting to his authority, they wanted to lay hands on him, but verse forty-six says they feared the multitude because they took him for a prophet. And so it didn't bring repentance. You see, when you receive the truth, you'll either get right with God or you'll want to hurt the messenger. One or the other. And so really the question is, who owns the vineyard? Jesus, and if that's true, what are you going to do about that? How are you going to respond to him? I close with this. A w a wealth minister was beginning his sermon and he leaned over the pulpit and he said to all the people, he said, Friends, I have a question that I want to ask. He said, I can't answer it. You cannot answer it. If an angel from heaven were here, he could not answer it. If a devil from hell were here, he could not answer it. And everyone was listening. What was the question? And here is the question, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? How shall we escape? Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, today we confess with all our heart that you are Lord. You are the owner of the vineyard. And Lord, we submit to your authority. We thank you for who you are. We thank you for what you've done. It's beyond our understanding, really. Beyond our mind how you could come and die for our sins the way you did. And would I pray if there's someone here today that's never received your authority in their life, they've never repented of their sin. They've never thought deeply deeply about why you came. And they have been putting off Making a decision, and Lord, you've been patiently speaking, and you sent your messengers to remind them of death. And eternity. You sent preachers and teachers, and even signs of aging that remind us that death is coming. And are we prepared? And Lord, I pray that there's someone here today that has never made that commitment to Christ as the Savior and Lord, if they've never repented of their sin. I pray that today they would stand firmly on the rock of salvation, lest they be crushed by it. May they say yes to Christ. today. And friends with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you this one question. Do you know Jesus? Have you recognized his authority in your life? You say, oh, I believe in Jesus. That's not enough. That's not what I'm asking you. I'm asking you, have you submitted your whole life to his authority? Have you turned from your sin? Have you repented? And ask Christ to be your Savior, recognizing that He is The air, the sun. And friend, if you haven't done that, are you willing to do it right now? Would you pray right where you are? Make wherever you are an altar and pray right there and say, Lord Jesus, I know that you are the Savior, the Lord. Lord, I'm asking you now to come into my heart. Save me, Lord Jesus. I submit myself to you. I ask you for your forgiveness. Save me. I put my faith in what you have done for me on the cross. When you died and you rose again. How many will say that's my prayer here this very moment? I'm putting my faith and my trust in Jesus today. Would can I pray for you For you? If that's your prayer, can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand today? Say, yes, that's me. God bless you, sir. And who else? That's my prayer. God bless you, sir. Who else and God bless you? Who else? I'm putting my faith, my faith in Jesus. Now in a minute, I'm we're gonna stand, we're gonna have one stand over the invitation in. going to beg you to come down this aisle. But if you want to make your profession of faith public, there'll be people down here that can pray for you. And we can rejoice with you. Let's all stand together. And let's sing that invitation hymn. And friend, if you just need prayer, if you you made a decision and you want someone to pray with you, these altars are open. We're here for you. So you do what the Holy Spirit leads you to do this man. We'll sing just as I am. Oh that's fine. Would you come, friend? Would you come to the Lord today? If you're not sure and you want someone to pray with you today, so that you can know the Lord Jesus, would you come? Sing that second stands. Sing that cortezo through one more time, just as I am, without one pleading. Let's continue with heads bowed and eyes closed. And as the instrumentalists play that through, I want you just to take a moment and pray. And I want you to think about what you've heard from the Word of God today and ask yourself this question. Am I living my life under the authority of Jesus? Am I living Submitted to him in my life. And pray for these who have come. We're gonna stay in this we're gonna stay in this attitude of prayer and brother John you're gonna come and we're gonna dismiss in our closing hymn and just pray for these that are being dealt with. We want to give them as much time as necessary today. Let's let's close, Brother John.