Matthew chapter 21, please. Matthew chapter 21. We are on Sunday morning going through the Passion Week. We're looking at the events that took place that week, as I said, the most momentous week in all of redemptive history. And nothing that Jesus did during this week is insignificant. At the end of this week, he will go to the cross. He will bear the sin of the world. All of our sins will be placed on Jesus. The Bible said the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. And there will be the culmination of redemption. There on the cross, Jesus will bear our sin. He will satisfy the wrath of God. And he'll say, It is finished. And then of course after three days in the grave, Jesus will come out of that grave, triumphant, triumphing over death. And the grave. But everything begins in this week on Sunday. We already looked at the triumphal entry when Jesus came into Jerusalem on Sunday. And then on Monday Jesus cleansed the temple The next event that we're going to look at that took place was the cursing of the fig tree. Did you ever wonder why Jesus during this week stopped to curse a fig tree? Ever Wonder about that? Why did he do that? And what does that have to do with me today? Did you know that throughout Scripture often God would call upon his prophets to perform symbolic judgments. We see that a lot in the Old Testament. God had some of his Old Testament prophets do some unusual things. For instance, God told Isaiah the prophet to walk barefoot And naked now naked doesn't mean stripped completely naked, but without your outer garment. Walk barefoot without your outer garment throughout the streets of Jerusalem for three years. symbolizing the coming shame and judgment that was going to come. God had the prophet Jeremiah wear a yoke around his neck. to say to the people that there's bondage that is coming. There's going to be the yoke of slavery when the king of Babylon comes down upon you. And there are many other stories in the Old Testament of these symbolic acts, these gestures in which God was pronouncing a message to the people. And often we see these from the Lord Jesus Himself. When Jesus came to this earth, he performed many miracles. Those miracles in and of themselves were really symbolic gestures. They were really enacted parables we could say. Because when Jesus came, he preached that the kingdom of heaven is what? Is at hand And then what would he do? He would do these miracles. He would heal the sick. Why? Because there's not going to be any sick people in the kingdom. You want to know what the kingdom is like? No sickness. So he healed the sick. And then he would he would give sight to blinded eyes. You know why? Because there's not going to be any blindness or physical deformity in the kingdom. He would resurrect the dead. Why? Because there's not going to be any death in that kingdom All the miracles that Jesus performed were really symbolic gestures to talk about the kingdom that was going to come. And really what Jesus is going to do here now in this Passion Week is he's going to give us another symbolic gesture. And it's the cursing of the fig tree. Now, let me just give you just a few things about this. We're going to talk first about the circumstance of the curse. then the content of it, and then we're going to talk about the consequence of it and then the confidence that we gain from it. First of all, I want you to think with me about the circumstance. Look in verse 18 of Matthew 21 Now in the morning, as he returned into the city, he hungered. Now here Jesus is staying in Bethany. Every morning he would go back into Jerusalem. And this was one morning when Jesus got up in Bethany in the ha in the home of Mary and Martha and Lazarus. That's where he stayed. And he took the trip into Jerusalem about a five-mile journey. He got up very early that morning. In fact, the word for morning there in verse 18 is a Greek word that means really early. This is before the sun came up. Mark 1. 35 says, a great while before day. So he's up before dawn, and he begins to make the journey into Jerusalem. As he comes out of Bethany, he will pass through Bethej. On his way into Jerusalem. Now, keep in mind, this is Monday morning. On this day, he's going to cleanse the temple. And Matthew's not really giving us the chronology of these events. He's more concerned about the event itself. But Mark actually gives us more of the chronology. So here's how it happens. He'll get up on Monday morning. He's on his way into Jerusalem. He'll curse the fig tree. He'll cleanse the temple. And then he'll come back on that Monday evening. Then the next Tuesday morning, he'll get up and they'll take the same journey. This time, the disciples will notice what happened that next morning after He cursed the fig tree. So really this one event, this miracle, is going to really be described over a two-day period. But it's Monday morning. He's on his way into Jerusalem. And as he leaves, Bethany passes through Bethage. On the way he sees a fig tree alongside the road. Look in verse 19. And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it. Let me tell you a little bit about fig trees. You know they were common in Palestine. They were loved. They people loved to sit under the fig tree. The fig trees would grow about twenty feet high, about the same width, and they were a good place of shade. When God was describing the promised land, one of the things he said was it would be a land that had vines and pomegranates and fig trees. They were all over. And you remember when Nathaniel was called by Jesus to be his disciple, Jesus saw Nathaniel sitting under what? A fig tree? Probably in his own backyard there. It was a favorite place. for people to gather under the fig tree. And not to mention the fact the sweet, ripe figs that people would get from that. Now at this time of year, really, it wasn't things were not in season at this time of year. However, in this certain region They were supposed to be in season because actually the name Bethage means house of early ripe figs. This whole region was known to have figs out of season, early, and they were sweet and they were ripe. And another thing you need to know about fig trees is this. First the fruit grows on the tree and then the leaves. Always the fruit first, and followed by big luscious leaves after that. So if you were walking up to a fig tree in that region at that time of year, And you saw a big tree and it had big leaves on it, full foliage on that tree, what would you expect? You expect to see ripe fruit on the tree. You had every uh right to expect to eat some sweet figs. In fact the leaves advertised that they had figs, that tree had figs on it Well what happened with Jesus? He walks up, look in verse 19 again. When he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it And he found what? Nothing thereon. But leaves only. Just the leaves. Well, that was disappointing. Jesus was hungry. He didn't have breakfast that morning. Like some of you this mor this morning. Didn't have breakfast. Always eat breakfast. So he comes to this fig tree, nothing there. And so I want you to see secondly the content of the curse in verse 19. And he said unto it Let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever. So when he finds no figs He curses the fig tree. You say, how do you know it was a curse? Because in Mark 11, 21, Peter called it that. He looked at the fig tree and said, Lord, the tree that you cursed has withered away. Now someone might look at these actions and say, you know, this is really not a good thing. In fact, I've read some commentaries And I was surprised at what I read at some of these guys writing these commentaries out there about this event. Some of them called this thing reprehensible. It's reprehensible they would say that Jesus would curse this little tree for not bearing figs. This is unlike Jesus, some would say They say it seems like a fit of temper. He curses the tree. He kills the tree. Later on that same day Jesus is going to overturn tables in the temple. It just seems like Jesus is having a bad day here. That's the way they thought about it. He's angry. He was hungry, he looked for figs, didn't find any, he got angry, he cursed the tree. What do we call that when you're hungry and angry? Hangry? He was hangry. No figs. Let me read you what one commentator said amazing to me. He said, It's a tale of miraculous power wasted in the service of ill temper. Seriously? Sometimes these guys just don't get it. William Barclay wrote this. He said, the story does not seem worthy of Jesus. There seems to be a petulance in it. So as a result, liberal scholars jump on this story and they try to attack the story or attack Jesus. And so here's the question, did Jesus do this because he was angry, hungry, and then he cursed the tree? Really? You know, Jesus, he could take stones and make them bread. In fact, he could he could create a fig tree right there on the spot with figs if he wanted to. I mean we're talking about the Jesus that could take a little few loaves and a few fishes and and feed fifteen thousand people. I don't think food is a problem for Jesus. And getting what he needed was not a problem for Jesus So again, the question is why does he curse this fig tree? Well, this act is really an object lesson. It's a symbolic judgment about the nation of Israel. This is really the fig tree really becomes a symbol of the nation of Israel. And Jesus uses this event To teach a spiritual lesson. You see, the fact that this tree had a lot of beautiful leaves and had great foliage, but there was no fruit on this tree portrays Jerusalem and Israel exactly at that moment in history. Because on the outside, it looked like the nation of Israel was very religious. It looked like from the outside they were very spiritual, but in fact they were barren. They offered nothing. And so Jesus is deliberately here staging a symbolic act. About the nation of Israel. By the way, did you know in the Old Testament a fig tree stood for Israel? It stood for the nation of Israel. Write down Hosea 9:10, like grapes in the wilderness. I found Israel like the first fruit on the fig tree. In its first season I saw your fathers, God said. You were like the nation of Israel, God says, you were like the first figs on the tree And the barren fig tree symbolizes the sin and the corruption of the nation. Write down Jeremiah 8, 13. When I would have gathered them, declares the Lord, there are no figs on the tree. God says, God said, I wanted to gather figs, but there were no figs on the tree. That's in the Old Testament in the book of Jeremiah. I think really to understand this, you have to see another passage. Take your Bible. Hold your place here in Matthew. Go to the book of Luke, chapter 13. Go to the book of Luke, chapter 13. I think this is significant here. I think it really helps us to understand this enacted parable, this symbolic gesture that Jesus gives. Luke chapter 13, look down at verse number 6. Notice what it says. And here's Jesus, and he gives a parable. Verse 6, and he spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none. So what's it say now? Cut it down. Why cumberth it the ground? Verse 8, and the answer being said unto them, Lord. Let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it and dung it. And if it bear fruit, well, and if not Then after thou shalt cut it down. So here's this man. He has a fig tree in his vineyard. He's been waiting for figs. He's waiting for three years for this thing to bring fruit. For three years nothing has happened with this tree. So finally he says, look, just cut that thing down and get it out of here. And the man says, wait a minute, Lord, let's just one more year. Let's try one more year. And what I'll do is I will fertilize it. I will dig about it. I will do everything I can to make this tree fruitful. And if it ends up bearing fruit, well that's good. And if it doesn't, well, okay, then we will cut it down. And you see, all of this speaks about Israel and that generation of people That Jesus came to at that time, they were not fruitful. They were not bearing fruit And really, this Matthew 21, this parable here, this enacted parable of Jesus cursing the fig tree is really the end of the parable that he gave in the book of Luke. You see, Jesus was patient longer with that generation of Jews, with the nation of Israel. He was hoping to see some fruit from them. But there was none. There was none. He gave it more time. And so he said, that's it. See, what does this speak about? He was judging them for their hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. The leaves were beautiful and lush. It would have caught anyone's eye to see this beautiful tree, and they would have expected fruit on it, but there was none. You see, foliage without fruit speaks of hypocrisy And some people are like that. On the outside, boy, it looks like everything is in order. We look really spiritual and religious on the outside, but God doesn't judge us based on outward appearance. He looks inward. Is there any fruit in the life? Matthew Henry writes this, he said, The fruit of the fig trees may justly be expected from those who have the leaves. Christ looks For the power of religion from those who make a profession of it. And the cursing of the fig tree, then, is a sobering reminder that the Lord hates hypocrisy. He hates it. As Christians, we have to live what we believe. Not just outwardly, but let it be a part of who we are. Now Jesus, all through his ministry, he was denouncing These religious leaders, he was denouncing many of the Jewish people for their hypocrisy. Again, look in Matthew 23. Just flip over a few pages. Look at Matthew 23 and look down at verse 23. Here's Jesus again speaking to them. And notice what he says, Matthew 23, verse 23. Woe unto you, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites! For ye pay tithe of mint and annas and coming, and have omitted the weighty matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith. These ought ye to have done Not to leave the other undone, ye blind guys which strain the gnat swallow a camel. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye may clean the outside of the cup of the platter But within they are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which within is within the cuff and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees. Hypocrites, for ye are like whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but within are full of dead man's bones and of all uncleanness. Well, I tell you, that's that's pretty hard preaching right there. That's pretty that's pretty tough. And that's he's denouncing them in the strongest terms. You're hypocrites. Oh, the outside looks great, but there's no real life on the inside. And so this judgment was about the hypocrisy of the people. It was about the fruitlessness of the people. The Lord expects fruitfulness. You see, fruitfulness is always an indicator of true salvation. When there's true fruit that's being born in the life of God's people. And again, throughout the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus states this one point. Show me your fruit. What is the fruit of your life? That's really the determining factor as to whether you really believe or you don't believe. Again, I want you to look at a few verses in Matthew here. Go back to Matthew chapter 7. Wouldn't you please just look at these few verses with me? Because all of this kind of helps us understand this fig tree episode, I believe. Matthew chapter 7, and look down at verse number 16. Matthew 7 verse 16. And here's Jesus, and this is the Sermon on the Mount. Ye shall know them by their what? Their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit. Neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewed down, cast into the fire. Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them. Jesus says. And on we could go. There are other passages. We could go all the way through Matthew where Jesus emphasizes this one principle. Fruitfulness shows whether or not you are truly a believer. Not foliage, but fruit. And so just as Jesus came to the fig tree, expecting sweet fruit, even so Jesus came to Israel He came to his people. He came to the Jews, expecting them to respond to the gospel, expecting them to believe on him. But what did he find? No fruit. They didn't believe. There was a remnant of people that believed, but most of them they criticized him. They were disbelief of his miracles. They said he did his miracles by the power of Satan. They blasphemed him. He was born of a virgin. They said, Oh, you're born of fornication. He preached the word, they would argue with him. His forerunner, John the Baptist, announced him. They cut John the Baptist's head off. He cast out demons. They said, well, please leave our city. We don't want you here. Finally, Jesus says, enough. Enough. Let no fruit grow on you henceforth. That's it That's enough. And Jesus is saying this to this generation of Jews that had rejected him. Now notice he doesn't curse all fig trees, just that fig tree. Friend, if Jesus cursed all fig trees, we wouldn't have any figs today. But just that individual tree, he said to that tree, There will be no fruit on you forever. This one tree was under a divine curse. And likewise Jesus didn't curse all generations of Israel or Jews, just that one generation. That saw all of his miracles, that heard his words, and still they would not believe. And Jesus said, okay, that's enough. In fact, again, look at Matthew 12. Let me just show you this real quick. Look in Matthew chapter 12. And notice what's going on here in Matthew 12. Look in verse number 39. Exodus, back up to verse 38. Then a certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. And he answered, and he said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. And there shall be no sign given to it but the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was in the three days and three nights in the whale's belly, so shall the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. Then he said this, the men of Nineveh shall rise up in judgment with this generation and condemn it Because he goes on to say a greater than Jonas is here. Look at verse 42. The queen of the south shall rise up in judgment with this generation. He's referring to that generation. This generation of people that don't believe on me. At the end of verse 45, the last phrase says, even so shall it be with this wicked generation. This one particular generation of Jews, he calls it a wicked and adulterous generation. You're always looking for a sign, and I'm not going to give you any more signs Except for this one sign, and he talked about the resurrection as Jonah was in the whale's belly three days and three nights, so shall the Son of Man be in the heart of the earth. That's the only other sign you're going to get. You know why? Because Jesus had already done all kind of signs. He already performed all kind of miracles. And they still didn't believe. And they heard his words and they saw his miracles and they were skeptical. And they kept saying, Give us a sign. And Jesus said, I'm not giving you any more signs. You have enough right there. You have enough evidence. And you've rejected everything that you heard The only other sign you're going to get is the sign of the resurrection. And by the way, you'll see later on that when he did rise from the dead, they didn't believe that either. They didn't believe it. And so he says, this generation, they should have been ready to receive them. They should have opened their hearts. They had all of this evidence. They had all of this teaching and preaching. Wouldn't you like to have been there to see Jesus just do one miracle? To hear him teach, to see his compassion and his love. Here they were the recipients of the greatest revelation of any generation. And yet they didn't believe. And so he says, you know what? The men of Nineveh are going to rise up in judgment against you. You know what the principle is? With great revelation becomes great responsibility. Someone said, are there degrees of judgment? Oh yes. You get more revelation, you're privileged of more revelation than anyone else. That means you have a greater responsibility with what you've been given, and if you don't believe that, then you're going to be judged more severely. Because you don't believe. And I think about our country today, I think about America today. We have been given the revelation of the Word of God. We are privileged to sit under the preaching of the Word of God. God has showed the gospel to us He's given us his word, and yet we have so many people that just walk away from it. Better watch it. You better be careful. You will be accountable for what you hear. So go back to Matthew. We see the circumstance of the curse. We see the content of the curse, but notice the consequence of the curse. Look down in Matthew twenty one, look at verse nineteen again. When he saw the fig tree in the way, and he came to it and saw nothing thereon but leaves only, he said unto it, Let no fruit grow on thee henceforth forever And notice the rest of it, and presently the fig tree withered away. Just withered. Now someone says, now wait a minute. How could it wither immediately like that? And by the way, this is the only destructive miracle in the gospel in the ministry of Jesus. Every miracle that Jesus performed was was constructive. He was helping someone. He was healing someone. He was doing something good. This is the only destructive miracle that we see in the Gospels. And again, he has a message here with it. And again, now Matthew's not concerned about the chronology of this. So in order to really get the chronology, I want you to look, I know I have you flipping around a lot this morning. Look at Mark. Just do this one more time and then you can rest, all right? Look at Mark chapter 11 and look down at verse number 11. Because Mark kind of gives us more of the chronology. of how this all happened. Look at Mark 11, verse 11. And Jesus entered into Jerusalem and into the temple. And when he looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide was come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve. And on the morrow when there were come from Bethany, he was hungry. Verse 13. And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if happily he might find anything thereon. And when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves. For the time of the figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of the hereafter forever. And his disciples heard it. Now go to verse 20 of Mark 11, verse 20 And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots, verse 21, and Peter calling to remembrance. Saith unto him, Master, behold the fig tree which thou cursest is withered away. This was Tuesday morning This was 24 hours later. On Monday morning, Jesus cursed the fig tree. He went into Jerusalem. He cleansed the temple. He came back to Bethany Monday night. Tuesday morning they're headed out. They're taking the same path. That Tuesday morning, Peter looks at the tree He said, Lord, this is the tree that you cursed just yesterday. And look how soon it withered. Wow. They saw the fig tree dried up from the roots on up, and they put it together. That immediately when Jesus cursed the tree, it died immediately the day before. Immediately. It was dead from the roots up, from the core to the outside, just like the religion of Judaism, just like the Jews of that generation, dead, rotten from the core. And the withering of the fig tree is a type of the judgment that was to come upon that generation and upon Jerusalem, and that later came in 70 A. D. when Titus The general came into Jerusalem and he he wiped out that city basically. He burned the uh the temple and and and the stones were just uh no stone was left upon another there, and a million Jews died, it is said. And so this was the judgment that was to come upon that nation. Now in cleansing the temple, Jesus' message was that Israel's worship was unacceptable and cursing the fig tree. It was the that Israel as a nation was condemned for its sinfulness, for its unbelief, for its fruitlessness. That is the message that he's giving here. Now, go back to Matthew 21. Notice the disciples. Notice their response to this. They really didn't center on the meaning of the act. And frankly, they may not have gotten it at that time. I mean there's a lot going on. They hear Jesus do this. They see the tree wither. And perhaps at that moment it didn't really dawn on them what Jesus was doing, the message behind the fig tree. But notice what they say. Look at verse 20. And when the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, how soon is the fig tree withered away? They're amazed at the power of Jesus. They're amazed at his authority. That's what stands out to them. And again, this is another key theme in Matthew, the authority of Jesus. He shows authority by coming into Jerusalem and saying he's king. He shows authority by cleansing the temple. He shows authority now by cursing this tree and it immediately dies. Who could do that Who can do who can just say to a plant, you curse it and then it dies? Now, when I put my hands on a plant, sometimes they die. But who can curse a tree and it die? Only the Creator, only God could do that. They were amazed at his authority. How did he do that? They were astonished. And Jesus uses this whole this whole story. as a lesson to them. Look what he says. Jesus uses this as a teachable moment. And verse 21. And Jesus answered and he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, if you have faith and doubt not Ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and and thou cast into the sea, it shall be done Jesus said, you know, you think that's amazing. If you you can you can do this, you can do more than this. You know The principle, notice where he says, Verily I say unto you, that was always an attention getter. They always knew that Jesus was going to say something very important at that moment. Listen to me, guys. You think that's something The same power and authority that killed that tree. You have that power and authority if you do it in my name and you can say to any mountain you have in front of you, get out of the way. Now, you can move mountains, and Jesus is speaking figuratively here. He's not speaking literal unless you have a literal mountain that needs to be moved. But normally my problem isn't that I have is that I have a mountain in my way, a literal mountain. And so this was a term that was used back then of Moving great obstacles. Rabbis who were able to teach great doctrines, they were said to be mountain movers or rooters up of mountains, they were called. If they were able to overcome obstacles in their life, they were able to to move mountains. And Jesus is using a well-known metaphor of removing mountains back then. And he's saying to them, listen, whatever obstacle you have in your way, with my power and authority, you can remove it. You can get it out of the way. That's the lesson that you need to learn from this. That and you say, Well how do they do that? That's the principle. If you believe you can move mountains Through prayer, look at verse 22. And all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. It's through prayer. You can move insurmountable obstacles that you have in front of you, and you can do it through prayer. So I'm asking you this morning, what mountain do you have in front of you? Not literal mountain, but figuratively speaking, what insurmountable obstacle are you dealing with in your life this very moment? That if you could say to God, God, just move this, would you please move this? There's one thing in my life I win. I need it out of the way. It's an insurmountable problem. Jesus said, look, if you pray and believe, you can move it. I don't know your circumstance here this morning, but I know this. Whatever mountain you have. The power of God can move that if you just believe. That's what Jesus is saying here. That's the lesson that the disciples take from this. They see the incredible power. and authority of Jesus. And that same power and authority that cursed the fig tree and killed it is the same power and authority that we can have to move any mountain that we have in our life. And notice where he says, all things whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive. So So how do we apply this? Well, God expects fruit in our life. If you're not bearing fruit, friend, you need to make sure that you have true salvation. He wants fruit, holiness, Christian character, good works, sharing the gospel with others, praising God, all that is fruitfulness. And those who are slow to respond to the gospel, one day you're going to lose your opportunity. Right now you have the opportunity to respond to who Jesus is, but one day that opportunity is going to be gone. And you'll be judged for all the truth and the revelation and the information you've been given from the Word of God. That will be the basis of God's judgment to you, to whom much is given, much will be required. And then friend, if you have a mountain in front of you, Jesus said you can use my power, my authority to move it. Let's let's bow for prayer together today. So Lord, we thank you for this wonderful story here and for what it teaches us. Lord, I may be speaking to many people here this morning that have insurmountable mountains in front of them. And Lord, they need your power and authority in their life. To overcome these obstacles, to move these mountains. Lord, I pray that today by faith they will reach out to you and Lord that they would connect with your power and authority in their life. And in prayer, Lord, trust you. to move mountains for them. And then what I pray for some who may be here today, they've heard the gospel a lot. They've heard the word of God a lot. They've been under the revelation of truth. They've been convicted by the Spirit, but they've never fully made a commitment to Christ. I pray, Lord, that you'll give them a sense of urgency about their salvation. It may be Lord, there's just some people here that there's no fruit in their life. They may have outwardly a good profession, but there's no genuine fruit. Pray, Lord, that they'll examine their heart according to the scripture to know for sure that they know the Lord Jesus Christ. Use these words. To bless hearts, to convict hearts, to draw people unto yourself, Lord. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, my first invitation Is this, are you absolutely certain, friend? This is the most important issue of your life that you know the Lord. As you examine your heart according to the scriptures, can you honestly say There's fruit in my life that gives evidence that I'm a true child of God. And I'm trusting in Him and Him alone this very moment for my salvation. Frank, can you say that with assurance? If not, you need today to do business with God. Today you need to pray, say, Lord, forgive me, cleanse me. I put off making a decision for you long enough. I'm coming to you today. Come into my heart. Save me, Lord Jesus. And then there may be some people here. You have an insurmountable problem in front of you, and you need the Lord to move mountains for you today. How many are you willing to reach out by faith and say, Yes, Jesus, I trust you today to move this mountain for me. I'm claiming it by faith in the power Of the name of Jesus Christ. Move this mountain. How many say that's my prayer today? God help me to move these mountain this mountain I have, this mountain of difficulty. Father, bless these hands that are here to raise to heaven towards you, asking for help. To move mountains, Lord, honor their faith in this request. Speak to hearts today, Father. You may put your hands down. If you're here today, you've never trusted Christ In a moment, we're going to give an invitation of salvation. I'm going to ask you to come forward. Let one of these workers talk to you, tell you how you can know the Lord is your Savior. And if you're here today, you want to just come to the altar and ask the Lord by faith to move mountains for you. If God's leading you to come and pray, friend, you do it. Let's all stand together today. This altar is open for you. Do business with God as the Lord leads you. Let's say just as I am this morning, the first stanza Our ministers will be here in the front. God speak into your heart, friend. You come and do what God says. Do as the Holy Spirit leads you to do this morning, friend. Sing that through again, just as I Just as I Let's continue with Heads bowed and eyes closed as the musicians play that through. Just take a moment and pray for these who have come. And again, examine your own heart and let it a scripture God to speak to your heart today