Amen. Would you take God's words tonight? And uh I know we've been in Second Kings, but we're gonna kind of veer off that path, and we'll get back to that. But I want you to go to s uh the book of Matthew tonight, chapter five, and I want to look at part of the greatest sermon that was ever preached. So one time a person gave me a book called The Greatest Sermons Ever Preached, and they were a list of sermons throughout the history of Christianity that they thought were the greatest that were ever ever preached. And they went from all over different speakers and uh the Sermon on the Mount was number t twelve on the list of greatest sermons ever preached. Yeah, I laughed too. I appreciated the book. I didn't quite agree with the listing there. Um but anyway I don't think it's number twelve. I think it's number one as far as sermons. And I want you to go to Matthew chapter five, and we're gonna look at part of this sermon on the mount. That Jesus gives and verse number 14, near the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle and put put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. One time in the book The Voices of the Faithful, a missionary by the name of Jerry uh a a woman named Jerry with a G. She uh she was uh in a working in an African town and uh one day she got the exciting news that the king of of the Lazi people was going to come and attend the church and then stay and have dinner at her house. And uh as far as she had known this this is not customary for the king to do that, so she felt a great privilege. And finally the day arrived and the king entered into Jerry's house and and greeted her and she explained that with the Lazi language um to pronounce her name she said it's hard for the people to pronounce my name because the Uh it sounds like jelly instead of jerry because it's too hard for the people to pronounce the R sound. And so she boldly asked for the Lazie King to give her a new name. Would you please give me a new name? Now what she didn't realize is that was not protocol But that's okay. The king kind of smiled and he thought about it. And later as he was ready to leave, he said, You know what? I've decided to give you a name. And he said, The name I'm going to give you is Lashili in the Lazi language, which means light Light. And um she felt so privileged that the king would give her the name of Light. In fact a nearby person in the room, a citizen of that uh group people group said, you know, what a privilege that the king would give you a new name. Now let me just say this, that we have been given a new name, and it's by the King of Kings And the new name that Jesus has given his people is light. In fact, Jesus tells us in verse number 14 of the what we just read of Matthew chapter 5, ye are the light of the world. Now what does Jesus mean by this declaration? Now this again this is the Sermon on the Mount and Jesus is uh giving several illustrations. Jesus was a master teacher, and so he would use illustrations from everyday things in life In fact, that's where we get the word parable from. The word parable is a combination of two Greek words, para, which means with, and bale, which means to cast down. And so it's the idea of casting down something that is known, a earthly story, a earthly known thing, beside a spiritual truth. You cast it down. beside the spiritual truth in order to give light and understanding. And what we see is in Jesus' sermons that he does that often. He gives illustrations from the world around him. to give spiritual truth. Now Jesus was talking about children of the kingdom, and when you come to enter the kingdom And the Bible tells us, by the way, in Matthew chapter five how we come into the kingdom. No one struts into the kingdom. Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. When you come into the kingdom of heaven, you're poor in spirit because you realize that we have nothing to offer, that all we are are sinners, and so we mourn over our sin in verse number four of chapter five. Blessed are they that mourn For they shall be comforted. We hunger and thirst for righteousness, not a righteousness as of our own, but a righteousness is given to us once we put our faith in Christ. So these are the attitudes But they're they're called to be attitudes. Someone said they're attitudes that ought to be. And so this is the way we come into the kingdom of God. We come in with this spirit. But now having been brought into the kingdom of God, what impact do we have on the world? What is our influence? What is our impact? And in order to uh illustrate that, Jesus uses two illustrations to help us understand what the church, what God's people Citizens of the kingdom mean to the world around us. And he starts in verse 13 when he says, You're the salt of the earth. But if the salt was the savor, where shall it be salted? Where's salt? And and there's a whole sermon you can do on the effects of salt and what it does. Salt purifies, salt preserves, and uh and s and so on. The God's people in the world have that purifying and preserving effect. But the thing I want to focus on here in this sermon is on the idea of light. Jesus says you are the light of the world. This is another picture of the Christian life. This is a light is a very dominant force in the world. And so Jesus is going to use this idea of light to tell us our impact as citizens of the kingdom on the world around us. And so I want us to consider three thoughts tonight. I'm going to talk about the illustration of light and then the illumination of light and then finally we'll talk about the invitation of light. So let's talk first of all about the illustration. Again, when Jesus spoke these words, ye are the light of the world. He was using an expression that would be familiar with the Jews that were hearing him at that day. In fact they c they spoke of themselves as a light to the Gentiles. In fact, God said to his people, Israel in the Old Testament, you are to be a light unto the Gentiles. But in many ways the nation of Israel failed in that respect. There's a sense now which Jesus is saying to his kingdom people, those of you that are now saved, you are now the light of the world. You are the light that is to radiate God in the world. And just think of this phrase in verse 14. Ye are the light. Look at the you there. That's emphatic in the Greek. Jesus is making a strong emphasis here. We could even translate it, you yourselves, or we could say, you and you alone are the light of the world. You understand that we as God's people, we Are the light in this world? We're not trying to be arrogant or proud when we say that. But as believers, we are recipients of the light of Christ. And we bear the light, the true light in this world. If this world is going to see light, it's going to come from the people of God. So he says, you, emphasizing you, and you and no one else are. This is present Tense imperative, I told you about this before, it's continual. Um we are the continual lights in this world. Now think about that. What does light do? Here's a few thoughts I had about light. Number one, light repels. Now I'm not a physicist, but I know a few things about light. I know when I walk into a room and turn the light switch on that the darkness goes away And so there's a sense in which light shatters the darkness. Light repels darkness. And so there's a sense in which that's what we are to this world. Wherever God's people are, we are to bear that. light. And darkness cannot occupy the same space as light. The Bible says this in John 1. 5. And the light shined in the darkness. And the darkness comprehended it not. That is, the darkness was not able to overcome the light. Light is one of the most powerful forces in the world. Now that's true spiritually. What is true in the physical world here is true in the spiritual world. That because of the light of Christ in all of us, that wherever we are, we shine that light, and the darkness of this world and the darkness of the kingdom of Satan is not able to overcome the light of God's people. You understand that? And so light repels. Satan wants to keep everybody in darkness. In fact, that's what we were before we came to Christ. The Bible says at one time ye were darkness, Ephesians 5. 8. And that got and that Jesus has delivered us from the domain of darkness and put us into the kingdom of uh God and his light. Uh and so darkness is something that uh has to be overcome. And so as long as uh now when Jesus was in the world, Jesus said, you know, I as long as I'm in the world, I am the light of the world But now Jesus is no longer here, but we are now the light. God's people are that light and that uh now radiate to this world. The moment we got saved, we received the light of Christ. Ephesians 5. 8, you were sometimes darkness But now ye are light in the Lord, so walk as children of light. Light repels the darkness. Light repels but also write down number two, light radiates. It radiates. It's it gives It's meant to shine. Uh Psalm 119-105. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, my feet, and a light unto my path. You know, back then when they carried a lamb. it would shine two beams of light, a general beam down on their feet to keep them from stumbling and a general light out a beam of light out into the general pathway so they can know which way they're going. And God's word is that to us. God's word is like a light, and we receive that word again. And so we are we are those that as well bear that light. Light radiates, but also here's a third thing: light reveals. Light reveals. The Bible says that in 1 Corinthians 4 5, therefore judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the heart. And so it's the idea of revealing. The light reveals hidden things. It manifests things. You know one of the reasons why the world hates the church? It's because there's a sense in which, as people of light, we reveal the darkness of the world. We reveal the sin of this world. And think about the contrast. Think about the the way God's people walk and the love they have for God and the desire to do what is right, and then there's a contrast of the world, and there's a very real way in which the The light of God's people and the church reveals the darkness and the sin of this world. That's one of the reasons why the world hates the church so much. And so there's another thing about light. Think about this light rejoices. Listen to what the Bible says in Proverbs 15:30. The light of the eyes rejoices the heart. And Ecclesiastes 11:7, the light is pleasant, and it's a good thing for the eyes to see the sun. So there's a sense in which light brings joy. Did you know I was reading about a physical disorder caused by a lack of light? It's called, it uses the acrostic SAD, seasonal affective disorder And it's caused by a lack of exposure to the sun. Did you know it's not healthy if you're not if you don't get a lot of the sunlight? You have to get a certain amount. And so this this disorder is from a lack of exposure to the sun, which they say in turn alters a person's brain chemistry And they say during the fall and winter months, when the hours of daylight are shorter, less light passes through the eyes, which then inhibits the release of an important brain chemical called serotonin. And when serotonin is not released in sufficient quantities, symptoms of depression may occur. Melatonin, another important brain chemical which regulates our sleep cycle is released in greater quantities, adding to the depressive state. And so how do they deal with this disorder they call SAD, seasonal affective disorder? Well you know what the standard treatment is? Light. You just give 'em light. Get people into the light. You know why? Because light is healthy? And light it sounds sim simple, doesn't it? You don't have to get a a a medical degree to understand that. That light is healthy and it rejoices the heart. And there are so many good effects that come by being in the light Now again, what is true in the physical world is also true in the spiritual world. We need to be exposed to the light as God's people. And we need to expose others to the light of the truth of Jesus Christ and the light that we receive in the Word of God. So light repels, light reveals, light rejoices, light Here's another thing, light revives. It just begins to revive. You know, when Jesus first began his public ministry, Matthew compared it to the dawning of a new day. You're in Matthew, go back to chapter 4 And look at verse number 16 and notice what it says. Here's Jesus beginning his public ministry. He had just been baptized by John the Baptist and then tempted by Satan. And then notice what it says in verse sixteen the people which sat in darkness saw a great light, and to them which sat in region and the shadow of death, light is sprung up And so here Jesus is beginning his ministry and is compared to the dawning of light, the dawning of a new day. It's like, you know, when the when the the dawn comes. uh that that sun peaks up over the horizon and those first beams of light sh shine out and race out over the horizon. That's the ministry of Jesus here. The idea of the shoes. The coming of Jesus in his earthly ministry was the shattering of darkness. It was bringing great light. He was reviving, it had a reviving effect. a spiritual renewal that was going to take place there for certain people. And then here's another thing about light. Write this down. Light reflects. Light reflects. Now, just remember this, beloved. Jesus is a source of light. All we have to do is reflect the light of Christ. You know, the light really is not me Or you. It's it's Christ. And we just reflect the light that Christ gives. It's not ours, it's his And if you're a true child of God, every one of us have that light in us that we need to reflect to this dark world. I like to use the metaphor, the illustration of a you ever you ever when you were a little kid, get a box of cereal and have one of those glow-in-the-dark figures in it? And um I remember the first time I and of course you pour all the cereal out so you can get to the glow of the dark figure, you know, and try to get the cereal back into the box. You know, I remember I pulled one of those little figures out and they say, you know, go Get in the closet, shut the door, and it'll glow in the dark. You know. That's back before we had computers, um, you know, and little things like that could satisfy us, you know, as children. You know. So I remember I got this little figurine out of the cereal box, went into the closet, shut the door, and I couldn't see anything. It was not glowing in the dark. Well I forgot to read the directions. Remember the instructions? What are you supposed to do first? Put all right, you guys, I'm glad you had that same cereal when you were a kid. You put it under a light and you have to leave it there for a while. Why? Because that little figure has no light of its own It's not innate in that little figurine. It gathers in the light from another source, and then having been exposed to the light for a period of time, then you put it in a dark place, and what does it do? It begins to glow But that glow is not a light of its own. It's from another source. And you know, that's what we are to this world. We are exposed to the light of Christ. And I pray God that we're exposed to that light a lot. But when having been exposed to that light, then God will place us in some dark corner somewhere, because God wants us to show forth the light of Christ. to others around us. You say, well man, I'm the only Christian on my job. I know the Lord put you there. That's the dark corner there he wants you to shine. You say, man, I have a difficult Yeah I know, but that's where God puts you So you just shine right there where God has you. Make sure you're exposed to the light enough to that where people can see the light of Christ in you. We don't create the light. We just gather in the light from our Savior and then we show that light to the world. During a sermon a pastor asked a question to the congregation. He said, what is a saint? And a little boy there in the church looked up at the stained glass window of the apostles and he blurted out, people who let the light shine through. That's a good answer. And that's so very true. And so that's what we are. And so that's the illustration of light. But let me just I would say one more thing about light. We talked about how it repels darkness and it reveals and it rejoices and it revives, it has a reviving effect and it reflects, but also I would say this, it rescues. It rescues. Remember that parable that Jesus gave about the woman who lost a coin and she searched all throughout the house and she couldn't find it. You know, back in that day in the houses in Palestine they didn't have wood floors or cement floors or marble floors, they had dirt floors and they would sometimes put hay down on the top of the dirt to keep the dust down. And so if you dropped something on the floor in a house back then it was a little hard to find And they didn't have big windows in those houses. They probably had one if they had any. And so to find something small And by the way, the coins back then, don't get the idea that they were big coins. I've been to Israel many times and found coins. They're about the size of a button, you know. And they're very small. And so it's like literally trying to find a needle in a haystack. And so in Luke fifteen here's a woman and she she loses a coin and and we believe the custom was for her to have a headband that she would put on. And uh there would be ten coins and that was a something given to her by her husband as a symbol of their marriage. It had great sentimental value when she Saw one coin was missing. She stopped and she began to look and she couldn't find it. And then you remember in the parable, you finally what did she do? She lit a candle And she held it down to the dirt of the floor, and she was able to find it. All that story illustrates the idea that Christ came into this world as the light to rescue us from the darkness. You see, just like that coin had an image on it. Every soul is created in the image of God. And just like that coin was dislodged from its rightful place, man has fallen. in this depraved world. And the light of the gospel of Christ is the only thing that can rescue man from this darkness. That's the idea. And again, we are those ones that bear that light. So there's the illustration of life. But I want you to move on to number two, the illumination of life, because look out look what else Jesus said In Matthew chapter 5, verse 14, he said, Ye are the light of the world, a city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Now Jesus' whole point in this metaphor is that light is meant to be seen. It's meant to be seen. It's the nature of light to shine. And light is no good unless it's able to be seen, it's able to shine, you see. That's the whole idea. And this is just characteristic of light. You know, if you are, and I would just say this, if you are a true child of God, you will shine with the light of Christ. You don't have to try to find that. That's going to be innate. That's going to be natural for you. It's the nature of light to shine. And if you're a child of light, then people will be able to see that in you. You can't hide true light. Right? That's the whole idea there. There's no in the in the truest sense of the word, there's no such thing as Closet Christians. You know, if you are a child of God, that's going to be seen. You know, we live in a society where it's kind of a good thing for certain people to come out of their closet, you know. a proud thing. But beloved as Christians, we we don't go in a closet. We're no such thing as closet Christians. We are to shine with the light. of Christ. Now, think about the ideas here. First, a city. He talks about a city in verse number uh f 14. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. I say light should be seen publicly. That's the idea. And I think here, the city that he may be talking about here might be Jerusalem or any city elevated on a hill at night. that others can see. You know, you ever you ever fly at nighttime in a plane over a a city, you'll see that city is just lit up. And so the idea here is that the church is to be like that We're to be that city on a hill. And when people think of the church, they should see the light collectively. We should be shining. uh collectively as the church. You know, we should be seen by the world. That's the testimony of the church. We're responsible to shine. With the light of Christ. And so light should be seen publicly. But also, think about the candle. Look at verse 15. Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel. You know, you don't light a candle just to hide it. You don't you don't do that, you know, you light a candle so it can be seen. And so I think I think more here, this should be seen personally. The city, that's collectively, that's the church. All of us together, you know. Uh that's why I had y'all kind of move up, sit together, you know. I I I use that illustration of, you know, trying to light coals. You're you know, to grill you ever try to grill something in light charcoals, you spread them out, they're not gonna catch fire, you gotta bring them all together, you know. You know, when we come together here at the church, we're we're one, we're a bunch of lights coming together, shining together collectively. You know, when people see us be faithful to the house of God, you understand that's a testimony to the world? That the world looks at us and they think sometimes we're crazy. Especially when you come to church on Wednesday night, you're to be commended for coming on Wednesday night. You know, after COVID, a lot of churches don't have Wednesday night services anymore. Because they can't get people to come back out. They can't get people back into the habit. And so when people see you get into your car and go to church on Wednesday night, they kinda think there's something wrong with you. But you know that there is something wrong with you, or I should say right with you. In the world's eyes it's wrong, but in God's eyes it's right, because every time you come together collectively, you're a city on a hill. And you're shining in a dark world. And people were wondering what's what's so special about church on Wednesday night that people would in the middle of the week would want to come out and gather together. You see, that in itself is a testimony. But a candle, I look at that as light individually. Again, a candle is an individual single light. One light makes a great difference. You know, just one light. Again, you might be a believer in a sea of unbelievers all around you in any particular circumstance. It might be a family, it might be a job. It might be in any other scenario you can think of. You might be the only believer there at that time, and you may kind of even moan over that fact, but don't underestimate the power of one individual light. In that place. You are that light. Don't forget what you can do. Just one person, one candle can go a long way. One individual Christian can have an incredible impact in a place where God has placed them, a place of darkness. And so Robert Alden said this, there's not enough darkness in all the world to put out the light of even one small candle. And that's so true. J. O. Sanders tells the story of John Getty, who went to Anitiyama, a cannibalistic island in the South Pacific. He went there in 1848 and he worked there for God for 24 years. And on a tablet erected to his memory after he had died, uh he left the island in eighteen seventy-two and then they after he died they put up a uh a tablet there to remember him and the tablet read this it said that when he landed in eighteen forty eight there were no christi When he left in 1872, there were no heathen. Isn't that incredible? What an incredible epitaph What an incredible testimony. There were no unbelievers left by the time he left. That's the power of one individual light. So we see a city that's light collectively. We shine, but also a candle that that's light seen personally, individually, but then a candlestick. I say this is light should be seen purposefully in verse 15 where it says You know, when you light a candle, you don't put it under a bushel, you put it on a candlestick, and it gives light to all that are in the house. You don't light a candle, hide it under a bushel. You put it on a candlestick, and you put it in a place where it can shine the brightest. That's being purposeful And I think here what we can learn from that, a principle we can apply, is we should be looking for opportunities to shine. Look for places that there is no light. And ask God for opportunities to be a light wherever we go. We should be looking for the darkest places to shine. The darkest places to shine the light of Christ. You know, salt is passive. It affects the environment for good, but light is active. And it must be properly placed to best glorify God. And so, again, God puts certain people in certain places at certain times. That's all part of his plan. God put Hudson Taylor in Dark China and what a difference he made. God put John Payton in the New Hebrides Islands. And many were brought to Christ. John put or excuse me, God put Aaron Judson in Dark Burma, and God put William Carey in Dark India. And these men had an impact, and the impact of the light. of their life is being felt even to this very day. But another thing I want you to see is there's a progression here in this passage. We see light for the world, light for a city, and then light for a house. And so the circles are different. You know, one circle of influence at a time. We say it like this. Really, it starts in our own house, and then it moves out into the city, and then it moves out into the world. We have to start individually with us. It has to start in our home, in my home, in your home. We have to live a holy life. Now let me give you the third thing here. We see the illustration of light, and we see the illumination of light. But then I want you to see number three, the invitation of light. Look at verse 16. Let your light So shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Now again, I love this. Jesus didn't say create your own light. He didn't say kindle your fire and simulate light. We're just to let the light that we have shine. Again, we don't have to create the light. That comes from Christ. We do, however, have to let it shine. You know. If someone has said, you know, the stars don't shout, they just shine. And as God's people, we're just to shine for Christ in a dark world. Now, how do we do that? Well, let me just give you a few things here. Number one, goodness. Just write down goodness. In verse 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your what? Your good works. And there are two there are two Greek words for good. There's the word agathos, which simply defines a thing that is good in quality. And then there's kalos, which means a thing that is not only good, but it's also winsome and beautiful and attractive. And that's the word that's used here. It's chaos. You know, um, the good deeds of a Christian are not only good, but they're attractive to The world around us when they see God's people doing good things, good to others, that sort of thing is winsome, that sort of thing is attractive. to those around them. And so just do good. You know. Um you know what the Bible says about Jesus? Write down Acts 1038. It says, you know of Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power, and how he went about doing good. For God was with them. That's what we're to do. Just go around and just do good. You see someone who has a need, just if you can meet it, meet it You see someone that is hurting, go help them, go comfort them. You see someone that needs encouragement, encourage them. You know, whatever good deed that you can do, and make sure that they know that you're a believer, and you know what, do it in the name of Jesus Christ Whenever God, and I know you all do this, and I commend you for it, whenever God gives me the opportunity to do good to someone, I always am sure to say, this is in the name of Jesus Christ. This isn't for me. I'm just passing along the goodness that God has given to me. I do what I do here because of Christ. And so we by doing good, and again, we don't do good to draw attention to ourselves. We do good to draw attention to God, the point of God. Our good deeds are it's not a theatrical goodness, but a theological goodness. We're not doing it to be seen of men. We're doing it to point to the greatness and the glory of God. Reminds me of the story of D. L. Moody one time. A bunch of preacher boys stayed up all night praying. They just wanted to be able to say they prayed all night. And uh in the morning they saw the L Moody and they said, Mr. Moody, we've been praying all night. See how our faces shine like Moses And D. L. Moody just simply said, Moses knew not that his face shone. You know. Kind of put them in their place there. We don't we don't try to do those things to be seen of men, to brag. But we do what we do for the glory of God. Now goodness but also holiness. The world should see the holiness of our life. Light is a symbol of holiness. And so just pursue holiness. And that's what the Bible calls us to. We know that positionally we've been given the righteousness of Christ. But now we are to practically live out a righteous and godly life. And we know and again we can't do that ourselves. We need the help of Christ It's the Holy Spirit inside of us that helps us to live out the righteousness and the holiness of Jesus Christ. And so the holiness of our life should attract and and people should see that. I read a story one time of a man by the name of William Houghton. He was a preacher who uh in the nineteen forties became president of Moody Bible Institute when it was in its heyday. And um he this man played a role in the conversion of a agnostic, this agnostic man uh considered uh suicide. And this man was uh skeptical and he decided that if he could find a minister who lived his faith, he would listen to him. And so he hired a private detective to follow a around, William Houghton. And when the investigators report came back, it revealed that this preacher's life was above reproach. He was for real. And this agnostic started sitting under the ministry of this preacher, and he heard the word of God, and he got saved. He trusted Christ. as his Savior. You know, I often when I read that, I think if someone hired an investigator to investigate our lives, what would they find? May they find the same thing. that we have a blameless life, that we're pursuing Christ. So how do we shine the light with goodness, with holiness? But here's another thing with brokenness. We might not think of this, but you know what? Sometimes the best way for us to shine light is through the brokenness of our own life. Maybe that's why God puts us through trials at times. Remember the story of Gideon and his 300? Remember he whittled his army down the three hundred men, and then he gave each man a trumpet and a pitch a light, a lamp with a in a pitcher. And he said, you know, at this at the signal, you know, blow the trumpet and then break open the pitcher, the clay pot. And when they did The light that was inside of it began to shine, but it had to be broken before the light could shine. And that's the way they won the victory that day The lamp had to be broken, the light shined, it confused the enemy, and God wrought a great victory. And I think about that because you know what? The Bible says that the gospel of Jesus Christ has been given to us clay pots, us clay vessels. You know, the Bible says that. In 2 Corinthians 4, 6, it says this, but God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ, God has entrusted to us this beautiful, wonderful, glorious gospel. He's the one who commanded the light to shine in our hearts. That's an allusion to creation, right? You know what creation was? In the beginning, God said, let there be what? You know what your salvation was? God said in your heart, let there be light. That's how you got saved. And now God has given us this light. But listen to the next verse. 2 Corinthians 4, 7. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That is, this light is now in these earthen clay vessels. And sometimes the way God wants to show that light is he has to break the vessel open. Brokenness and the light shines forth in a greater way. Sometimes God has to humble us and break us, so that He may use us to shine the light of the gospel. Then joyfulness, also joyfulness. True light produces true joy, as we saw before. When the world sees our joy, you know, the world, when they look at us, they should see a joy, a deep joy inside of us that they don't have. I'm not talking about happiness. You know, happiness is outward. It's superficial. Nothing wrong with being happy, but it's surface. Joy is down deep in your heart. And you can always have joy, even though you're sorrowing, even though you may be crying, you can still in your heart have joy at the same time. Joy can't be taken. The only thing that can take away our joy is sin. But when we're walking with God, we have the joy of the Lord. People can see the joy even in the midst of our tears. They can see the joy. And so our countenance should be something that portrays the light. of Christ. And then witness, finally witness. Let your lights so shine means sharing the gospel. How many people are you witnessing to? Have you been witnessing lately? May God help us to be faithful in doing that. Because let me let me remind you that if we want to if we want to be used by God, God will use us. The question is, do we want to be used? Just pray this prayer and mean it. God use me to be a witness. Use me to share the gospel. If every person here in this room tonight would just pray a prayer and just say this, Lord. Let me win one person to Christ over the next year. Just one. And not only win them to Christ, but see them discipled and grow in Christ. Just pray that prayer and see if God honors that. And then look for ways that God can use you to be that witness. And you know what? I believe God will honor that prayer. I believe God will give you that opportunity to be a witness to those around you. And so we see, therefore, then the illustration of light. Light repels, it reveals, it rejoices, it revives, it rescues the illumination of light. Together as a church, we bear the light of Christ. Individually we Bear the light of Christ. We do it purposefully. We look for opportunities. And then the invitation of light, the world sees the light in us through our goodness, our holiness, our brokenness, our joyfulness, our witness for Christ. Let's determine that we will be the light that God has called us to be. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's take a moment and pray with me. And would you just, with your heads bowed and eyes closed, would you just take a moment and just pray there, right there where you are? Maybe God's used this message to speak to your heart about a certain area, maybe something in your life. Maybe uh God's challenged your heart to be a light, to be purposeful. And sharing Christ and being a witness. Whatever it is, take a moment and just talk to the Lord Thank God that He's shined the light of the gospel in our dark hearts. That the God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our heart, the light of the gospel of Christ. But we're not to bear it we're not to take this light and put it under a bushel or hide it. It's meant to be seen, it's meant to be radiated. It's meant to light others around us. That's our call. Father, thank you for this reminder. This wonderful sermon, just a part of it, the greatest sermon ever preached by our Savior, Jesus Christ. And as we meditate on this just this one part, Lord, we're convicted and we're challenged. Lord, we want to be the light that you've called us to be. So Lord, help us. Would you please help us in that? And bless this This city here on a hill right here, this hill on 1518 North Rolling Road, Lord, may the world look and see a city, a lit-up city on a hill. May they see the truth of Jesus Christ. May they be drawn to it. May we see many come to know Christ as Savior, as Lord. Bless this word our hearts tonight, we thank you in Jesus' name, Amen