Good to see you here tonight in God's house. I invite you to take your Bibles, open to the book of Genesis. The book of Genesis, chapter number 28, be finding them And uh let me ask you a question. Have you ever felt as if you made a mess of things in your life? You ever feel like you messed up so bad that things will never be right again? Feel like you've made some bad decisions and that somehow, maybe in your own thinking, it's caused you to feel as if you have forfeited God's blessing. Maybe you miss God's will. As if you're beyond help. You're beyond repair. I remember there was one time in my life when I I thought I missed the will of God. I thought I made a wrong decision. I had a decision to make. I kind of had a fork in the road, and I prayed. I sought the Lord. I Fasted and prayed and said, Lord, help me to make the right decision. And then I made the decision. And after I made the decision, I thought I made the wrong decision. And uh it just kind of plunged me into despair because it was too late after that. Nothing could be done. And I thought, man, I I messed things up. I messed things up for my life by making this decision. Now perhaps you feel that way today. Maybe you feel like a bad decision that you made has forfeited God's best for your life. Now if you feel that way, this story here in Genesis chapter twenty-eight is for you because it offers hope to us who have made a mess of things in our lives. And I think that would include all of us tonight. Hope I don't I'm not too presumptuous when I say that. All of us uh perhaps have been here at a point where we feel like we have messed up. Now Genesis chapter twenty-eight is a st is about The life of Jacob, it is a kind of a scene, a story in the life of Jacob. And it looked like in this story at the very beginning of it that he had messed up beyond repair. I mean think about Jacob. Jacob was uh he was not one of the the heroes in the Old Testament that we like to hold up and say, boy, be like Jacob You know, we can say be like Daniel or be like Joseph, but we don't ever really say, well, I want you to be like Jacob. Because if you read about Jacob in the Old Testament, you're going to find out he was a schemer He was a deceiver. He uh basically uh uh uh took his brother's birthright by uh having him sell it to him for a bowl of chili. He made the best chili in Palestine He basically lied to his father. You know the whole story. He said that he was Esau when in fact he was Jacob And this caused a lot of tension and heartache in the home. And it led up to this point where he now is asked to leave the house. He has to leave the promised land. This is the promised land that supposedly he's supposed to inherit. The blessing of Abraham is supposed to pass through him. How can he have the promised land if he's out of the promised land He's actually asked to leave, to go on. How can he get all of the lion's share of the father's inheritance if he's not there to receive it? It just looks like to get from Jacob's point of view that Jacob had messed things up. Now, we know from the very beginning it was already God's plan. for Jacob to be the one through whom the blessing of Abraham would pass. The Bible says that in Genesis 25, 23. And the Lord said to her, that is, uh Rebekah, Two nations are in your womb Two peoples from within you, ye shall be divided. The one shall be stronger than the other. The older shall serve the younger. So that was always God's will But rather than waiting on God and living by faith, Jacob decided to take matters into his own hands and to make things work for him. You ever done that? I I I, you know, God needs our help, so we try to take matters into our own hand. And he just messed it all up. And so the question that You might be asking tonight, is did I mess up God's best for my life? Has my sin caused me to lose out on God's best? Have I messed up beyond repair uh in my life. Well, we're going to look at this story here because we're going to see that in the life of Jacob, you know what God does? God in his grace reaches out to Jacob and God meets Jacob exactly where he is. You know, Jacob Here is this is a picture of all of us in a way, all of us that have made bad decisions, all of us that have sinned against God. I'm so thankful for that psalm that says the God of Jacob is our refuge. I'm so glad it didn't say the God of Daniel or the God of Joseph, but it said the God of Jacob. Now if God can help Jacob, you know what? God can help me. And God can help you. Because Jacob made a mess. And so I want you to look at this story tonight, but the one idea I want to get across to you is this. This is the whole big idea of the whole narrative, and that is This story teaches us that God's grace meets us at the point of our need. We should recognize that, and we should respond properly to it. God's grace meets us at the point of our need. We should recognize it and we should respond properly. So I want you to see this Amazing grace in the life of Jacob in four circumstances. If you're taking notes, write down number one, a sorrowful venture. And here's the first lesson we learn. We often pay the consequences for bad decisions. We often pay the consequences for bad decisions. Look in chapter 28, look down at verse number one, where it says this, and Isaac called Jacob and blessed him. And charged him and said unto him, Thou shalt not take away from the daughters of Canaan. Arise and go to Padan Aram to the house of Bethuel. thy mother's father, and take thee away from thence from the daughters of Laban, thy mother's brother. Verse 3, and God Almighty bless thee And make thee fruitful and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a m may be a multitude of people, and give thee the blessing of Abraham to thee, and to thy seed unto thee, that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art astray stranger, which God gave unto Abraham. And look at verse 5. And Isaac sent away Jacob. So Jacob is being called in And for the purpose of being sent away. It's time for you to move on, son. In a way he's kind of kicking them out You see, what had happened before this, you all again, you all know the story. Jacob had deceived his brother, deceived his father, caused tension in the family. Rebecca, she sees all of this And she decides it's time for him to go. She doesn't want the anger of Esau. Do you remember that story? Esau got so angry at his brother for stealing the blessing and the birthright. that he said, you know, at the first chance I get, I'm going to kill him. When our father dies, I'm gonna I'm gonna kill him. And and this was very real. And so she decides it's time for him to leave. And so in chapter twenty-seven, verse number forty-six They kind of get together and make this plan. And then they call uh Jacob in, and he basically says, God bless you, son. Move on. It's time for you to move on with your life. And uh the Lord be with you, the Lord help you, may God give you all the blessings he said, but I'll see you later. It was kind of a goodbye. Now, this is not good for Jacob because this is the first time for this young man to be out there on his own. Uh some of you young people might remember if you're not living in the house uh you know how hard it was to leave the nest very first time. I remember when I went to college Um, you know, I was so wise that I saved up about uh two hundred and fifty dollars to go to college. That was enough just uh for gas money to get me there And uh I remember my dad put together uh a Nova, it was a car, it had a it had a black hood, it had a green uh quarter panel, it had a blue door, it had an orange uh trunk. And uh it was it sometimes it would start and sometimes it wouldn't. And it was like, here's your car, God bless you, son, the Lord be with you Now it wasn't, it's not easy to move out and be on your own. And this is what happened to Jacob. Jacob, I think this is a low point in Jacob's life You see, you know, Isaac says, Oh, the Lord bless you. It seems positive, but it's kind of putting a positive spin on a bad event. Son, it's time to move on. Go north, go live with your in-laws And, you know, get a daughter from there. That was 500 miles north. That's a long way away. He has to leave the Promised Land. It seems like he won't inherit the land. Esau gets to stay. Jacob has to leave. It looks like Esau won this rivalry after all. And so this is not a good occasion. I think this is a low point for Jacob. I think Jacob is thinking, I messed up. I messed up to the point where I forfeited the blessings that God had for me. It's all over for me. I'm being cast out. I'm being thrown aside. I'm being set aside. Set on the shelf. Sometimes we may feel that way. Man, these bad decisions that I made has caused me to be set aside. And I think that he feels completely alone. I think he feels completely abandoned. Because of all his scheming that's got him into this position, you may be feeling the same way. Jacob is hurting. Jacob is broken. But I want to tell you, my dear friend, the good news about our God is He meets you right there. He meets you right there at that point. God, I think, has to bring each of us to the point in our lives Where we are low, where he can break us, and where he can break through. Jacob felt alone, but friend, he was not alone because God was right there with him. It's this time when God comes to him. I want you to see the second part of this story. We see, first of all, a sorrowful venture. We often have to pay the consequences for our sin. But I want you to see, secondly, I want you to see a spectacular vision. God's grace meets us at the point of our need. Look at verse 10. And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and he went towards Haran. And he lighted upon a certain place and tarried there all night because the sun was set. And he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows and lay down in that place to sleep. Now Jacob began this journey Again, he had to travel 500 miles north to the home of his uncle. This was a dangerous and difficult journey. There were animals, there were robbers. When you take a journey like this over dangerous terrain, it's always very hard, it's always very difficult. And so I think there's a little bit of fear here But I want you to notice, first of all, here, notice the place. Notice the narrator of this story focuses on one place. Now in verse 10, he kind of travels 50 miles. He's 50 miles into his journey. He still has a long way to go. He still has not actually crossed the border and left the Promised Land as he's journeying north. And he comes to this place. Now notice in verse number 11, it mentions it three times in verse 11. He lighted upon a certain place. And he took stones of that place and put them on pillows and laid down in that place. Now, friend, whenever I'm reading a verse, and three times the author emphasizes something like that, my antennas kind of go up. Why is he singling out this place? And by the way, in Hebrew, the article is there. It's articular. So we can literally say it like this. The place. He came to the place. So this was a very special place. By the way, it was no accident that he is there And what Jacob doesn't realize is that he's stopping at the very place where his grandfather Abraham lodged, that very spot. When he first entered into the promised land, and when God first told him to go and promised to give him that, God appeared to Abraham there, that was the very exact same thing Spot. In fact, do you know what the Bible says when Abraham got to this spot? The Bible says Abraham built an altar unto the Lord. An altar. This is near the city of Luz. Normally a traveler that was traveling would go inside the city for obvious reasons. You didn't want to stay out there in the open in the wilderness. You would go inside the city gates, there was safety in there. But Jacob was not an experienced traveler. He didn't plan his time very well. He got close to the city, but he didn't go into the city And he's there all night, right outside the city of Luz. And the Bible says in verse 11, he took the stones of that place. And so he makes himself a place to rest. He uses the stones as a pillow, or we could say a headrest. That doesn't sound very comfortable. That's not going to work in a my pillow commercial, is it? This is uh now th they would use stones kind of as a headdress. I've seen pictures of this um where they would use wood or a stone to make a headrest. I've seen some of the discoveries in Egypt. Um it still doesn't look very comfortable. to me. You might say Jacob slept that night between a rock and a hard place. But he's right here at this particular spot And you know, it's tempting to think that the stone that he used for a pillow may have been one of the stones from the altar that his grandfather had built there And had dedicated to the Lord. So he's right there. Notice not only the place, but then notice the dream. Look at verse 12. And he dreamed. Now it's it's dangerous to be out there in the open as he was, and he had to be worried about all the dangers around him, strange places and people and ferocious animals and foreign gods. He was prop perhaps exhausted from the journey But he fell fast asleep there, and the Bible says when he slept, God gave him an awesome Dream. It was not just any ordinary dream. This was a vision that God gave him there in verse number 12. Look at it. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder sent up Set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord, God of Abraham, my father, and the God of Isaac. Of the land whereon thou liest to thee will I give it unto thy seed. And so notice that in the story, it is set off by the words, behold, three times. This is kind of an exclamation, an exclamatory word, and the Hebrew suggests here that it's kind of an astonishing thing. You should kind of look upon this with astonishment. And it points out three things in these behold statements. Behold, first of all, a ladder. The Hebrew word for ladder. It can mean a rung ladder. Or I think what's going on here, more closer to the idea, is not just a ladder. We think of a ladder, we think of a steel or a metal ladder with rungs on it, you know But the word here, I think, is the idea of a staircase. You ever see ancient uh pyramids with staircases that go up the side of it? Uh years ago I did a mission trip down in uh uh Honduras in a place called Copan Ruinous, which means the ruins of Copan. There was an ancient Mayan uh civilization, uh the ruins of a civilization. They had a lot of these tall pyramids that were still there and they had these staircases that would go all the way up and boy when you climb one of those staircases you're pretty much done they go all the way up You know, and this is the idea here. Here's a staircase. And it's going all the way up to heaven And notice the next behold in verse number 12, it says, The top of it reached to heaven, and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on It's staircase. The angels are messengers of God. Remember what the Bible says in Hebrews, they're messengers to us who are heirs of salvation. And so the idea here is as he sees in this vision this staircase. It goes all the way up to the heavens. There are angels coming down the staircase, going back up the staircase. You say, what are they doing? They're simply getting their orders from Almighty God and going out and completing what God said and reporting back to God. They're there going up and down And I think part of the idea there is there's protection there for Jacob. There are angels all around him. And then what does he see? At the top of the staircase, look down at verse number 13. And behold the Lord Stood above it. There's God at the top. And so the image here is that He's sovereign. He's reigning over all. He's in control of all things that are happening. And again, the angels report to him, they're doing his bidding. And just think about this. Here's a staircase that goes all the way up to where God is. And the bottom of it comes all the way down to where Jacob is. You know what this is, friend? This is God meeting Jacob at the point of his need. That staircase comes right down to where Jacob is. You know what the message is? God's grace extends to where you are. Jacob made these bad decisions. Jacob is no longer in the home. Jacob is taking this long journey. He's out in the middle of nowhere. But guess where God's grace extends to him? Right there in the middle of nowhere. Right there in the middle of his sorrow and of his messed up life, as some would say it. And the message is: God is reaching out to me. God had not forsaken Jacob In fact, he was reaching out to him. This staircase is an expression of the grace of God coming right to where he is. A. W. Pink writes this, right down to where the fugitive lay, the latter came, right up to God Himself, the latter reached God was meeting him right at the point of his need. And I want to remind you about that here tonight, friend. You might be feeling a little bit like Jacob and say, Man, I messed up beyond any repair. Let me just tell you, God's grace is going to meet you right at the point. Right where you are. Right where you are. There's no th nothing in your life messed up that God's grace can't take care of. God will meet you where you are. The next message here is God is protecting me and watching over me. When Jacob sees these angels ascending and descending, he knows that they are the heavenly messengers of God. And he knows that they're watching over him. You know, I believe, call me crazy, but I believe God's angels are watching over his people all the time I believe they're just watching. I remember reading about the missionary story of John Patton, missionary to the New Hebrides Islands, when he went there. The people there were still cannibals. He writes about one night when uh he was surrounded in his uh his place where he stayed by the uh the natives there that were intent on killing him. He and his wife were filled with terror. They prayed All night and nothing happened. The drum stopped beating and they simply left. Later on, years later, when the chief of the tribe was converted to Jesus, he remarked about that event. And said, you know, if it weren't for those guards that were guarding you that night, we probably would have killed you. And John Patton said, What guards are you talking about? He said, all those shiny warriors with shiny swords and shields that guarded you that night. That's what caused us not to do what we planned on doing. And I think, friends, we have the angels of God that are constantly watching over God's people. Constantly taking care of God's people. And so the idea here is that God is meeting Jacob right where he is. God is watching over Jacob. God is protecting Jacob. And friend, I can say the same thing. to you tonight. You have not messed up beyond the help of God's repair. Whatever you have done, God in his grace can undo it. And God in his grace has a future for you just like he had here for Jacob. God will help you in the time of need. This was the neediest time of Jacob's life, and here was God right there I'm right here to help you. I'm right here to be with you. And then here's the third thing. We see a sorrowful venture. We often pay the consequences for bad decisions. We see a spectacular vision. God's grace meets us. At the point of our need. But here's the third thing, a surprising voice. God desires to bless us even when we don't deserve it. Because look again at verse 13. And behold, the Lord stood above it and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac. And the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed, and thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth And thou shalt spread abroad to the west and to the east and to the north and to the south. And in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. Verse 15, and behold, I am with thee And will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and bring thee again into the land. For I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken of of thee. What an incredible Promise from God. God now speaks to him. This had to be the most comforting words that Jacob ever heard in his life And it kind of gives you an idea of what he was concerned about here. He was concerned about coming back, being in the land. He was concerned about his future. What about my future? What about, you know, is God going to take care of all the things that I need? And God basically promises, I'm going to give you this land. Don't worry, Jacob. You may have thought that you messed up beyond repair, but you haven't. In fact, you have done what you have done according to your own decisions, but you haven't overruled my plan. for you. I still have a plan for your life. From your perspective, it might look like you have thrown it all away, but you haven't, because you're still going to get that land Esau's not going to inherit it. And it's not because Jacob deserves it. In fact, far from it. But he's going to get these blessings, not because of Jacob, but because of the grace of God. Because God is good. He said the land, he said, I'm going to multiply your seed, and your seed was going to spread out all over. And then here's the greatest promise of all, perhaps, where God said in verse 15, he said, and I behold, and behold, there's the next behold, by the way. A fourth one. And behold, this is the biggest shocker. You would think that someone like Jacob uh would not get this, but God says, you know what, I'm going to be with you. I'm going to be with you. You may have made bad decisions. You may have lied. You may have schemed, but my grace is going to meet you where you are. I'm going to continue to work my plan in your life. And you know what, Jacob? I am going to be with you. I'm going to be with you. And I'm going to keep you in all the places where you go. And I'm going to bring you again into this land. I'm going to do all that I have promised to do. Man, what an incredible Promise this was. You see, God had a plan for Jacob's life, and God was going to see to it that he was going to fulfill that plan. Listen, he that's begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ God's not going to give up on you. And your life is not messed up beyond repair. In fact, God's got you right where he wants you, and he wants to bless you. Not because you deserve it, because none of us deserve it, but because he's a God of grace. And he will bless you. He wants to bless you. All things work together for good to those that love God. And God said, Jacob, you're going to come back into this land. And so here is just an incredible. promise from Almighty God that made his future so bright. Reminds me of Adniram Judson, the great missionary. He went to Burma, he labored long, he prayed, he fasted, he witnessed. But rather than souls coming to Jesus, one bad thing happened after another. He was arrested. He was tortured. He was strung up in prison. And finally he was cut down and cast into a vile, filthy prison, just a hole, just a cage. And his tormentors whispered to him while he was laying there in that prison. And they said, What do you think about your plans now to win the loss to Christ? What do you think about your plans now? And Adam and Iron Judson said these words, my future is as bright as the promises of God. Isn't that a good response? And this is true. Jacob could say the same thing. His future is bright because of God's promises. Now let me give you the last thing We learn, we pay the consequences for a bad decision, a sorrowful venture, a spectacular vision. God's grace meets us at the point of our need. A surprising voice. God desires to bless us even when we don't deserve it. But I want you to see the final scene here in this narrative. A sincere vow. And here's the lesson. When God's grace meets us at the point of our need and blesses us when we don't deserve it, here's the thing. We should respond properly. We should respond properly. Because notice what happens in the rest of the story. Look at verse 16. And Jacob waked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely. The Lord is in this place. And I knew it not. And he was afraid. And he said, How dreadful is this place? This is none other but the house of God. This is the gate of heaven. And so when Jacob awakes, he's got several responses here to this vision. Number one, fear He's astonished. Be like the rest of us. I mean, he's just filled with fear. And really it's kind of just kind of a reverence and awe Uh and and I think he's just astonished at all of what he had just seen and heard. The fact that God will bless him, the fact that God will be with him, even though he's messed things up. God said that he's gonna be in this He's going to be with him. And he's just filled with kind of a reverential ear of fear. Notice what he says in verse number 17 He said, How dreadful is this place? We would probably say it like this, how awesome is this place? This is awesome. This is incredible. This place, what happened here? He's just overcome. He's shocked. There's a reverential fear and awe that God would come and bless him. So but then there was worship. Because look at verse 18. And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and he took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar And poured oil on the top of it. And so what's he doing here? He's kind of memorializing that very spot. He's kind of saying, boy, this is a special place here. And by taking those stones that he used as a pillow to rest on, he pours oil on it. And I think there's kind of a symbolic expression of that In the sense that just as he's pouring out oil on that rock, in the sense he's saying, God, I'm going to pour out my life then before you This is a full dedication of himself to God. He was consecrating that spot and he was giving himself over to the Lord. This is the point in Jacob's life where his father's God became his God. And you know why I tell the young people all the time, you can only serve your parents' God for so long. There's got to be an experience and a point in your life where the God of your mom and dad becomes your God. Where it becomes real with you. You're not serving now at a family duty. You're not doing what you do. You don't come to church at a family duty. You come because that God is now your God. And this is what happens here to Jacob. It's no longer his grandfather's God and his father's God. Now he becomes his God And so notice the vow that he gives. Look down in verse number 19. And he called the name of the place Bethel, which is of course house of God. And but the name of the city was called Luz at first. And look at verse 20. And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me and will keep me in this way, then Or that I will go and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, so that I come into my father's house in peace, then shall the Lord be my God. In other words, he makes this doubt. He dedicates himself to the Lord, and he says, God, I'm going to serve you and you alone. I've read some commentators that say that, you know, basically he's still scheming here and he's bargaining with God. You know, God, you're going to do all this for me. Then I'll make you my God, like he's still scheming with God. But I don't think that's what's happening here because the idea here is not the if God you do this, it's more like since And basically we say it like this, since God will be with me and will keep me and will give me bread to eat and raiment to put on, that kind of tells you what he was worried about, right? That's what young people worry about when they leave house. I just want to be able to eat and wear nice clothes. And God, if you are going to feed me and you're going to take care of me and you're going to watch over me and be with me since you were going to do this. Then you are gonna be my God. He made a vow to the Lord and Look in verse 22. And this stone which I have set up for a pillar shall be God's house. And of all that thou shalt give me, I surely will give the tenth unto thee. Which again is a symbol of his devotion and dedication to God, that he's going to serve God and God alone. And friend, again, the lesson is when God's grace meets us at the point of our need. And God promises to bless us even when we don't deserve it. You know our response should be it should be a proper response. It should be a response of reverential fear. It should be a response of worship. It should be a response of dedication. It should be a response of God, I'm going to serve you and you alone. I'm going to pour out my life unto you. And you will be my God. I give myself completely to you. And you know what you'll find as you read through the rest of the life of Jacob in the Bible here? You're going to find out that, you know, his things weren't exactly perfect after that. He continued to make his share of mistakes, but you know what? God was faithful to him. And God did everything he promised. And you know what? God did bless Jacob. He blessed Jacob beyond what he could ever think. He blessed Jacob beyond perhaps how Jacob could even comprehend. God indeed was with him. And friend, that's the message I want you to take with you tonight. God's able to bless your life. You say, I messed up. You didn't mess up beyond what God can do. God's grace can meet you right where you are. God wants to bless you. And friends, since that is true, you know what? You need to respond with reverential fear, with absolute devotion, and worship To Almighty God. Amen. Give yourself to Him. Let God take care of your life. Let Him do in your life what He wants to do. And friend, He will bless you. Sometimes I wonder if John Newton. Wrote Amazing Grace after he read about Jacob. Because to me, there's such a parallel. Here's John Newton. Grew up in a Christian home. He walked away from all of it He was given over to sin, even became a slave trader, just a terrible, horrible sinner. And one day when the ship that he was on faltered and he felt like his life was over and he was down in that ship trying to pump the water out. Fearing for his life, all of what he had learned as a child, all of the truth of the gospel that he had been taught, it all came to her at that came to him at that moment And a life that he thought was absolutely messed up and totally no good, when he gave himself to the Lord, God totally transformed him. And made him a great, great man. And now we sing the hymn that he wrote Amazing Grace, how sweet to sound, that saved a wretch like me. I think Jacob, if he knew the words of that song, he probably would have sang it there at Bethel that night. Amazing grace, God's grace, will meet you exactly where you are. Let's let's Maybe you're here tonight And maybe you had some of the thoughts that Jacob perhaps had in this story. I've messed up. I've made bad decisions. My life is beyond repair. I promise you, friend, by the authority of the Word of God, it's not God is able to take a messed up life and make it a blessed up life. God is able to make up the years that the locusts have eaten. And God's grace wants to meet you right there where you are. You don't have to say, well, I gotta meet God where he is. No, God will meet you where you are. You don't have to prepare for that. God's already there in front of you. God's come right to where you are, and He's reaching out with His grace. And he's saying, look, you may have thought that you've messed up beyond repair, but it's not. If you just give me your ashes, I'll make beauty out of it. Give me your your brokenness and I'll bless you. Give me your the years that the locusts have eaten. I I I'll make it up. And friend, if you'll do that, if God's grace will meet you where you are, are you willing? Will you just say, okay, Lord, then you're going to be my God? Then I will serve you. And you're not going to be just my parents, God, you'll be my God. Maybe God's speaking to you tonight. Would you just right there? Just talk to him, tell him, Lord, I'm giving you. My life. Do your will, do your work in my life. Take this messed up life, Lord, and turn it around. Glory. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. We are so grateful that you're a God of grace. It's beyond our comprehension, really. Your grace, indeed, it is amazing. It's amazing. Thank you, Lord, for what you're doing. Thank you, Lord, that we can leave with this promise that you'll be with us And you'll help us, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen