It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open up to the Old Testament book of Zechariah. Let me tell you how to get there. Go to Matthew and make a left. Go back to Old Testament books. You'll come to Malachi, and then you'll come back to Zechariah, a great Old Testament prophet, and uh we'll be spending a few weeks here in this uh wonderful book. And uh so much that we can learn from it. Tonight I want to talk about Turn to Me. Turn to me. Zechariah chapter 1. Verse 1, in the eighth month of the second year of Darius came the word of the Lord unto Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, the son of Edo, the prophet, saying, The Lord hath been disordered displeased with your fathers. Therefore saith thou unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, turn ye unto me, saith the Lord of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. Robert Blake was a young man I met in Bible college. I met a lot of interesting people when I was in Bible college. Robert was from Kentucky, and he spoke, when he spoke, it was pretty clear. He spoke with a really thick Southern accent. And uh but you know when he spoke he he had a humility about him, kind of an innocence about him. And uh he was assigned to my dorm uh as a freshman. I was kind of a dorm monitor, so he was put in my care, I guess you could say And Robert was a a man of prayer. He really was, zealous for the Lord, very spiritual, very devoted. He had, again, a sincerity about him that I thought was very unique. And he always seemed to have this angelic look about him. It was just something about him. It wasn't put on, it wasn't fake, it was just very, very real. I greatly ad admired him Because he had learned really to pray and depend upon the Lord for everything. And I could see that in his life. I remember clearly one Saturday morning, one frozen Saturday morning, w we were up in uh around the Chicago area, that's where our college was And those Saturday mornings can be pretty cold. We were getting ready to go out on church visitation. Robert, we were going to go in his car. Robert had a rather old Ford Falcon. I don't know if you remember those things. Really, really old with the wings and everything It was a white Ford Falcon and it would not start. There was four of us trying to go out and one guy raised the hood, took off the carburetor, and started beginning a s a steady stream of WD forty into the carburetor. Another guy was behind the wheel trying to start the car, turning the ignition over and over again. And Robert did the thing that he knew how to do. It was snowing out, but Robert got on his knees in the snow and he just began to pray. And you have to have to kind of my vision here. So I'm looking. There's Robert. Behind him is the car Robert's on his knees with an angelic look, his hands clasped. He's praying. Behind him is a guy sp spraying WD forty straight into the carburetor. Another guy's turning the engine on the inside. And as the Lord is my witness, uh a a suddenly a fire, a flame came out of the carburetor, and the car just began to start and run like a scalded dog. And I mean Robert was there and he didn't even turn around. He just said, thank you, Jesus, and that was it. And I was really, really impressed by that whole scene. I'll never forget it. But the thing that really uh about that car that I'll never forget was that it was white. And Robert had sprayed on the side, well actually on the hood, he had uh in red stenciled letters. Um there's only one way. On the back, on the back hood, it was Jesus is the only way. And on the doors on both sides, passenger side and driver's side, it said these words, turn or burn. Now, I'll be honest with you, I had to muster up some courage to get into that car. And it did garner some tension riding through some of the rough neighborhoods in Chicago. Thankfully we were able to successfully dodge all manner of projectiles that were thrown at us as we were driving. But whenever I think of and by the way we labeled that car affectionately the Repent Mobile Um whenever I think of uh repentance or I think of the word turn like we read here in the book of Zechariah, I think about that car. Turn or burn. That's a pretty direct message, is it not? And Zechariah, we could say, is kind of saying the same thing here as he starts out in his prophecy. He's saying in verse number three, turn unto me. This is God speaking. And verse four, turn ye now from your evil ways and evil doings. Now perhaps you're there thinking it's uh they're thinking And saying, you know, well, this message of turning to to me, well, this won't apply to me because I already know Christ. It might apply to a backslidden person, but not me. I mean I know the Lord and I'm not backslidden And so I'll listen to the message and you go ahead, preacher, and get it get get it all the rest of these people here. But this is not for me. But you have to remember that Zachariah is writing to people that were a lot like you. They were people that knew the Lord. For the most part, they believed that they were loyal to God. They had an allegiance to God. Zechariah ministered during the same time as Haggai the prophet. And this was a time during when 50,000 Jews made the commitment to return back to Jerusalem after the Babylonian captivity, and they were going back to reestablish the city of Jerusalem and to rebuild the temple. And in 536 they began the the reconstruction of that devastated temple. They laid the foundation and they were off to a good start. But then for suddenly they just stopped. And for sixteen years the work had been set aside. And meanwhile, everyone got caught up in the busyness of life. That that sounds like American Christians today. They're so busy they have no time for the things of God unless a crisis comes and then You know, we're w the house is filled with people that want to pray, but right now they're just too caught up in their own thing. Now you say, Well this is not intentional. Well, it wasn't intentional here with these people. They meant no harm. They just really didn't have a God first mentality. They really weren't desperate. to please the Lord. And so God raises up Haggai and Zechariah to stir up the leaders and to stir up the people to get them focused on what they should be focused on and to finish the work of God. God raises up Haggai first. He's an older prophet. And in Haggai chapter 1, he asks the question, is it time for you to dwell in your paneled houses and my house lie in waste? He preaches two sermons, and the people respond to Haggai's message. They begin to work again on the temple. And two months into the project, God raises up Zachariah the prophet. Now the date is significant that we see in verse number one. Two months into any volunteer project, you know, it it starts getting old with people and they need to hear a fresh word from the Lord. You know, when something new comes on, there's an excitement about it, but then you know after a while that excitement goes away and you know you just have to do it because you're committed and you have the character to finish it. But they're two months into the project and the people need a word from the Lord. They need hope and encouragement. They need the motivation that comes from knowing the project is worthwhile. And this is especially so when the people are a bunch of refugees returning to a devastated country and still surrounded by hostile neighbors. And so Zechariah's prophecy was directly to these people. Again, Haggai was an older prophet. He had preached to the people, but Zechariah is a young man. In fact, Zechariah 2. 4 calls him a young man. And he's been called the prophet of hope. Because his message is filled with encouragement, it is filled with hope, and especially regarding what God's future is for his people and the coming Messiah. Zachariah has more messianic prophecies in it than all of the other minor prophets combined. It's only second to Isaiah with regard to the number of references to Christ. And the New Testament alludes to Zechariah at least 41 times. And the message is uh that God has not forgotten his people, God has a future for his people, and God will accomplish his purposes. And so let me just give you real quick Run through of the book. And in chapter one, God will cause people to repent, verses one to six. We'll look at that. In chapters one to six, um What we'll see is that God encourages the people to trust in him. And what you see in the first six chapters of Zechariah is it gives eight visions. Eight visions that all convey the message of hope. Eight visions. And then by the time you get to chapter seven, God will further instruct his people. He'll talk to them about true fasting, obedience to the Word of God, and the future for Jerusalem. And then in chapter nine through chapter fourteen We see where God will talk about the coming Messiah. And in chapter 9 through chapter 14 of Zechariah, there'll be prophecies about his first advent, and then there'll be prophecies about his second advent. So there's hope with the coming Messiah. Christ is in the book of Zechariah, he's all over it in many aspects, the king, the stone, the sleigh soul for thirty pieces of silver. He's the smitten shepherd, the branch the glorious ruler and so on. But the message here from Zechariah again is one of hope. Now some have called Zechariah the revelation of the Old Testament. In the sense that it's kind of a difficult book to interpret, but we'll take that as it goes as we look at some of these visions in the book of Zechariah. But the overall message is encouragement to discourage people, to people that have the tendency to think that God has forgotten them. In fact, you can remember the theme of the book if you'll jot down just the Hebrew meanings of the names mentioned in verse 1. We see the name Zechariah, that means the whom the Lord remembers. Then we see the name Birakiah, that means the Lord blesses. And then we see the name Edo, that means at the appointed time. So you put those together, you get really the theme of the book. God remembers and blesses his people at his appointed time. And that's really the whole message of Zechariah. God remembers his people, God will bless his people, and he'll do it at the appointed time. Now this message applies to all of us, especially if you're discouraged. When you look around at the evil in the world and the apathy and the hostility towards the gospel, you may feel like God has forgotten you. But he hasn't. He remembers. He remembers you. He remembers his people. And he will bless in his appointed time. It's our job just to be faithful to him And so this is a very, very important message that God gives. But at the beginning of chapter one, the message is very simple. It is a call to repent. God is calling upon his people to repent. And that's what we see in the word turn. We see it several times. It's the Hebrew word turn or repent. We as God's people, we are a repentant people. Now that's the way we get saved. We come into the kingdom of God by repenting and putting our faith in Jesus, but that's not a one-time thing. You understand that, beloved? We live a life of continual repentance as the people of God. Every day we are repentant. Every day we are walking towards the Lord away from the world, whereas before we were walking towards the world away from the Lord. When we get saved, we re we repent, we turn, and that is a continual day-by-day repentance that we express to God. Now the people that Zechariah is writing to are probably thinking, do we need to repent? I mean, I thought we are already the people of God. Do we need to live a life of repentance? And Zechariah answers that question with a emphatic, yes, you do. And he's going to give us three reasons here why we need to turn to the Lord and live a life of continual repentance before the Lord. Here's reason number one. Because of God's wrath against all sinners. Look at verse 2. The Lord had been sore displeased with your fathers. In verse number 2. Now, again, the theme of the book of Zechariah, so it might seem odd that the first verses are talking about the fierce anger of God towards sinners. Sore displeased, that's a very strong impression. And in the Hebrew, there are three grammatical devices that tell us how this is so very strong. First, the verb sort is pleased is placed first in a sentence in Hebrew for emphasis. And then second, the Hebrew uses what is called the cognate accusative. You say, what is that what in the world is that? We could say it like this. He was angry with anger. Now that's pretty angry. When you're angry with anger, that's double emphasis there. You know. Um we get you know we would say today, boy, he was really, really enraged. God was mad. Third, the Hebrew word itself means to be full of wrath. Now many people don't like to think of God as a God of wrath. Is that your vision of him when you think of God? Most people, when they think of God, we love to think about his mercy, and rightfully so, thank God for his mercy. We live in a day, however, that emphasizes the love and the mercy of God to the extent that we forget totally about the fact that God is a God of wrath. And wrath is an expression of his holiness. He is a holy God, and therefore he is a God of wrath People like to say, well, God uh loves sinners, but he hates sin, as if to say somehow the sinner is never going to experience God's wrath. But beloved, it's the sinner that will be cast into hell that does not repent. And so we need to be careful how we say that. Forget that our God is a consuming fire. And that's true. God in His holiness does not wink at sin. He does not treat sin lightly. His terrible wrath is against all unrepentant sinners. And again, this is seen especially in light of the doctrine of an eternal hell. That should cause us to fear God and to fear sin. Now you say, well, wait a minute, you're talking about a message of hope. How does this relate to hope? Well, the divine warning that God gives is a prerequisite to his Acceptance of His offer of grace and our acceptance. Whenever you see God warning in Scripture, that is always a precursor to the fact that He's ready to pour out grace to those who will respond correctly to warnings about his divine wrath. In other words, a person must sense the serious danger they're in before they will accept the offer of God's grace and be rescued from that danger. When you see that you're about to perish because of your sins, the offer of mercy is so much more precious. But the problem is today, people don't really think they're in danger. Many people they just don't believe they're in danger. That's because all they hear about is this God of love, God of love, God of mercy. But when God presents his gospel in Romans, when Paul pre- re uh presents his gospel in Romans, it starts out by the wrath of God. Ray Pastor Ray Comfort illustrates it like this by picturing people on a commercial flight. He says the stewardess comes along and says, Sir, would you like to put on this parachute? It will make you your flight more comfortable. And the guy wants to, you know, have an enjoyable flight, so he puts it on. But the parachute is so uncomfortable, it's heavy, the straps chafe his neck and shoulders, he can't sit back in his seat The other passengers laugh at this silly-looking guy with his parachute on, and finally in disgust, he tears the parachute off, saying this thing is a nuisance. What Ray Ray Comfort says, what will change his opinion of that parachute and make him eager to put it on in spite of any discomfort or ridicule? Well the captain comes over to intercom and says, ladies and gentlemen, I regret to inform you that we've lost power to all of our engines. And you're going to need to abandon the plane immediately. And the stewardess begins to come around with some parachutes. At that point, everyone on that plane is eager to grab one of those parachutes. You know why? Because they understand that they're in danger. And the reason most people do not run to the offer of God's mercy and grace today is because they have no idea the danger that they're in. They have no idea of the fierce wrath of God. It's only when sinners realize the wrath of a holy God and how that if they don't repent and turn to God They will spend eternity in a hell. Only when they realize that will they cry out, What must I do to be saved? But they have to get that understanding first. You see, it's the bad news that makes the good news good. Understanding the bad news about where they are. Spurgeon put it this way. He who has stood before his God Convicted and condemned with a rope about his neck, is the man to weep for joy when he is pardoned, to hate the evil which he has been which has been forgiven him, and to live to the honor of the Redeemer by whose blood He has been cleansed. Thus, when we realize God's great wrath against us as sinners, we will be desperate to find a remedy And the way of salvation he's going to talk about. Let's go to point number two. Why should we live a life of repentance? Because of God's wrath against all sinners. That wrath is real. But number two, because of God's grace to all those who respond. Look at verse 3. Therefore say thou unto them, thus saith the Lord of hosts, turn ye unto me, saith the Lord of hosts. And I will turn unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. And again, turn is the Hebrew word, shov, and uh it means to turn away from something and to turn to something else. So it it's turning from sin, turning to God, reaching up to God at the same time. In order to have salvation, you have to let go of your sin. And this is repentance And repentance is something that we don't hear emphasized in the church today. Dr. Harry Ironside in 1937 wrote a book called Accept You Repent. And he said this the doctrine of repentance is the missing note in many otherwise orthodox and fundamentally sound churches. And he's right. You just don't hear about repentance. In fact, I've heard preachers get up and just totally butcher what repentance is and tell people, you know, all you have to do is just change your mind about Jesus. You don't have to really, you know, turn from all of your sin. You just have to turn from just unbelief. And they and you don't really hear preaching about the true doctrine of repentance today. Some people think it is something that, you know, when you preach it, you're adding works to salvation, but that's far from the truth. In fact, there's a large seminar here in the U. S. where the entire organization teaches that repentance has no part in the gospel. Has no part in the gospel. It's totally distinct from the gospel. It undermines the doctrine of justification by faith. That's ironic since John the Baptist came preaching repentance. And Jesus began his earthly ministry by preaching repentance. And then justification is equal to repentance in Scripture. What does the Bible say in Luke 15, 7? I say unto you, there likewise there shall be joy in heaven over uh there shall there shall be joy in heaven over one sinner that What? Repents. And that is being saved. How does the Bible describe being saved? It's a sinner who repents Repentance is equal to the doctrine of justification. Peter also equates repentance with being saved. He says this in 2 Peter 3. 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. As some man counts flatness, but his long suffering to us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to what? Repentance. And repentance there is again a summary word that means salvation. Fifty times the word repentance or repentance repent is used in the writings of Paul. It's used by Peter as well. It occurs many other times in the New Testament. And so this is at the very center of the gospel. Of Jesus Christ that we live in repentance. And uh, but also, as I said before, we don't just repent one time, we repent continually. We turn to the Lord initially at salvation, but the rest of our life is one where we're walking towards the Lord and we are living a sanctified life and we are continually repenting of sin in our life. It is a lifelong call of walking toward the Lord. That's what Zechariah is talking about To turn to me, God says. Turn to me. Now I want you to see the Lord's initiative here in verse 3 because it's important to note that God takes the initiative in this promise, in this process. He invites us to return to him. Again, verse 3. Turn ye unto me, says the Lord of hosts, and I will turn unto you. Now notice that the Lord of hosts is used three times in verse 3. And this is the name that emphasizes the great sovereign God. The God who's mighty overall, and here is grace, beloved, that this great God would actually invite sinners to turn to Him That's incredible. He's not waiting for us to make the first move. He's not waiting for you to make the first move. God makes the first move, extending the offer of pardon to us. God calls upon all of us to turn to Him. It's our responsibility to respond to that. To make sure that you've turned to the Lord fully. Repentance is something God commands us to do, but it's also something God enables us to do. And in the New Testament, it's both a gift that God gives, it's also a responsibility that God commands. It's a duty of all men, the Bible says, to repent. But notice it's a personal appeal. Notice it says, return to me. Turn to me, God says God's not asking him to turn to the law or to turn to some code or to turn to some religious system. This is a personal appeal. God says, turn to me. This is what God wants. He wants you to turn fully to him. And this reminds us of the story of the prodigal son, where when he is uh sunk so low, that the only hope that he has in his heart is maybe he can go back to his father's house and just be a hired servant. And when he returns, the father, what does he do? He receives the Son to him himself personally, not as a servant, but to himself. That's what God desires. He wants Sinners to come to Him. This is a personal invitation for an intimate relationship with Almighty God Don't think that your sin disqualifies you. Oh no, God is a forgiving God. He's a merciful God. And God will hear the cry of someone who is contrite and truly turning to Him. That's what God wants. It's a personal call to come to him, return to me. If you put your trust in God, his arms are open wide Charles Simeon put it this way, search in the expired volume, search the annals of the whole world, and find, if you can, one morning and believe and believing penitent whom he cast out. Or find, if you can, any limit to his mercy and grace. And of course there is none. And God turns away no one who truly turns to him. And so Zechariah shows us our desperate need to make sure that we turn to the Lord personally. We must turn to the Lord because of God's wrath against all sinners. We must turn to the Lord because of God's grace to all those who respond. But here's the third point that we see here, the final point. We must turn to the Lord because of God's warning about past history. Now Zachariah the prophet looks back to the history of the people of Israel and he brings three warnings based on what he sees in their past. And the whole idea that he gives here is look, we need to learn from the mistakes of the past. What's the old saying, those who don't re learn from history are doomed to repeat it? God in essence is saying it doesn't have to be with you with you as it was with your fathers. If you look back, you'll remember how your fathers acted when I called them to turn to me. The prophets cried out, and they refused to hear. And so there's three warnings that he gives here. The warning about disobedience, look at verse 4. Be ye not as your fathers Unto whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, turn ye now from your evil ways and from your evil doings. But they did not hear nor hearken unto me, says the Lord. So here's a warning about disobedience. Disobedience. Fathers refers to their ancestors, those who were really responsible for the Babylonian captivity when Israel was carried away. And God says, look, I spoke plainly, I warned them, I spoke through the prophets, I gave them many prophets. And the message was clear. Turn you from your evil ways and your evil doings. This was especially true in the ministry of the prophet Jeremiah. who preached just before Israel was destroyed and the people were carried away into captivity. Do you remember Jeremiah's ministry? He delivered God's message in two ways. He used sermons and he used signs. And Jeremiah chapter 7, he stood in front of the temple and basically said, This whole thing's coming down. The people laughed at him And Jeremiah says, if you don't think this can happen, go to Shiloh and look what look what look at Shiloh now, where the tabernacle used to be. Look at it. It's in ruins. This temple's coming down. If you don't repent, this whole thing's coming down. The people laughed But he he communicated another way. God would ask Jeremiah to do signs. He would ask him to do what I call an active parables just as object lessons to these people. Why did he need to do that? Because the people were so hard-hearted they wouldn't listen, so Jeremiah had to use object lessons. Okay? And so and so to get the point across. So one time God said to Jeremiah, go down to the potter's house And watch the pottery he's gonna make a vessel on a wheel. You remember that, Jeremiah 18? You know, we love we would write songs about that. You know, he's still working on me, yada yada But that whole that whole story was about how God told Jeremiah, get that vessel when he's done with it, take it down to the valley of Hinnem and smash it. Smash it. Alright? That's not a feel-good parable there. This is about about judgment. And Jeremiah takes it to the valley of Hinn and he smashes it, and then he says, This is what God is going to do to you. Because you have not repented. And then also he said to Jeremiah, get a yoke, put it around your neck, walk around the streets and saying, this is going to happen to you. A yoke that a farmer would use to put on oxen. And that's what Jeremiah did. He walked around Jerusalem for days. The people would laugh. And Jeremiah said, This is going to happen to you. You're going to be carried away in change. And then one time God said to Jeremiah, go and buy a linen sash and wear it. Now We would not think much of that, but you remember the garb of prophets, they wore this, you know, strong wool kind of rough kind of wool clothing. You know, a sash was something that a a priest would wear that is dressed up for the temple. You know, he wears nice white robe and a beautiful sash. They had all kind of beautiful linen sashes, you know. And so Jeremiah wearing a sash, that would have been out of place. It would have caught people's attention. Kind of like an auto mechanic wearing a $100 silk tie. You know, why would you wear that? You know, you're gonna work in you know the dirt and everything, you know. It doesn't fit. And here's Jeremiah walking around with this sash, and the people are saying, you know, why are you wearing that sash? And then God said, Jeremiah, don't wash it. Don't wash it in water, just keep wearing it. And you can imagine after walking those dusty streets of Jerusalem, that thing got pretty dirty. And then God said, Jeremiah, I want you to take it down to the river Euphrates and bury it. You want me to do what? River Euphrates? That was 350 miles away. Take it down to the River Euphrat Euphrates, bury it by a rock. He takes that 350-mile journey, buries it, comes back, and the people in Jerusalem are saying, Hey, what happened to that nice Ashahad? And then God says, Jeremiah, go back down to the river and dig it up. Go back again. So he makes another 350-mile trip down, digs it back up, brings it back. Just to give you some perspective, it took Ezra three months to make that trip from Jer Jerusalem to Babylon. And now he shows the people this marred sash. And the people are like, what is this? And Jeremiah says, this is you. This is you. This is what's going to happen to you. You know what dirt is to the body, sin is to the soul, and as this sash got soiled and corrupted. Because you love your sin, that's what's happening to you. And one day God's going to take you down to a land by the river Euphrates and bury you there. What was that? That was exile. Carrying them off into captivity. So time after time, God through his prophets warned the people. And what was their response? Again in verse number four, the end of verse four, but they did not hear, nor hearken unto me, saith the Lord. It doesn't matter how many prophets God sent. It doesn't matter how clear God was in his directives, that Jeremiah would use object lessons so that even the smallest child could understand what Jeremiah was saying. Still, they did not repent. And so here, God is saying to the people, in that present generation, don't make the same mistakes that your fathers made. You know, and and that really goes for us too. You know, if you grew up in a godly family, that's wonderful. Thank God for it. If you didn't grow up in a godly family, be careful that you don't make the same mistakes that perhaps your parents made. Or even if you had godly parents, they make mistakes. We all make mistakes. Learn from the mistakes of your ancestors Don't follow your parents' sins. This is what he's saying to these people here is a warning about disobedience. But then a warning about delay. Look at verse 5. Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever? And the point Zechariah makes here is that spiritual opportunities do not last forever. So he asked the question about their ancestors. Where are they now? Where are they? He asked the question about the prophets. Are the prophets around? Do they live forever? Guess what? Fathers die, ancestors die, prophets don't minister forever, they have their allotted time. And the whole point here is the window of opportunity that God gives for people to repent is cl closes. And the the the time could go by. If you don't respond obediently to the Lord today, you may not have tomorrow You don't know that. It's so easy to be a spiritual procrastinator. We deceive ourselves. We say, I'll deal with this later. I'll get right with God, you know, when I work through some other issues that I'm facing, but that's often fatal. Don't do that When God points out something in your life you need to do it, deal with it immediately. Don't wait. That's a fatal mistake If the Lord is tugging at your heart saying, turn to me, don't put that off. Do it now. And then finally, there's a warning about this discipline. Look at verse 6. But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants, the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers? And they returned and said, like as the Lord of hosts thought to do unto us, according to our ways and according to our doing, so hath he dealt with us. After the nation was destroyed, after the people were carried off into captivity, you know what? They came to their senses as fathers did that generation. They finally came to their senses. And while they were in captivity, they said, You know what? Uh Jeremiah was right. The prophets were right. God was right. We should have listened. They had to admit that God did what was righteous. God did the right thing. True repentance always exonerates God and accepts full responsibility for our own sin When God's word warns us of his discipline on our sin, it's not an idle threat. God will not overlook sin. God did not overlook the sins of their fathers. And you can rest assured that God will not overlook their sin. And he will not overlook our sin. The idea here is be sure your sin will find you out. God always wins. So it's futile to think that you can get away with your sin. You cannot dodge God's word when it warns. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. And so this is the history of God's dealing with his people, and it should teach us as well To make sure that we've turned to the Lord, that we're living a life of continual repentance. Three reasons we turn to the Lord, because of God's wrath against all sinners. Because of God's grace to all those who respond, because of God's warnings about past history. And so the message to us is to live a life of continual repentance, where we make a complete, total turn to the Lord. Now we often may hear evangelists call lost sinners to repent, but we don't really hear pastors calling God's people to repent. But this is what Zechariah does. Vance Habner said this, the last word of our Lord to the church is not the Great Commission. The Great Commission is indeed our program to the end of the age. But our Lord's last word to the church is repent to the church. It's one thing to ask God to bless us. It's quite another thing to to be the kind of people that He can bless. And you know what? You know who God blesses? People that have a continual, contrite repentance towards God, that are truly turning to Him with all their heart. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, thank you for this word. It's so very clear that Zachariah gives. At the very beginning of this prophecy to people so many years ago, and yet, Lord, it's something that we need to hear today. Father, may we turn to you with all our heart May there be no sin that we hold on to or linger with or play with or put off, mortifying, getting out of our life. It's a fearful thing, Lord, to delay on getting right with you about things that you convict us about And Lord, may we take heed to the warning that Zechariah gives. Lord, you want to bless a people. You want to give hope to your people, but That hope is only available to those who turn to you with all their heart. And Father, we need hope more than anything else. We need the hope that you offer through your word, through Jesus Christ. And so, Father, I pray for those here tonight, or maybe some here tonight that need hope for a certain problem in their life. They need you, Lord, to just desperately enter in and to take care of this issue. Father, I pray for that individual, that soul, that first step would be to make sure that they're turning to you with all their heart So Father, use this word to speak to hearts tonight, Father, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen