James chapter four. Our passage today is the one that we read a moment ago, verses one through twelve. And it's really talking about warfare, and I want to preach today on the topic turning warfare into worship. And brother and sister, we're fist fighting The mother came into the room and she separated them and then she scolded them and she said, Shame on you for fighting like that with one another. Who started this fight? And the little girl said, Mom, it all started when he hit me back Did you ever wonder how wars start? We live in a world where there's warfare and fighting all over. A group of academics and historians was compiling a list of information and they listed that since 3600 BC, the world has known only 292 years of peace. According to their investigation, there have been 14,351 wars in the world in which 3. 64 billion people have been killed. And really that's kind of an old statistic. You can add to that the last 25 years of wars that we have had. Since Adam and Eve left the garden, we have been in a world where there is warfare, since Cain slew Abel. James asked the question in verse number one, where do these wars come from? Now James was obviously dealing with believers in his time that were having trouble getting along. He mentions certain warfares in the epistle, if you look at it closely, certain conflicts that were taking place to the b in the lives of the believers that he was writing to. There were class warfares. In chapter two, we saw that the rich were ignoring the poor. Employment warfare. In chapter five, James will rebuke the rich, the employers, for holding out wages on the employees So there were employment warfare, there were church wars. There were some in the church that had their own agenda that uh wanted leadership for their own selfish ambition. And there were personal wars we see here at the end of chapter four They're speaking evil one of another. Now, if anybody should get along, it should be the people of God. It should be the church. But sometimes, sadly, that's not the case. Someone wrote, to dwell above with the saints I love, oh that will be glory. But to live below with the saints I know, now brother, that's another story. But the truth of the matter is, it shouldn't be. I read about one church where a division broke out in the area of the Lord's Supper, how they would celebrate the Lord's Supper of all areas for division to break out This Lord's Supper is a unifying factor where we all come together. But this one church they couldn't agree on whether you should use one cup One one group in the church said we should all use the same cup in the Lord's Supper, drinking out of the same cup. And then another group believed in using many cups that the The uh unity of the celebration would not be broken by using many cups. So you had two groups in the church. You had the one cuppers and the many cuppers in the church. And Billy Sunday, after seeing such conflict, said, It's amazing God is doing as well as He is with the crowd he has to work with Well, James wants us to learn about warfare and conflict. And he wants to end it. He wants to end warfare in our own life at least. He wants to turn our warfare into worship. And what we see here in James chapter 4 are really three considerations that he gives us. He wants us to consider the cause of conflict, then he wants us to consider the consequences of conflict. And then to consider the cure. So I want us to look at these three areas here today. First of all, consider the cause. Look again in verse number one. From whence come wars and fightings among you Now James asked the question, but he gives a very simple answer. It's not rocket science. Come they not hence, even of your your lust, that war in your members? The problem is very simple. James says, the war starts inside of us. The problem is in us. We are the problem. It is our own lusts. It is that which is warring inside of us. Heard about a man that was marooned on a desert a desert island that was desolate. He was there for five years and finally he was found and rescued. And when the rescuers came with the boat, they noticed that there were three huts on the desert desolate island And uh one of their rescuers said, W why I thought you were alone, why are there three huts? He said, Well that first hut is my home. The second hut is the church where I would go to worship. They said, What about the third hut? He said, Oh, we had a split in that church. And I had to start another church. The problem is ourself. James says we are the source of conflict. It's just plain old selfishness. Someone said a person wrapped up in their self makes a very small package. James said it's your lust that were in your members. The word for lust here is a very strong inward desire. It's a desire to have what someone else has. In other places it's translated covetousness. Since the fall in the Garden of Eden, there has been an inordinate selfishness that has been in the fallen heart of man, a desire to have more And I want to tell you, I think selfishness is the great destroyer in our world. Selfishness has broken up marriages. It has broken up families. It has destroyed relationships. It has divided churches. It is a destroyer. I often refer to this, but it's so funny to me. You ever heard of the property laws of a toddler? Some say this demonstrates the defallenness of man, the sinfulness of man, or the ten property laws of toddlers. And this is how they go. If I like it, it's mine. If it's in my hand, it's mine. If I can take it from you, it's mine. If I had it a little while ago, it's mine. If it's mine, it must never appear to be yours in any way. If I am doing and or building something, all the pieces are mine. If it looks like mine, it's mine. If I saw it first, it's mine. If you're playing with something and you put it down, it automatically becomes mine. And if it's broke, it's yours. That is the essence of selfishness. And it starts in the heart. So here in chapter one, James gives us Just some cause and effect statements here. And really he gives us three comments about internal conflict. He talks about uncontrolled desire, where it says that even of the of your lust, which war and your members First of all, it starts with that lust. The word for lust is hedon, where we get the word hedonism. That's the desire to fulfill pleasure, to go after pleasure. It's always used in a negative sense. It's this fulfilling of ungodly desires. The Bible says in the last days, men shall be lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. So this is a person who is ruled by desire. It is uncontrolled desire. It might be a desire for power, a desire for popularity. They want it so much they're even willing to kill. Look at verse 2. Ye lust and ye have not, and ye kill Here's a person that is so overwhelmed by desire that they want to get it so bad that they're willing to commit the sin of murder to do it. This is where we read of dictators who are so hungry for power they're willing to kill to get it. So there's uncontrolled desire, there's unfulfilled desire. In verse 2, ye lust and ye have not and desire to have and ye cannot obtain, so you fight and you war. So here's the effect. You want something so bad and you can't get it, and so you're willing to fight and you're willing to war to get it. And the word for fight here is macho mize, where we get the word macho. Always ready to fight. Whenever you don't get what you want, you're ready to fight, you're ready to argue, you're ready to quarrel, you're ready to bring anyone else under submission to you that's not willing to give you what you want. A mother was preparing pancakes for her son, Kevin, who was five, and Ryan, who was three, and they began to argue over who would get the first pancake. And the mother thought this was a time to teach a spiritual lesson. And so she said, you know, if Jesus were here, he would say, let my brother have the first pancake. I can wait. So Kevin looked at Ryan and said, Ryan, you be Jesus. That's what we want. We want others to be Jesus. Sometimes we want what we want when we want it is uncontrolled desire, unfulfilled desire, and then unanswered desire. Look again in verse 2. Ye lust and ye have not, ye kill. And desire to have, and cannot obtain, ye fight in war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not, in verse three, and ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye might consume it upon your lust See, selfishness leads to wrong praying. When our praying is wrong, the whole Christian life is wrong. Now it's well been said that the purpose of prayer is not to get man's will done in heaven, but to get God's will done on earth. That's the purpose. But many Christians treat prayer like it's some kind of an Aladdin's lamp, like God is a genie, he's going to give us whatever we want. And so we come to God in a very selfish way. We have our wish list and we say, God, here it is. But that's not the way Jesus taught us to pray. He taught us to pray, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. On earth as it is in heaven. In other words, God, you do what you want, not what I want. That's the bottom line in prayer. Prayer is accomplishing God's will on earth The way God wants it done. Really, the Lord's Prayer is six petitions. The first three have to do with God's name and God's kingdom and God's will and his glory. Then give us this day our daily bread. First it's His name, but when we pray, we pray my name, my kingdom, my glory. That's selfish praying. And James says the result of this kind of praying is you get nothing. You get nothing. You see, when you say thy kingdom come, you have to say my kingdom go. God, I'm concerned about your kingdom, not my kingdom. I read about a bird in the South Sea Alleys. It's called the Meme bird. And this reason it's called that is because of this that's the sound it makes. Me, me, me. I've never been to the South Sea Islands, but I've heard some Christians pray. And they sound like the me-me bird. It's all about me. But James says when you pray like that, you receive not because you ask a mis that you might consume it upon your lust. This is the cause of conflict. But then write down number two the consequences What does this lead to? Well, James tells us. Look at verse 4. He uses some very strong words here. First, it leads to rebellion against God. Verse four, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Now again, this is strong language James says, you adulterers, you adulteresses, how would you like it if I came up one morning and said, okay, all you adulterers and adulteresses, take your Bible. That wouldn't be very nice. It's pretty strong, but that's what James says here. It gives you the idea that he may be a little bit angry with righteous indignation. when he says that. Why does he use these expressions here? You see, because when you get saved, you become part of the body or the bride of Christ, I should say. There's a sense in which spiritually you're married to Christ Therefore, you are to be faithful to him. But when a believer is flirting with the world, they are committing spiritual adultery. Now the Jewish Christians to whom James is writing this too understood this because in the Old Testament, many times God called Israel spiritual adulterers because they were committing idolatry. And so James is using this same analogy here for Christians. If you belong to Jesus Christ, then you are the bride of Christ. And for you to make friendship with the world, to shake hands with the world. is to insult the Lord Jesus. Is to become an adulterer or an adulteress. And that's why James uses that expression. You see, you can't have it both ways. You can't have one foot in the world and one foot in Christ. You can't do that. The Bible says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. You can't have both And so James is rebuking these Christians who are at war. They're so much in war in their soul that they're willing to live in the world to get what they want instead of living for Christ. And so that's why you see so many Christians sometimes that are unhappy, they're depressed, they're unsatisfied, they're joyless. They're argumentative, they're fighting because the strife is really in their heart. They're trying to live on one hand for Christ and on the other hand in the world, and it just does not work It's not going to work. So there's a hostility towards God. God doesn't give you what you want. You turn to the world. You commit spiritual adultery, and the conflict in you continues. There's a hostility towards God. There's a disregard for Scripture. Look in verse 5. Do you think that the Scripture saith in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? Not only hostility towards God, but a disregard for Scripture Now this verse is difficult difficult to interpret and translate, but it simply I think means this. I think James is referring to Scripture in general. James is saying, don't you know that in general the Scripture affirms that you have within you a spirit that that lust, the spirit that dwelleth in us, lusteth to envy, James would be saying, don't you know that you yourselves are proof of the veracity of Scripture? Which clearly teaches that the natural man has within his heart a spirit of envy of covetousness, of lust. Doesn't the Bible affirm that? And of course the answer is yes. Anyone who's in conflict with God, you're simply affirming what the scripture teaches about the spirit of man. That there's a spirit of envy in that person, a spirit of lust. But we disregard the Bible. There's hostility towards God. A disregard of the scripture, but then pride. Look at verse number 6. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. but give it grace to the humble. Now our God is always willing to give his grace, but he's not going to give it to a proud person. God resists the proud. And the word for resist here is a military term To set your armies against is the idea there. And the word for proud here is a combination of two words, hyper, which is above, fano, which means to appear, and to put that together you get the idea of to appear to be above. This is someone who walks around thinking they're above other people. It's a proud look that the Bible talks about in the book of Proverbs, and the Bible says God hates a proud look. And God will resist the proud. Now let me tell you something. God's always willing to share his grace, but he's not going to share it with a proud person. If you want the grace of God, you must humble yourself. We come into the kingdom by being poor in spirit. The Bible says, blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are the meats. These are the beatitudes that Jesus gave. And I think James may be referring to them here with these words that he's giving us. These beatitudes are the humble spirit that a person has, when they first come into the kingdom, they they are poor in spirit, they're meek, they mourn over their sin. That's the attitude of someone who truly comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. And someone like that, God will give grace to, but he will not give it to the proud. So we go to our third point. We see the cause of conflict, uncontrolled desire, unfulfilled desire, unanswered desire. We see the consequences of conflict, hostility towards God, disregard of the scripture, pride. What's the cure You want to end conflict in your own heart, in your own life. What is the cure? Well, in these last four verses, James gives us some just quick fire commands. All these things we're going to see in these next few verses are quick commands. They're all Greek aorist imperatives. The imperative is a form of command. They're aorist. It happens at one moment. At one moment, God says, you do this. He commands us to do this. And what do they include? Well, first of all, just write down submit. Look at verse 7. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. James says, if you want to resolve conflict in your life, it starts with you being willing to submit to God. Now we live in a world that tells you to be assertive. You can go to seminars and it will tell you how to be strong and assertive. But I've never been to a seminar that tells you how to be humble I've never heard of a seminar that tells you how to be humble, but this is a biblical concept. Submission is the essence of life. We all have to learn to submit, or we're going to have constant conflict And the first thing we have to do is we have to submit to God. And I really believe that what James is referring to here is in salvation. I think really all these commands are in reference to salvation coming to Christ and the first thing you do is you submit. You know, all the world's religions teach that you have to do something to get saved. And you know what they do? They appeal to a person's pride. There's something I can do to save myself. Christianity is the only religion that says there's nothing you can do. Except to submit to God and accept what Jesus Christ has always done. Religion appeals to pride. Christianity is Appeals to humility. You must humble yourself. And you must realize there is nothing you could ever do to save yourself. Everything that was done was done by Jesus Christ. Christ, and therefore you must humbly come, realizing that you're a sinner, there is nothing you can do. Humble yourself before Him and receive what He has already accomplished for you on the cross That's submitting to God. Submit and then stand. Look again in verse number 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. Which literally means stand against and he will flee. And I think really this is the other side of the coin. When you submit to God, you in r in reverse you are resisting the devil when you submit to God. The devil's the one that wants you to act in pride. That's his chief sin, pride. And he whispers in your ear that you deserve more, that you can do this But when you submit to God in humility, you resist the devil. Submit, stand but then's teeth. Look in verse 8. Draw near to God And he will draw near to you. This is an invitation to have close fellowship with the living, eternal God. Did you know that the infinite almighty God wants to have fellowship with you? And he says, draw nigh to God. God will draw nigh to you. You know what? You're as close to the Lord as you want to be here this morning. Because when you make a movement towards God, God takes a step towards you. Draw mighty God. We submit We stand, we seek, we sanctify in verse 8. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Thirty hands in the Old Testament was a sign of an unrepentant heart And the Bible speaks about that. Your hands are full of blood, Isaiah chapter 1. When you come to God and you pray and you lift up hands and there's sin in your heart, God says, your hands are full of blood. A unclean heart and equaled dirty hands. And so you have to cleanse your hands, your heart and your hands when you come to God. Psalm 1820, the Lord rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands, hath he recompensed me. And there's only one way For you to clean your heart or your hands, and that's through the precious blood of Christ. That's the only way. It is through what Jesus has done for us. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us To cleanse us. So we have to submit to God. We stand against the devil. We seek the Lord. We draw near to him. We sanctify and then we sorrow. Look in verse number nine. Be afflicted and mourn. And weep, and let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. And these are words that are normally used in the context of great sorrow, like a funeral. James is saying, Weep and mourn over what? Over your sins That's the way we come to God. We weep over our sin or over the unrighteousness. I heard about an old preacher who was told in one of the cong one of the services that a certain person had found joy. That was another way of saying they got saved. They found joy. And his response was, well did they get have any sorrow? Because sorrow normally comes before joy in this matter of salvation. You should grieve and weep and mourn over your sin. What did Jesus say? Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be what? They shall be comforted. When we mourn over our sin before God, God forgives those sin and He gives us joy. But first there has to be that repented heart. You know, I've heard of these laughing revivals that are out there which to me are ridiculous. Revival doesn't come through laughing. It comes through mourning over sin in your life Like the publican in the temple who said, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said, that man went away justified. But here's the next thing, surrender. Surrender. Look at verse 10. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. And again, I can't help but see a parallel in the words of James and the Sermon on the Mount. When you come to God humbly, He exalts you. When you are poor in spirit, Jesus said, theirs is the kingdom. Blessed are they that mourn, they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, they shall inherit the earth. You see the humbling and the exalting from God When we humble, God exalts us. So we surrender to Him. And then silence, look in verse 11. Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judges his brother speaks evil of the law and judges the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. There is one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who art thou that judgest another? And there's so much like I can say about this, but James is simply saying, don't speak evil of others. Pride and slander go hand in hand And when you speak evil of another, you speak evil of the law. Why? Because the law says what? Love your brother. And you defy the law. And speak evil of the law when you speak evil of someone else. But a humble person, a person who has submitted themselves to God Who is resisting, standing against Satan, who is seeking the Lord, drawing near and purifying their heart and their hands, and are mourning over their sin and surrendering to the Lord, you know what? They're not going to speak evil of someone else because they see their own sin. And so there's silence. That's how you turn your warfare into worship. You come to God in humility. Mourning over your sin. Drawing near to the Lord. Submitting to Him, where you say, it's not my will, it's His will. And submit to God. Let me just close, or we're out of time, but let me just close with this illustration. This is one of my favorite conversion stories. It's when I was pastoring a church in Tennessee, and really it just to me illustrates everything James is saying right here. When I was pastoring down in Tennessee, there was a woman who owned a a convenience store, you could say it a convenience store. It was a store that she, the title of the store, the name of it was My Three Habits. in downtown Memphis because she sold cigarettes and liquor and lottery tickets. So she called the store My Three Habits. It was right downtown in Memphis. Tough woman, businesswoman. And one of the men in our church one day went by her establishment. He was an insurance salesman and he had sold insurance to her business. And he went by and he said, I have a gift for you. And he had a Bible. It was a study Bible. Really detailed notes in it. And he gave her that Bible. He said, This is a gift I would like you to read this Bible, and I would like you to start reading in the Gospel of John. Well that Bible stood there or let was uh was left there on that counter. For three weeks she didn't touch it But one day when business was slow, she decided to pick it up and she began to read. And she did as he said. She began reading in the Gospel of John. And she would refer down to the notes at the bottom when she wanted understanding of what was going on And once she started reading about the life of Jesus and the Gospel of John, she was captivated. She could not put it down. She began to realize who Jesus was, that he was the Son of God. And it dawned on her as she was reading the Gospel of John that Jesus came into this world to die for sin, her sin. And she read about the crucifixion of Christ. And it broke her heart. Here is this, I'm talking about a tough businesswoman. You talk about someone with conflict in her life. She had tremendous conflict. But it broke her down, and she wept, and she realized that Jesus died for her sin. Now, no one a witness to her. She just read this in the Gospel of John. And she put all this together. And she began to weep. And she came into my office one day and she was weeping, she was crying, she was mourning, and yet she had joy. You see, what happened was she began to weep over her sin, and she wept over the death of Jesus for her, and she wept and she repented of her sin, and now she was weeping for joy And one of the things she said to me when she was in my office, when do you stop weeping? And I turned to the Beatitudes and I read her the words of Jesus, Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. You say, well, did you lead her to Jesus? Friends, she had already gotten saved. She had already repented. God had done that work. All of the strife and the and the warfare that was in her heart. was gone and there was joy because she put her faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? Later on she came to me and she said, you know what? I I I sold my business. I can't do that no more. And she took the money and she opened up a soup kitchen right in the middle of downtown Memphis to feed the poor who were in need. You see, friend, that's the difference that Jesus Christ makes. He takes warfare and he turns it into worship, but you must come to him humbly, submitting to God in your life. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for your word. We thank you for Christ. We thank you, Lord, that you are the answer. So many people's hearts are filled with conflict, warring within. And yet, Lord, we know that you are the way of peace. So I pray that, Lord, today, if there's someone here that's never known that peace that comes with knowing Christ, that they would humble themselves, they would lay aside their pride. They would lay aside their own selfish ambition, and that they would come to Christ, repenting of their sin, mourning over sin. Asking for salvation. Because Lord, we know according to your word that you resist the proud, but you give your grace to the humble. And I pray, Lord, that you would give your grace today to those that will humble themselves, that will come to you today. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Let me ask you, is that your prayer today? I want to come to Christ I want to turn from my sin. I want to humble myself and I want to come to Jesus Christ today. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand and say, that's me? Pray for me. I want to know Jesus Christ. That's my heart's desire. That's my prayer. Secondly, to Christians, maybe you're here and maybe there's warfare in your heart. Because there's some area in your life that you're not submitting to God. And you need to give it to the Lord. You need to submit to Him. You need to wait upon the Lord. Put aside your own selfish ambition and say, Lord, not my will, not what I want. Not my kingdom, but yours. And submit that to God. Can I pray for you? Say, preacher, pray for me. That's me. There's an area in my life. I need to submit to God. God bless you, dear friends. God bless you. Father, bless these who have come to you. And I pray that you'll take the warfare that's within their heart and turn it into worship. May they come and submit and give that thing to you, Lord, that's bringing conflict into their heart. And may you give them victory. May we learn a new level of submission to you in our life. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.