You know that on Wednesday night if you've been with us, uh we are studying these psalms called the Pilgrim Psalms. So turn to Psalm 1206. We're going to deal with this tonight. Want to welcome everyone here, especially if you're visiting. We're so glad you came to And I pray that this will be a a message that will lift your heart and encourage your heart. Psalm 126. And let me read these verses while you follow along. Verse 1. When the Lord turned again to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dreamed. Then was our mouth filled with laughter and our tongue was singing. Then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord has done great things for us whereof we are glad. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south. And they that sow in tears shall reap in joy, and he that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves. with him. So tonight I want to talk about turning your tears into cheers. And that's really what this psalm is about. Let me ask you a question. How long can you hold a smile? According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the record holder for the longest smile is 10 hours and 5 minutes. It's set by a little girl by the name of Lisa Lester. She broke the old record of 7 hours and 32 minutes, ten hours. Can you imagine that? Just falling for ten hours like that. You know, we can only smile for so long. We can only be happy for uh depending upon the happenings, but we can always have joy. Joy is something that is remaining, something that abides. It is eternal. And so this psalm that we just read here a minute ago. is really a psalm about joy. It kind of seems to burst forth with joy. You can almost see it bubbling up in these verses that we read just a moment ago. Look at some of the words that are used in this psalm. In verse 1, it's the word dream. We were like them that dream This was a dream come true. We could say it like that. In verse 2, he speaks of laughter and stinging in verse 2. And also where it says, the Lord had done great things. He uses the phrase great things. In verse 5, we see the word. joy. In verse 6 we seem we see the the word rejoicing. And so this just seems to burst forth with uncontainable Joy. And really the key verse of this whole chapter is verse 3 where it says, the Lord hath done great things for us. whereof we are glad. And so really this is about the joy that comes when God does great things for His people. Now remember, if you've been with us, you know that we've been studying these Psalms of Degrees. You might see that subtitle right there in uh above verse 1, which really means the word degrees means Psalms of Ascending. And if you've been with us, you know that The reason it uses the word ascending is because pilgrims would sing these psalms as they literally ascended into Jerusalem because Mount Zion was geographically located on a hill. Literally you had to walk upward into the city. And so as they would go into these feast days, they would sing these psalms. And this really has a spiritual application for us. We're all pilgrims, aren't we? And we're all traveling to our heavenly city, the heavenly Jerusalem. And as we travel through this world, even though the journey may be difficult and dangerous, we can have joy as we go. Really, that's what this chapter is telling us. There is joy in the journey, even though we have hardship. Even though we have difficulty and adversity, we can still, beyond all that, and in the midst of all that, we can still have joy in our heart. Now, what I want you to see tonight are just three sources of joy that I see here in this chapter. Here's the first one. Number one, there's joy and freedom. There's joy and freedom. Look again. In verse 1, notice this psalm speaks about a captivity. Verse 1, when the Lord turned again to captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream. Now, what captivity is he referring to here? Now there are some scholars that think that the captivity referred to here is the Babylonian captivity. In fact, most commentaries that you read We'll move in that direction. They say this is when they were released from the Babylonian captivity. But I would like to respectfully disagree with that. And let me tell you why. Number one, notice verse one. I want you to notice what's in captivity. It's the city The actual city. Look at where it says captivity of Zion. And so here is the whole city, the city of Jerusalem that's held captive. Not the people carried away into captivity, but the actual city itself And also another thing about this chapter here is that the psalmist implies that the city's deliverance was sudden, was unexpected. Now the Babylonian captivity when the release time came, that was not sudden. That was not unexpected. In fact, that was prophesied in the Old Testament by Jeremiah. and also by other prophets. But another thing to consider is, look again in verse two. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, our tongue was singing, then said they among the heathen, the Lord has done great things for them. So when God released the captivity here, whatever it is, It was when when the the heathen nations around saw that, they rejoiced with the people of God. Now, again, if we talk about the Babylonian captivity, we have to ask this question Did the heathen nations around rejoice when the Jews were released from Babylon? If you read your Bible carefully, you'll see that they did not. In fact, in Scripture, they conspired against the Jews. They were filled with envy against the Jews. And also another thing that we see in this chapter is that this deliverance was miraculous. Now the Babylonian captivity was not miraculous. It was wonderful, and yet it was something that God prophesied, but it wasn't miraculous. And so that leads us up to this, ask this one question. Is there somewhere in Scripture where the city of Jerusalem was held in captivity? where God miraculously delivered the city, and when they that deliverance came, they were filled with joy, and all the nations around that saw this also rejoiced with them. Is there a place like that in Scripture? And the answer is of course yes. And I've already referred to this before. We don't have to spend a lot of time on it. But the background of this chapter, as well as other chapters that we've already seen, was the Assyrian captivity when Sennacherib enclosed the city. Now I want you to see this one more time. I know I've dwelt on it a few times, but hold your place here. Go to 2 Chronicles 32. Just want to show you this real quick. We won't be here long. But we already saw this if you've been with us in these Wednesday evening studies on these chapters. And this is a different narrative. We saw Isaiah 36 and 37, but here in 2 Chronicles 32. We see the same thing happening. In verse 11, we see the threats. We see Sennacherib trying to intimidate the people. Don't trust in your God. And then in verse 14 again he's saying the other gods of the other nations wasn't able to deliver them. Your God's not going to be able to deliver you. In verse 17 of chapter 32, he wrote letters to rail on the Lord God of Israel and to speak against him. And so what happens in verse 20? And for this, it says in verse 20, for this cause Hezekiah the king and the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amaz, prayed and cried to heaven. And we already saw where they just prayed and they just gave this whole situation over to the Lord. And notice what it says in verse number. 21 And the Lord sent an angel which cut off all the mighty men of valor and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of faith to his own land And when he was coming to the house of his God, they that came forth of his own bow slew him there with the sword. This was an incredible defeat for Sennacherib. He was later assassinated by his own family. But here's what I want you to see. Look at verse 23. This is what happened afterwards And many brought gifts unto the Lord to Jerusalem and presents to Hezekiah, king of Judah, so that he was magnified, watch this, in the sight of all nations. From henceforth. You say, what does that say? It says that all the nations around saw what God had done, and they brought presents to Hezekiah and they rejoiced with them at this deliverance. So all of this fits, this is the background of this fits Psalm 126, where God just miraculously delivered This city, it was an unexpected deliverance, it was a miraculous deliverance, and it caused great joy to all the people that were in that city. Now you put yourself in their position Let's just say that you lived in Jerusalem. And outside the walls was this formidable army that had defeated all the other nations around, and that this city was next. You were going to be destroyed. You were going to die. And that night you went to bed, if you were there, probably with fear. And then to wake up the next morning and what happened? They're gone. They're just gone. The army was defeated and they are gone. Can you imagine the joy that those people had in that city? Weeping might endure for a night, but joy comes in the morning. I mean God just turned the situation around overnight. They say, how does this apply to us? You may be here tonight and you may be in some kind of a captivity. I don't know. I don't know your situation, but I know God knows your situation Whatever the the captivity that you're in, it might be to a certain sin, it might be to addicted to something, it may be some kind of a sin or burden that's weighing you down, and you've given up Let me tell you something, friend, don't ever give up when the Lord is on your side. Because God is able to turn things around in your life overnight He's able to turn the captivity just like he did for these people here. And really to me what this is is a picture of salvation Because just like the king of Sennacherib had that whole city in bondage, I want to tell you there's a king of this world called Satan, and he keeps people in bondage The Bible says in 1 John 5 that the whole world lies in the lap of the wicked one. And you know what he does? He does the same thing that Sennacherib did to the Jews. He feeds your mind with lies. He says you have no hope. No one's going to be able to deliver you. No one's going to be able to help you. And so you know what? The people in that city, some of them believe that lies. And that's what Satan wants the lost man to do. He wants the lost man to think that he has no hope whatsoever. But and you know in fact the Bible says in the book of Hebrews that how does Satan keep people in bondage through the f through fear, the fear of death. That's why Jesus came into this world to deliver us from that bondage, the Bible says in Hebrews, that he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil. And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. The chain that Satan uses to keep people into captivity is the fear of death. But Jesus is the way to freedom. Jesus said, Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. It is through Jesus Christ that we are freed from the captivity of sin and Satan. Now I want to tell you something, friend, that brings great joy. Amen? Now some of you look like you've lost the joy of your salvation. You know, don't ever lose that I'd love to see people get saved and filled with joy. You know what? Because when I see that, I kind of relive my own salvation experience when I see that joy there. And don't let anyone ever take that joy away from you. I'll never forget when I first went to college as a freshman, we had a guy put in our dormitory, his name was Ed, he had just been saved I mean he was a new believer. Uh he had been saved out of a wicked background. He was really in a motorcycle gang and and uh And and he just wanted to grow in the Lord. He wanted to he surrendered to the call of ministry and he was brought there to Bible college. And I want to tell you, I have never seen someone so filled with zeal and joy because of his salvation I mean he would come into my dorm at night and he would wake me up and say, Pray with me, Brother Jerry. I'm talking about two and three in the morning And he would sh I would just feel my bunk shake and there would be Ed at the bottom of the bunk. Pray with me, Brother Deerie, pray with me. I would say, okay, okay, Ed And I'd get down on my knees and he'd say, you pray first. And I say, okay, Lord, um, it was three in the morning. It's kind of hard to find thoughts than three in the morning. Lord, bless my family, bless my parents, bless my brothers. Help them to send me a care package in the mail very, very soon. I would just pray some feeble prayer and then Ed would start praying. Oh God, oh God. He would pray for an hour. An hour And then at the end of this prayer, he would say this, and dear God, Brother Jerry wants to say something else. Pray again, Brother Jerry. Pray again. Alexandre, Lord, bless all the missionaries. It was another feeble prayer. I'm telling you, he was so filled with the joy of the Lord. He was constantly reading scripture, constantly praying. And you know what some of the students there on campus would say about Ed? They would say, ah, you're going to get over it. They would throw cold water on him. Say, oh, you're going to get over it. Friend, I hope I never get like that as a Christian And pour cold water over someone's joy. I hope that we as Christians never lose the joy of the freedom that God has given us in our salvation. There is joy in freedom. But now here's the second source of joy. Notice the next thing. There's joy. Write this down, there's joy in fullness. Look in verse number four. Turn again our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the South. Now, what are the streams in the South? Now again, remember that in Hebrew uh wisdom, literature, poetry, they use a lot of imagery to s to speak about a spiritual reality. And here's the image. He's saying, Lord, fill us again like those streams that are in the south Now you have to understand a little bit about the geography of Palestine to know what he's talking about. There was a particular area there in Palestine called the Negev. It was kind of a desert area just south of Israel And during the dry season, those uh those creek beds, and what they would call them in Palestine are wadis, W-A-D-I-S wadis. We would call them creekbeds. And they would just dry out. Everything would dry up. And you would see just that dry bed with not an ounce of water in it, and cracks would form in that dry, arid place. Until the rainy season came. And what happened during the rainy season? Well, it would warm up, and all the snow from Mount Hermon would begin to melt and then flow down into those wadis And then the rain would come and finally what would happen is literally overnight, and it actually could happen even quicker than that, is that those dry creeks would just begin to swell up and overflow with water They were so filled, they were filled to overflowing. Now the psalmist is saying, Lord, in a way he's praying spiritually, this is what we want you to do in our life. Lord, we're like those dry creek beds in the dry season. And we need to be filled with all of the fullness that you have. And so Lord, turn us and turn our captivity, O Lord, as the streams that are in the south I believe that there are times after salvation when God's people can go through times of barrenness and times of dryness. Has that ever happened to you? That's happened to me in my Christian life Where things got dry, it got barren, it can happen to individual Christians. A. W. Tozer wrote this. He said, Satan's distracting words often come from the most unexpected quarters. Martha would call Mary away from sitting at the feet of the master. And then he said, sometimes if we're not careful, our best friend may distract us. Or it may be some very legitimate activity. This day's bustle too soon would call us away from Jesus' feet. These distractions must immediately be dismissed. Or we shall know only, this is what he said, the barrenness of busyness. The barrenness of busyness. And I think that's a good word. We could be so busy doing so many things that we're not doing the most important thing, which is sitting at the feet of Jesus, getting filled with him, getting filled with who he is. I was reading a statistic about churches, and there were 9,169 churches located in urban areas with people all around. That did not baptize one convert in a year. Not one. With people all around. I believe this fairness can happen to individuals. I believe it can happen to churches. I believe it can happen to denominations or to movements. A pastor was visiting a man who hadn't been to church for a while, and he said, Sam, we missed you at church. And he said, Well, Pastor, he said, it was raining last Sunday And the pastor said, yeah, well it's dry at church. He said, yeah, Pastor, that's another reason I didn't come. It was dry. And times like that, what we need to do, when it happens in our life individually, is we need to pray for the fullness of God in our life. And really what he's praying for here, to me, he's praying for revival. There is a need for revival from the Lord. Martin Lloyd Jones, the great preacher from Westminster Chapel in London, one time preached a series of sermons on revival that was later put into a book. And this is what he said. He said, the history of religion is the history of revivals And what he meant by that was that redemptive history is marked by seasons where the Spirit would come and revive the people of God. That those people that may be in declinion, he would revive them. As he said, all of church history is marked by the through with a series of revivals where God would come and pour out his fullness onto people who were hungry for that. And he wrote, in five minutes, God could do more than what man could do in the previous decade. God could do more in five minutes when he poured out his fullness. unto people. And that's what the psalmist is praying for here. Lord, fill us to overflowing. Make us like those streams in the south in the springtime. Fill us with all of your Fullness. God wants us to be filled with his fullness. Now in the New Testament, there's a few things that the scripture says that we should be filled with. I want you just to jot this down. We should be filled with the knowledge of his will, Colossians 1. 9 that you might be filled with the knowledge of his will. You say, how do I know that? That's really in the scripture. 99% of God's will is found in the scripture. And so to be filled with God's will is to know his word, and then also be filled with the word of God along with that, Colossians 3. 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And then there's also, of course, being filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 5. 18. In fact, I want you just to look at that real quick. Would you with me just for a few minutes? Look in Ephesians 5 and look at verse number 18. And notice what it says there about this fullness of the Holy Spirit. We'll just touch on it. Ephesians 5. 18, very well-known verse, and be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Now, folks, we need this fullness in our life. You say, why do we need it? Because we can't do and be what God wants us to be unless we have this fullness. There are certain things that God has called us to. And in order to be able to do that, we have to have this fullness. You say, for example, notice Verse 19. We need it for our worship life. Look in verse 19. Speaking to yourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. What's all this speak about? It speaks about worship, our worship life You know that you really can't worship God in a way that's worthy of Him by yourself. You have to have the Spirit to do that. You have to be filled with the Holy Spirit How many of you, when you come to Sunday morning before you walk in the server, you say, God, fill me with your spirit so I can worship you in a way that is worthy of you. But we need that to worship God the way that He's needs to be worshipped. I believe that in churches today, some worship is a sin to God, the way we go through it. It's like going through the motions It's almost like for some people going to the dentist, here we go again. Let's just get this over with so I can get home, watch my favorite television show. Let's just mark this off the list this week. Friend, if you come to church like that, you're not coming in a way that's worthy of God. And we don't come to church to get worship. We bring our worship to church with us. You remember what they said to Jonah? Jonah was on board the ship and they said, Who are you? What's your occupation? Remember how Jonah answered them? He said, I'm a Hebrew and I worship God. That's my occupation. I worship God That's what I do. And that's what the occupation of a Christian is. We worship God. God is looking for those who will worship in spirit and in truth. Now some have a lot of spirit and no truth. Some have all truth and no spirit. God wants those who will worship in spirit and in truth. And so for our worship life But also, notice our wedded life. Look again in 5 chapter 5. Look at verse 22. Why submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord? How in this day of soaring divorce rates In the day of women's lib, is that possible? To have a good marriage. Someone said first there was Adam's rib, then there was Satan's fib, and now there's women's lib. And the divorce rate is high. Some said even among Christians. But you know what? To have a godly, spirit-filled home, it's really not that hard. It says in verse 22, wives submit yourselves to your husbands. And men, our job is harder. What does it tell us to do? Look in verse number 25. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church. and gave himself for it. That's really basic. Wives commit, husbands love as Christ loved the church. But I want to tell you that we can't do that without the Spirit of God. I can't love my wife the way Christ loved the church by myself. And women, you can't submit to your husband as unto the Lord in and of yourself. That has to be something that the fullness of the Holy Spirit does through you. Our worship life, our wedded life, but then our work life. Look in chapter 6, look in verse 5. It's same context here, same train of thought. Look at verse 5. Servants be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling and singleness of heart, as unto Christ. And so really he's saying here, work for your employer as if he were Jesus, not with eye service. This is your best opportunity to witness. Serve and work hard and do it as under the Lord. You know, when your employer is looking for another person to fill the position, you know what they ought to say? I I want to find a Christian just like this one I already have. Because they're on time, they work hard, they don't complain, and they they do what they're told. I want to find another Christian. And that's the way we're to work, but I want to tell you we can't do that in and of ourselves. There has to be the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Then another thing, our war life. Look in chapter 6, look in verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. You realize that every day you wake up you're engaged in a battle with the kingdom of darkness. Some of you say, I'm not at war. Oh yes you are. If you're living for Jesus, you are And Satan is going to come after you. And I want to tell you, you can't war a good warfare in and of yourself. You have to have the fullness of the Holy Spirit in your life. These are our obligations and friends. We can't do these things by ourselves. If you're dry and barren and you're not filled with the Holy Spirit. You and I will fail in every one of these areas, and I want to tell you, I have failed in these areas when I've tried to do it by myself. Friend, we need the fullness of the Holy Spirit. But I want to see you say, well, now how do I know when I'm filled with the Holy Spirit? Well, I'm glad you asked. Look again in chapter 5. Look in verse 19. We saw this verse for look at it again. Speaking to yourselves in psalms, hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things. You say, what is this? This is joy These are the signs of being filled with the Spirit. There's joy that's there. Joy will take place. You know why? Because there's joy in full Joy and fullness. Now let me give you the third and final point. Let's go back to Psalm 126. We said there's joy in freedom, and there's joy in fullness. But then write down this third thing. There's joy and fruitfulness. There's joy and fruitfulness. Look at verses 5 and 6. They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Now in these verses here, and these are very well known verses, I dare say that this is not the first time you've read these verses. And in fact, we like to pull these verses out of this chapter and use them as a paradigm and as a pattern for evangelism. And this is good because really what we see here distilled in these verses. It's really a pattern for fruitfulness in the life of a believer. And so let's just look at them really quickly and we'll be done tonight. Notice, first of all, the task in verse 5. It says that, or actually verse 6, he that goeth forth, here's the first thing you must do, you must go. If you want to be fruitful in leading others to Christ and evangelizing other people around you, you have to go. You have to do it. Now there are three commands that the Bible gives us. Jesus says, first of all, come, then he says, learn, and then he says, go. He says, Come unto me, that's salvation. He says, learn of me, that's sanctification. And then he says, go forth, and that is service and soul winning. Now, we don't have any problem coming and learning, but the the the the it's the last thing that sometimes we have problem with And that is going. But this is our mandate from heaven. We're like sowers, just like this verse, the imagery here is of a sower. that is spreading seed. That's what we are to do everywhere we go. We are to spread the seed of the gospel, the seed of God's word. I read one time we're D. L. Moody made a covenant with God. And this is what it was. He said he was not going to let one day go by where that he would not witness to a person. He wouldn't let a day go by And said that except that he would witness to one at least one person. And I read that one time he got ready for bed, climbed in bed, pulled the covers up, and realized that a day had gone by and he had not witnessed to one person You know what he did? He got out of bed, he jumped out of bed, he got dressed, went outside, and right down the street there was a man standing next to a lamppost. And he went to that man and he began to witness to that man, and he won that man to Jesus Christ. And then he went back to bed. No wonder God used him at such a great He was committed to going. Paul said this, they that sow sparingly will reap sparingly, but he that sows bountifully will reap bountifully. And friend, if we sow the seed, and that's the principle of sowing, and it applies, I think, also to sowing the Word of God. If we sow the seed, there will be a harvest. But now notice not only the task, but notice the tears. Look again in verse 6. He that goeth forth and weepeth. Weepeth. There's the other thing, tears. This is an unusual sower. He wept. Now, in this day, we've stifled tears. We have this idea that it's not cool to cry. It's unmanly to cry. But I want to tell you some of the most manly men in Scripture were men who had tears. Even Jesus had tears. Think about Moses, the great lawgiver. He wept over the people. Think about Jeremiah the prophet. He was called the weeping prophet. Think about Jesus who wept at the tomb of Lazarus. Think about the Apostle Paul, that great theologian who hammered out the doctrines of the faith. He wept at times for people. He said, I was with you day and night with many tears Tears show love. Tears show concern. Just tonight, um, just before I came out here, I was kind of, you know, doing some things in my office, and someone sent me a picture on Facebook. And it was just the most heart-wrenching picture I think I've seen in a long time. And it almost brought me to tears. And what it was is it was a little boy in Africa, a starving little boy in Africa, just sitting there. And behind him were vultures waiting for him to die so that he could pick at his flesh. And then the caption on the picture said, now that you're over lions being killed. Let's focus on the real problem. And I want to tell you that that just gripped my heart. You know what my first thought was, I wonder If there was a missionary there in that place to share the gospel. Because I want to tell you, I wanted to send the supplies of food over when I saw that picture. But friend, the most important thing is that they know Jesus Christ. And of course, we want to meet all those needs, but the big thing that we should question is: do they know Jesus Christ? Do they have the gospel of Jesus Christ? I want to tell you something, friend. We're blessed in this land There are so many people that don't have what we have. But the most important thing is that they know the Lord Jesus Christ And so, friend, do you have a burden for those who do not know him, for those who are lost? There's the task, there's the tears. Let me show you the next thing. There's the treasure. Looking again in verse 6. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed. There's the treasure. And seed in Scripture represents the Word of God. Jesus said in Luke 8. 11, the seed is the word. Peter said, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of the word of God. And see, this is a powerful vehicle right here, the word of God. The seed of God's word, when it's planted, it will produce life. It will. And so are we spreading the seed of God's word? That's why I believe in the power of Scripture. If I can just impart unto you just a little bit of Scripture, it'll have power to work in your life. I believe that with all my heart. One time Charles Spurgeon was uh testing the acoustics in his building, the brand new Metropolitan Tabernacle that was being built. And he got up behind the pulpit, and you have to remember back in those days they didn't have a microphone They must their their lungs must have been made of leather. Here he was in this huge building, and he wanted to test out the acoustics in the that building. So he stood up behind the pulpit and he said, Behold the Lamb of God, which takes away the sin of the world. And what he didn't know is that in the balcony there was a worker kneeling down, securing the pew to the floor, and he heard that verse, behold the Lamb of God. Which takes away the sin of the world. And you know what? That kept ringing in his heart and in his mind, and he couldn't get it out until finally he learned more about Jesus and he got saved. You know why? Because there's power in the Word of God. God. One single word of God. Notice the next thing, not only the task, the tears, the treasure, but then notice the triumph. Verse 6. He that goes forth weeping, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless Come again. That is the triumph. This is a promise of success. Doubtless, without a doubt. Now, friend, if you go sharing the word of God, you're not going to win everyone. That's a sad reality. I had to understand that when I first got saved. I thought that everybody's going to want to do this. But you know what the sad reality is? There are some people that aren't going to want to receive Jesus. But I want to tell you, if you just plant the seed, you know what? You haven't failed. And God will do his work. And you'll come back with rejoicing. You won't win everyone, but friend, there will be victory. If you just win one soul to Jesus Christ and keep one soul out of hell, it would be worth witnessing all the days of your life If you could just see one soul come to know Jesus. Noah, a preacher of righteousness for 120 years, was only able to get his family on board the ark. But I want to tell you something, friend. If you can get your family on board the ark, you're doing something. That's successful. And so there is the triumph, but then the thrill, again in verse 6, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing. And that is, it'll bring joy. Joy in your heart. And there's nothing that will help you to relive the joy of your salvation or put a thrill in your heart any better. than God using you to share the gospel and watching someone come to faith in Christ as a result of your witness. Friend, there's such a thrill that comes with that. There's such a joy. that comes with that. And then notice the next thing, the trophies in verse six, bringing his sheaves with him. When the harvest time came, they cut the grain, they tied it in bundles, they laid it on the path of the th threshing floor to be gathered later. You know what we're doing today, today? We're wrapping up souls by the cords of God's grace, laying them alongside the pathway to glory, so that one day the great reaper is going to take them to himself there in heaven in glory. And like the song says, we'll come forth rejoicing, bringing in the sheaves, bringing in the sheaves that God was able to use us to win anybody for the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, let's review. How do we have joy? There's joy and freedom. Don't let anyone take away the joy of your salvation that God has delivered you from so great a captivity. There is joy in fullness. You say, man, my life is barren. I'm dry. Well, friend, the fullness of God is available if you want it. It's available. And then there's joy in fruitfulness. And this is our source of joy. And this is why we can have joy along the way. Have you lost your joy? Do you want it back? This is the way you get it back. This is where joy comes from. I heard about a friend a millionaire. He had a palace. He spent all his days counting his gold. Beside the palace was a poor cobbler, and he spent all his days repairing shoes and singing as he did. And this joyful singing kind of irritated this millionaire. He could hear him constantly, day after day, singing, singing. He was there counting his money. Here was this man, this poor man, and yet he had joy, and he was singing. But one day this rich man went over to the shoe cobbler, and he gave this man some gold coins to this cobbler. Well this cobbler couldn't believe it. He was overjoyed at first. You know what he did? He hid those coins. And then he started worrying about maybe someone saw me hide them. So he couldn't think of anything else but those coins. And so he went back and he took those coins out and he put them somewhere else. And then he tried to go back to work, but he couldn't think about anything else. He was thinking maybe someone saw me move him, and so he went back, and this happened day after day, until finally one day this rich man came by and the cobbler said, Take your gold coins back and give me back my song. You know what? Sometimes I think God's people are so focused on trivial things, coins of this world, the gold of this world, the things of this world, that we've lost our joy. Because we're not focusing on real joy, where it comes from. There's joy in freedom. And there's joy in fullness, having the fullness of God in our life. And there's joy in fruitfulness. Have you lost your joy? You can get it back. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Lord, I pray that you'll help us. To truly make this journey to Zion with joy. Lord, we know there's hardship along the way. We know there's difficulty along the way. But Lord, we can always have your joy. And I pray for people here tonight, perhaps they've lost some of that joy. They're a bit barren tonight. And their heart's desire is the prayer of the psalmist who said, Lord, turn again our captivity as the streams in the south. Lord, fill us to overflowing. Give us back that joy that we lost. Lord, for hungry hearts tonight, I pray that you'll fill them with your fullness. And then Lord, lay a burden on our heart. to take the seed of the word and go forth bearing that precious seed, knowing that we're going to rejoice. We're going to come back with rejoicing. Make us aggressive, passionate, loving, yet gentle bearers of the seed, Lord, in this love. World. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And how many here tonight would with an uplifted hand to the Lord say, My prayer tonight is that I might be filled with all the fullness of God? And that I would have his joy in my life. And with that, such your prayer before the Lord, don't lift your hand to me, lift it before the Lord. Let your hand be a prayer to the Lord. Lord, turn again my captivity as the streams in the south. Fill me with all your fullness, Lord. Give me joy, real joy. Father, you see these hands and you know the hearts of your people. Grant them, Lord, grant them their heart's desire. And Lord, may this psalm encourage all of us tonight Whatever problem a person may have, whatever captivity a person's in, there's always hope in you. May they find joy and freedom in knowing you. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful worthy name. Amen.