Thank you. Take God's word tonight. Open to the book of 2 Kings chapter 2. 2 Kings chapter 2. And we're going to look tonight at just a few verses in this chapter, 2 Kings 2, verses 19 down to verse 22. 2 Kings 2. 19 And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my Lord seeth, but the water is not, and the ground barren. And he said, Bring me a new cruise and put salt therein, and they brought it to him. And he went forth into the spring of the waters and cast the salt in there, and said Thus saith the Lord, I've healed these waters, and there shall not be from thence any more death or barren land So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of Elisha, which he spake. You know, our God is an awesome God, and with him there's nothing that's impossible. God is a God that's able to take something bad and make it good. He's able to take a bad situation and completely turn it around and make it good. Now we see this in Scripture often. In fact, one of the promises that God gives to his children is recorded in Psalm 81, 16. Where he says, And with honey out of the rock should I satisfy thee. God promised to satisfy us with honey from the rock. And you think about that, honey is the sweetest thing from nature that nature can produce. A rock is the hardest thing that nature can produce. And so here's a promise that God will bring sweetness out of hardness. God will bring bring honey out of a rock. That's a promise that you and I can claim. Now this story here in 2 Kings 2 kind of illustrates that very principle. And here what we're going to see is God turning bitterness into blessing. That's the title of the sermon tonight. God will take a very bitter circumstance and will transform it and make it a blessing. It may be that you're in a situation where, for the most part, things are pleasant and good, but there's one area that's causing you trouble. There's one area where it's a hard pill to swallow. Everything else is good except this one thing. And this one thing is tainting all the other things in your life. This is the situation that we see here. Look again in verse 19 of chapter 2. It says, And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant. The word pleasant here is beautiful, pleasing, good. And he's referring here to the city of Jericho. Jericho is a beautiful city. I've been to Jericho several times and I can tell you that it's a beautiful place. It's been called the city of palm trees, and indeed it is filled with palm trees. It's there in a very fertile valley, the Jordan Valley. It was a very nice place to live And as far as outward privileges were concerned, everything was favorable here in this situation. The soil was uh had possibilities, the climate was fine, the sight of the city was delightful In Jesus' day, priests that worked in Jerusalem lived in Jericho. They would take the trip down to Jericho. As you know, Jericho is situated below sea level, and they would take that journey back and forth. um from Jerusalem because it was such a good place to live. But notice and by the way Herod the Great built a winter palace there because he loved that place so very much. A winter palace in the general area of that area of Jericho. But there was something else about the city. It says in verse 19, it says, But the water, the situation of the city is pleasant, as my Lord seeth, he says And verse 19, but the water is not and the ground is barren. The word naught is ra, evil. Um, we could say bad, something that just makes a person sick. The water was so bad that it it just poisons everything around it. The land was unfruitful, the ground was barren, they couldn't grow crops. Based on verse 21, it also caused death and even a death and miscarriage. Barren is a word that is used in verse 21. It's also used in verse 19. Same word. It's used in Exodus 32, 26 to speak of a mother having a miscarriage. And so the water was poisoning everything. Everything in Jericho was just bad as far as because of the water. Jericho had become like the Chernobyl of Palestine, like the three-mile island. Um it was just a bad place as far as birth defects and people even dying because of the water. Now again on outwardly, I mean the city was beautifully located, the weather was ideal, the palm trees Seemed to flourish there. All around was gorgeous on the surface. It looked like paradise. It looked like an ideal place to live. But the water was poisoning everything. It might be that you're kind of in a similar circumstance. You know, again, everything in your life is good, but there's one thing that seems to be poisoning every other thing in your life. You can't enjoy the good situation, the pleasant things, because of the bitter water that is poisoning everything else. Well, this story here shows us that God wants to change those things. God certainly is a God who is able to do that. He's able to take bad things and make them good. He's able to take bitterness And turn it into blessing. So we're going to see this in the story. And I want you to see four lessons from this Old Testament story here. Number one, sin always brings a curse. Here's the first lesson we need to learn as we study this situation How did the waters of Jericho become poison in the first place? I mean this beautifully situated city came under a curse. And it became under a curse because of sin. God placed a curse on Jericho because of the sin of the people. And you might remember this. You remember when Joshua and Israel were commanded to conquer Jericho. They were warned, don't take anything out of that city. Why? Well, because the city is under a curse. What were they supposed to do with that city? They were supposed to burn everything with fire. God had declared uh Karim holy war against that city because of their sin. It was so great in God's eyes. And you might remember in the Bible there was one man who disobeyed that. His name his name was Achan. He ignored God's command. He took what the Bible says was the accursed thing, which happened to be a beautiful Babylonian suit and a wedge of gold, and God called it the accursed thing. And because of that he brought a curse down upon himself and upon his house. And after Joshua and Israel conquered the city, the Bible says in Joshua 6. 26 And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before the Lord that rises up and builds this city, Jericho. He shall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it. Here's this beautiful city, and its curse. Why? Because of sin. The people in the land of Canaan had sinned so wickedly before God. And just note this, beloved. I know you know it, but we need to be reminded sin always brings a curse, always. Proverbs 333 says, The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked. And in Galatians 3. 10, cursed is everyone that continueth not in all things. that are written in the book of the law to do them. Sin, disobedience against God always brings a curse. Now we can say this that Jericho represents really the earth in which we live. Right? I mean it's kind of a representation. I mean you look at our earth, our planet, it's a beautiful planet. It's I love the beauty of the nature of our earth. It's pleasant, isn't it? The Bible says in the beginning when God created everything, what did he say over and over again? We see it in the book of Genesis, is what? It was good. Everything was good. Everything that God made in the very beginning in Genesis 131 and God saw everything that He had made, and behold it was good, and the evening and the morning were the sixth day in the sixth days of creation when God All through it he said it was good, but at the end he looked back and he he declared all of it good. Everything in creation was good. It was pleasant. It hadn't been touched by sin or corruption. Everything was in perfect harmony And um one sees it in the stars and the atoms and the seasons and the harvests and so on and the beauty of a flower and the song of of a bird and the turf uh and the surf of the sea, I should say, the majesty of the mountain. And even the the beat of the human heart. Everything was in harmony with God. But something happened that destroyed all that, and we know what it was. Sin had entered the pitcher, sin and rebellion, sin came into the garden, and what did God say? After that, in Genesis 3. 17, and God said unto Adam, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it, cursed is the what? Is the ground God cursed the earth. You know, we have we have these um these green earth people that are always talking about man and how hard man is on the earth. Well I got news for you, friend. It was God who cursed the earth. God is the one who put the curse on it. Now, you know, we need to be good stewards and everything, but but some of these folks are fanatical about this, you know. Um that's another subject for another day. Sin brought a curse to the earth. In fact, Paul said in Romans 8, all the creation groans. Why? Because creation itself understands This curse. And Paul kind of personifies creation. Creation is like a person who's groaning because creation has been victimized by who? By man. Creation didn't do anything It was man that sinned, and because of man sinned, God placed the curse on man and on creation. And so everything now It's under that curse. And now we whereas there was earth the earth was a perfect environment, now there's extremes of heat and cold, there are poisonous plants and reptiles and everything. God gay for man's good is now his enemy. All the earth is in rebellion and man is ravaged by disease and dying and all of this. And that's why creation groans, because now everything has been poisoned. Why? It's because of sin Sin. And you've heard me say this before. There are real really man has only three problems: sin, sorrow, and death. And you can boil it down to one problem, sin, because everything is either directly or indirectly related to sin as far as man's problems. It's all of that. Sin brought a curse. Now, how should we respond to this? As believers, we should not think lightly about sin. It's a very serious matter in the life of a child of God We should not think lightly about sin. Don't play games with sin. Make no peace with sin. Declare war on it. Confess your sins daily. Judge your sins severely. Don't be like the Corinthians who thought lightly about sin and the Bible says for this cause many are weak and sickly among you. And then Paul said, if we would judge ourselves, we wouldn't need to be judged by God. If we judge our own sins, if we are severe in dealing with our own sins and confessing those sins and mortifying those sins and crucifying inward lust, then we won't need to have judgment from God So no sin is to be taken lightly. No sin is small. It's all against an infinite God, and the consequences are immeasurable. But there's a second lesson we learn from this. Number two, the curse of sin cannot be ignored. The curse of sin cannot be ignored. Now, the very fact that these men are coming to Elisha and asking him to help implies that they were already ignoring the curse that God had placed upon Jericho. How do we know that? Well they were living there. They were trying to live there. Why would you try to live in a place that God put a curse on. Or God said this this city, whoever tries to rebuild it, they're going to pay for it in their in their firstborn and in their youngest. Anyone who tries to rebuild the city of Jericho is violating what God wants. But here are these people, some of them living living in that area, and they seem to be ignoring the fact that God had placed a curse there on that place. In fact, there's a man in the in the Bible by the name of Hilel, or excuse me, Hil, I should pronounce it. He really didn't take God's uh curse on the city seriously. He lived during the reign of the most evil king, King Ahab. And Hael, the Bible says, was a Bethelite, and he tried to Rebuild the city of Jericho. He ignored God's word. And listen to what the Bible says happened in his family in 1 Kings 16, 34. And in his days, Hyel the Bethelite built Jericho, he laid the foundation thereof in Abiram, his firstborn, and set up the gates thereof and his youngest son Sigub, according to the word of the Lord which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun. Here's this man He tries to rebuild Jericho Even though God had placed that curse on it, and it cost him his oldest and his youngest, just like Joshua prophesied in the book of Joshua. So people were ignoring it. Listen, we dare not ignore the word of God. We better not ignore the fact that this world is cursed by sin. I say that because we live in a world, a lost world And and that's the way the the the lost in this world live. They they they want to live in a paradise. We have people all around trying to to build their own paradise. They want to live a nice life. They want to live in luxurious homes They want to have nice gardens. They want to have uh all these nice things. And by the way, God in his common grace gives us all these good things, but the problem is that people are forgetting the fact that there's a curse that has to be dealt with You can't just live with all these physical luxuries and wonderful things around you and forget the fact that spiritually there is a curse that comes from sin. And the the water is poisoning everything here in this earth. And if all you do is just live your life for the things on this horizontal uh temporal existence and forget the fact that the curse of sin has to be confronted, then you're in trouble And people do that all the time. All the time. They forget that this is a cursed earth. And so people don't take God's word seriously. They don't take God's warnings to heart. They ignore the Bible. When the Bible calls people to repent, when the Bible says that everyone who doesn't obey God is under the curse of sin, and that curse brings death People ignore that. People want to live for the things of the world. They want their Jericho. And they forget that the water is poison. What does the Bible say? Love not the world, neither the things are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. And it's not it's not of the Father, but is of the world. And people are living for all of those things, but they forget this one thing, that the world passes away. And the Greek verb there is in the process of passing away Everything in this world is passing away. If you are just living for nothing but Jericho and the things that it gives, you're forgetting the fact that there's a curse on this and it's all passing away. It's all leaving us. I remember one time I was in Jericho. There's really an Old Testament Jericho, and just beside it a ways of a few miles, there's a New Testament Jericho. And that's where Herod built his winter palace. And I remember one time visiting there and looking at the ruins there, and I happened to look up and you can see the Mount of Temptation right there. I mean you just look up and there it is. That is the mountain where Satan tempted Jesus. And in Jesus' day, if they were if you were standing on that mountain and looking out over the horizon, it would have been gorgeous. It would have been beautiful because Herod was this incredible builder, and he built Many houses in that area. He had a gorgeous winter palace with pools and all these things. And if you were living in Jesus' day and you were looking out You would see this beautiful setting, this this of of just beautiful Roman uh architecture, because Herod really loved that. And all that was there. And this is when Satan took Jesus up there and they fought he had Jesus look out over all this. And then the Bible says he flashed before Jesus all the kingdoms of the world. And what did he say to Jesus? Do you remember what he said? He said, All these things I will give you if you what? If you bow down and worship me. You know what he was saying? You know, Lord, you don't have to do these things that you come here to do. Just forget all of that. You can have all of this right now. You know what he was saying? Ignore the curse of sin. Just ignore that. Just ignore all of that. You can have it all now. And what did Jesus say? Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Get thee behind me, Satan. And when I saw uh when I was standing there at um the Harris the ruins of Harris Winter Palace, which is a bunch of stones, basically. And thinking about that very scene, you know the verse that came to my mind? The verse that came to my mind was 1 John 2, 17, and the world is passing away. and the lust of it, but he who does the will of God what shall abide forever. And that's exactly what the Lord chose to do He was able to see that the world, even though it might look good, even though Jericho looks good, it still has the curse of sin on it, and it's all passing away. The only ones who really abide forever are those who are committed to doing the will of God. And that's the choice that Jesus made. And that's the choice that we have to make. We have to remember That we can't forget that the water is tainted in Jericho. We can't forget that. Never forget or ignore the fact that there's a curse in this world that comes from sin. Never forget that the only cure is in Jesus Christ. The only cure is in the cross. Now let me give you the third thing. Number one, sin always brings a curse. Number two, the curse of sin cannot be ignored. Number three, we have to look to God to reverse the effects Because look again in verse 19. And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my Lord seeeth, but the water is not, and the ground barren Notice that the men of the city, they come to Elijah. Why? Because they believe him to be God's man. Elijah now is gone. He was taken to heaven on a chariot of fire. The mantle now fell to Elisha, and remember what Elisha asked Elijah for when he left. Remember he said, Give me a double portion of your spirit. Did you know that the Bible records that Elijah did seven miracles? You know how many Miracles are recorded in the Bible under the ministry of Elisha 14. So I think that God answered that prayer. 14 miracles for Elisha. This is the first miracle here that he performs. And this confirms that Elisha is now God's replacement for Elijah. And the miracle that he does here really points to two things. It points to the coming one, the one who will bring salvation. Elisha is a type of Jesus Christ. You know, Elijah, remember Elijah's name means my God is Yahweh. Elisha means my God is salvation. My God is salvation. And he points to the Messiah who will bring salvation. You could say that Elijah is a forerunner to Elisha, just as John the Baptist, who came in the spirit and power of Elijah, was a forerunner to Jesus. And so there's parallels between Elisha and Elisha. And Jesus in the ministry, both are designated a prophet, a true prophet, both receive the spirit on the other side of the Jordan. Both are surrounded by disciples. Both are itinerant miracle workers, both gave life in a land of death, both cleansed the lepers, both healed the sick, both helped widows in desperate conditions, both fed the hungry, both ministered to Gentiles. And so Elijah is a type of Jesus Christ who points to him as the one who is going to come and who's going to reverse the curse of sin. That has come upon this world. Remember Galatians 3. 13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it's written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Jesus would be the one who would come, who would reverse that curse. The words for the song. No more let sin and sorrow grow, nor thorns infest the ground. He comes to make his blessings known, for as a what? For as the curse is found. He's going to reverse that This the miracles also point to another thing. Whenever you see miracles clustered together, like here in the ministry of Elijah and Elisha, another thing it points to is the fact that miracles point to the future when all of the The Eden conditions, the pre-sin conditions are going to be restored. All the things that are wrong are made right. Miracles point to the future in a time when God is going to restore everything back to its original form. And all these problems that we have that come by sin are going to be gone. That's why you look in the mirror in the ministry of Jesus, he heals the sick. And one day in the kingdom there's going to be no sickness. He casts out demons. One day in the king in the future kingdom there won't be any demons around. There won't be any people with a leprosy. There won't be any people that are blind or lame. That's why we see these things in the miracle in the ministry of Jesus, these miracles. He raises the dead because all sin and death will be banished from the new creation. So when all all these things are restored back the way God wanted them, and that's what miracles point to. They point to that future, new heaven and new earth, when all things are going to be restored. Now, so the healing waters of Jericho have a foretaste of the restored paradise and the removal of the curse and the remove and the new creation. So All this, however, would come in God's time. And there's one there's one application I want to give you from this, and that's this. The problem with the poison waters was not new there in Jericho. The problem had been going on for centuries. And people were trying to deal with it in their own way, but to no avail. The time wasn't right. God removes the curse in his time A timing is appropriate for everything. And we need to grasp this. In God's time, God will re remove that thing. That is uh poisoning everything in your life. There are so many times when people try to rush God, when people try to get God to do things in their timing. But God has a time when He will do his work. And we have to wait upon him. And it's hard to wait on God. It's a lot easier to just do things and get busy than it is to wait. But we have to wait and look to God to reverse the effects. of sin's curse. But here's the last lesson I want you to see tonight. Number four, God will do a new thing for us when we trust him. Now look again. These men come to Elijah. They know Elijah is God's man. He's the new prophet. His name means my God is salvation. It's time now for the curse to end here in Jericho. And notice what Elijah does. Now these prophets in the Old Testament, they're a different breed. They're always doing strange things, right? Many times they do things that communicate something in their and what they're doing. It's really a symbolism that the their actions symbolize something that God wants to do, something rich. So what happens here? Look at verse 20. And so this is Elijah and he said, Bring me a new cruise and put salt therein. The word cruise, we could say bull. Give me a new bowl. Not just any old bowl, but a new one. And then he asked for salt to be put in it. Put salt in the bowl. What is he doing? You ever wonder that sometimes what are these guys doing I I read a lot of different opinions on this. One guy says, well, does he expect to use a bowl of s of salt to cleanse the whole spring? I mean I I can see a bowl of salt removing bacteria from a bowl of water. But the whole spring? In in other words, he was saying that maybe this the salt has restorative powers or properties, and by taking a little bit of salt and pouring it in the bitter water you know, it'll cleanse the water. I think that's a little bit simple. I don't think that's what's going on here. Besides that, um salt neither improves the taste of water nor does it make things grow. So that's not what's happening. Another guy says, well, this is a magic incantation. Incantation, I should say. Well, you know, I I don't think God's prophet is doing magic here. Sorry. We're going to throw that one out. Another possibility, another person said, well, the salt was a sign of reversing the curse. Because when an ancient city was destroyed in the way Israel destroyed Jericho, the ruins were sown with salt as a sign of destruction And by putting Saul in the spring, it may have been Elisha's way of undoing the curse or saying that the curse is reversed. And then there's another opinion on this. Another answer is that the salt is a sign of the covenant. Because in the Old Testament, whenever God made a covenant, it included salt, like in Numbers 18, 19 God told the priests and the Levites, All the holy contributions that the people of Israel present to the Lord, I give to you and to your sons and daughters with you as a perpetual due. It is a covenant of salt forever before the Lord. Now now to me the Old Testament doesn't say a lot about salt covenants, but apparently salt was one sign of a covenant. So in this instance what they're saying is Elijah may have used salt to renew the covenant between Jericho and God. But I don't think it's any of that. I don't think that's what's happening here. I think that his actions here are symbolic. about what God is doing. What really matters is it's what's going on behind the scenes here. What happens? And so really, you have Elijah He's God's man. You have this new bowl and you have the salt. And again, I told you, I think Elijah is a beautiful picture of Jesus Christ. His name, Elijah's name, means my God of salvation. Jesus is the only one that can remove the curse of sin. Then you have this new bowl. And I think that speaks about the fact that God wants to do something new. Here you have a new prophet, you have a new ministry starting, and God wants to do something new. for these people here in this area. And well how does that apply to us? Did you know that God wants to do something new in your life? And God will do it if he asks him. In fact, that's what salvation is, is it not? If any man be in Christ, he's a what? He's a new creature. And here what God's going to do with this springs. He's not gonna clean up the old water. He's gonna make it brand new. He's replacing the old poisonous water with new clean water. This will be a permanent purification, and it will bless future generations. So notice what happens in verse 21. And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and he cast the soul in there, and he said, Thus saith the Lord, I have healed these waters. There shall not be from thence any more death or barren land. That's an incredible miracle He casts into salt, and the waters are cleansed. Now there are some who try to explain this miracle away. They say, oh It was poisoned due to some radioactive strata. And it suddenly cleared up because of some geological shift. That's an explanation. Or it was some parasite infection that ran its course and then it cleared up. No, God did it. God did it. This is a powerful work of God. And I want you to notice how he does it. First of all, God does something new in us through the Word of God. Now when Elijah throws the salt in, notice again what God what he says in verse 21. He says, Thus saith the Lord, I have healed these waters. It wasn't the salt that healed the waters. That's what healed the waters. It was the word of God. God said, these waters are now healed. These waters are now clean. The same word that spoke the world into existence. The Word of God said, these waters are now clean. God did something new through the power of his word. And you mark it down, dear friend, anytime God wants to do something new in people's lives, he'll do it through the Word of God. He'll do it through his word. You want God to do something new in your life? Find a promise from God and claim it. Ask God to make that a reality in your own life. And God will do something new in your own heart and in your own life. Some of you might remember far back when uh the church was young, Pastor Johnson um put up a banner on a on the auditorium. This was uh about three auditoriums ago, three or four. In the old auditorium, in the old sanctuary, on one of the beams there was a big banner and big old let bold letters, there was a a phrase, and some of you might remember what it was, Behold I will do a new thing. Remember that? How many of y'all remember that? Man, you guys you guys are old, man. I was a teenager, I first started coming, I saw that. And Pastor Johnson told the story of that. I don't know if you remember how that Um he was at a pastor's conference and um he went there with a group of guys and one night they were going to go hear the the the speaker and something happened where he got mixed up and he was accidentally left left behind. And he went to his hotel room and he s later said that was the best thing that ever happened to me. He said because he got alone with God and he asked God for something for him, for his soul, and God led him to the verse in Isaiah, Isaiah 43, 19, behold I will do a new thing. And Pastor said, that's exactly what I needed at that time. And he claimed that verse And it meant so much to him that he he came home and he put off that banner. And that's back in the days when the church was a lot smaller. And you know, the years after that, God indeed did do a new thing. And God blessed him in his life, and he blessed him in his ministry. And that's a great example for us. And what he did was he found a promise from the Word of God And he claimed it, and you know what? God did do something new, and he did it through his word. And I want to tell you that anytime you ask God to do something new for you, he will do it if you'll claim that promise. If you'll lay hold to the word of God. When God does something new, he'll do it through the Word of God. When God does something new in us, he does it through His Spirit. He does it through His Spirit. I think the salt here represents the Holy Spirit. Salt purifies, salt preserves. And I think the salt represents the Holy Spirit being poured out, just like the Spirit was, just like the salt was poured out into the water, the Holy Spirit was poured out into this world. And on the day of Pentecost, God poured out his spirit into the church, and there's a sense now that we, the church, are now the salt of this earth. Isn't that what Jesus said? He said, You're the salt of the earth. And that was a real compliment because salt was very, very valuable. In fact, William Barclay is the one who said that. He said when Jesus said this, that is you're the soul of the earth. He provided men with an expression which has become the greatest compliment that can be paid to any man. Because salt was such a valuable commodity. And we we still do that. When we compliment someone today, what do we say? Well that person, he's the salt of the earth. You know. That's a compliment. And so salt is something that has a permeating effect and influence. And I think that through the Holy Spirit We as believers are to have that influence in the world by the Holy Spirit in us, in our church, and in our lives. We are To be the soul of the earth. And really, God wants to use us to take this old bitter world and turn things around and make things a blessing to others. That's why we're here. That's why God leaves us here We're here to help others in this world. God wants to use you and me to turn bitterness into blessing in this world. So what do we learn? Then in this story as we close, sin always brings a curse. The curse of sin cannot be ignored. We must look to God to reverse the effects of sin's curse. Number four, God will do a new thing for us when we trust Him. And so God miraculously healed these waters and he transformed the spring there by his mighty power. And as Ralph did Davis wrote in his commentary, Kirstville became Graceburg. Look at look what look at verse 22 as we close. Look at that verse. So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of Elisha, which he spake. Again, I've been to Jericho and I saw that water, the fresh spring of water. You know what it's called now? It's called Elisha's Spring. And you know what? The water there is fresh and it's cool. And you can drink from it if you want. It's fresh water. It is there. until this day as a reminder that God can do something new. God can turn bitterness into blessing if we trust him. Ask him to do that for you tonight. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's bow for prayer. I want you to search your own heart. Maybe there's something in your life that's kind of Poisoning the water, so to speak. It's messing everything up. There's just one thing. I mean, your life really is good. Everything is pleasant except for this thing. And you need God to remove it. You need God to turn this bitter thing into a blessing. And you need God to do a new thing for you. Why don't you ask him to do that right now? Just reach out to him and say, God, will you please do that for me? Would you heal the bitter waters of my life? Place a fresh spring. Do something fresh and new in me. Take a moment and just ask him to do that. Father, we thank you for this story. It's encouraging to us. We thank you, Lord, that you are the one that Can cleanse any bitter waters of our life. That you're waiting to do that for us when we put our trust in you. Trust and wait and trust in your power, Lord, to work mightily, to work miracles. in our lives. Lord, we need that. Every once in a while, Lord, we just need something new. We need a new touch. We need you to Lord just to Take the bad situation that we're in, Lord, and make it good. Make the land fruitful again, Lord. Take away the barrenness and the sickness and do something new in our hearts and in our life. Lord, we ask you for this. We trust you for this, for your honor and your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.