Well, as you know, we're studying through the Old Testament book of Joshua and we're learning principles of victory in the Christian life. And I hope it's uh being a help to you. I hope that you're learning some things that's going to help you Because God wants you to live in victory. It's not His will for you to live in defeat. And we need to embrace these things and practice these things. Now tonight, the title of my sermon is Turning Your Troubles into Triumph Turning your troubles into triumph. While you're finding Joshua chapter 7, let me ask you a question. Have you ever failed in your Christian walk? Don't raise your hand. I'll raise mine. Uh have you ever suffered defeat? I think we could all say that we all have. But like I said before, it is not God's will for you to stay there. And we serve such a a wonderful God, such a mighty God, that He's able to turn all of our defeats into victories. Now Henry Ford said something profound one time, the car maker, the great theologian, though he was a car maker. But Henry Ford said failure is an opportunity to begin again more intelligently. And I think that's so very true. Now, the story in Joshua that we're going to look at tonight is a story of failure But this failure isn't final. You see, when you're defeated, God wants you to get up and he wants you to begin again more intelligently. And that's what we're going to look at tonight. Now look in Joshua chapter 7 and look at verse number 1. And it kind of opens on an ominous note. The very first word in verse 1, but The children of Israel committed a trespass and the accursed thing. Now, chapter seven is all about the trouble that Joshua and Israel face. In fact a key word in the whole chapter is the word trouble. Look in chapter seven, look at verse twenty-five. We'll kind of fast forward to the end. And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? The Lord shall trouble thee this day, and all Israel stoned them with stones, and burned them with fire. after they had stoned them with stones, and they raised over him a great heap of stones from to this day. So the Lord turned from the fierceness of his anger, wherefore the name of that place was called the Valley of Acor, and that word Acor there, you might want to just circle it, it means trouble, the valley of trouble. Now again, trouble is the key idea then in this whole chapter And uh it is all about Joshua and Israel going from the valley of trouble, and then by the end, however, they will end up on the mountaintop of triumph. Now it may be that you're there in that valley today. I don't know your situation, but God certainly does. And it may be that just a few days ago you were on the mountaintop of victory. Everything was sun and light you were basking in the sunshine of God's love and you were breathing in the fresh air of victory in your life. But perhaps something happened. And now, maybe tonight, maybe perchance, you dwell in a deep dark valley of trouble. And I want to again remind you that sometimes as Christians you are going to experience trouble. Sometimes as Christians, you are going to go through the valley of Acor. It is part of our pilgrim journey. All of us are going to go through it. But again, the key is God does not want you to stay there. And we have to learn to move on. Now with that in mind, I want to give you three lessons about turning your troubles into triumph. And if you're taking notes, just write down number one, let's look at, first of all, in this passage, the underlying cause. of their trouble. What was it that brought such trouble upon Joshua and Israel? What was it that caused them to come to this valley of Acor? Well here's the first thing there was the problem of sin Again, notice verse number one. But the children of Israel committed a trespass and the accursed thing. For Achan, the son of Karmi, the son of Zebdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against the children of Israel. Now the trouble that Israel experienced came in the form of a man by the name of Achen. Now interesting, the name Achen actually means trouble. And again, I'm not making this up. It kind of fits the text, doesn't it? Achan's name means trouble, and that's exactly what he caused Israel to say, why? Well, first of all, Achan stole. What did he do? The Bible says he took of in verse 1 the accursed thing Now the word accursed is the word Karim, which just simply means under the band. And you remember that when God told Joshua and Israel When they go into Jericho, they were not to take any of the spoils of war there in Jericho. And why was that? Because that city of Jericho was under the Kareem, it was under the ban That is, all of that which is in Jericho belonged to the Lord. Any silver or any gold went to the treasury of the Lord, and the rest of it was to be burned with fire. In fact, look back in chapter 6, and look at verse number 18, so you understand a little better. And God gives these instructions, and ye in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves a curse, when you take of the accursed thing and make the camp of Israel a curse. and trouble it. But all the silver and gold and vessels of brass and iron are consecrated unto the Lord, and they shall come into the treasury of the Lord. And so everything in that city belonged to God. Now it's always been in God's economy that the first things go to Him, right? The first fruits go to God. And this was the first city in that land of Canaan. And so this very first city then Under God's orders, it was under the ban, it was devoted to God. God put a curse on it, and they could take nothing out of it. Jericho, you might say, was the first fruits of the land of Canaan, and it belonged to the Lord. We could say it like this, it was God's tithe. That was the first tent that belonged to him. God said, This city is mine This first thing will be mine. And you know what? Achan didn't obey the Lord, and he robbed God. He took from the Lord. He took that which belonged to the Lord. And so Achan stole, but friend, Israel sinned. Because look again in verse one. But the children of Israel committed a trespass. Now notice how God holds not just Achan accountable, but God holds all of Israel accountable. Look in verse number eleven It says very clearly, Israel hath sinned. Now that's very interesting. Here's one man in the camp who sins, and yet all of Israel has sinned. One Old Testament scholar, James Smith, said God considered Israel an organic unity, and one sin by one brought guilt upon God didn't just get mad at Achan. God got mad against all of Israel. God saw Israel as one man, one body, and one sin by one of them meant all of them had sinned. And this is the principle that many scholars call the principle of corporate solidarity. The musketeer said one for all and what? All for one. And that is that principle there. And that's the way God looked at Israel. And by the way, did you know that in the church we are all one in the body of Christ? Did you know that? The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 12, Christ is the head. We are his body. We are all members in the body. And when one member suffers, we all suffer. Because why? We're all one. And so Achan stole, Israel sinned, but friend, everybody suffered. Everybody One sin can inflict or can infect multitudes. One sinner, the Bible says can destroy much good. And we're going to see in this story how much damage this one sin brought because this one sin affected all of Israel. Now friend, let me tell you something. Don't get the idea that your sin only affects you. You don't live in a bubble. You don't live in isolation. The things that we do have an impact on the lives of others. One sin can affect a whole multitude of people. That's why the Bible says in the New Testament, the Apostle Paul said Talking to the church at Corinth, when they were glorying over one man's failure, moral failure, he said, Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? One little bit of leaven, one little stem, can affect the whole lump. And in fact, what it does for Israel is it brings defeat for all of the nation of Israel. And so the cause of trouble was number one the problem of sin. But then I want you to write down number two the pitfall of success. You say, why has my trouble come? Well it may be that you had a victory, and do you know, friend, the most vulnerable time in your Christian walk might be right after a victory? Right after you're on the mountaintop. You know, when you're on the mountaintop raising your hands in victory, you're a better target for Satan. Did you know that Look back in chapter 6, verse 27. So the Lord was with Joshua, and his fame was noised throughout all of the country. And so The end of chapter 6 ends on a great victorious note, but then chapter 7 opens up on a note of defeat. Now, if we're not careful, we can sometimes be defeated by our victories. If we're not careful, you can go from victor to victim very, very soon. Dr. Adrian Rogers used to say, when God opens up the windows of heaven to bless us, Satan will open up the gates of hell to blast us. And when you have just had a victory in your life, you better watch out because you're vulnerable. Because Satan likes to attack right then. He likes to bring sabotage. By the way, you know what the word sabotage, you know what it means sabote is a word, uh a Dutch word which means wooden shoe. And when they worked, the Dutchmen worked in a French manufacturing plant, they didn't like what was going on, they would just simply toss their wooden shoes into the machinery and thus sabotage. And friends, Satan loves to toss the wooden shoe of sabotage into the Christian's life. He would love to sabotage you in those moments of victory. One person said the more puffed up you are, the better target you are. for Satan. Pride goes before a fall and a ha uh before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. You don't know this man. His name is Bill Grammatica And some of you football fans might remember this. He was a field field goal kicker for Tampa Bay Buccaneers. He was having a great season. And at the end of one game in dus in December of 2001 They were playing the Giants. The game was coming to a close. They needed some points, the Buccaneers to to win. It was a field goal. It was about, you know, 45 yards away. They bring Grammatica out on the field under bad conditions, but Grammatica kicks the field goal. I mean it just splits the uprights three points The Buccaneers win. Bill Grammatica jumps up in the air for joy. You know, it was one of those those uh those leaps, self-congratulatory leaps, like, oh I can't believe what a great kicker I am Kind of jump in the air and when he comes down, you know what he did? He blew out his ACL. Couldn't play anymore. Totally that's not funny, I don't mean to laugh. But it's it's ironic. Here he is celebrating a great victory, and he blows out his knee. Well you better be careful that you're not defeated by your victories. And so we see the cause of problem of trouble is number one, the problem of sin, and then number two, the pitfall of success, but then write down number three the pearl of self-reliance. The peril of self-reliance. Look in verse number two of chapter 7. And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Beth Aven, on the east of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country And the men went up and viewed Ai. And they returned to Joshua and said unto him, Let not all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai. And make not all the people to labor thither, for they are but Well here's another source of trouble, and that's when we stop relying upon the Lord and we start relying upon ourselves When we become self-sufficient. Now, Joshua being a good general, again, he will send out a team of men on a reconnaissance mission. He wants them to go up and spy out AI to see what it's like. And the men did that, and they come back and they say, you know what, this is not a problem, Joshua. We're not intimidated by these people. This is not another Jericho. This is just a little handful. I mean, this is just a small uh city. And you can almost hear the self-sufficiency in their words. You can hear their pride. We can handle this one. I mean, we we don't need the whole army. Joshua, don't send the whole army up. I mean uh let's just send some of the let's send the junior varsity out on this one. Not the varsity. We don't really need all of that. And in this passage, we don't see anywhere where Joshua prays. We don't see anywhere where they wait to get orders from the Lord. In fact, I want to tell you, when you're not praying and seeking God, that's a sign of self-reliance. Why is it that we never seem to pray in a time of triumph or success? Someone wrote, if you'll pray in a time of victory, you won't have to plead in a time of defeat. And if Joshua had led his men in a prayer meeting, he would have realized that there was sin in the camp. God would have revealed that to him, but they didn't pray. And notice they mentioned nothing about God in verse number three. They just said, you know, don't let all the people go up and labor there. Let's not all go up and labor. Well, you didn't labor on the last victory God did it all. They seemed to forget that. All you did was march around the walls and shout, and the walls came down. All you did was a mopping up operation. God had already given it to you You didn't really labor the last time. God did it all. And in their self-reliance, they took their eyes off of the Lord and they began to act in pride. C. S. Lewis said, a proud man is always looking down on things and people, and of course, as long as you're looking down, you can't see what's above you. And that's what's happening here. And they were more preoccupied with troop strength instead of trusting in the Lord. Oh, they're just a few. I mean Jericho had 40,000. Ai only has 3,000. We can handle this. We've got this, Joshua. John Newton, the writer of Amazing Grace, was a poet, and he wrote many poems that gave spiritual truth. And he wrote a poem about pride and self-reliance And it's a poem about a clate, and I want to read it to you because I think it fits in here really well. He wrote, Once upon a time a paper clate was mounted to a wondrous height. were giddy with its elevation. It thus expressed self-admiration. See how the crowds of gazing people admire my flight above the steeple? How they would wonder if they knew All that a kite like me can do Were I but free I take a flight, And pierce the clouds beyond their sight, but ah, like a poor prisoner bound, My string confines me near the ground. I'd brave the eagle's towering wing, might I but fly without this string. And it tugged and pulled, while thus it spoke, to break the string, and at last it broke, and deprived it once of all its stay, in vain it tried to soar away. Unable its own weight to bear, it fluttered downward through the air. Unable its own course to guide, the winds soon plunged it into tide. Ah, foolish kite, thou hast no wing. How couldst thou fly without a string? And my heart replied, O Lord, I see. How much this kite resembles me. Forgetful that by thee I stand, impatient of thy ruling hand, how oft I'd wish to break the lines, thy wisdom for my lot assigns. How oft indulge a vain desire for something more, something higher. And but for grace or love divine, a fall this dreadful had been mine. And the idea is, friends, self-confidence can be very, very dangerous And so there is the problem of sin that caused trouble. There is the pitfall of success, and there is the peril of self-reliance. Now friend, if you examine your heart, you might, you say, I'm in trouble tonight. Well, you might want to look at your own life and heart and see if it may not be one of these things. Maybe the problem of sin. Maybe the pitfall of success. You're dwelling in victory and you're vulnerable and Satan brought you down. Or maybe the peril of self-reliance. Now, let me give you the second thing We see here, number one, the underlying cause of their trouble, but then I want you to write down number two the unexpected curse of their trouble. Now Joshua and Israel, they marched to Ai, and they fully expected to be victorious. But that's not what happened. Look at verse number four. So there went up thither of the people about 3,000 men. And watch this next phrase. And they fled before the men of Ai. You see, friend, when you're not walking in obedience, you're not going to have God's blessing. And so what happens? There's first of all defeat. They go up to this hill country, and by the way, AI was uh uh seventeen hundred feet above Stea level so they had to march upward into the hill country, they march up into the hill, and they turn around and start running back down just as fast Because they were defeated. They were defeated in a very, very humble way. Now remember what Moses said in Deuteronomy? If you obey the Lord, one Israelite will send a thousand people a flight. He said two men could put 10,000 to flight. And if they were obeying God, it only would have took three Israelites to take care of that, but they weren't obeying God. And so they suffered defeat. Sin and self-reliance always will bring defeat. But then write down number two, death. Not only defeat, but death. It gets worse. In verse 5, and the men of Ai smote them about thirty and six men, for they chased them from before the gate unto And smote them in the going down, wherefore the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Death As Israel's army is retreating down this uh steep hill, uh the the the men of Ai have no mercy, and thirty-six men died on those mountain slopes. This was devastating. Now keep in mind at Jericho, they had no losses. But friend, this is what happens when you leave the Ark of the Covenant home and you go into battle without it. And this is a total reversal. of Jericho. At Jericho they had the ark. Here at Ai they left at home. At Jericho they followed God's orders. Here at Ai they followed their own orders. At Jericho they were dependent upon God's strength. At Ai, they depended upon their own military strength. At Jericho, Jericho was afraid of Israel. And now here at Ai, Israel was afraid of Ai. At Jericho, they had victory. Here they have defeat At Jericho there were no deaths. Here there are thirty-six men that died. And again, don't tell me that your sin doesn't affect anyone else, because of one man's sin. Now there are thirty-six widows in Israel. And there are 36 families grieving over the loss of someone that they love. When lust has conceived, it brings forth sin, and sin when it is finished, brings forth death. Now write down not only defeat and death, but also write down number three dismay. Dismay, because at the end of verse 5 it says again, wherefore the hearts of the people melted and became as water. Now you remember the last time we saw that phrase about hearts melting, it was referring to the Canaanites. Remember Rahab said in chapter 2, verse 11, when we saw what your God did, our hearts melted with fear. Now here is Israel and their hearts melt with fear. Now the tables are turned because of Achan's sin. Now Israel becomes like the Canaanites, and now they are afraid. All because of sin. You see, that's another consequence of sin. Not only does sin bring death, but sin will cause you to live in perpetual fear. Man did not experience fear until after sin and the garden when Adam said, I was afraid. And I hid myself. Where did that fear come from? It came from sin. And so there's another thing. There's defeat, there's death, there's dismay, and then there's despondency. Look at verse number 6. And Joshua rent his clothes and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the Lord until the eventide, he and the elders of Israel, and put dust upon their heads. Now to tear their clothes is an overwhelming dramatic gesture of sorrow and grief and dust on the heads is an expression of bitter anguish. And they fall on their faces before the ark of the Lord, which is a symbol of the presence of the of God. And now here they are in the dust of depression, in the slew of despondence, and the general Joshua who knew no defeat. Think about that. This is the first real defeat that General Joshua has ever suffered. And now he's humbled. And now he's before the Lord. And he's despondent. And friend, that's what else sin does. It'll bring death, it'll bring fear, it'll take away your joy, it'll take away your peace, it'll make you depressed Now I know some people suffer with depression and I feel for folks like that, some depression is medical and you just need to get some medical help. Some depression is temperamental. It's part of a person's personality. Some is circumstantial. It's just because bad things happen. But there is some sin that is spiritual, or some depression, rather, that is spiritual, and it's just a matter of sin. And in cases like that, a bottle is not going to help you and counsel's not going to help you. You need to go to the Lord and get that right. And so there's defeat and there's death and there's dismay and there's despondency. But then here's the next thing. There's doubt. Look in verse 7. And Joshua said, Alas, O Lord God, wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over Jordan to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites and to destroy us? Would to God we had been content And dwell on the other side of Jordan. Now it's hard to believe that this is Joshua talking here. Up until this time, Joshua has never questioned God. He's always been the one strong in faith. You remember when the twelve spies came back from the promised land and the ten gave a bad report and Joshua and Caleb gave a good report? He was strong in faith. But now here he begins to express doubt And you know what, Joshua? He sounds just like one of those unbelieving Jews in Canaanish Barney. You remember what they said? Would to God we had died in Egypt? You brought us here into this land, and you're going to forsake us in this wilderness. Would to God we had died in Egypt. Now here's Joshua saying, Lord, why did you bring us here? It'd be better for us to be on the other side of the Jordan Sounds just like him. And again, friend, that is another thing about sin. Sin will bring unbelief and doubt. Henry Morrison wrote, but read his prayer, talking about Joshua, and you will catch a note in a strange note in it. Joshua reproaches God. God, this is your fault. Now, isn't that like the nature of human nature? We mess up and we like to blame it on God. The Bible says in Proverbs, the foolishness of a man perverts his way, and then his heart frets against the Lord And that's the nature of human nature. And by the way, wait, it goes all the way back to the garden. It's the woman, God, that you gave me. She gave me the fruit and I didn't eat, and then Eve said, Well, it's the serpent, Lord, that you created. Someone said Adam blamed Eve, Eve blamed the serpent, the serpent didn't have a leg to stand on. And we just like to shift the blame. And that's exactly what's going on even in our country today. It's everyone else's fault. Everybody's a victim. That's the nature of human nature. But then here's the next thing. There's defeat, there's death, there's dismay, there's despondency, there's doubt, and then here's the worst thing: dishonor. Look at verse number eight. O Lord, what shall I say when Israel turned their backs before their enemies? For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us around, and cut off our name from the earth And what wilt thou do unto thy great name? Here's the worst thing. Joshua really gets to the heart of the matter when he said, Lord, our defeat It's going to dishonor your name. You know why? Did you notice in verse 9 how Israel's name and God's name are inseparable Because they're so one and related to God. And the worst thing about this whole defeat is it dishonors God. God, if we get defeated, your name is going to suffer reproach. You know, I think this is what it means. When we talk about taking the Lord's name in vain, when the Bible talks about that, by the way, did you know that you are inseparably linked to God's If you name the name of Christian, then you bear God's name, and friend, you better be sure that you don't bear it in vain. I think what it means to take the Lord's name in vain is to call yourself a Christian and live like the devil. That's taking the Lord's name in vain. And here, Joshua understands the oneness. Lord, if we're defeated, your name Will not receive honor. You will be reproached, Lord, if we are defeated. And that's so very true, friend. And when you don't live for God the way you should, and when you're not walking in victory, it is a disgrace to the name of Almighty God You bear his name. One time Alexander the Great had a soldier brought to him who was acting like a coward in battle, and Alexander said, What's your name? And the soldier said softly, Alexander. He said, What? He said, My name is Alexander. Alexander the Great said, well you better change your name or change your behavior. And that's what God would say to some of God's people today. Change your name. If you call yourself a Christian and you're not living for Christ, you better change your name. Or change your behavior. I remember one time I walked into a Christian bookstore and uh the the Christian bookstore in another state, not here in Maryland, another state, was selling uh door match with the name of Jesus on it. Now I want to tell you that just didn't sit well with me for some reason. Now if you have a Jesus doormat, that's fine. That's up to you. But I would just assume not someone wipe their feet on the name of Jesus when they come into my house. And I remember just thinking, you know, Jesus is the door, not the door mat. And uh I think I even said something to the the the catch here, why are you selling these? This just didn't sit well with me. But friend, I want to tell you something even worse, and that is for a Christian who by their life trample underfoot the name of Jesus. And so here's dishonor. And so we see the underlying cause of their trouble and the unexpected curse of their trouble, defeat and death and dismay and despondency and doubt and dishonor. But then let me give you the last thing here. Number three, the unfailing cure for their trouble. The unfailing cure. Now what is what happens? Well, Joshua and the men of Israel, the leaders, stay on their face for a while, and sometimes God will allow us to come to the end of ourselves in desperation before he intervenes. And then God speaks. Look in verse 10. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up, and wherefore lies thou thus upon thy face. God is about to give Joshua some practical steps for removing the trouble in his life and returning to triumph. And the first step here is investigation. Here he gets the word from the Lord. Joshua, get up. Why are you on your face? Here's the first thing God does. He rebukes them. You know, sometimes we just need a good rebuke from Almighty God to get us back on our feet. Why are you on your face? Why are you there down in the in despair in defeat? That's why you need to come to God's house and hear God's word, because it is the word of God that will give you a rebuke. Sometimes it's the very rebuke that you need And so God says, get off your face, examine yourself. It was not time to stay there in prayer. Now it's time to do something. You see the problem Joshua had is he was proactive when he should have been prayerful, and now he's prayerful. when it's time to be proactive. And God says, get off your face and take action. Israel has sinned. And look what God tells them in verse 13 Up and sanctify the people and say, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, there is an accursed thing in the midst of thee. O Israel, thou canst not stand before thine enemies until ye take away the accursed thing from among you. And so God says, Joshua, call an assembly in the morning, and God's going to give an investigation. And look at verse 14, in the morning therefore shall ye be Shall you be brought according to your tribe, and it shall be that the tribe which the Lord taketh shall come to the family thereof? And so on. You say, What's what's God's approach here? Very simple. Joshua, call in the whole nation and an assembly. And then I'm going to point out a tribe. And then I'm going to whittle it down to a family, and then I'm going to whittle it down to a household, and then I'm going to bring it down to one man. And how did God do this? Very simply, they did this by the casting of lots. And in the Old Testament, uh the w the way they found out the mind of God and the will of God was they took two stones And these two stones were uh in a pocket right behind the breastplate that the high priest would wear. Remember he had a beautiful breastplate, and there was a little pocket right behind it where he kept these stones And when they wanted to know the mind of God, this is what they would do in the Old Testament. They would take out these two stones, and then they would cast these stones to the ground, kind of like you're you're you're ca uh casting dice By the way, this is not a biblical warrant for using dice, all right? Just a little clarification there. They would cast these stones down on the ground. And that would ask yes or no questions. God, is it this tribe? Castle and looking around, no. This tribe? No. This tribe? Yes. And then they would go to household and on down to family. And by the way, the names of those two stones was Urim and Thumin. Your m and thummon, that is light and perfection. And that's how they discern the mind of God. One time a preacher preached on those two stones, Yrim and Thumman. And one young Christian said, Man, I wish I had those two stones to help me know the mind of God. And the preacher said, You got something better. You have a more sure word of prophecy. He said, when I want to know the mind of God, I just take the precious pages of God's word and I use them and I thumb them. You know. That's how I know the will of God. Friend, you have a more sure word of prophecy in God's word. But then there was investigation, and then there's revelation. Look in verse 16. So Joshua rose up in the morning. He does exactly what the Lord says. Verse 17, and he brought the family of Judah, and he took the family of the Therehites. And he brought the family of the Zerheist man by man, and Zebdai was taken. And so when he got- he continues to whittle it down until finally the lot falls upon Athan. Now one thing I asked myself when I studied this is why did they go through such a tedious process? Why did God, why didn't he just reveal his name and say, it's Joshua, it's Achan? God didn't do that. And I think for two reasons. Number one, I think God wanted to show Israel the seriousness of sin. I think this whole process brought fear into the hearts of the people. And God wanted to give a message. It's a serious thing, a serious thing, a sin against an Almighty God. And I think another reason is this gave Achan an opportunity to confess. For him to come forward. And in this whole process, he doesn't. You know, many times God will be patient and he'll wait for us to come forward. And friend, when you don't, you cover your sin, he'll uncover it. And that's exactly what he does here. And I think the a second question I ask is, why didn't Achan come forward? Why during this whole process did he let it go on? He had to know he was going to be revealed. But he didn't come forward. And you know what? I think he had actually convinced himself that he was going to get away with it I mean, enter into his mind. Look at verse 21. When I saw the spoils of a goodly Babylonian garment and two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold. Of fifty shekels weight. Then I coveted them and took them, and behold, they are hid in the earth, in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. And here he is, he saw, he coveted, he took. Again, lust has conceived, and it brings forth sin, and then he hides it. And he he feels like he got away with it, and then he begins to rationalize why this isn't wrong. I'm a soldier, I deserve this. I deserve the spoils of war. Every way of man is right in his own eyes, but the Lord ponders the heart. And sometimes we can even convince ourselves that we don't we didn't sin. What sin? Through me? John says, if we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. You see, what happens is pride and memory have an argument. Memory says it happened thus and so. And pride says, oh no That's not the way it happened. It couldn't have happened that way. And memory says, well, yeah, I think it happened this way. And pride says, no, it couldn't have. And memory gives in And then memory reports what took place, and pride rewrites the data before conscience, the perfect scribe, can get at it. And that's how we rationalize. But you know what Aiken forgot? God sees all. And sometimes we forget that. God sees all. And so there's investigation, there's revelation, then there's extermination. Look uh what happens, a terrible thing in verse 22. So Joshua sent messengers. They ran into the tent, and behold it was hid in his tent and the silver under it. And they took him out of the midst of the tent, and they brought him unto Joshua, unto all the children of Israel, and laid them out before the Lord And then we get down to verse 25, what we read a while back. Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us, and the Lord troubled thee this day? And they stoned him, and he and his whole family, all that he had, suffered tremendous judgment there. Now, someone's going to say, now wait a minute, in verse 21, he confessed. Yeah, he confessed after the fact. He confessed when he had no other choice. I remember one time when I was a child I did something wrong and I covered it up. And my mother got all us boys together and she said, I know one of you have d did this. You all been there, right? I can tell by the way you're looking at me. Well, I know one of you did this. Now if you confess you won't get in trouble, but if you hide it and I find out you're in trouble. And you know how mothers are, she conducted a thorough investigation And by the time my father got home I could hear downstairs and she said Jerry did this and here's the evidence and then I heard my father's Coming up the steps, footsteps coming up. I heard him walk down the hall. I saw the door handle turn. I got up out of bed. I grabbed the door. I opened it up and I said, Dad, there's something I want to confess to you See after the fact I was trying to save my hide at that point. This is exactly what Aiton does. And you know what? He ends up in the valley of trouble. Now, and so you know what? He's a symbol, however, of how the sin in our life has to be exterminated. It has to be we have to get it out. If you want a victory in your life, you have to uh express that sin, you have to expel that sin, you have to exterminate that sin, you have to get it out. And that's exactly what Joshua and Israel does. And then here's the last step. There's rededication There's investigation, revelation, extermination, and if you want to go back to victory in your life, there has to be rededication. And I don't have time to do all this. So I want to touch for just a minute. In chapter 8, you know what happens? They go back to AI. They didn't bypass AI. Friend, I want to tell you where you're defeated, God wants you to go back and have victory And they go back to AI, this time more intelligently. They pray, they get their orders from God, and God gives them a battle plan, and they attack from the front, pretend they're defeated, and then they run, and there's another Part of the army of Israel in the rear part and they come in and they take the city and they burn it. And then when the men of Ai turn and see their city on fire, they their their hearts melt and then the Israelites turn on them and there's total victory. Right after that, where there was defeat, there's victory. But here's the thing I want you to see. Look in chapter 8, look down at verse 30. Because right after that victory. Now, Joshua does something very unique. Look in chapter 8, verse 30, and we'll end on this. Then Joshua built an altar unto the Lord God of Israel in Mount. Ebal. You know what he does? Right after the victory at Ai. Joshua leads Israel 30 miles away through the Jordan Valley. up to this other valley, and it's a valley in between two mountains. On one side there's Mount Girizm, on the other side there's Mount Ebel, and this valley is so narrow That it this it has such great acoustical properties. In fact, it is said that if you go there in that valley These two mountains forms a perfect natural theater, and the limestone strata is broken up into successive ledges, and so it kind of looks like the appearance of benches. And one writer says this. He says, one feature of the place between the mountains is its fine acoustical properties. A person on one mountain can easily hear a person on the other, and both can hear what goes on below. And so you know what Joshua does? He takes the twelve tribes and he divides them in half, six on one mountain, Mount Girizm, six on the other mountain, Mount Ebal. And then he's down there in the valley, and the Ark of the Covenant is down there, and the leaders are down there, and everyone's facing the Ark. You know what Joshua does? He reads from the Word of God, from the law. And he reads about obedience from the law. He reads about the blessings of obedience. He reads about the cursings of disobedience. And meanwhile, on the sides of the mountain, Joshua would read a blessing, and the people on Mount Girisim would say, Amen. And he'd read a curse and the people of Mount Ebo would say, Amen. And the Bible says he reads all of the law. Friend, you think our services are long. He reads it all. And the people say, Amen. You say, what's going on here? This is a rededication service. They are rededicating theirselves to the Lord. This was a renewal of obedience to God. And Joshua knew this is the perfect time. To rededicate. You know the perfect time to renew your heart's desire to obey the Lord is right after you've had a defeat. You confess it. You get up out of that valley of trouble. And friend, you go to the mountain of triumph and you say, Amen. Men. I will obey the Lord with a renewed vigor, with a renewed dedication. I will obey the Lord And you know what? This story, while it opens up in the valley of Acor, the Valley of Trouble, it ends up on the mountain of triumph, with God's people saying, Amen. Amen. Now let me just close with this one thing. Why is God so willing to freely forgive? And take our defeat and make them victories. You know why? Because if you look again, Joshua built an altar right there in the valley. And that altar was to be made with no man's tools, with no man's instruments. And that altar speaks about Calvary. And you know why we can have victory? You know why God will forgive and restore us? It's because Jesus went into the valley for us. And his sacrifice paid our sin debt. And friend, all of our defeats and all of our failures, Jesus bore them himself on the cross, and God is so willing to take our defeats and make them victories because of Jesus. And that's the reason we can have victory tonight. We can walk in the victory that our Lord Jesus has given us. Is that what you're doing? Are you walking in the victory of Christ? If not, why not? Because that's God's will for you. Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you again for the Word of God and how it teaches us. And I pray, Lord, for your people here tonight. If there's someone here that's walking in a Valley of Acor, I pray, Lord, that that valley would turn into a door of hope. And that, Lord, they would not stay there. But that there will be in their life a renewed dedication, a dedication of renewed obedience. To follow you with all their heart. And for them to get out of that valley, get back on that mountain where they belong. If heads bowed and eyes closed, how maybe say that's my prayer tonight. May God grant me victory in my life. God seize your hand. Father, bless these and bless these words to every hearing heart. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.