If you take God's word tonight, and would you open please to the book of Revelation as we continue our study in this great prophetic book? And we're going to be in chapter seven tonight, and I want to the title of the sermon is Two Mighty Multitudes. Now, we were in chapter six and we saw the first six seals open. And we saw that this is a time of unprecedented disaster. God's wrath poured out on the earth. And the opening of the sixth year will happen approximately if you go chronologically through the book of Revelation, somewhere in the middle point of the tribulation, and great great wrath will fall on the earth. And then if you look in chapter 8, what you'll see is the opening of the seventh seal, which will be followed by a time of silence for about a half hour. And the reason for the silence is because of the solemn judgment that is going to be poured out, the horror of the judgment that will be poured out after that. And so what you have then between chapter six and chapter eight is a parenthetical message of really mercy in chapter seven. And this reminds us that even in the midst of God's wrath, he remembers mercy. And what we're going to see here are two mighty multitudes that will be coming out of the tribulation period. There will be some who will be sealed, and there'll be some who will be saved. And so we're going to look at these here tonight. And what I want you to see are just one I want to show you this tonight in just three parts in chapter seven here. I'm going to talk about servants will be sealed. And then secondly, we're going to talk about tonight sinners will be saved. And then thirdly, finally, saints will be satisfied. So those are the three points and three topics we'll be looking at. But first of all, number one, servants will be sealed. And we see this in the first four verses of chapter seven. Look in verse one. And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the winds should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree. And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having to seal the living God, and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea. Saying, hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads. And I heard the number of them which were sealed, and there were sealed a hundred and forty and four thousand. of all the tribes of Israel. Now in these first four verses we see the first of the two of the two groups of these multitudes and God is going to s set a seal upon this multitude. And it says here that this multitude will are described as having the seal of God. on their foreheads. Now immediately the question arises to us, what kind of seal is this? This is not to be confused with the seal that is on the scroll. We saw the seven-sealed scroll that is being loosed, and the seven seal, as we said, will be loosed in chapter eight But what seal is this? This is the word here that often refers to a seal that you would find on a king's signet ring. A king would wear a wing uh a ring a ring, excuse me. Um it's a little late tonight. But uh he would wear a ring, I'm gonna get that right. And he would and this would be a ring that he would use to uh with a wa with a document that had a wax seal, he would often just make his mark. That was the mark of the king uh an authoritative mark in that wax that would seal that document and that meant that that document was authentic. It meant that it had the authority of the king. The seal denoted ownership It it denoted protection, and uh that's what the word is here for the seal. Now, to me in Revelation, there's an interesting contrast between the seal of God and the mark of the beast. Each mark identifies the person, or we could say the one that they worship and serve. And by the way, in verse number three we see the word servants We have sealed the servants of our God. That's the Greek word doulas, which always means a slave. um back in that day, a slave that was totally committed to his master. And it was common in John's day for masters to seal their slaves or to put a mark on them or to put a brand on them. That was common in John's day. So so notice here what I want to call, first of all, the preparation for the seal. Again, look at verse 1 where he says, after these things. Now that term here signifies a new scene that's about to unfold. We saw the vision of the sixth seal that has ended in chapter six, and now a new vision has begun. And so it shifts from judgment to the ungodly to special protection for the godly. And John sees four angels at the four corners of the earth holding up holding up the four winds. And the basic purpose of the angels to withhold jud or to withhold judgment upon the earth, the the s the earth and the sea and the trees. They're to hold back that judgment until the servants of God are sealed. Holding back is a strong word that suggests these winds are struggling to break free from the restraint. And so God's wrath is restrained for a time. It's restrained for a moment. And I want you to notice in verse 1 where it talks about the four angels standing on the four corners of the earth. Now perhaps no phrase in Scripture has been so controversial, or maybe I should say in the whole book of Revelation is so controversial as to this phrase here, the four corners of the earth. What are we talking about here? when we talk about the four corners of the earth and I've got all kind of different interpretations of this, and I'm going to give you the right one here tonight. But um What does he mean here? Well, we see this expression used in the Old Testament often. The Old Testament word translated corners is the Greek uh Hebrew word, I should say, kanaf. And that's translated a variety of ways, extremity or borders, um, wings, you know, he'll come with healing in his knoff wings, or the uh the hem of a garment. You know, in Ezekiel 7. 2 is translated four corners, and again in Isaiah 11, 12, 4 corners. Now the Greek equivalent is used here in Revelation 7. 1 and it's uh Ghania And the meaning here is really probably equivalent to the English word that we have is quadrants, or we could say divisions, four divisions. Now, some have tried to ridicule the Bible and say, well, this one verse here teaches that the earth is square and that the Bible is scientifically inaccurate. But let me just say that the scripture teaches that the earth is round, it's a globe. In Isaiah 40, verse 22, the Bible says, It is he that sits upon the circle of the earth. And the word for circle there is the Hebrew word for globe or spear, we could say, or ball. And so the Bible is scientifically accurate with that respect. We realize that the earth is round. The scripture teaches that. And they were way ahead of science because Isaiah wrote that, and that was seven hundred years before the Lord Jesus Christ. So you can't say that the Bible is scientifically inaccurate. And some have tried to say here that there are four knobs or peaks on the round part of the earth. Um in fact um I read uh a uh uh a excerpt by Dr. Henry Morris who is a well-known creation scientist, which in my opinion really doesn't match, but whatever. Um he basically tries to describe how that the earth literally does have these four high points. you know, on it. And it's a really ingenious explanation, but I think he might be forcing it just a bit here. Um I think that the best way to understand this is just simply, it's referring to the earth as having four cor having four corners. It's not meant to be scientific. All right, John's not meaning to be scientific here. And what he's basically talking about really are the four points on a compass. North, south, east, and west. I think that's the best way to understand this. And um and so what he's talking about are are these four divisions or four directions, and these angels are holding back The judgment on all these four quadrants or divisions, north, south, east, and west, until God does something uh first. Okay? And so, uh and by the way, there are some Old Testament passages I think that help us with this. Did you know for nearly 2,000 years religious Jews have faced the city of Jerusalem and three times daily They would chant the following prayer. Listen, sound the great trumpet for our freedom. Raise the banner for gathering our exiles and gather us together from the four corners of the earth into our own land. And the Bible in the book of Isaiah describes how the Messiah, the root of Jesse, shall regather his people from the four corners of the earth. And they shall come from every extremity we could say to be gathered into Israel. Listen to this verse. And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, who shall stand as a banner to the people. For the Gentile shall seek him, and his resting place shall be glorious, and it shall come to pass in that day that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people who are left From Assyria and Egypt and Pathros and Kush and Elam and Shinar and Hamath and the islands of the sea, he will set up A banner for the nations, and will assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah, listen, from the four corners of the earth. And so we see here that this expression is used often in the Old Testament just to talk about those various directions there. Now, the presentation of the seal. So here is the preparation for the seal. Wrath is being held back by these four angels. And then the presentation of the seal, look at verse number two, and I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God, and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, saying, hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God. in their foreheads. So here's another sea angel that ascends out of the east with the seal of God, and he charges the four angels not to allow any more hurt Until these servants are sealed. And again, the word dulas is used. So I think that these were already redeemed. They were already serving God. Perhaps faithfully preaching, but now they require God's special protection so that they can continue to proclaim the truth. Now some see this angel that rises out of the east as Jesus Christ. Now I think that's unlikely and let me tell you why. I think the word for angel here or another angel is the word another is Alas, which means another of the same sort. So I think he was the same kind of angel as the other four angels here. I don't think this is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now another question that comes up in this passage is what is this seal? Now some don't believe the seal will be a literal visible mark. But rather, the seal would be simply that God knows those who are his children. All of this is just symbolic. And the seal is simply that God knows who his people are. For example, 2 Timothy 2. 19 says this, nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, the Lord knows. them that are his. And let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. So some say, well this seal is just simply symbolic. It's not a literal mark. It is just simply the fact that God knows who his children are, and that's the seal of God. And others say, no, this will be a literal seal. Look in Revelation chapter 14, look down in verse number 1, because it talks about this a little bit more. It says this, and I looked, and lo, a lamb stood on the midst of Zion. And with him a hundred and f forty and four thousand having his father's name written in their what? In their foreheads. So the seal they say is the father's name. This could be The Hebrew tetragrammaton, the four-letter name, the name that is the sacred name of God of Yahweh, with just four Hebrew letters there, that that may be the seal of God. And some contrast this with the Antichrist's number, which will be the mark of the beast. 666, the Antichrist will give you His people a number, God will give his people his name. And that will be the mark. And just as the mark of the beast would be a literal mark, then so The seal of God, which is the name of God, will be a mark as well. And so there's debate about that. And then there's the protection of the seal. This is a seal of protection. God is protecting his people from what he is about to do. The wrath is about to really be poured out in a greater measure. I think that the intensity and the wrath is greater As the tribulation period continues on, and this is a seal of protection. This is not the first time that God has protected his people while at the same time punishing the ungodly. We see that in Scripture often, don't we? God is able to protect his people, yet at the same time, he's able to pour out his wrath on the ungodly. In fact, in uh 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 4 to 9 It talks about this, that God can judge the ungodly while at the same time protect the godly. We see this in the Old Testament. God poured out his wrath upon the Egyptians. But at the same time, he protected Israel. He brought down the plagues upon Egypt, but none of those plagues touched the children of Israel. And notice chapter 9, verse number 4, where it talks about the seal of God protecting Revelation 9. 4. And it was commanded then. This is talking about the locusts that ascend out of the pit. that will have power to hurt only those notice what it says it was commanded that them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads. So those who have the seal of God will be protected from the wrath and some of the tribulation uh events that will take place during that period Now, we see this in the Old Testament. In Ezekiel chapter 9, there's a story of, in fact, why don't you just go ahead and turn there? All right, look in Ezekiel chapter 9 with me tonight. We'll come back here to Revelation. Ezekiel chapter 9. And look in verse number four. Now God is about to judge Israel The glory of the Lord has departed. It's departing from Israel. The glory of God has left the temple. It's gone out the eastern gate, ascended up the valley of Kegar and up the slope of the a Mount of Olives and ascended up and it it's gone. And what's happening now is that God is now going to bring judgment on the people of Israel. And so God sends judgment. Look at verse 4. And the Lord said unto him, That is, here is a uh here is uh an angel, a divine messenger with a pen in his hand. In fact, just back up to verse 3, and the glory of God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon he was to the threshold of the house, and he called to the man clothed with linen which had the writer's ink horn at its side. So here is this divine messenger. He's got a stylus in his hand, or we could say a a little ink pen there. And notice what he tells them to do. And the Lord said unto him in verse 4, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that be done in the midst thereof. So in Ezekiel's day, this messenger was to go throughout the city, and he was to put a mark on all those that Deplored the faithless idolatry of the Israelites. He was to make his trek through apostate Jerusalem, and all those that weeped over sin, all those that sighed over the abominations That meant what? That meant that they were the true people of God. God's people weep and mourn over sin. And he said, if you see someone like that, you put a mark on their forehead And then, and by the way, the word for mark here, I think I may have told you this before, the uh it's the literally the last letter of the Hebrew alphabet, Tav. And right now, if you look at the uh Aramaic block script that is used in Hebrew today, you know it kind of looks like a cursive N with a a dogish or a dot right in the middle of it. But In the Phoenician script, or the we could say the pre-exilic script that the Israelites used or letters in that day, a tav was a cross. It was a cross. Which can't again is just fascinating to me. Here, many, many centuries before the cross, or before crucifixion, In this vision, the messenger is told to put a cross on the head of all of those that weep and sigh over the sins. And that would be the symbol of their faith Which again is this fascinating to me that a cross all the way back then would be the sign of the true people of God. But that was a a mark that they put on them. And so we see this all the way back in the Old Testament. God marking his people, those that are truly his, receive the mark of God. And this will take place during this time in the tribulation period when God will mark those with his name, those that are truly his And then I want you to notice the next thing. I want you to notice the population of the seal. Go back to Revelation and look in verse number four again and I heard the number of them which were sealed and they were sealed a hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel Now again, the big questions surrounding this are who are the 144,000? Again, are we to take this number literal or is it to be taken as symbolic? Again, this seems to be one of the controversial passages in the entire Bible. Many people want to be identified as the 144,000. Some Seventh-day Adventists believe they are the 144,000 members of the church. They are the ones who are observing the Jewish Sabbath, and they will be when the Lord comes. That they are the hundred and forty-four thousand. Of course when their group grew larger than that, they kinda had to revise that teaching a little bit, I guess, you know. Some interpret the 144,000 here to be the church. They identify this as the new Israel. This is the church. This number is simply a symbolic number that speaks about the church. I don't think that the church replaces Israel at all. There's the the uh word the name of Israel is used 77 times in the New Testament. We know 75 of those times it's always talking about ethnic Israel, it's always talking about the nation. There are only two times that are disputed in the whole New Testament when Israel they think may possibly be referring to the church. One is in Romans 9 and the other is Galatians 6. 16. And the Romans 9 passage he's referring to True Jews who are saved, they are part of spiritual Israel because they are saved. And then in Galatians 6. 16, I think it's the same idea there. So I don't think that those two passages can warrant any kind of a replacement theology where the church replaces Israel. And so um there's no clear-cut example in the New Testament of the church being called Israel. That's nowhere in the New Testament. And none exists in the ancient church writings either, for that matter, until 160 A. D. And so the term Israel must be interpreted in accordance with its normal biblical usage as a reference to the physical descendants of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. And I think this is to be taken literal because the Bible says that the twelve thousand are taken from the what? From the twelve tribes. I mean if that's not what that means, how am I supposed to see that? I mean if it's symbolic, how does that work? I mean he said it's 144,000 is symbolic, leaves all kind of questions in my mind. What does the 12,000 from each tribe symbolize. And so to me, there's nothing in the text to suggest that we need to take this as symbolic. And those who want to take this as symbolic of the church, they say, Well, taking this literal presents so many difficulties Here's one difficulty they mention. They say, well, tribal records were lost when the Romans sacked Jerusalem in 70 A. D. No Jew today knows what tribe they belong to because of this. Well, just that's not a problem with God, beloved. God God knows who they are. And besides that, now we have ancestry. com. Everyone can trace their DNA. I trace mine. I am thirty-seven percent Scottish. Thirty percent from England somewhere, and seven percent Welsh, seven percent Finnish, and one percent Cameroon African, you know. So I've got all of those in me. So um yeah. So you know this is not a problem for God. God will select 12,000 from each tribe, redeem them, and anoint them to preach the gospel. Now, another difficulty that some people have when they look at this is uh they say, well, the twelve tribes omit the tribe of Dan. Manasseh takes his place. And Ephraim uh is also there in favor of this father Joseph, so therefore we really can't take this to be literal. The order doesn't line up like the twelve tribes of the Old Testament. Why is Dan omitted? But if you read the Old Testament about the tribe of Dan, what you will see is that this tribe of Dan led Israel into idolatry during the period of the judges. Uh y you might remember in Judges chapter eighteen, the children of Dan set up the the graven image, and Jonathan, the son of Geershem, the son of um the grandson I should say of Moses. He and his sons were the priests of the tribe of Dan and they kind of led the people into idolatry. So just one generation removed from Moses, they were leading people into Then you have the story of Micah and the tribe of Dan where they steal a personal priest and they lead the whole nation of Israel into idolatry. And God promised to blot out the idolater In Deuteronomy 29, 18 to 21. And so Dan therefore is blotted out of the list of tribes found here in Revelation chapter 7. Dan was the first of Israel's tribe to accept idolatry, and so therefore they bore the judgment of God. Why is Ephraim omitted? Well, because they defected from the house of Judah. They were also consumed with idolatry. They were a weak need, murmuring, complaining people. They were always late for the fight. They always showed up when the fight was over saying, why didn't you call us? You like people like that? Oh, I I didn't know there was a fight. They did this with Gideon, they did this with Jephthah In Psalm 78, verse 9, the children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, turned back from the day of battle. They were uh unfaithful, unreliable, and because of that, um they were omitted by God In Psalm 78, verse 69. Moreover, he refused the tabernacle of Joseph and chose not the tribe of Ephraim. And so these are not problems. In Hosea 4. 17 it says, Ephraim has joined the idols, leave him alone. And so these 144,000 were made up of Jewish believers from each of these twelve tribes that God Selected. These will be those who will be saved during this period. They will be anointed to serve and preach the gospel during this time. One writer says this, the Jews will probably be God's chosen missionaries, 144,000 apostle Pauls who carry the gospel to all nations. And in doing this, this will be God fulfilling the prophecy that Jesus made in Matthew 24, 14. Now, remember the Bible says this, that in Romans 11, 25, I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brother, so that you may not be conceited. Israel has experienced a hardening in part. until the full number of Gentiles has come in. And so all Israel will be saved. And so we know there's partial blindness now, but There's going to come a time when God takes the church out that large numbers of peoples will be saved. During that time in the tribulation period, the j the Bible says all Israel will be saved. And um then God will use this group. to evangelize. They will be powerful missionaries going around the world, evangelizing the whole world during that time. I want to tell you something, folks, this will probably be the greatest revival that we've ever seen in the world Because many people will come to know the Lord. Write down Matthew 24, 14, Jesus said this in his mouth of discourse. And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then the end will come. This was always God's plan. Remember from the very beginning, God said to Abraham, I'm going to bless you so that you can bless the nations. It was always God's will that the chosen people of Israel be used as a light to carry the word to all the nations. Now we know that in the Old Testament they failed at that, and then God used a new people, the church, to help evangelize, but there's going to have another opportunity when the Jews again will be the light of God and they will take the the word to all the nations of the world. And so this leads to the second point. Servants will be sealed. Here's number two. Sinners will be saved Look in verse number nine. And after this I beheld, and lo a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations and kindreds and people, and tongues stood before the throne. And before the lamb clothed with white robes and palms in their hands, and so Again, notice the phrase after this. John begins another vision with the words marking the start of this new vision. And notice where he says, Be I beheld and lo. This is this isn't the Greek an interjection. It expresses shock. It expresses surprise. I think John is somewhat startled in what he sees here in this vision. A great multitude that no man can number Here's this huge multitude that is before the throne. This must have been a wonderful sight to John. Maybe he was there from the very beginning to see in the Lord's ministry, just a small handful of people believe. And he heard Jesus in his parables talking about the mustard seed and how it's going to grow and how that the gospel is going to spread throughout all the world. And I think he sees here the fulfillment of that. Well here is a multitude that no man can number. And this had to be wonderful to see this vision. Now, some people again question who is this multitude? There are some, and again there's a lot of tr different translations or views about who this multitude is. Some say well this is representative of every soul that's ever been saved, Old Testament or New Testament. Some people say again, no, this is the church. Others say this is the martyrs that come out of all the all the martyrs of all history. Another says, well, no, this is just another way of describing the 144,000. It's a it's a it's the same group. It's just another way of describing the same group Well, that's pretty confusing to me. Because what I see here are two different groups. Group one and verses one to eight are Jews. 144,000. They're sealed and protected. And they are seen witnessing on the earth. And they enter into God's kingdom. The group number two that we see here from verses 9 to 17, these are Gentiles. They're from all over. From every tribe and kindred and tongue and nation. It's a multitude that no man can number. They're not sealed because many are going to die During the tribulation period, many will be martyrs, and they're seen worshiping God in heaven, and they share in the kingdom. Whereas the 144,000 will be protected from harm, many in this numberless multitude will suffer martyrdom So I see this as two distinct groups here. And again, notice the mixture of this multitude. They come from every people and tribe and nation and tongue. And they are from all over. Heaven will not be segregated, beloved. There will be people from all over the world. before the throne of God. Now how would this happen that every people group will be represented? You know, you think about it, there did you know that there are people groups and language groups that still don't have the Bible in their language today? We still have people groups that don't have the Word of God. I think there are around like perhaps uh 2,000 people groups that still don't have the Bible in their language. Uh in the AD 200, seven languages had the Bible, six thousand seven hundred and ninety-two did not. By nineteen eighty Eighteen hundred languages had some of the Bible. Five thousand seven hundred and nine did not. By two thousand, two hundred and thirty, two thousand and thirty Excuse me, 2,322 languages had some of the Bible, 4,489 still did not. By 2003, There were still 2,849 languages that did not have the Bible, 1,638. Languages were having the Bible being done. They were still in process there of being uh completed. So we still have yet 2,000 languages that don't have the word of God. And yet the Bible here says that before the throne there will be people from every language group. How would that be possible? Again, I I submit to you that during this time there will be an incredible time of evangelism where Uh Israel will fulfill its original purpose. God will turn again to them. They will become a light unto the world, and God will use them to finish up the job of evangelizing the whole world so that all the people will Hear the gospel again. That's the fulfillment of Matthew 24, 14, when Jesus said, And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached into all the world for a witness unto all nations. And then shall the end come. Now, so let me tell you about the ministry of this multitude. Notice some things about them, they're standing before the throne. And verse number nine again it says they stood before the throne. This group is standing. They are beholding the face of God. They were there in the presence of the Lamb. Can you imagine how wonderful that's going to be one day to stand before God in his presence. Remember in chapter six It ended with this question, for the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? Well, that answers this question right here. You know the ones who were able to stand? Those who have put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Those who have run to the Lamb for salvation, and they'll be wonderful rejoicing and worshiping there in the presence of the Lord. They were singing, look in verse 10. And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb. And all the angels stood round about the throne and about the el elders and the four beasts, and fell down before the throne on their faces and worship God. Saying, Amen, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be unto our God forever and ever. Amen. So there are this is just wonderful singing and rejoicing. There's going to be a time of great celebrating and praising God. And notice we saw that in chapter 5. All this worship and then serving. We drop down to verse number fifteen where it says, Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. They will be there in the presence of God. You know what? We're going to be serving God there. We're going to have things to do there. Serving our God. It's going to be a wonderful time there in heaven for all those. But then think about the mystery of this multitude. Look in verse 13. In verse 13, one of the elders comes to John and asks, Where did this multitude come from? And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, Where are these which are arrayed in white robes? And whence came they? You think he's asking because he doesn't know the answer to that? I don't think so. Why was he asking John this question? John now becomes part of this vision. He didn't ask this because he wanted information or because he didn't know the answer. He asked this point for emphasis. He wants to emphasize it. He is emphasizing the pe that people that are there will be people that have been saved and have come out of this great tribulation because he gives the answer. I love the way John responds. And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. Why are you asking me? Sir, you know. Sir, thou knowest, and he said unto me, These are they which came out of the great out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Therefore are they before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple, and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them. This will be those who have been saved, who have been come to know Jesus, this this numberless multitude that are there. There's so much more I can say about that. But let me fast forward about And by the way, let me do, I do want to say this one thing here. Where it says the ones coming out, these are they, and uh verse 14. That came out of the tribulation. And really, it's Ercomai, literally, who are coming out It can be translated. It's present, continuous, durative participle. It means it's kind of, it shows a prolonged process. The ones who are coming out. And so this group keeps accumulating. It's not finished yet. The number keeps getting bigger as people keep dying. And so to me it doesn't it therefore doesn't lend itself to describing a rapture. A rapture happens all at one moment. That's why I don't think the rapture is going to happen at the end of the tribulation. There are people that are still coming out. A continual process. It's going on, it's going on. And so here's this multitude that's here. But then here's the the last point. Number three, saints will be satisfied. These verses 16 and 17, these verses are in stark contrast to what some of them experienced during the tribulation period. It says, there shall be no more, there shall hunger no more, excuse me, neither thirst anymore, neither shall the sunlight on them, nor any heat. And notice where it says that God they will dwell among God will dwell among them. The word dwell here in verse number 15 is a Greek word for tabernacle. Literally, God shall spread his tent over them. It's the idea of protection. God is going to be their protection now. Remember, these have come out of the horrors of the tribulation period. They've seen some of these horrors. But now, no more hunger. Um there's they've seen all of that. But there's no more hunger, no more thirst. The waters of the earth will be poisoned, and so on, during that time on earth. It'll be hard to find fresh water. No more hunger, no more thirst, no more heat. Chapter 16, verse 9 says, Men were scorched with a fierce heat there in the end No more sorrow, can you imagine the sorrows they've had to see there? None of that will happen anymore. God shall wipe away all their tears. And again, look in verse uh seventeen. For the land which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them and shall lead them unto living fountains of water, and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes. And so this is going to be a time when uh I think it's going to be a time it's going to be the best of times and the worst of times, both together. It's going to be a time of terrible tribulation, yet at that time there will be multitudes that will turn to the Lord and come to know Jesus Christ. But the the thing that we need to do now is to make sure of our own soul, to make sure that we know the Lord and that we get the message out of a day of wrath that is coming. And those who know Jesus will be delivered from the wrath to come, as the scripture says. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And so Father, again, as we look at this, we uh we know that there's coming a day of Great wrath on those who turn from the gospel, whose hearts are hardened against Christ, and yet also a day of great salvation. That you have planned, Lord, where people, multitudes will come to know Jesus. Father, we thank you for this that is coming. We we know that in the end the gospel will win out That indeed, Lord, the kingdom of God will increase and expand and the gospel will be victorious. And we praise you for that. We thank you for that. And so Lord, help us to take warning from this. Help us, Lord, to examine our own heart again to know that we know Christ. And help us, Lord, to be busy in this time in which you've given us. To get the gospel out, to see people come to know Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. Again, Lord, bless these words to every hearing heart here tonight. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.