Now the title of my sermon tonight is Two Simple Secrets of Satisfaction. Two Simple Secrets of Satisfaction. And look in Ecclesiastes chapter 6. And we're going to deal with this whole chapter, all 12 verses here tonight. Now, years ago there was a song that came out that was made popular by a band, and it's the song I Can't Get No Satisfaction. Anybody ever hear that song? Don't raise your hand. But it's a it's a song I'm sure probably all of us have probably uh heard from uh time uh from time to time, perhaps in a store or something like that or if you listen to that kind of music. Uh teenagers again, don't raise your hand. But this song uh basically is describing really the uh the the mode of many people in our society today. They're living their life They're drawing their breath, but they're not truly satisfied or fulfilled. There's no real enjoyment of life. They're merely existing. And so they're not really truly living life to the fullest. And I think that God wants us to have abundant life. He wants us to have enjoyment in life. There may be perhaps some people here tonight and and you can say I'm not really enjoying life. I'm not really fulfilled in my life. Well, if that is how you feel, then this chapter here is for you. And if perhaps you are getting enjoyment from life, this reinforces the reasons why and some principles that we need to continue to cling to. And so what we see in this chapter here is that Solomon is telling us that satisfaction, enjoyment in life is found by enjoying God's blessings. And the way that we have that enjoyment, the ability to enjoy, is a gift from God as well. So I want to just for you to see in this chapter two principles. But first I want you to look at the chapter with me and let's read it together. I want you to follow along as I read. Verse chapter 6 verse 1. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun and it is common among men A man to whom God has given riches, wealth, and honor, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desires, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it, this is vanity and an evil disease. If a man begat a hundred children and lived many years, so that the days of his years be many and his soul be not filled with good, and also that he have no burial, I say that an untimely birth is better than he For he cometh in with vanity and departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness. Moreover he hath not seen the sun nor known anything, that this hath more rest than the other. Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told Yet hath he not seen no good? Do not all go to one place? All the labor of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled For what hath the wise more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth his walk before the living? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire This is also vanity and vexation of spirit. That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it is man, neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better? For who knoweth what is good for man in this life? All the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow, for who can tell a man uh what shall be after him under the sun? Now, what I want you to see in this chapter then are two simple principles of satisfaction. If you're taking notes, write down the first one. Here's the first one. Acknowledge God as the source of your satisfaction. Acknowledge God as the source of your satisfaction. Now really to really in order to understand everything that's happening here in chapter 6, we have to kind of review what we learned in chapter five. And I want to just review a little bit of that with you. If you remember when we were here studying chapter five, you remember that Solomon was pointing out the failing of wealth, the weakness of wealth to truly give us joy and satisfaction. If you remember in chapter 5, he kind of gives a contrast between the covetous man and the contented man. And Solomon's main point, again, is the weakness of wealth to truly satisfy. In fact, go back to chapter 5 and look at this quickly. Chapter 5, verses 8 and 9. Wealth is the cause of much corruption. You know why wealth can't satisfy? It's the cause of much corruption. Solomon says in verse 8, Don't be surprised if you see oppression, if thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violing perverting of judgment and justice in a province Solomon is saying, listen, uh these government officials, they're corrupt and they watch out for each other. Uh and so don't be surprised if you see corruption in government, because that's what money does In verse number nine, moreover, the prophet of the earth is for all. The king himself is served by the field. That is, when he talks about the prophet of the earth, he's talking about taxation. He's talking about greedy kings. He's talking about men who will oppress those who work in the field. Those who are hardworking. They'll take their money. And they'll use it for themselves. And so wealth is the cause of much corruption. But another thing he said is wealth doesn't satisfy. Look at verse 10. He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver And then another one in verse eleven, wealth makes others want to take it from you. In verse eleven, when goods increase, they are increased at eat them. That is, the more ex wealth you have, the more expenditures you have. The more the income, the more the outgo. And then another principle is wealth keeps you up at night. Look at verse 12. The sleep of the laboring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him. to sleep. That is, those who are rich and have a lot are always worried about those who take it away. And it seems like they can't get a good night's sleep, worried about all the wealth they've accumulated, that someone will come along and take it And then also wealth is easily lost, verses thirteen and fourteen. And then in verses fifteen and sixteen, you can't take it with you when you die. So what's the conclusion? Wealth can never give you fulfillment. It can never satisfy Now in verses 18 through 20, Solomon introduces another way to live. It's a better way. And what you see in these verses are something that you didn't see in the previous verses, and that is the name of God that is mentioned. He mentions God several times. And it is God who gives. Look at verse 18. Behold, I have seen that which is good and comely for one to eat and to drink and to enjoy the good of all his labor Which he taketh under the sun all the days of his life. Watch this, which God what? Giveth him, for it is his truth Look at verse 19. Every man also doing God hath what? Given riches and wealth. Now watch this next phrase, and it's given him the power to what? Power to eat. Now, not only does God give the blessings, here's the point, God gives the power to enjoy those blessings. And so, and by the way, this is a common theme throughout the book of Ecclesiastes. In fact, it just seems like every time Solomon finishes up a section He'll hit on this theme. Not only does God give the blessings, but he gives the power to enjoy. Look again in that phrase in verse 19. Power to eat. Underline that phrase eat. It doesn't mean literally to eat. It actually means enjoy. This is a Hebrew expression which means the ability to enjoy. The power to eat is the ability to enjoy. It's used the same way in Isaiah chapter 3 verse 10. Listen to this verse. Say ye to the righteous that it shall be well with him, for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. You see the relationship there? You have the ability to enjoy what you've worked for You have the ability to eat or to enjoy the things that you have labored for or all the blessings that God is has given you. Do you know it's it's possible for a person to have all kinds of riches and not enjoy them? It's possible for a person to have all kinds of blessings around them and they not have the power to eat, they not have the power to enjoy all of those blessings. So Solomon is emphasizing here a basic principle. And the principle is this: no one can truly enjoy the gifts of God apart from the God who gives the gifts. You understand that? Let me say that again. It's so important. No one can truly enjoy the gifts of God apart from the God who gives the gifts. Now, to enjoy gifts without God is simply idolatry. And that can never satisfy the human heart. Let me read to you what Warren Wersby said. He has a good word here. He said, quote, enjoyment without God is merely entertainment. And it doesn't satisfy. But enjoyment with God is enrichment, and it brings true joy and satisfaction. End quote. And that's so very true. So Solomon closes chapter five by pointing to this man who has understood this very thing. He has the blessings, but he also has the ability to enjoy those blessings. He has the power to eat. He has the power to enjoy. Now let me illustrate this to you this way. Let's just imagine for a moment that you here tonight, you absolutely love peaches. Now, I don't know if anyone that doesn't like peaches. Maybe you don't, but just pretend that you do, okay? You just love peaches, and you have an insatiable appetite for them. Now imagine that God has given you countless cans of peaches. I mean he's put you in a warehouse filled with cans of peaches all around. And you just can't wait to get into those peaches and to begin to enjoy them. But there's a problem. They're all in cans and you don't have, you realize you don't have a can opener So what can you do with those features? You can all all you can do is just look at them. You can't really enjoy them because you don't have a can opener. So what you need to do is you need to go to God and say, God, in order for me to really enjoy all these peach that you've given to me, you've got to give me the can opener. Now here's the point. When God gives us blessings, he gives them to us like they're in cans. He gives us a warehouse filled with blessings. But you know, to some people, they don't have the can opener. And you have to acknowledge God to get that can opener. You see, the power to eat is the can opener of life. And you can only get it from God. There are many people. They have all these riches and all these the what the world can provide for them and and they they have them in warehouses, in cans But they don't have the can opener because you can only get that from God, and you only get that when you acknowledge that God is the source of all of your enjoyment and all of your satisfaction. So therefore They don't have the power to eat. And they go through life empty and vain. Now that leads up to chapter 6. Because what Solomon does here in chapter 6 is he's going to really emphasize this very principle. He's going to show us how important it is to have this power to eat. He's going to introduce us to a man who does not have it. Now there are some people that think that this is a self-portrait that Solomon was really speaking about himself when he mentions this man here in chapter 6. So I want you to see the first thing what I want to call the problem. Look at verse 1. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common. among men. Notice Solomon is observing. Remember, he is a brilliant observer of human behavior in life. And Solomon says there's something that is grievous that I have seen. Something that is evil, that is burdensome that I see. And it is common among men. That is, this is something that Solomon says, I see all the time What is it? Look in verse 2. A man to whom God has given riches, wealth, and honor, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desires. Here's a man that God has given seemingly everything to. Notice those three words, riches, wealth, and honor. Those are the same three words that was used to describe Solomon in 2 Chronicles chapter 1, when Solomon asked God for wisdom, and God said, Solomon, since you asked me for this, I'm also going to give you riches and wealth. and honor with it. That's why some people think that here Solomon is painting a self-portrait, because he mentions these three things. And all these three things encompass all things in life that could supposedly make a man happy. He lacks nothing. Whatever his soul desires, it was his. Here's a man that is rich. And by the way, the Hebrew participle was used here, which indicates this is the continual state of affairs in his life. He's living his life not lacking for anything. He's never had a day where he couldn't get what he wanted or needed. Yet there is something that is lacking. Because look at the rest of this in verse 2. But yet God giveth him not what? Power to eat Yet he doesn't have the power to eat. That is, he doesn't have the power to enjoy all of these blessings. Martin Luther called these verses A description of a rich man who lacks for nothing for a good and happy life and yet does not have one. He has all these blessings and cans, but he doesn't have the can opener. He doesn't have the power to eat. But notice the rest of the phrase, but a stranger eateth it. This is vanity. And uh it is an evil disease. When it he says stranger here, uh it's a word that usually refers to a foreigner. What does this stranger represent? This is anyone or anything that takes away his enjoyment. This could be a person or it could be a circumstance. It could be an adversary or adversity. One or the other. It could be domestic conflict at something at home that robs his joy. It could be some kind of crisis in his life. It could be some kind of physical problem. Whatever There's something there that's keeping him from truly enjoying these blessings. Philip Riken wrote this. Perhaps he lost his prop his property in wartime or through theft. Or threw it away in some risky investment. Maybe he was too sick to make good use of his money or died before he reached retirement. But here's the problem. Solomon said I see it all the time. Here's a man who has everything Yet he doesn't have the power to eat. He can't enjoy the blessings. There's the problem, but then notice the pity in verse 2. He said, this is vanity and an evil disease Really the word here, evil disease, holira, in the Hebrew, a malignant disease, a cancerous, an aggressive cancerous disease. It's eating away the joy of his life. He can't enjoy it. Let me give you a perfect example of this. I was reading about a man by the name of Howard Hughes. Maybe you heard that name. At age 45, Hughes was one of the most glamorous men in America. He dated Hollywood actresses. He piloted exotic test planes. He worked on contracts with the CIA He had one of these glamorous lies. He owned a string of hotels around the world. He owned his own airline, TWA, that would fly him wherever he wanted to on whatever global mission that he wanted to be a part of. But at the age of 65, he was still rich. He had about $2. 5 billion at that life. Plenty of money. But he became one of the most pathetic people in the world. Let me describe to you how he lived. He lived in a small dark room atop his hotels without any sun in his room or without any joy. He was unkept. He let his hair grow. He had a beard that grew all the way down to his waist, the hair all the way down to his back. His fingernails grew two inches long His once powerful six foot-four frame withered down to a hundred pounds. He laid in bed all day, fearful to death of germs. And it is said that he continually watched movies. Sometimes he would watch the same movie 150 times. Finally, he died at the age of 67 For lack of a medical device that his own company helped to develop, but couldn't get it to him. And he died That's a sad commentary. There's a man that had all these riches, all these blessings of life, yet he could not enjoy them. He did not have the power to eat. And so that's what Solomon calls a vanity and an evil disease. Now, we see the problem in the pity, but I want you to notice the next subpoint, the portrait. Because from verses 3 down to verse 6, Solomon is going to paint the portrait of a rich man, kind of like the Howard Hughes of his day. that supposedly had everything and yet he didn't have the power to eat. Notice this rich man in verse 3. If a man begat a hundred children Now here's the first thing about them. Here's a man that's blessed. You say, how blessed is he? Let's just suppose Solomon says he could have 100 children. Now I know what you're sitting there thinking, you call that a blessing? And our our mindset today, in our world today, we look at children as an expenditure. But back in the ancient days, in Solomon's day in Israel, to have children was a blessing And that mindset, children didn't make a rich man poor. They made a poor man rich. The more children you have, the more blessed that you were. And Solomon says, let's just suppose that this man had 100 ch Now we know he's using kind of an extreme here, hyperbole, an exaggeration. I don't know of anyone that had has 100 children Uh when I was in Africa, I met a tribal chief there and befriended him, and he was one of 66 children in his family. And his grandfather fathered 300 children But keep in mind, they were polygamous in these tribes. And so we're not talking about a monogamous marriage where one woman bears all those children, right? Here, this is in Solomon's fancy. This is one man, one woman, and he has a hundred children. Man, what's that's incredible? But again, he's using hyperbole for emphasis If it were possible for a man to have that many children. And not only that, verse 3, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many. Let's just say that this man could live a long life. You say how long? Well drop down to verse 6. It tells us how long. Yea, though he lived a thousand years twice told. What is that? 2,000 years. Now son, that is a lot of birthdays. 2,000 years? Now who is the oldest man in the Bible? Little bible quiz here, Methuselah, right? He lived what? 900 and 69 years. Give that man an extra bulletin there. He got it right. 969 years. That means that here's a man in Solomon's fancy that lived twice that long. 2,000 years Now to kind of put that in perspective, if this person were born in Jesus' day, he could be here today telling us what Jesus was like. 2,000 years, that's a long time. And so uh and again back in this day, uh to have a long life was considered to be a great blessing. To be an ex uh just an incredible blessing from God. Philip Riken said this. The man described in these verses had the best life that anyone in the Old Testament times could imagine But again, there's one glowing problem, and what is it? Look in verse number three again. The man begat a hundred children, live many years, so that the days of his life be many. And look at this, and his soul be not filled with good. There's one glowing problem again. What is it? He doesn't have the power to eat. He doesn't have the power to enjoy life. He has a lot of cans. But he doesn't have a can opener. And verse 3, notice, and his soul be not filled with good. He doesn't have enjoyment. Presumably because he doesn't have God in his life. Remember the scenario here. He uses the phrase under the sun in verse 1 So this is a secular life. This is a life that doesn't look upward above the sun to God. He lives only on the horizontal, not on the vertical. And so this man doesn't have the power to eat. He's rich but unsatisfied. He's miserable. He's selfish. And when he dies, he's forgotten. How do we know that? In verse 3, he has no burial. Look at the next phrase. And his soul be not filled with good, and also that he have no burial. Now that's an interesting thing there. To die unburied means that no one really cared for him. To be left unburied after death was considered in this time one of the worst fates that could befall a person. Back in this day, a homeless person, a beggar who died, was simply taken to the trash heap. There was no burial that was given. Michael Eaton wrote in his commentary, to die unburied was the mark of a despised and unmourned end. And so in a sense, for some reason which Solomon doesn't really disclose to us, he was despised by his family and friends. I mean to have a hundred children and none of them willing to give you a decent burial Here's a man who was despised even by his own family. And Derek Kidner writes, it just goes to show you that a person can have the things that men dream of. And yet still depart unnoticed, unlamented, and unfulfilled was so pitiful, so sad. And now I want you to notice the next thing then. We see the problem. We see the pity and the portrait that Solomon paints of this man. But then I want you to notice the next thing. Based on all this, we see the proverb Look at the next part of verse 3. I say, here's the last phrase in verse 3. I say that an untimely birth is better than he. Now, based on all this, Solomon makes a strong assertion. And this is one of his proverbial better-than statements that are so characteristic of his writings. Solomon says, I say that an untimely birth is better than he. Now what does he mean by an untimely birth? Here he's speaking about a baby that dies at birth, or dies before it is born. dies in the womb, a stillborn child. Solomon said it's better to be born uh to d to be d to be dead when you're born than to live this kind of a life. You say, wow, that's a strong statement. Look at the rest of it, verse four. For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his dame and his name shall be covered with That is just like this child comes without meaning. This child dies before ever seeing the light of day. His name is covered in darkness. At this time Jews, when they would have a stillborn child, would not name the child. They thought that by not giving that child a name that would help the parents It would encourage them to overcome the sorrow that they were experiencing by not naming the child. And so in that day that wasn't the practice to name a stillborn child. And so this child is shrouded in darkness, and his character will never be known, his personality will never be known, his abilities will never be known, he or she will never know the world. Look in verse 5. Moreover, he hath not seen the sun nor known anything. This has and and so he says, listen, Solomon says, look, it's better to be like this child. Than to live that kind of a life. A life without the power to eat. To live all those years without the power to enjoy, it's better to be a stillborn child. Why? Why would he say that? Well look what he says in verse 5, at the last phrase. This has more rest than the other. You know what he's saying? This child, this stillborn child, has more rest, and by the way, the word rest here was considered one of the things that you desired in this life more than anything else to have rest in peace By the an the ancients considered this a very desirable thing. This was a quality of life. Solomon is saying this stillborn child has rest, has a better quality of life than this person who lives 2,000 years. And doesn't have the power to eat. He doesn't have the power to enjoy life. By the way, just kind of as a side note Some of you may have heard me talk about before why infants, when they die, go to heaven. Here's another verse to support that. Because when this baby dies, what does Solomon say that this baby will experience? Rest. A person who dies and goes to hell doesn't have rest. The scripture is clear about that. Here, this child has rest. And yet, this man who's lived all these years, he does not have it. What is Solomon saying? It is the quality of life that is far more important than the quantity of life. Life is not lived in length, but it's lived in death. And so again, here's one of Solomon's better-than proverbs that he's using here. It's better to be miscar it's better to miscarry at birth than to miscarry all throughout life. is what he's saying. Because he doesn't have joy. He doesn't have enjoyment in life. You see Solid's point? It's not a subtle point, is it He makes his point very clear. What good is it to live this life and to have all these blessings if you don't have the power to enjoy it? And where does that power to enjoy life come from? It comes from acknowledging God. It comes from submitting to God. It comes from knowing God. You can't enjoy the gifts without knowing the giver. And that is always true. This world is filled with people that have all these gifts, but they don't know the giver, and therefore they don't have the power to enjoy They never acknowledge God. They don't have the can opener. And they can't get to the enjoyment of all the blessings that God has given them So here's the first simple secret to satisfaction. Acknowledge God as the source of your satisfaction. You got that? Acknowledge God as the source. Let me give you the second one real quick. Here's the second secret in this chapter. Accept God as the sovereign. In your situation. Accept God as the sovereign one. In other words, you must come to the realization that God is sovereign over everything in your life. He's in control of everything that you have and everything you don't have. And again, this is another major theme that runs through Ecclesiastes. We see this coming up again and again. There's a purpose for everything, Solomon said. There's a time for every season, a purpose for every season under heaven. And but you have to recognize that. But now again, he gives us the problem in verse 7. Look at verse 7. All the labor of a man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled. And Solomon again is continuing to deal with the issue of riches in their vanity. Riches can never help you. And what he's saying is that within the human psyche is a fatal flaw that makes satisfaction impossible without the help of God. What is it? Notice where he says, all the labor of a man is for his mouth. And again, this is a way of speaking about fulfillment. When he talks about his mouth, he's talking about enjoyment. Why does a man labor? Why does he work so hard in this life? What is he working for? He's working for satisfaction and fulfillment. That's what he's striving for. That's what he's laboring for. But guess what? He doesn't get it. Why? He always wants more. Look in verse 7 again. And yet the appetite is not filled. Look at the word appetite. Underscore that word. The Hebrew word here is nafish. It's the word for soul. So we can say it like this man labors for enjoyment, yet his soul is never filled. He's laboring for this enjoyment, dissatisfaction, and he can't get it. His soul is empty constantly. Peterson translates it in the verse like this, we work to feed our appetites, meanwhile our souls go hungry. And so in other words, the desires of the heart are never satisfied. He's always striving, and the harder he strives for this enjoyment. the the w the more elusive it becomes. This is what is called the hedonistic paradox by some people. The more one pursues pleasure, the more elusive that pleasure is. And yet there's something inside the soul of man that keeps driving him on to try to find this enjoyment, to try to find this satisfaction. And he goes from one thing to another, from one thing to another, trying to find it, and he never gets it. He'll try immoral living, loose living, it's not there. He'll try liquor, it's not there. He'll try drugs, it's not there Constantly gnawing at his soul is this dissatisfaction. Nothing works. Because his life is without God. And if it's without God, it'll always be completely empty. And so look at verse 8. For what hath the wise man more than the fool? What hath the poor that knoweth to walk before the living? Now, what's Solomon saying here? He's basically saying this gnawing hunger for satisfaction transcends all of humanity, includes everyone, the rich, the poor, the wise, the fool. Whatever lot they're in, whatever situation they're in, every man still has this inward desire for satisfaction and for fulfillment. It doesn't matter what your lot may be. That dissatisfaction is still in every man. So notice the next proverb that he gives. Here's the next proverbial statement. Look at verse 9. Better is the sight of the eyes. Than the wandering of desire. And what's he saying here? Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire. Look at sight of the eyes again means the enjoyment of the present. The enjoyment of what is before you, of what you have, what you have already been given in your hand, to be able to enjoy the present. To be able to enjoy what God has given you. Solomon says, look, it's better to enjoy and to be satisfied with what God has already given you than to constantly want things that you can't have. That's what he means here by the wandering of desire. You see that phrase there? The word desire again is nafish the soul And he's referring to the restlessness that is in the soul of man, that forgets what is before him, that forgets what God has given him, and is constantly looking out into the future for what he doesn't have Solomon said it's better to enjoy and be satisfied with what you already have. You ever hear the proverb, we say it like this, a bird in the hand is worth what? Two in the bush, right? It's exactly what Solomon is saying here. What God has already given you is better than what you would desire or want, but you can't attain. You see, our desires are always wandering, always traveling. This is uh illustrated in uh A story that I read about the city of Pompeii, some of you know in the history, that city was destroyed by a volcano, the the volcano of Vesuvius When it erupted, ash spilled out onto the city, and some people were actually frozen in whatever pose they were in at the time, they were covered with ash. And when they began to excavate that city, they found even facial expressions that were frozen in time because they were covered up. And one lady they found was a lady who was running from the disaster. Her feet were pointed to the gate of the city, but her face was turned back because she saw something. And what she saw was a string of pearls. We don't know whether they were her pearls that she forgot or someone else that dropped them. But she was looking back at the pearls while she was running for the gate. And that pose was frozen for the rest of time. And really what it illustrates is man. It illustrates the very the unfulfilled appetites that mankind always has and is never able to attain. Mankind is always desiring more, always wanting more. And uh, you know, sometimes we hear people give this advice to young people. You can be whatever you want to be. You ever hear that? You can do whatever you want to do. You can be and do whatever you want or whatever you desire. You can get it. Now I want to tell you something, folks. That's bad advice. Because Solomon is telling us the very opposite here. What he's saying is, accept the limitations that God has sovereignly placed in your life. Go ahead and be the best you that you can be But accept whatever limitations that he's given to you. Let me tell you something, folks. I can't be whatever I want to be. I can't be a rocket scientist. You don't want me doing engineering I can never be a NBA basketball player. I have a one inch vertical. The only thing that I can dunk is a donut. I could never do that no matter how hard I tried. Why? That's not the ability that God has given me. God has given me a certain set of gifts. He's given me a certain set of uh a certain IQ, a certain ability. And I need to be content with what God has made me, how he has made me. He's given me a certain amount of ability to earn a certain amount of whatever he deems I have. And I need to be content with that. That's what Solomon is saying here. You need to be content with whatever limitations that God has put in your life. I remember when I was going through college, I was taking homiletics. I think I may have told you that I failed my homiletics class, right? Did I tell you that? You're looking at a failure here tonight When it comes to homiletics. But I went to homiletics class and the teacher was trying to get us to preach like a certain great preacher who had incredible abilities. And the whole class was designed to get you to learn to preach like him. And I remember I said, I can't do that. I'm not going to try to do that. I'm going to be an expositor of the word. They said, that's not what we're after. We're after this. I said, well, I can't do that. I can't wear Saul's armor. That's not who I am. And so he failed me. So you're looking at a failure here tonight. I can't be that person. Alright? I can only be what I am. I can be what God made me to be. That may not be what others are, but I'm okay with that. I'm okay with that because you know what? God can hit straight licks with crooked sticks. He can use whatever vessel he wants any way he wants. And so you have to be happy with what God has given you, with whatever limitations that God has put in your life. And so in fact, here's the principle: learn to accept whatever God has sovereignly placed in your life, whatever He has sovereignly given to you, whatever your lot may be. We sing it in the song. The man who wrote to him, It is Well as My Soul. Whatever my lot. Thou hast taught me to say what? It is well. It is well with my soul. I'm learning to be content with what God made me to be. How he gifted me, how he wired me. Now in closing, let me just give you four statements of why we should accept God's sovereign work on our life. Why? Look in verse 10. That which has been is named already, and it is known that it is man. Neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he. Now, we don't have time to get into all this, but this phrase goes back to really the Garden of Eden. We could say it like this, whatever a man may be, his name was given long ago. In other words, even in the very word man, which mean which is the Hebrew word Adam, when God named Adam, it came out of the dust of the ground That's why God named him Adam, which means ground, basically. And he's reminding us that God made man out of the dust of the earth. We can say it like this. In other words, the the very name of this man puts him in his proper place. Do you realize what you and I are? What are we? We're dust. were dirt. So notice this next part of verse 10. Neither may he contend with him that is what? Mightier than he. You know what he's saying? You can't contend with God. That's useless to contend with God, to fight with God. There are some people, the reason they're not satisfied in this world is they're constantly contending with God. God, I don't like the way you made me. I don't like the limitations that you've put in my life. I want more. Rather than being content with what God has given them. The Bible says, look, God's mightier than you. He's sovereign, you're not. And it does you no good to fight or contend with him. In other words, we could say it like this, he is the potter, and we're the what? We're the clay. And the clay doesn't tell the potter how to do it. Right? You never see clay on the wheel saying, look, could you could you stop? I know what you're trying to make, but this is what I want to be. The clay never talks back to the potter. The clay just simply stays on the wheel. God is infinite, we are finite. God is almighty, he's all powerful. We are limited in our strength and our ability. God is holy, we are sinful. It does you no good to contend with God. Write down Isaiah 45, 9. Woe to him that strives with his Maker. It's not gonna work. James Weldon Johnson said this, your arms are too short to box with God. You're never gonna win. So why should you submit to his sovereign rule in your life? Because you're not strong enough to contend with God. But here's the next reason, because it's foolish to argue and complain. Look at verse 11. Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is meant the better. Now look at the word things in verse 11. It's the Hebrew word debar. It's actually the plural Dabarim word and it's the word for words. And so we could say it like this, many words increase vanity. And what he's referring to here is just arguing. The more you argue, the more you show your vanity. What good is it going to do you to argue with God? That's what he's saying What good is it going to do? You're going to speak undisciplined, irreverent, foolish words. And by the way, let's face it, we've all done this at times, haven't we? We've argued with God about things. Maybe not out, you know, speaking out loud, but in our heart and in our mind. We have argued with God about things because something has happened and we don't like it. And even Job, the godly man Job, when he went through all his trials, went through a period where he was arguing with God. Do you know what God did? God just kind of we don't have time to go through it, but sometime read Job chapter 38. God says, Job, where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? You want to question me? Then you answer a few of my questions. And then he just goes through a litany of things, and boy, it's pretty pretty brutal. The translation is this, you're not smart enough to argue with me, Job. You don't have the wisdom. Romans 9. 20, who are you, O man, to answer back to God? C. S. Lewis said this: to argue with God is to argue with the very power that makes it possible to argue at all. And so it's it's a futile thing. Let me give you the third reason. First you're not strong enough to contend with God It's foolish to argue and complain against God. You're not smart enough to do that. Number three, because God knows what is best for you in this short life. Look in verse number 12. For who knoweth what is good for men in this life all the days of his vain life, which he spends as a shadow. In other words You think you know what's best for you? You don't. God does. And this short life that you live that's like a shadow, here today, gone tomorrow, He knows. what's best for you better than you know. He made you. He knows what it's going to take to make you happy and fulfilled. He knows. He wired you. You need to submit to what he does because he knows what is best. And then here's the last thing Because only God knows the future. Look in verse 12, the latter phrase. For who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun? Only God knows the future. And God's actions today in your life is based on what God knows tomorrow. Because he knows the future. In fact, the whole word providence means exactly that. Comes from two Latin words, pro. Which means beforehand, video to see, to see beforehand. And the providence of God simply says this: God's actions today in your life are based upon what he sees tomorrow. Not what he sees today, but what he sees tomorrow. You see. I heard about a farmer and uh a neighbor was watching this farmer out of his window. And this farmer had in the back of the yard a haystack. And he noticed a bird building a nest in that haystack, and he saw the farmer come by and destroy and wreck that nest and shoe the bird away. And the man watching thought, what a cool farmer. I mean, what's it going to hurt to have a bird have a nest there? What's the big deal? Second day the bird came back, built a nest, farmer came by and wrecked it again Third day, same thing happened. Farmer wrecked it again. Each day the neighbors watching, he's saying, man, this guy's really cruel and mean. Finally, one day he saw the farmer come by and light that hay on fire. And all of a sudden it dawned on the neighbor that what the farmer was doing was not cruel, it was actually kind. Because his actions each day was based on what he knew that he was going to do later. And what looked like cruelty was actually kindness. You see, friend, God knows the future in your life. And all the things that happen today are based on what God knows in the future. That's the providence of God. And that's why you should submit to the authority of God in your life, because only God knows the future. So you say, I want satisfaction. I want fulfillment in my life. Two simple secrets. Number one, acknowledge God as the source. of your satisfaction. You'll never have it without knowing Him. And number two, accept God as the sovereign one in your situation. Accept that and then submit to that in your life. So do you enjoy your life? Are you satisfied? May God give you a different perspective. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for these wise words from Solomon. And really, this is a summary of everything that is really said in this one chapter. It's brought to us again, packaged in a new way, but emphasized to our heart. The only way we'll ever have real enjoyment And satisfaction is through knowing you and not only knowing you, but submitting to your sovereign hand in our life And realizing, Lord, you know what's best. So Lord, give us that peace. Take away the restlessness that's a part of every person. That constantly is looking around the corner or down the road for something better. Lord, help us to realize that what you have already given us is enough if we'll just acknowledge you. If we'll just come to know you and submit to you in our life. Lord, let this be our heart attitude. Help us. Because, Lord, we all struggle with this. So Lord, take away our restlessness and give us true joy and true enjoyment. And we pray all this in your precious name.