Good to see you here tonight. I hope you all have had a good uh first of the year so far. Uh we're underway in 2018, and so uh It's always good to be in God's house and look to the Lord to help us through another year. Open to the book of Jeremiah, chapter twelve twenty four. We've been doing some studies out of Jeremiah. I have just a few more chapters I want to deal with and then we'll push on to something else. But uh I think a good message to be learned here tonight in Jeremiah chapter twenty four If you look down at verse number one of this chapter, the Lord showed me, and behold, two baskets of figs were set before the temple of the Lord. Here's Jeremiah comes to the temple and what does he see? Two baskets of figs. So that's the title of my sermon tonight. I was reading this week in eighteen seventy-six there was a small church near the ocean, a place called Swan Quarter, North Carolina. And this church was hit by a hurricane and it pretty much destroyed the So they approached a man, they they they spotted a piece of land they wanted, they approached the owner and asked if they could buy the land. The owner said No, he's not interested in s in selling. Well a another storm came, and this storm this time included a big flood, and the flood was so powerful that it pulled the church off And the church was being carried away down uh in the flood. to uh secure it, but the the uh the the force of the flow was too great and they couldn't keep it from floating away. Finally the water receded and the church landed uh as as you know uh I guess you could say Providence would have it. The church landed on the very piece of land they were trying to buy. So they went back to the owner and they said, Would you be willing to sell this land to us and the owner said, No, I'm not going to sell it to you. He said, but I'll tell you what, I'll give it to you. If God wants you to have it that bed, that he would put the church there itself I'll go ahead and give you this land. Well that's a story of uh uh something that looked like it was bad, a series of And really the passage here in Jeremiah chapter twenty four is about a group of people who were carried away. could say to another land on the surface the things that happened to them didn't really look good but in the end it was exactly what God wanted it to be. Aren't always what they seem. Bad things can turn out really to be good. And so that's what I want us to see here in this chapter. I'm going to again call this the the the the sign of two baskets of figs, we could say. And so what we see then in the very first verse of chapter 24 is that Jeremiah goes to the temple of the Lord, and as he's there at the temple he sees two baskets Now, why were these baskets of figs there at the temple? Well, that was because people would bring their first fruits offering to the temple. There was a certain place where they could could go and and s deposit their offerings there, the fruit stand we could say that was there at the temple, and that would be the place where it would be stored. And Of course, this is accord according to Deuteronomy chapter twenty six, where God said to them, When you get to the land and the Lord blesses you and you have all these things, then you are to bring your first fruits before the Lord And so they're following pretty much that law of bringing your first fruits before the Lord. And so Jeremiah sees that. He comes to the temple. He sees these two baskets of figs. But notice the time frame in verse one. King of Babylon had carried away captive uh Jechaniah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and so on, and there are others that are mentioned there, some of the groups uh of the people That were carried away. You say, why is that important? Well, remember we're been studying Jeremiah, and we said that the Lord was going to judge Judah and Jerusalem because Nebuchadnezzar was going to come in and he was going to carry people away to Baptist. Babylon into captivity. This was part of God's punishment. And this invasion happened in three stages. So this was just after the Second invasion, when Jeconiah, a wicked king, is carried away, and he's deported along with some of the other captives. And so right after that, that's when Jeremiah comes to the temple, and he happens to see See these two baskets of figs. Actually, God points them out to the to him later on. But look at verse 2. One basket had very good figs, even like the figs that are first ripe And so the first we see a basket of good figs, and the Bible says they're very good. And we could say they were very tasty. They were perfect to eat. Isn't it wonderful to eat fruit that is perfectly And that's what it's talking about here. They were perfect to eat. These were their first ripe figs of that were gathered in June. Normally figs are harvested in August, but The first fruit figs were gathered in June and this was considered a special delicacy to have these uh figs ripe at that time. And so these are good figs. Secondly, they're bad figs. Again, look at the rest of verse two. And the other basket had very naughty figs which could not be eaten. They were so bad. And so uh here's some figs That are really bad. Um the other day I uh had an orange, it was perfect on the outside, it looked like, but when I sliced it open, it was just all black in the middle. Uh it was so black there was no part of it that you could salvage it and just had to throw it away. And so sometimes it's hard to detect whether fruit is bad, you know. However, this wasn't a problem here in this situation. Jeremiah looked Looked at the basket and as he could tell immediately he wasn't an expert in uh you know w uh green grocery shopping we could say, but you didn't have to be to see this Uh it was very obvious that this these this basket of figs was just terrible. It was rotten. Perhaps there was even a stench that came from the fruit, and he says that the uh fruit was bad And the word for bad here, by the way, is a interesting Hebrew word. It's Ra'a. It's the same word used for evil. And it's the word that was used by Jeremiah throughout this letter to refer to the people that He was confronting when he preached the word. They were rah, they were evil, they were bad people. And this is the same word that he's using to talk about these figs. They were bad And so really there's a word play here in the Hebrew. These Ra'ah figs represented the same Ra'ah people that he was preaching to. Now what's the meaning of this? He sees a a A basket that is good figs and a basket of bad figs. Well look at verse number three. Then said the Lord unto me, What seest thou, Jeremiah? And I said I said figs, the very good figs, very good, or figs, the very good figs, very good, and the evil, very evil, that cannot be eaten, they are so evil And so God says, Jeremiah, what do you see? Often God would ask that question to a prophet right before God was going to give a revelation or a meaning of what he was seeing. Now there are some scholars Commentators that think that this was a vision that Jeremiah had, there are others that are saying this wasn't necessarily a vision. This was just God giving revelation based on what he saw that was there There. For example, God said to Jeremiah in chapter one, verse eleven, Jeremiah, what do you see? And Jeremiah says, I see an almond branch. And then God went on to talk about What do you see, Jeremiah? I see a basket good figs, very good, bad figs. Very bad. And then the Lord begins to tell him about the message behind it. Look at verse four. And again the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel Like these good figs, so will I acknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah, whom I am sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good For I will set my eyes upon them for good, and I will bring them again to this land, and I will build them up and not pull them down, and I will plant them and not pluck them up, and I will give them As for the evil things, which cannot be And I will deliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth, for their hurt to be a c reproach and a proverb, and a taunt, and a curse And I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence among them till they be consumed from off the land, that I will give unto them and to their fathers So what's the message? Well, the good things represent the people who are surrendered to God, who are submitted to God, and the bad things Red figs represent the people who have rebelled against God. And then God tells Jeremiah something that must have been strange to him when he heard it. God said the Good things will be carried away into captivity, into exile to Babylon. And the bad things will remain behind. Now, humanly speaking, we would have thought the opposite would have happened, right? I mean, we would have thought that if the bad figs that have been had been rebelling against God, they They would be the ones that would be carried away into a foreign land to serve under a pagan king, to be away from their homeland, out of the holy land. Surely God would judge the bad things and have them carried away Of Jerusalem were asked to say which basket represented the favored people, and which basket represented those under God's wrath, they would have answered that they were the good figs, that is, the inhabitants were the good figs. And the exiles were the bad figs. To their surprise, God identified the good figs as those in exile. Now you can just imagine, those that were left behind, when the Babylonians came and they They took prisoners and they marched them away north to Babylon, that those people that were left behind in Jerusalem were probably going, Wow, God must really like Us. You know, he must really favor us. We're not being carried away into captivity. Man, there must be something good about us. Look at our circumstances. We have it so much better than those exiles. And the exiles that are being carried away, you can imagine what they're thinking. They're thinking, you know, what have we done? How come God is treating us this way God must be angry at us. Look at our circumstance. Look how bad things are in our life. God surely must have disfavor against us. That was the perception of what was going on as far as the people were concerned. is it was opposite. Now based on this, what I want you to see are four lessons that we can learn from these two baskets of figs. And if you're taking those, here's the first lesson, number Number one, the quality of your life and character cannot be judged by your circumstances. Okay, that's the first lesson. The quality of your life and character cannot be judged by your circumstances. Remember that God said the good people were the ones that went into captivity. And they were thinking, man, God, why why we must be really bad. You know Don't judge your relationship to God by the circumstances of your life. Because people have a tendency to do that. Man, I have these bad things happening to me. I'm in this bad thing. Bad circumstance, so therefore I must be bad. And that's simply not the case. You cannot say because my circumstances are bad, I must be bad. That's a mistake and I Now it may be sometimes it may be true if you've disobeyed the Lord, but that's not always true. And we have to understand that. Jesus passed by a blind man. You remember what the disciples asked Jesus? They said, Lord, who sinned, this man or his parents? That he would be born blind. In other words, the assumption was That because this man was born blind, somebody had to do something wrong. There had to be some sin. There must be some bad people involved in this situation For this bad circumstance to be the way it is. And you remember the the response of Jesus? You remember what he said? He said, neither. But that the works of God might be made manifest. Now we can imagine Any parents that would have a baby born blind, what's the first thing they would probably think? Why did why do we deserve this? Why did this happen to us? What have we done wrong to have this thing happen? And yet it wasn't anything that they did wrong. The fact of the matter was God was going to use this blind person to show forth his glory. That was his purpose. Jesus was the Son of God, and that his kingdom was there. His kingdom was coming in their very midst. And so it had a divine purpose to it. But the thinking was wrong Now again, there might be some people and you might be in a difficult circumstance. Don't automatically default to this idea that I must have done something wrong. God must be angry at me for something that I I have done because my circumstance is bad. Again, this is the assumption that Job's friends had. Remember that story? Job here gone through this incredibly hard Horrible trial where he lost his children, he lost his wealth, he lost his health, his friends came, and at first they did the the good thing by just being quiet and sitting With them. You know, I I you know I I believe that love helps heal wounds, not necessarily logic, right? And so by just sitting there and being with them, it was very helpful. But then They started to talk, and that's where things went bad. Because if you read the book of Job, you're going to find that each one of them in their own way accused Job of being sinful. They said, you know, God who is a job just God wouldn't cause a person to suffer without reason like this. I mean surely Job you must have done something wrong. There must be some secret sin or some hidden sin in your life And what does the Bible say about Job? What was the reality? He was a man who feared God, and he shrank back from evil. In fact, God said there's nobody like Job in the land. Could really say that perhaps Job was the most godly man at in the world at that time in redemptive history, because God said there's nobody like Job who fears me But the perception was he must have done something wrong because his circumstances were bad. And so we can't we have to avoid that mistake. The quality of your life and character cannot be judged by your circumstance. But now here's the second lesson we learn. It's difficult for us to know whether our circumstances are good or bad. That's difficult for us to No. Look at look again in verse five. Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel, like these good figs, so will I acknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good. Notice it the word good is used again in verse 6, for I will set mine eyes upon them for Good. Again, notice how many times the word good is used here. It is good because of what God is going to do through it. God had a purpose in mind. And really we could say This is kind of an illustration of Romans 8. 28. They thought that their circumstances was bad. And from a human perspective, they were saying, oh man, this is horrible. What's happening to us? But God, from his perspective, what was God saying? This is good. Because I have a good purpose in mind. What you're going through now might not be very Happy however it's good because I have a good purpose in mind. And so that means that we can't really know whether our circumstances are good or bad. Can't know that right now. We have to wait to find out. And by the way, this is called the doctrine of the providence of God. Where does the word providence come from? Two words pro meaning before, video meaning to see, to see before him. And when we talk about the providence of God, we're saying that God, his actions today are based on what he sees down the road in the future. And so when God does something today, it's based on what he knows about tomorrow. And you see, we can't see that way. We can't see that far down the road. And so what might look to us to be bad is actually good because God sees way down Down the road. Um these people that were being carried away into captivity, they thought that God was being unkind to them, perhaps they thought that God was being cruel to them. Taking them from their home. In fact, if you read Psalm 137, the whole Psalm was about the exiles when they were being carried away and the sorrow they felt. thirty seven by the rivers of Babylon there we sat down, yea, we wept when we remembered Zion. We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof. They were all weeping and they were all filled with sorrow Sorrow, however, what seemed like unkindness was actually God's grace. It was his kindness. Why? Because God had A wonderful purpose in mind. Look at verse number seven. And I will give them a heart to know me that I am the Lord God, that I am the Lord, and that they shall Be my people and I will be their God. For they shall return unto me with their whole heart. God's present actions at that time were based on His future purpose. And what was that purpose? That they might know God. That they might have a close, intimate relationship with God. God was going to do a great work in the in the exiles and but before you could do that these things had to be. And so what they looked at as bad circumstances were actually good I heard about a a man one day he got up, he looked out his window, he looked at his neighbor who was a farmer, and this farmer had a hay pile in his backyard and he happened to see some birds that had planted And the neighbor looking at that thought, Man, what a cruel person he is. What what harm is there? birds making a nest there in that hay pile. And uh he must be a very unkind man. And a few days later he was looking out the window and the same thing happened again. The birds had come back, rebuilt their nests He again destroyed the nest, shooed the birds away. Same scenario. And one day he looked out the window and he saw the farmer go buy that hay b hay pile and he put it on fire And suddenly the neighbor realized that what he thought was a cruel act by that farmer was actually a kind act, because that farmer already knew that he was going to get rid of that hay pile by burning it And he had to get those birds out of there because he didn't want them to be consumed in that fire. That day was based on what he knew was going to happen. And there may be great sorrow in your heart because you're going through this, and you might be saying, My circumstance is bad, there's no way for you to know that. You can't really know that for sure Because you never know that God might providentially be doing something in your life for your good. And by the way, we can know that if we're children of guy w of God. Why? Because the Bible says in Romans eight twenty eight and we know that all things work together for what? Good. For who? For everyone? No. To them that love God and to them who are Are called according to his purpose. So if you're a Christian, you're a child of God, you can know for sure that that circumstance that you think is bad is actually good. You just got to give God time. You know, a lot of times when we read providence, we have to be careful how we read it. But again, this is all talking about sovereignty and providence, and they go hand in hand. They go together What is sovereignty? Sovereignty is God being in control over all and He makes a plan. It really has three ideas: ownership, God owns it all, authority, God is in complete authority And control. God is in control of everything. He does whatever he wants. Psalm 1911 3 says, Our God is in the heaven. I love that verse That's what sovereignty means. God does whatever He wants. He does whatever He pleases. He's the owner of it all. He's the authority of it all. He's in control of everything. That's sovereignty. And in God's sovereignty, He makes a plan. But now what is providence and how is it related to sovereignty? Providence is God having the power the wisdom and the ability to put his plan into effect, to work it out. And so the providential events that happen are all working according to God's overall sovereign It's one thing to be sovereign, but if you don't have the power and the wisdom to accomplish your sovereign plan, then it's no good to be sovereign. But however, God not Not only is he sovereign, he's all powerful, and he's all wise, and he knows how to put his plan into effect. And that's what we mean when we talk about the sovereignty of God You ever hear people say the devil is in the details? Well, that's incorrect. God is in the details. Because God is in control of every detail. The Bible says This many other plans in the mind of men, but it is the purpose of the Lord. That's what will stand. Jesus said it like this: the very hairs of your head are numbered That's not hyperbole. He knows when you got ready for church tonight and you combed your hair and a few fell out in the brush, God knows exactly what those numbers were. He knows exactly He is in the details. He knows every detail about our life. He is a micromanager. Job said it like this in Job 24, 14. He performs what is appointed for me. He performs what is appointed for me. John J. Murray summed it up like this. He said the plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive. The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. God hides it from me until it happens. And I discover it day by day As it unfolds. And that's so very true. That's why sometimes we can't understand God's providence by looking around today or by looking into the future. I might misread God's providence Because I don't know his long range plans. I can misinterpret what God's doing today. I can say, oh, this is bad, and God says, No. Since you don't know my long-term plans, it's not bad. It's actually So if I try to read Providence today, I might get it wrong. You know, really the only way that we can really read Providence is we have to read it backwards. We have to look Back, and then when we look back, we can say, Oh, okay, I see what you did, God. I can see how your hand worked there You know, when I uh was first learning Hebrew, the first thing I had to learn was that uh you don't read left to right like normal people People do. When you comes to Hebrew, you have to read from right to left. And then when you read a the Hebrew Bible, the binding is not on the left. You don't read it First, right? But providence is like that. You really can't read God's providence unless you read it backwards, unless you look at And then you can see that's why it's very hard to know whether your circumstances are good or bad. You remember uh in the story of Joseph, how he was mistreated by of Egypt. He could put them to death. He could execute them at a wh whatever he wanted. And the brothers wanted to make sure that they that he had forgiven them and they come to Joseph and they say, hey Joe, you remember those things we did or we're we're okay, aren't we? That's the Harmon translation of that. You're not mad at us still, are you? And what did what did he say? He said If you're not, am I in the place of God? You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Now, how could he know that? Because he was reading it backwards. At the present time when he was in the And when he was betrayed by his brothers, he couldn't know that the bigger issue. And when he had to go all through all those things in Egypt, he wasn't really sure what was going on until finally it all dawned on him when the plan came together. Years later he was able to look back and he was able to say, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. What's he doing there? He's reading providence, but he's not reading it false And that's the way we read the body. Let me give you the third lesson here. It's easy for believers to confuse God's blessing with God's judgment. It's easy easy to confuse those things. 24. Look at verse 8. And as the evil figs which cannot be eaten, they are so evil. Surely thus saith the Lord, so will I give Zedekiah the king of Judah and his princes and the residue of Jerusalem That remain in this land, and them that dwell in the land of Egypt, and I will deliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth for their hurt And God goes on to say some other things that will happen to the inhabitants who will stay behind. Now God was not blessing these inhabitants, obviously. Now the people that were Staying behind, they were saying, oh man, God must really favor us. He must really be blessing us. No, he's judging you. You only think He's being favorable to you. Those who were left in the land were ungodly. They were rebels against God. They were called rotten figs No accident that the word evil is used again and again. These are evil figs. Their character, their behavior is evil. Uh they're like rotten fruit. Let me ask you a question. What do you do with rotten fruits? You leave it alone. That would be my suggestion to you. Leave it alone. You don't mess with it. Just leave it alone. Throw it away. It's no good And that's how God was going to treat these inhabitants. He was basically saying, okay, there you are. You're in your land. I'm going to leave you alone. And what was God going to do? He was going to pull back his protective hand. He was going to let the enemy come in. He was going to let them be scattered. He was going to let famine and pestilence and sword All these enemies were going to come in. Why? Because God was going to lift his hand of protection. He was going to lift his grace. He was going to walk away and say, Okay, you rebels who have been saying in your heart to me Me, leave us alone, I'm gonna leave you alone. I'm gonna leave you right there in the land. Now originally they're thinking, oh man, what a blessing. No, it's not. You know, sometimes the most severe form of judgment that God can give a person is to leave them alone. You ever hear people say, I wish God would just leave me alone? You better be careful what you say. Because you know what? God A gentleman, he will leave you alone. But I want to tell you something, when God leaves you alone, you're in big trouble. You're in big trouble. You think you can do it on your own What he'll do is he'll turn you over to your own heart's desires. And he will withdraw his grace. You know, I was looking at my grandson Theo. He's not yet Yet one year old. He'll be one in a few days actually. But I was just looking at him crawling around and you know, he's so dependent as a child, you know, I kind of forgot what it was like Having a baby that small in the house. And I'm kind of reliving it all with him being around. But my thought was he is so dependent. What would happen to him if we all just left him alone and went What would happen to that little baby if nobody paid him any attention and he was just left completely alone? That would be the most dangerous thing for him ever He would eventually die. And that's what will happen to people. If people say, God, just leave us alone. God will do that. He'll withdraw his grace. In fact, the Bible says in Romans 1, to those people that pushed away the truth, what did God do to them? God He left them alone. He gave them over, the Bible says what? He gave them over to their own hearts' desires, to their own lusts. The word there in the Greek paradidmize used in a judicial sense, God judged them by just leaving them alone, giving them what they want. And you know what happens when that happens? God just withdraws his grace whatsoever. His restraining grace. And he lets a person be uh a slave to their own sinful desires and impulses. And you know what happens after that? There's this huge downward spiral in their life. It's the wrath of abode Abandonment. This is what C. S. Lewis wrote in his book, The Problem of Pain. He said, The lost enjoy forever, the horrible freedom they have demanded and are therefore Self-enslaved. And that's so true. God said in Hosea 4. 17, Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave them alone. Just let them go. Leave him alone. That's the wrath of abandonment. But let me just tell you this if you're a child of God, he's not going to leave you alone. He's not going to leave his children alone. You know You know why? Because God is going to discipline you, He's going to work in your life, because He's bringing about in you character, the fruit of righteousness. That's why He let He might leave someone who doesn't know him alone because they say we don't want you and they're rebelling and God says, Fine, I'll let you alone. But if you're a child of God, you can rest assured. He doesn't Loosen his grip, he tightens his grip. And he will not leave his children alone. Again, let's go back to Joseph. Remember Joseph? Listen to what Psalm 105 says about him. It says Whose feet they hurt with fetters, and he was laid in iron until the time that the word of the Lord tried him. I do when I read about him that he was kind of a soft kind of a child. You know, he was the favorite son, he wore the coat of many colors. All the other brothers went off and worked and Joseph kind of stayed around the house and he was the favorite son. Well, you know what happens to someone like that? They have a tendency to grow a little soft and they need to be hardened. And that's what God did with them. The Bible says that the experiences that God allowed you Joseph to go through. They hardened him. In fact, and again in Psalm one oh five where it says they laid he was laid in irons. The marginal reading really says in effect that his soul Came into iron. There's actually an old English translation that says that iron entered into his soul. We might say that Joseph, when he came out of prison, was an iron Soul man, because God made him strong through all of what he went through. He became a man of courage, a man of wisdom, a man of strength. And he Became so strong that when he came out of that prison at 30 years old, he was ready to lead one of the mightiest nations in the world at that time through a time of great crisis He was able to do that because of what God was doing in his life. That's why God won't leave his children alone. You know why? Because God is He's building character in us. He's preparing you for something in the future we might not know about right now, but he's doing his work. He's disciplining us. And a lot of times when God will give his discipline to us it's not because of what we s of uh of us sinning it's because he's working character just like a coach will discipline an athlete not because the athlete's done anything wrong It's because he wants them to run the race strong. And so therefore, God will do the same thing to us. That's why the writer says: don't despise the discipline of the Lord. Don't faint. Don't quit. When God disciplines you, He's working in your life in a great way. Now let me give you the fourth thing real quick. We said, number one, one lesson is the quality Number two, it is difficult for us to know whether our circumstances are good or bad. Number three, it's easy for believers to confuse God's blessing With God's judgment. But here's the fourth lesson I pull from this. Godliness is determined by the condition of our heart, not by the circumstance of our life. Godliness is determined by the condition of our heart, not by the circumstance of our life. Look again at verse number 7, chapter 24. And I will give them a heart to know me That I am the Lord, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God, for they shall return unto me with their whole heart. Now the inhabitants that live And the exiles that are going to live in a pagan land and serve a pagan king, they're going to be godly. Imagine that. The circumstances that they're in doesn't determine whether or not they're godly. It's the condition of their heart. You know, I thought when I went to Bible college, everybody there were going to be godly. I was kind of naive. What I found out is not everybody there is godly. In fact, some of the most ungodly people I've ever ran into were at a Bible college. And I also got to tell you that I've been to godless universities where atheistic teachers throw God down the river and they try to tell people that God doesn't exist. And in place Like that, I bumped into some of the most godly people I have ever met. And the point is simply this: that your circumstances don't determine your godliness, it is the condition of your heart and above No matter where you are. And this is what we see here. These exiles living in this pagan land are going to become godly people. In fact, if you Think about it, some of the most godly people in the Bible were exiles. Ezekiel the prophet, he was a Babylonian exile. Daniel, does that name ring a bell? Preach about Daniel Sunday morning who purposed in his heart he would not defile himself in that pagan land. He was an exile. The three Hebrew children with him were exiles. They refused to compromise their life and they they did determined that they were going to honor God. Ezra and Nehemiah were exiles. Mordecai and Esther is a rubbable on Joshua the high priest Haggai the prophet, and on we could go. Some of the most godly people come out of the most difficult circumstances because it's an issue of the heart. Now I'm not saying environment Isn't important, it is important. I'm not saying that. I'm just saying that when it gets right down to it, the environment really isn't the major factor. It's your heart. That's the major factor. And so we see here that the desire of God is for his people to know him. That's what he wants. That's what we see in verse number seven. And by the way, the word know here is a word that means a personal, experiential relationship. Do you know God on that level? Do you have a personal close relationship? Because this was God's purpose with these exiles. God says, I am going to give them a heart to know me. And they're going to turn to me with all their heart That's exactly what God wants of all of us. That's why God might put you in a bad circumstance. It's not really bad. Because in the end, He's drawing you. Close. And he wants your heart. So do you know God? Again, the word here is an experiential relationship. I remember when I was in seminary I took a seminar, a PhD seminar, on biblical archaeology. We had to do all this work and all this reading and all these articles and books and blah blah blah. And one name kept coming back up. This guy was the key guy uh a while back, uh guess who I bumped into? That very guy. That I I read all his stuff. And now he led me through the city of Jericho He was an expert on the old city Jericho. And he gave me a personal tour and was pointing out all these things, and we developed a friendship. Now all of a sudden I know him in a very different way It's not just a person that I read about in a book. Now we kind of know each other. That's the word here. You see, some Christians they read And by the way, keep doing that. That's how it starts. But friend, if that's all God is to you is somebody you read about in a book, you're not as close to God as God wants you to you to be. He wants you to know him personally in an experiential way. Now you might be saying, now how can that happen? I don't know how to do that. Well it's very simple it's give Given to us in verse 7. Look at it again. Do you see it? And I will give them a heart to know me. How's this going to happen? We can't do this ourselves. God has to give us Use a heart to know him. So here's the prayer that we pray. God, give me a heart to really know you. Give me a heart to really, really know you You know, that's the prayer I pray. When I go to the hospital when some young lady has a baby, and I go to the hospital to visit the couple, and they let me hold the baby. When I get to pray over the baby, that's the prayer I pray right there. I say, God, give this child a heart to know you and to love you. You know why? Because God has to do that. He's the one who has to do that for us. We need God to help us. And so if you want to have a heart to really know God in a close personal Way, that's the way to do it. You pray and you ask him, God, give me that kind of heart, a heart to really know you, where I will turn to you with all my heart. There are some people that say there's Seeking God, but they're not really seeking God because they really don't want to know God with all their heart. But if you really want to know God the way He wants you to know Him, you can pray that prayer. God God, give me a heart that will seek you, and he will do it. God will give you a heart to know him. Remember the Apostle Paul? He's in prison And the Philippians are really worried about him. You know, here he is in a prison for two years in Rome. And so they send Epaphroditus with some gifts. And he paper duty's reports, you know, they're concerned about you and wondering how you're feeling. And Paul writes the letter Philippians back, and you know what he says in the letter? Listen, don't worry about me. The things that have happened to me are Falling out for the furtherance of the gospel. And I've learned in whatever state I'm in to be content. I'm fine. But what else did he say in that letter? That I might know him And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering. No, Paul wasn't concerned about his circumstances. He was fine. What was he concerned about? No Jesus more. Because godliness is not a matter of your circumstances, it's a matter of your heart, the condition of your heart. And by the way If the condition of your heart is right, the circumstances don't matter. Whatever circumstance you're in, you know what? You'll learn like Paul to be content. You'll learn that contentment because your relationship with the Lord is right. And that's exactly what God wants for all of us. And so again, let me close. Let's review You what are the lessons? The quality of your life and character cannot be judged by your circumstances. Number two, it is difficult for us to know whether our circumstances are good or bad. Number three, it's easy for believers to confuse God's blessing with God's judgment. And number four, godliness is determined by the condition of our heart, not by the circumstances of our life. So let me just ask this in closing. What basket are you in? If you're a fig, what basket would you be in? What's the condition of your heart? Do you judge your life based on your circumstances? Oh, I must be good because my blood pressure is down and my bank account is up. I must be really Good. Or man, everything's so good around me. I must be really spiritual. Is that the way you judge whether things are good or bad? Or do you judge it by your Heart by the condition of your heart. Which basket are you in? And by the way, we could really just say that when God looks at the world, he just sees two groups. Those Who know him and those who don't. Good figs, bad figs. Those who know him and those who don't. So the question is, do you know him and do you want to know him? So let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, again, we thank you for the instruction of your word. Thank you for this word that you gave to your prophets so many years ago. And yet, Lord, it's so practical for us today. We all have a tendency to look at our circumstances and judge our life. When Lord you look not as a man sees. You don't look at the outward circumstances. And your actions today are based on what you know about tomorrow. You're providentially working out your plan, and what may seem bad to us, it's actually good in your sight. And so, Lord, this is where we have to exercise This is where we have to say, Lord, I trust you. And even though what I'm going through right now isn't good, I I believe that you work work all things together for good. And you See things that I don't see. And so I trust you. And I want to know you. I want to know you in a very close personal way. How many here say that? That's my prayer tonight. I'm trusting God in a bad situation in my life. I know he's going to work it out for good. And beyond that, I want to know God in a very close, intimate way. I want him to use this in my life life to draw me close. Is that your prayer tonight? Would you lift it to God? Would you pray and say, Lord, give me a heart to know you. Give me a heart to know you, to be close to you. Friend, if you pray that and ask God for that, He'll give it to you. Father, you see these hands, you see the hearts of these. Lord, do your work. Build faith In your people, trust, build a greater love, give a give them a greater passion to know you and to trust you. We pray in Jesus Jesus precious name, Amen.