Tonight, and I want you to open to the book of Matthew, chapter 13. I I know we had dealt with Matthew chapter ten for several weeks and I wanted to just preach on this passage tonight. The Lord led me here for some reason to speak about this. Matthew chapter 13, down in verse 53. And tonight I want to talk about the title of the sermon is Tying the Hands of God. Tying the hands of God. While you're looking for that, Matthew 13, 53, there was a man by the name of Thomas Wolfe who wrote a book called You Can't Go Home. And the book is about a man by the name of George Weber. George Web Weber was the author of a successful book that he wrote about his hometown. And when he returns home to his hometown after having written the book, he expects to receive a hero's welcome. But that was quite the opposite of what took place there. Instead he's driven out of town by his own family, by his own friends. They feel betrayed by what he had written in the book and he's shaken to his core by the reaction of those people that are in his hometown. When I read that, I thought about this passage here in Matthew chapter 13 Verse 53 down to verse 58. Because this is the story of Jesus in his earthly ministry when he went back to his hometown. We learn that in this story, Jesus wanted to do great works there. It was his heart's desire to do great works. And by the way, that is the heart of our Savior Jesus Christ. He wants to do great and mighty works. And he wants to do them in the hearts of people that he loves. He wants to do them in your heart tonight. He wants to do great things in your heart, in your life. He wants to do great things in your home. He wants to do great th Is in this church But sometimes he can't do the things that he desires to do. Why? Why is that? Well, sometimes we tie his hands, sometimes we prevent him from doing what he wants. And that's what this story will teach. Look in Matthew chapter 13. Look at verse 53. It came to pass that when Jesus had finished These parables, he departed thence, and when he was coming to his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished And said, whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works? Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not uh his mother called Mary, and his brethren James and Joseph and Simon and Judas, and his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? Now Let me just give you a little bit of context here in this story as we get into it. In the Gospel of Matthew, of course Matthew is proving that Jesus is the Son of God. In fact, he spends the first nine chapters giving evidence, one evidence after another. about Jesus. In chapter 10, which we studied the last few weeks, he begins to prepare his disciples to go out on their own. He's beginning to prepare them for the time when he will no longer be with them. And he sends them on mission trips and he tells them what he expects of them as his own disciples. And then when you get to Matthew chapter eleven, what you begin to see are a series of negative responses to the life and ministry of Jesus. At this point the Jewish people should have affirmed him as their king. They should have affirmed him as the true son of David. But instead, what we see in Matthew 11 are these negative responses to the ministry of Jesus. And what we see then is just a rebellion against the king. We see really in the first ten chapters the revelation of the king. And now in chapters 11 and 12 and 13, we could label that section of the book of Matthew the rebellion against their king. And what we see are these negative responses in Matthew eleven. There's criticism, there's unbelief, and then when you get to get to chapter twelve, there's blasphemy. They actually say that he does What he does, he does it in the power of Satan. I mean, Jesus was doing miracles. It was obvious that he wasn't just doing them in the power of man. There had to be some supernatural power And that leaves only two choices, either he's you doing it in the power of God or he's using the power of Satan. Well rather than saying he's God and he's doing what he's doing in the power of God, they go the other direction and they say he does it in the power of Satan. Well, for Jesus, the whole tone and tenor of his ministry changes from that point. So you come to Matthew 13, and what is going on now? Jesus begins to teach him parables. And why does he teach in parables? Because he's going to conceal truth from those who have rejected him. And he's going to reveal truth to those whose hearts are open to receive what he has. And so he begins to speak in these parables. And you remember we may have, you know, we we we uh went over Matthew 13 a while back But look again in Matthew thirteen and look down in verse number ten. And when the disciples came and said unto him, Why speaketh thou unto them in parables? Look at verse eleven or verse eleven. He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. For whosoever hath to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance, but whosoever hath not from him shall be taken away, even that which he has. So the whole tone of his ministry changes And he's speaking now to really those who have received him, a small remnant, his disciples. And then he in Matthew 13, he takes a visit to his hometown. Now this is really the end of the rejection part in Matthew's gospel. And you kind of think, well, Jesus is going to go to his hometown. You would think of all places he would be received there You know, of all places he would be welcomed. This would be a refuge for him from the animosity, from the hostility, from the rejection. This would be a warm place. He would be accepted. He would be loved, right? That his hometown would say, Oh, this is Jesus, and we are proud of you. But what we find here in Matthew 13 is that they don't receive him Really, this is the climax of what John said. He came unto his own and his own what? Received him not. They didn't receive him here. Nowhere is that verse demonstrated more clearly than in this passage here in his hometown. And so I want you to look at this visit that Jesus makes to his hometown. And I want us to learn some things from this visit. First of all, if you're taking notes, write down number one, the reason for his visit Why did he go back? Look in verse 53. And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence. This is the one reason was he was leaving Capernaum He was leaving that place. Capernaum was the place where he had set up his ministry bases, his headquarters, and he had spent a long time in Capernaum, but now it was time to leave. And and he had spent much of his ministry there. And he had done many wonderful mighty works there in Capernaum But now it was over. Capernaum had seen enough. They had heard enough. Now he was moving on. And by the way, this little village of Capernaum was responsible because ultimately they rejected Jesus. They didn't accept his mighty works. They didn't accept what he said. Go back to Matthew 11 real quick. And look in Matthew 11, look down in verse number 20. Again, we see this Jesus woe upon the unrepentant cities. Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not And then he mentions Corzin and Besseida, but look down in verse 23. And thou Capernaum, which are exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works would have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained to this day. So Jesus pronounces a woe upon Capernaum because he was there, he ministered, he did great mighty works He spoke the word of God, but ultimately Capernaum did not repent. And so he moves on. He's moving on. By the way, I was there in Capernaum when I went to uh Israel just last year and they had built a another uh synagogue over the the synagogue where Jesus taught in A new floor was laid over the floor where Jesus would have walked upon. And on that new synagogue, there was all kind of bizarre drawings, various animals, mythological figures. And it's the idea they had rejected the true God and now they had opened themselves up to all kinds of pagan ideas and false teachings that had happened there. Here was Jesus, here was the very revelation of truth, here was the very revelation of God right there in their midst, and they turned from that And by the way, it's it's it's a forsaken city. The only reason it's even popular today is because that's where Jesus was, and people will go there to see where Jesus lived during his earthly ministry, but there's no one else that lives there It's it's just a city that has no people in it. And so it's a serious thing to reject truth It's a serious thing to reject the Son of God. The Bible says in Hebrews 2. 3, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? And so Jesus wanted to leave Capernaum. Why else did he come to his hometown? Well, number two, he wanted to give Nazareth another chance. Look at verse 54. And when he was coming to his own country His own country. That's Nazareth. That's his hometown. Luke chapter 4, verse 16 names it. This was a dusty little town. It was not very well thought of. It was just a really small little village. It was on top of a uh uh uh a hill. There was a cliff not far from that. Again, I saw that when I was there in Israel. There's Nazareth, just a little village, and there's a cliff That's right there by it. And again, it's obscure. It's not mentioned in the Old Testament. It's not mentioned in the Jewish Mishnah. It's not mentioned by Josephus. It was really not really well thought of. And really, this little town, we wouldn't even know about it had it not been for the fact that Jesus was there, that he grew up there. And he grew up there thirty years there in Nazareth. There was approximately around his time about five hundred people that lived there, they estimate about his time. Now this wasn't the first time that Jesus had gone to Nazareth He had gone there in the beginning of his earthly ministry. In fact, hold your place here in Matthew. Go back to Luke chapter 4. Look at Luke chapter 4. And look down at verse number 14. This is the first time he visits Nazareth. Luke 4, chapter 4, verse 14. And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit. into Galilee, and there went out a fame of him throughout all the region round about. Verse fifteen. And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and stood up to for to read And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book, he found the place where it is written, The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me. And so Jesus visits At the beginning of his ministry, already the reputation about him was beginning to spread. Uh people were uh praising him for his teaching his earthly ministry And so Jesus goes to Nazareth, he goes to his the the local synagogue there. And by the way, the custom of the synagogue was when any visiting teacher came, they would let that person teach. And by the way, why synagogues? Because the temple had been destroyed, right? In the Old Testament, under the Babylonian captivity, the temple was destroyed. That's when synagogues started. Wherever there were Jewish people, they would have a synagogue, they would come and they would meet. And the practice of the synagogue was a lot like the church today. They would read the scripture, they would pray, they would praise There would be someone designated to read and then expound the scripture just like we do here in church. And the way that you uh found the synagogue in any local town or village was you'd look for a poll that went straight up, just like we have churches today that have high steeples so that people can identify a church back in that day The synagogue was normally on the highest point in a village or a town, and it had a pole that went straight up into the air, so when you were coming into a village, you would look up and see the pole and know that there was a synagogue there Of course, Jesus already knew where the synagogue was here in Nazareth. And so he comes into the synagogue, and he stands to read the scripture. And what does he read? He reads Isaiah. Chapter 61. Look again in verse 18 of Luke 14. to preach deliverance to the captive and recovering of sight to the blind, to s to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book and gave it again to the minister, and sat down, and the eyes of all of them that were in the synagogue were fastened upon him. And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears That was an amazing thing. He reads the scripture, hands the book back, he sits down because that was the normally the custom. The speaker would speak out of the seat of Moses. It was called the chair, so the speaker got to sit down. I think we should do that today to be honest with you. Let me sit down. You guys stand up, let me sit down. No, I'm kidding So he would sit down and then he began to speak out of the chair. Incidentally, that's where we get the phrase, ex cathedra, you know, when the Pope speaks. out of the chair, he sits down in the seat of authority. Where does he get that from? The custom of the Jews back in the synagogue, this the speaker would sit down. And then he would speak with authority, expounding the scripture. And then Jesus, what did he say? This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. What was he saying there? That when he read this messianic passage, he was declaring himself to be what? To be the Messiah He was saying, I am the Messiah. And the Bible says they marveled at his gracious words, and they anticipated, are you going to do a miracle for us? But Jesus wouldn't do it. And why? Because of their attitude, because of their unbelief. And ultimately what happens? Well, look at verse 28. And they were, and all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with what? Wrath. His first sermon didn't go very well. They were filled with wrath. And verse 29, and rose up and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built. that they might cast him down headlong. What were they going to do? They were going to push him off the cliff. That again, that it was located right there on the hill, right there on the cliff. They were just going to push him off Now I've had some sermons that didn't go very well, but none of them went that bad. Where the people wanted to get rid of me and push them, they wanted to push Jesus off of the cliff. That was his first visit. Go back to Matthew 13. So why go back? Why go back? If it didn't go well the first time, why is he coming back? Well he's coming back to give them another chance. To see if their attitude had changed any. To see if the Word of God had found lodging in their heart. To see if there was any any there that in his hometown that perchance had embraced him as the Messiah, that perchance may have repented. You know one thing I love about God, he's so very patient He's so very long-suffering. He's so very merciful. The Bible says in 2 Peter 3. 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness. But is long suffering to usward, not willing that what? Any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. How patient has God been with me! How patient has God been with you. How many opportunities has he given you to turn to him or to trust in him? So he goes back to his hometown. The reason for the visit is he's now leaving Capernaum. It may be that he's searching, perhaps maybe he can make Nazareth his new home base. But he leaves Capernaum. He wants to give Nazareth another chance. But I'll tell you another reason why that Jesus perhaps went to Nazareth is because He wants to teach his disciples a lesson, perhaps, about rejection. Now, the first time he visited Nazareth, he didn't have his disciples with him, but this time the disciples were there with him. And they see this up front. They see this close and personal. You remember Jesus had just taught them in Matthew 10 about being faithful and going and speaking the word. And if they'll receive you, you stay, but if not, you just move on. And here we're going to see Jesus preparing them for how to respond to rejection when it comes. But let me tell you another reason I think Jesus went to Nazareth, and that is to illustrate what he had just taught in the parables. In Matthew 13. Look what again it says in verse 53. And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished what? These parables. What parables? This is the parable of the sower, remember? That was one of them. And you remember that that story? Here's a sower and he has seed and he goes out and he just indiscriminately spreads the seed on different types of soil. And there's some seed where it's on hard ground and the birds come and they devour it. And what does that represent? That represents Satan snatching away the word There's some seed that lands on shallow soil and it springs up for a little time, but then eventually it just withers away. These are people that receive the word sh in a shallow manner. At first there may be real an emotional response, there may be real joy, there may be a real reception, but it's not really depth, there's no depth to it, and so when They became continues to listen to the word. There are something offends them and they say, no, I don't want this. And then there's some seed that lands among the thorns. Which represents the world and the riches and the deceitfulness of the world choke out the word. And then there's the seed that lands on good ground and it grows and it produces fruit. And here's the idea How come there's not more people being saved? The problem is not the sower. The problem is not the seed. What's the problem? The problem is the soil. The soil wasn't ready. Jesus had just taught that. And now there's going to be a perfect illustration of that very thing before their eyes. Because when he visits Nazareth, what we're going to see is that Satan comes and he snatches away the word of God. Look in verse 54. Notice, here's the second thing. We see the reason for his visit. Write down number two the reactions to his visit. Notice the reaction, verse 54. And when he was coming to his own country, he taught them in their Synagogue. So he follows the usual custom. He goes to the synagogue as a visiting rabbi. He's invited to speak. You would think perhaps they wouldn't welcome him because of the last visit, but not so. They wanted to hear him. They were curious. They wanted to hear. They knew he was a good teacher. They had gracious words. And so he begins to sow the seed. He speaks the word of God. I would just love to, I would give all of my seminary education just to hear one of those sermons. Where Jesus just goes through the scripture. And this was something I think he did in every village and town where he went preaching all throughout Galilee and then later Judea as he zigzagged his way back to Jerusalem for the final pilgrimage to the cross. He would go into these little villages and go in these synagogues and he would go to the scriptures and he would teach them things about himself. How that he was the Messiah. And he does it here yet again in in Nazareth. And the Bible says, notice their response in verse 54, insomuch that they were what? Ast. That's a really strong verb there. Astonished. This is not the normal word, thumezo. This is ek poliso. And it really the word means to strike, to smite, to blast, to be hit. And you put the ek prefix in front of it, the uh ek preposition there, and it basically, it it intensifies it. And so we could say it like this, a proper perhaps parallel for today is he blew their minds. He blew their minds. They just couldn't believe it. C. K. Williams translates this so that they were flabbergasted, whatever that is. Flabbergasted. Weesh translates it like this, so that they were startled. Another one says they were completely baffled. They were astonished. When they heard the words of Jesus. Look what it says. And they were astonished and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom? And these mighty works. No one ever spoken like Jesus. No one ever heard such preaching. No one ever heard such wisdom. The Bible says in Matthew 7 that he declared his teaching with authority. It says in John 7 that it was knowledgeable. It says in Luke 4 it was powerful. One commentator writes this, he had demonstrated profound wisdom and authority beyond anything the people had ever witnessed or had even heard of. He taught profoundly on virtually Every subject related to life and death and time and eternity and truth and righteousness and sin and God and so on. He taught them the truth, everything that pertained to spiritual life and godliness But not only did he teach him, but also it says the the mighty works. Notice in verse 54 where it says, Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works. In addition to his great wisdom, Jesus demonstrated supernatural power by doing some mighty works there in Nazareth. Now it wasn't much He wanted to do a lot more, but there was just a little token of his power by doing some mighty works there. The word is unimus, miraculous power. He did some miracles there. Right in their presence. So much so that they were astonished. This is incredible. And so what's the first response to these people to Jesus? They are just overwhelmed. They're like, wow, this is incredible. And they receive them. This is the stone. This is the seed, I should say, placed on the soil where there's stony ground. Because the first reaction is joy and excitement at what Jesus had done. But then it quickly turns to suspicion. It turns to suspicion. Say why? Look in verse number 55. Is not this the carpenter, son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brethren James and Joseph and Simon and Judas and his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? Where does he really get this from? This is someone that we know. What happens is if Satan comes along and he creates suspicion in the minds of the people, that's how Satan works. They begin to question. These questions here are really suspicious questions. How can he do this? Wait a minute. Hold on here. How is it that this person can do this? This is exactly how Satan works. He gets people to begin to question Christ. To question the Word of God. Friend, don't let anyone, listen, by the way, if you want to know whether Jesus is really the Son of God, just study the Bible. It'll become clear to you. The Bible can withstand any scrutiny that people can give it. But I'll tell you this, you better if you're going to doubt, you should be an honest doubter. If you really want to know the truth, God will show it to you. But if you're a dishonest doubter And you don't want to receive the truth, then nothing that anyone says is ever going to be enough for you. And these people here, the problem was their suspicion, their heart, their doubting heart. And so questions began to surface that shows the condition of their heart. Is not this the carpenter's son here They questioned him. They questioned his claims. And by the way, you have to remember, too, that in Matthew chapter 12 uh there was a campaign called I call it the Big Lie where they were saying about Jesus that the what he does, he does it in the power of who? Of Satan or Beelzebub. Where did that come from? That came down from Jerusalem, from the official leaders of Jerusalem. Jesus was destroying their religion. And they had to do something. And so they started this big lie and people started to believe it And it began to spread all around, and evidently some of it had come back to Nazareth, and there was suspicion in some hearts. Where does he get this power from? How can he do these things? And so The Bible says that there was suspicion that Jesus ultimately he doesn't do mighty many mighty works, as we're going to see. But I want you to see, not only do they question his claims, but his credentials. Look again, isn't this the carpenter's son? Now I think this is meant to be a demeaning expression. The word for carpenter is tecton It reverse where we get the word tech, where we get from architect, someone who builds, it refers to a builder. We call Jesus the carpenter, and we think of him working with wood. But really, if you go to Israel, you're going to find there's not a lot of trees around in that that area. There's a lot of stones. There's a lot of rocks. I think if he worked with wood whenever they had it, but mostly he was a mason. He worked with stones I I think Jesus was a pretty strong person to be able to work with stones and bricks and things like that. But this was meant to be a demeaning expression towards Christ. He's simply the son of a carpenter. He is nothing but a man of the earth, a commoner. That's what they were trying to say. And his character, they question, is not his mother called Mary? Now it's interesting that they don't bring up the fact that he was the son of Joseph Why didn't they mention Joseph? They just mentioned Mary. Well, there's some question over this. Some think that perhaps Joseph was dead at this time. That could be. But even then it was still customary to mention the father But he's not mentioned here. There are some who speculate that the reason that they mention him being the son of Mary is because they're slandering Jesus as far as being born illegitimately by Mary. By just Mary. Remember in John 8. 42, the Jewish leader slandered Jesus by saying, We were not born of fornication. And hence you were, but not us. And so they question his character. This is an evil slander, saying he's the son of Mary. questioning his birth, which leads to ultimate rejection. Look at verse 57. And they were offended in him. The word offended here, scandalizo. They were scandalized by him. Really the word scandalizo has the idea of they stumbled over him. It's the idea of rejection. It's the idea of blasphemy in their minds. They tripped over him. They stumbled over who he was. This is the same word used in 1 Corinthians 1, where the gospel is a stumbling block to the Jews. Same idea here. They turned on him And that's when Jesus, look what he says in verse 57. But Jesus said unto them, a prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and his own house. And this was probably a proverb that was very well known in that day. A prophet is not without honor except in his own country and in his own house. And basically, they didn't receive him. They didn't honor him. They stumbled over him. And because of that, notice the last thing. There's the reason for his visit, the reaction to his visit, but notice the results of his visit And it all leads up to this one thing. Look in verse 58. And he did not many mighty works there because of their what? Their unbelief. They hindered the ministry of Jesus. They tied his hands. This is why I titled the sermon, Tying the Hands of God. Now, the implication is in that last verse that he wanted to do mighty works. That's the implication. He wanted to go there. He wanted to do great works among them. But in the end, he couldn't. Now, it's not that he couldn't, that he didn't have the power. Because let me tell you something, God is sovereign, he can do whatever he wants. And sometimes he will overcome resistance, but sometimes he won't. And here he doesn't. It's not that he necessarily couldn't, it's that he wouldn't. He wouldn't do the mighty things he wanted to do. Why? It was the attitude of the hearts of the people that hindered the work of God among them because they did not receive him. So he didn't do those mighty works. Mark chapter six verse five says, and he could do no mighty works save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk and he healed them. That is, he did a few works. He he healed a few sick people there in the in Nazareth, but that was it. He he wouldn't do any more Again, he wanted to do more, but he couldn't. You know, I believe that God wants to do more in the lives of his people, but sometimes we hinder him. Sometimes it's our own attitude that hinders the working of God. Sometimes it's our own lack of faith and unbelief that hinders the working of God. What we see here in Nazareth is that the soil of the heart was not ready to receive what Jesus had for them. And this is a very sad story. And the Bible says this again in Mark 6 in the parallel account, Mark 6, 6. And he marveled because of their unbelief. Jesus marveled there. Now let me just tell you this. There's only two times in all of the Bible where it says Jesus marveled at something. I mean if you can shock Jesus, you're really doing something. There's only two times. One time where Jesus marveled was at the faith of the Roman centurion in Matthew chapter 8, where he was amazed at this centurion's faith, and the Bible says he marveled at him. And now here, it says in Mark 6. 6 in the parallel account, Jesus was amazed at their unbelief. He marveled at their unbelief. You know, this is a warning to all of us, isn't it? It's a warning. What's the condition of your heart? Do you have faith in him? Is your heart open and ready to receive what God wants to do in your life? Is the soil of your heart receptive to the Word of God? Are you allowing Satan to pull the seed of the Word of God out through doubt, through skepticism, through questions? Listen, friend, the lesson here is determine never to allow Satan to devour the seed that God wants to sow in your heart. Never allow that. And examine your own heart. Examine the condition of your heart and pray to God, God, give me a heart that's soft. Give me a heart that's tender. Help me not to get so familiar with holy things that my heart grows hardened to them. I think that's what happened there in Nazareth. He lived there among among them and they became familiar with Jesus and their hearts are no longer open to him And there's a subtle thing that can happen even in church where you get so accustomed to things that you just take it for granted. And your heart grows hardened. It's so insidious. It's so easy for that to happen. Determine to never allow your heart to grow hardened to the truth. of the Word of God. And friend, the other application I would give you to this whole story is this. Make sure you know Jesus. Don't let another moment go by without making sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't tie the hands of God from doing mighty works in your heart and your life. Let's have a word of prayer together tonight. And so Father, we come before you and we look at this passage, Lord, and we take great warning from it. When we hear about the the hometown of Jesus that didn't really receive him. And although he wanted to do great things, He couldn't because of their unbelief, because of their heart. Lord, I pray that every person here tonight would have a heart that's pliable and soft and tender and open to any mighty work, to all the work that you want. to do in our life. May we not be satisfied with just a little. May we, as the Apostle Paul prayed, prayed, be filled with all the fullness of God. To have all the blessing that you want to have for us. How many say that's my prayer tonight? I want all of the work of God. I don't want to hinder God in my life. I want all the fullness of God. Pray for me. Father, bless these hands. Bless these words to our heart tonight. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.