Take your Bibles tonight. Go to 2 Samuel chapter 14, please. 2 Samuel chapter 14. Really what I'm going to do tonight is I'm going to kind of continue the little study that we did on Sunday morning to begin to really start off our Family Life conference. And remember the topic was Fathers Who Failed and learning lessons from Fathers Who Failed. And uh remember I told you the course we know this that being a parent, uh especially being a father, we're we're we're responsible for the direction of our family. This is a great responsibility, is it not? And it's something that we take very seriously. Any any uh sober father would take that responsibility seriously. There's a lot of challenges with this. And thank God God has given us a guidebook. He's given us the Bible to help us. in this challenge. Now the Bible has principles that we can learn in the book of Proverbs, as I said before. The Bible also helps us because this is the tool that converts our children to faith in Jesus Christ, right? Paul said to Timothy that from a child you've known the holy scriptures, which are able to make you wise unto salvation. But also what the Bible does is it gives us examples to follow Where it gives us examples to not follow, examples where we can be warned. And this is the approach that I'm taking here with a few character sketches we could say in the scripture. We're looking at some fathers that failed so that we don't make the same mistakes they do. Now I know that's kind of a you might think, well that's a negative way to look at it. Well the Apostle Paul did it did that. He Use the Jews in the wilderness as an illustration to Christians today of what not to do, right? We saw this on Sunday morning, this passage of Scripture. He said the things that happened to them are examples to us so that we don't make those same mistakes. And notice where it says there in 1 Corinthians 10 11, where it says, upon whom the ends of the world are come. You might be tempted to think, well, things that happened in the Old Testament are not relevant for us today. Oh yes, they are. Because the heart of man really doesn't change. And so the mistakes that they made, Paul says you need to know those things so that you don't make the same mistakes today. And so we're looking then at fathers who failed. And you remember if you were here Sunday morning we looked at the first father, and hit that was Jacob, and you remember that his Failure was he showed favoritism. Do you remember that? The Bible says that he favored Joseph. He loved Joseph more than all the other sons. And what was the result of that? It caused them to despise Joseph. It caused real heartache and division in the family. It caused real strife in the family. And so Jacob seemed to be blind about what he was doing, actually. And the Bible says that the brothers, who were kind of vicious guys, if you read the Old Testament, you're going to find that these guys killed a lot of people. uh especially those in uh Shechem, because uh man who basically took advantage of their little sister and these guys they went beyond the law and they committed terrible crimes And so these were some vicious brothers. And of course we all know the story of what happened to Joseph. But the bottom line is Jacob favored Joseph, and that was a mistake. And what what's the reason what's the solution to that? Well, remember we said that we need to learn to see every child that God gives us as a gift from the Lord. And this is very clear in Psalm 127. Where it says that children are an heritage of the Lord, that is the idea of a gift that is bestowed upon us. And so every child given is a precious gift from Almighty God. And we need to view every child that way as being unique. There's what we call the desirability of children, the directability of children. He compares them to arrows that we can direct and propel into the right place. And then the dependability of children. There's a picture of the enemy at the gate, and here's a man who's got a whole uh group of sons behind him and he's not afraid of the enemy because he has some backup That's the idea there. That children are a blessing. They provide strength and stability to a family. And then we looked at another father, which was Eli And we remember that his failure was he put his children ahead of God. And if you were here, you remember the story of Hot Nai and Phineas, where that they were taking advantage of people that brought their sacrifice And they were m doing immoral acts there at the tabernacle. And because of that, uh it angered the Lord. Now Eli, his response was pretty passive. Uh he just said, Son, you shouldn't do those things He didn't pull them out of their ministry duties. He wasn't very active in correcting them. And God sent a man of God to Eli and said, You put your children ahead of me. And because of that, there were some serious cr uh penalties that he had to pay, some serious consequences. You remember he forfeited future blessings on his family. God his intention was to use Eli's family, but God said, not now Another thing that happens when you put your children on the head of God is you reduce the life expectancy of your children and grandchildren. God said to Eli, All of your descendants are going to die in the flower of their age. That's a serious judgment And then also, he says you guarantee them defeat at the hands of the enemy. And in that case, the enemy was the Philistines that came in and just overtook Shiloh. You know what? We have a lot of enemies to the family. We need God's help and protection, don't we? But here God says, I'm not going to deliver you from your enemies. And then another thing is your guaranteed grief and sorrow And then finally you bring financial ruin to your family. And so this is a serious thing. So we don't want to make this mistake And so what's the solution to this? It's very simple. We make sure as believers that we make Christ preeminent in our home. And we communicate that very clearly that God comes first, not you. I'm going to love the Lord. What does the Bible say? Love God with all your heart and all your soul and all your might. That's the first thing. And God said then in Deuteronomy 6: Let this word be in your heart and then live it out. Our families, our children should see in our life that God always comes first. Always. We want to be careful about that. And then we looked in Colossians. Another mistake is don't provoke your children to wrath. We saw that verse in Colossians. About provoking your children to wrath. And basically it says fathers, but really the Greek word there can be translated parents, and it says provoke not, which means to stir up It's the idea of discouraging your children or taking away their spirit. You know, we want to break their will, but we don't want to break their spirit. Remember I said that? And so if we we can we can provoke them to wrath by some of the things that we do. And we looked at several ways. Excessive discipline, if you overcorrect your child, you can actually do more damage than you're doing good. You want to be careful that you don't over-correct Because that can cause pro provoke them to wrath by being overly critical. I if if a child can do nothing right in the eyes of a parent then that can provoke them to wrath. Learn to see the good things that they're able to do. Don't be a perfectionist. Don't set the standards so high that they can never please you in anything. By forcing them to be someone that they're not You know, if you try to raise Junior to be a NFL football player and he's only five foot one and 150 pounds, that's going to be a big problem. That's just not who he is And if you're trying to direct them in the way that you want them to go, then that could be a pro a problem. Remember what the Bible says? Train up a child in the way He should go, not the way you should go. Now that verse is really conf has confused a lot of people. First of all, this is that verse is not a promise that says if you teach your children biblical principles that they'll never depart from it and if they do they'll they'll come back to it. That's not what that's talking about. When it says train up a child in the way he should go, the idea is with the particular gift set Personality, his bend is literally the Hebrew word there, whatever he's bent towards. Whatever he is prone to And it's according to their personality and gifting. Some children just naturally are uh just are bent towards music Because that's really who they are and what they are. Some are bent more towards uh business, some more towards maybe some towards ministry. Calls them out, God singles them out. Every child has their little bent, their personality, what they're given to. And what we have to do is recognize those bens and then train our child according to that That's the idea there. But don't try to force something on them that they're not. Don't try to get them to wear Saul's armor. Alright? And that's the idea behind that. And then another way we provoke them to wrath is just unrealistic goals. If we just set the goals so high, and really they're not capable of reaching some of those goals, you know, you hear people say, You can do anything you want. That's not necessarily true. All right. You can't do anything that you want to do. You can do anything that's within your gift set. Which the way God made you. Okay? You can't do anything that you want. Now I understand the idea behind that is, you know, dream big and and and strive for big things, and I'm all for that But that doesn't mean that you can do anything that you want. You can dream within your ability, and even with the help of God, you can do greater things. But don't put goals on children that they're just unable to reach because that can provoke them to wrath. And then the a lack of standards is another way that we can provoke children to wrath. And that is is the idea if we if children don't know where the boundaries are. If we discipline a child and they don't know the reason for it, well dad, I didn't know I was not supposed to do that. Well, now you do. You know, after you spank them. That can provoke on the wrath. I mean, how would you like to work for a boss who never told you what the rules were and he docked you every time you violated a rule? That would be pretty frustrating. If you don't know where the boundaries are, if you don't know where the standards are, how are you going to ever be able to do effective discipline? And so you have to be uh clear in communicating what those boundaries are. And then finally, just neglect. If we neglect our children, we can provoke them to wrath. And then another one would be failing just to meet their basic needs. And that's just kind of a review of what we went through on Sunday. But now I want to push on and I want us to look at another father Who failed, and I want to look tonight at David. And his failure was this: David failed to express unconditional love to his son. And look at the story. We were in 2 Samuel, is where I asked you to turn to. And I want you to look in 2 Samuel, and I want you to look in chapter 14 and look down at verse number 23. 2 Samuel chapter 14, verse number 23. And notice what it says there. It says, so Joab arose and went to Gisher. And brought Absalom to Jerusalem. And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face. And verse 25, but in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty. From the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head, there was no blemish in him. And so in 2 Samuel 14, we see really in this chapter the story of Absalom's rebellion against David We see in this passage we just read David refusing to see Absalom. Absalom committed some sins, and David banished him from his presence. And we see this here in this passage here. And really, we could say that this is another illustration of a father provoking a child to wrath. David basically pushes Absalom away. He refuses to see him He's reluctant to show to him fatherly love and affection, and what we'll see is that David later comes to regret that. But we have to take a closer look of the story in order really to understand it. And so I want you to go to 2 Samuel chapter 13, because really the story kind of starts there. Look in 2 Samuel chapter 13 and look in verse number 1 And it there's a sad story that really begins this. It's a sordid story of a rape that takes place in David's household. Look at chapter 13, verse 1. And it came to pass after this that Absalom, the son of David, had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar, and Amnon the son of David loved her. Now the word love there is not a uh a good kind of love. It really is lust, and you'll see that in the story. He really just lusted after her. And this ends this causes him to uh To do something very evil with the help of an evil friend. We don't have time to go over all of this, but let me just give you the summary of it. With the help of an evil friend, a man by the name of Jonadab, he devises a plan where he could be alone with Tamar And that's where this horrible sin takes place. And the Bible says after he did this thing, he hated her. Look at 2 Samuel thirteen, look down at verse fifteen, where it says, Then Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he loved her. And Amnon said unto her, Arise and be gone. Again, a terrible story. She is victimized. She's ashamed. She's emotionally devastated. Look at verse 19. And Tamar put ashes on her head and rent her garment of divers colors that was on her, and laid her hand on her head, and went on crying. Again, a terrible, terrible thing. Now, according to Old Testament law, what should have happened to Amnon? You know what the Old Testament law says about this? It says that a man who does this, at the very least, what should happen to him is that he should be taken to the city gate and severely punished. Whipped with rods, at the very least. Deuteronomy twenty-three eighteen says this he should be severely chastised, and at the worst, he could be stoned to death. He could die capital punishment for and that was the law for a rapist. He deserved really to die according to the law. But what was David's response to all of this? Look in chapter 13, verse 21. And when King David heard of all these things, he was very what he was wroth. He was angry. He got angry. And that was it. He didn't do anything more. He didn't do anything of the law required. He never even addressed it with Amnon. He just got mad. Now you talk about a passive father here. This is a mistake right here Nothing happens. Now what happens with Absalom? Absalom, he gets angry. Look in verse 20. And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? But hold now thy peace, my sister, he is thy brother, regard not this thing. So Tamar remained desolate in her broth in her brother Absalom's house. Verse twenty two And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon, neither good or bad, for Absalom hated Amnon because he had forced his sister Tamar. Now keep in mind that Tamar was Amnon's half-sister. David had several wives, right? So Tamar was was um Amnon's half-sister and a however Absalom and Tamar had the same mother. So they were full brother and sister. And Absalom is angry. And he kind of holds his peace. He doesn't say anything good or bad. But you know what he's doing? He's actually planning for a revenge that's going to uh that he's going to do. But again, we have to go back to David. Why do you think David just didn't do anything? I mean, that's a mystery. But really, when you think about it, it's not a mystery because perhaps David saw himself in the actions of his son. And perhaps David is remembering the sin that he committed with Bathsheba because you remember God sent to David the prophet Nathan, and what did Nathan say to David? He said, the sword will never depart from your house. Because thou hast despised me, David, in doing this sin with Bathsheba, you have despised me And because of that, God said, the sword will never depart from your house. And we heard this yesterday. You can be forgiven for a sin, but you still have to pay the consequences, right? God forgave David for what he had done. However, David still had to pay the consequences for what he had done And if you look at the movement of the book of 2 Samuel, what you see here is that at the beginning of the book, you're going to see David get one blessing after another, after another. He's the man after God's own heart And so there's triumph after triumph, one good thing after another. He's anointed king, he defeats his enemies, he expands the kingdom of Israel, he captures Jerusalem, he makes it The political capital. He brings in the Ark of the Covenant. He's doing all these great things. And God is just blessing him. And by the time you get to chapter 10, you're thinking, man, what else is God going to do for this guy? He's just blessing them and blessing them. And what you see is triumph. However, when you get to chapter 11, what do you see? Transgression. That's in chapter 11 is David's sin with Bathsheba. And then Nathan the prophet comes and says to David The sword will never depart from your house. And what you'll see, you'll see movement then in the book of 2 Samuel where it goes upward And then you have transgression, and then the rest of the book is all downward. What you see is tragedy after tragedy after tragedy after tragedy. And when you look at the book like that, to me it's very sobering Because here's God just blessing David, and he commits the sin, and then his whole life turns like a door on a hinge. And there's there's tragedy in his life. And this is just yet another tragedy that happened because at that one moment when David was not walking with the Lord and he committed this sin. Haddon Robinson said this, when David failed to walk with God, he put his life, family, and career in jeopardy. And that's true of every believer. When you fail to walk with God, you put your life in jeopardy. You put the life of your family members in jeopardy. You put your whole career in jeopardy. So what does Absalom do? Well Absalom then he begins to plot. And then in chapter 14 Excuse me, chapter 13, verses 23 down to verse 29. Absalom devises a plot during sheep shearing time. He tells his uh servants to kill and then Absalom invites all the king's sons to this is a festive occasion in the Old Testament. They normally have you know a feast and they drink wine and Absalom commanded his servants and he said, Look, when when Amnon's heart is merry with wine in verse twenty-eight He said, uh, then that's when you smite him. Smite him then and kill him. And that's exactly what happens. He's killed. And then what does he do? He runs. He escapes. Look in verse 37 of chapter 13. It says, But Amman fled. And then look down at verse 38. So Absalom, I should say. So Absalom fled and went to Gisher and was there three years. Three years now, he runs away. He's in exile by himself. And by the way, what what you know what he did, of course it was wrong. But there was a sense in his heart that justice was not done for his sister. David didn't do anything about it. He felt wrong. He felt injustice and he wanted to make it right and he did And although this was taking the law into his own hands, it was wrong. There's a sense, however, you have to admit, that Amnon got what was coming to him. He got justice there. Even though Absalom took the law into his own hands. And the people of Israel, I think, saw this. I think they, that's why later on you'll find in this narrative that actually they praised Absalom. They loved him. You know, this kind of person, this personality, this man who's so bold. But so he's in exile for three years. Now look at verse number 39. This is interesting. And the soul of King David longed to go forth unto Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead. That's interesting to me. You know, time has a way of healing wounds, and David's wounds over Amnon were healed. His heart missed his son Absalom. He wanted to see him. He wanted to go and get him, but his pride wouldn't let him do it. His pride would not allow him to do it. You know, men are sometimes guilty of this. They might feel fatherly affection, but their pride sometimes keeps them back from showing that affection. Because sometimes we think we don't want to appear weak or we don't want to appear emotional, and it's almost as if it's unmanly, it's weakness to show you know your love and friend, that's just plain wrong We should express our love. We should be uh ready to give a hug and a kiss to our family. But David kind of refuses to give in to those emotions. He kind of remains stoic about his son. And what we see here now is Joab sees this, and Joab, who's very conniving, he's very wise, and he's very subtle He sees David's attitude. Look at verse chapter 14, look at verse 1. Now Joab, the son of Zeruiah, perceived that the king's heart was towards Absalom. And so he sees David's struggle emotionally, that he wants to see his son, but yet he's too proud to do it And Joab sees this and so he devises a plot. He wants to reconcile the two of them. Now why he did this, we don't know what his motives are Uh it was probably more political because Absalom was really the next son in line to be the king. This might be an early move on Joab's part to find favor with the next king, you know, to get him on his side. It was more of a political thing. And so Joab then he begins to manipulate the situation. And the Bible says that he he gets a woman of Tokoa, verse 2, and Joab sent to Tokoa And fetch thence a wise woman, and said unto her, I pray thee, theme thyself to be a mourner, and put on now mourning apparel, and anoint thyself with oil But be as a woman that had a long time mourn for the dead. In verse 3 it says, And come to the king and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her mouth. So he puts her up to do this. He gets this woman. He says, you pretend that you're a mourner, and here's what you tell the king. And so this is exactly what happens. She goes into David and she tells this parable. And in this story, she has two sons. They're in the field, they get into an argument, it leads to a fight, there's no one there to separate them, one son kills the other. And now all the family members are angry at this one son, and they want to practice the law of blood vengeance. They want to take vengeance out on this remaining son, and they want him to die And the woman comes to David and said, If my family kills my other son, it's going to quench my coal, that is to say, I will have no one to warm me or take care of me, I will have no son that will take care of me in my old age and my husband's name will die out. And so please don't let this happen. And she pleads with David in this parable, please don't let this happen. And here's what David says in verse 11, and really look at the latter part of verse 11, because those words there are key. David basically says to this woman And he said, As the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth. Now think about this story, because it parallels David's situation. One son kills another. And here's David saying, This one son that did this, he'll be restored. I'll restore your prodigal son, not one hair on his head will be harmed. He can come back to you, everything will be alright. And then the woman, when David says that, she turns the tables on him. Because what does she say to him? Look in look in uh chapter 14, look down at verse number 12. Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my lord the king. She said, Let me just say one more thing And David says, Okay, say one. Verse thirteen The woman's and the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God? For the king thus speak this thing as one which is what? Faulty in that he doth not fetch home again his banished. That's interesting. You know, basically, what is she saying to King David? She's saying, you know what You're a hypocrite. You're a hypocrite. Here you are telling me that my son who's done this thing, he doesn't have to remain banished. My prodigal can come home. You'll restore him. But you have a son who's banished. You have a son who is a prodigal. She points out his double standard. And you're not willing to bring him home. You're not willing. To show your love and affection to him. You're not showing your unconditional love to your son And really when this this woman says two things that are really incredible here, I think, in this whole story, the first thing she says as she tells David this, now imagine her having the boldness to say this to a king. I mean that's pretty bold But then she says this. Think about it this way. Verse 14: For we must needs die and are as water spilt on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again. What's she saying there? Life is short. And we can't get time back. Death is coming quickly for all of us. And once that time is gone, you can't get it back. It's like water spilled out on the ground. You ever spill water on a dirt ground and try to gather that water back up? You just can't do it. And once you lose time, once that time is gone, you're never going to be able to get it back. And you think about it, Absalom had already been gone from David's presence. He had been banished from David for three years already. You're not going to get that time back, that three years back. That three years in anger and in bitterness and in unforgiveness, you're not going to get it back. Times like like that. And this this had to be a dagger in David's heart. But but notice the next thing that she says in verse 14. I think again it's incredible. He says this She says this rather, talking about God, neither does God respect any persons, yet doth he devise means that his banish be not expelled from him That again to me that's an incredible thought. And this is really the key idea here. What kind of God is God? He's the kind of God That looks for ways to restore those who are cast out. He's the kind of God who looks for ways to restore the prodigals. He devises means to bring back his erring ones. He doesn't want to banish them from his presence. And this is unlike David. David was refusing to bring Absalom back. He was banishing Absalom from his presence. And this woman was saying God is so opposite of that. And David was failing to show that unconditional love to his son. And so again, this had to be convicting to David. This had to be something that really hit his heart. You know, some of you know that, you know, I have a prodigal son now, my son Jeremiah. It's not like it's a secret. You know, it's been on national television about where he is and his life. And of course, this has been crushing for my wife and I. We've prayed for him fervently. You know, when all this came out and the first show when American Idol came out. And uh we we saw what what he was doing and uh we talked about it that night. And I'm not ashamed to tell you that it got a little heated in our house. You know, I was a bit angry. You know, I'm a redhead, I can't get angry. All that was going on. I was trying to see things from his side. I was trying to understand them. I got a little angry about what was going on And I remember saying to him, I said, look, I want you to promise me that you'll just promise me three things, just three things in all of this. And I laid out what those three things were. And he he looked at me and he said, I can't promise any of that. I can't promise you any of that, Dad. And so I really, honestly, I got angry. And I said, Well then maybe, maybe, you just need to leave. Maybe you just need to get out of my home. Now, as a preacher, I'll be honest with you, I didn't want to compromise God's word. That was a big fear for me because I want to tell you folks I want to honor God first. I want to make sure that we honor the Lord. And that's been my whole desire through all of this. We want to make sure that we don't dishonor the Lord's name and anything that we do. And that's my chief concern. My second concern is I don't want my son to go to hell. And I want him to get saved. I want him to know the Lord And so I was wrestling with about what to do. I had gotten all this advice from from men of God. And so some of them were saying, you know, you've got to kick them out, you've got to walk away from them, and others were saying, no, don't do that. And I honestly didn't know what to do I didn't know what to do. And I remember that night when things got so tense. And I basically, I I got out of the house. I thought I just need to leave And I need to just pray and I need to get the wisdom of God. And so I came to church and basically sat on the front row and I just prayed. I said, Lord, I need you to direct me. I don't want to lose my son, but I don't want to dishonor you. And I'm not sure how to how to do this. I'm just not sure So please direct me. And you know what the Lord did was he this very passage, this very verse of scripture that I just read. was the verse that just came out of nowhere. Now I know I had studied this years ago, but you ever study something years ago and then kind of forget about it? And then it's like the Holy Spirit just kind of brings it back right when you need it. And I remember that this is the verse that came to my mind. And this very verse, where the woman said to this to David, God devises means whereby his banish be not expelled from his presence. And I felt like the Lord was telling me there that night, look, don't kick him out. Don't banish him from your presence. Because you're the only sanctifying influence that he has right now. And if I kick him out of my presence, I'm just delivering him over to the world. And so the Lord made that very clear to me not to do that. So I went home and I I talked to him. I said, look, I'm new at all this and I'm sure I'm going to make more mistakes, but I think I just made a mistake. I don't want you to leave. I don't want you to go anywhere. I want you to stay with us. Now, I disagree with what you're doing. And what you're doing is crushing me. I want you to know you're killing me. But I don't want you to leave. I want you to be here. Now there might be some who would disagree with that, and if you do, that's fine. That's your prerogative. But I have assurance in my heart that this is the kind of God God is. He devises means whereby his banish is not expelled from his presence. And we're still reaching out to him. We're still showing the love of Christ to him. We're still hoping that God brings repentance to him But I don't want to not show that love that we do have for him. I think it's necessary. I think it's needful. And this is what David does. He kind of banishes uh his son. But now after all this, you think David probably learned, right? You think that, you know, okay, he got the message. Look in chapter 14, look down at verse 23. So Joab arose and went to Gisher And brought Absalom to Jerusalem. And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face. And it says that he was basically there for two more years. Look down at verse 28. So Absalom dwelt Two full years in Jerusalem and Saul, not the king's face. And so if you think that, you know, this David learned and you know finally he decided, no, wrong He says, okay, if you guys want him to come, then fine, bring them back to Jerusalem, but I don't want to see him. I don't want to see his face. He still would not show that fatherly love with him Or to Absalom. And so finally Absalom's there for two full years. And what and what happens? We see David's permission, but then we see Absalom's plea. Because when you get to chapter 14 and you go down to verse 31 and verse 32, what happens is Absalom's been waiting to be brought into his father. Two years have passed He still hasn't been brought in to see his father's face. He calls out to Joab in verse 31. He uh he he sends for him to come, and uh Joab doesn't come And so finally, what does Absalom do? He burns Joab's barley fields. He sets them on fire. That's in verse number 30 there, actually. And then that got Joab's attention. So then he goes to Absalom. And it says in verse 31, then Joab arose and came to Absalom into his house. And said unto them, Wherefore hath thy servants set my field on fire? And look at look at Absalom's response. And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither, that I may send thee to the king To say, wherefore am I come from Gisher? It had been good for me to have been there still. Now therefore let me see the king's face. And if there be any iniquity in me, let me, or let him kill me. You see what he's saying there? I would rather die. Than to keep living like this. I mean, bring me before the king. And if I've done anything wrong to be treated like this, then just go ahead and kill me. I would rather die than to live this kind of Estrangement, banishment from my own father. And so they bring Absalom in to kick to see the king. And verse 33, he comes in before King David, so Joab came to the king and told him And when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom. You say, oh, that's a happy ending to the story. No, not really. Because Absalom could see that that was all still superficial. Didn't last very long. He still really didn't show that fatherly love to Absalom, which he craved. He didn't do it. And again, we don't have time to deal with this all this whole story, but what happens is later on in these rest of these chapters, Absalom goes to uh take his father's kingdom. He rebels completely. He tries to take over his father's kingdom. And you know the story, David has to flee from Jerusalem. and Absalom's armies are basically defeated and Absalom is caught hanging in a tree and Joab hears about it and Joab rather than being merciful to Absalom Absalom after all burned down his barley fields. Joab kills Absalom. And then the news is brought to David, and we see David's pain because in 2 Samuel 18 The Bible says that the king was much moved, and he went to the chamber over the gate and wept. And as he went thus he said, O my son, Absalom, my son, my son, would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son. He's filled with such regret for all that this has happened. He's filled with so many emotions, wishing he had done this, wishing he had done that. And he understands that he's made a mistake here, and a terrible mistake. You see, as parents, we are to love our children. And we have to show that love. Even when they do wrong, it doesn't mean that we agree with the things that they do. We're not affirming the wrong. Does God love us despite the things that we do? Does he cast us out when we do those wrong things? Does he banish us? No. He devises means to bring us back. He still loves us. That's the kind of God that we serve. Now, let me just make a one clear point here. Let me get into a little theology of and giving you the narrative of this story. Let me stop here and be very careful. I know I hear a preacher say That God loves everyone unconditionally. And I want you to know that depends on what you mean. What kind of love are you talking about? I think it's dangerous for preachers to stand up and say that God loves everyone unconditionally Because let me tell you how the lost people hear that. They hear that and say, Well, God loves me just the way I am. I don't have to repent of my rebellion against God. In fact, God's very happy with the way I turned out Just the way I am. I don't have to believe the gospel. I don't have to do those things. And that's simply not true. You see Theologians divide the love of God into several categories, and one category is God's love, his unconditional love of common grace. And I've told you this before, you know, Jesus said, God, you know, He sends rain upon the just and the unjust. There's a sense in which God loves all humanity with a common love, a common grace, and that love is unconditional. He gives benefits to everyone, the benefits of his goodness and benevolence. That's the common grace of God, and that is unconditional. But friend, that's not the saving grace of God. If you want the love of God and salvation, that is conditional. And what's it conditioned upon? A person's repentance And belief in Jesus Christ. It's conditioned upon that. That's the conditional love of saving grace. We see that even in John 3. 16, the verse that we love to quote For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believed in him should not what? We often forget about that perish part. If you believe in the Son of God, Jesus, then you won't perish. That's the condition. You must come to God in repentance and faith and believe. But having said that, once you do come and obey the command of the gospel, then God's love for his children is unconditional. You get it? Because after you're saved, guess what? You can't lose that salvation. Because the Bible says in Romans 8, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Nothing is going to separate us from the love of Christ. God is constantly showing that love. He's not going to reject us. He's not going to cast us out. And when we do wrong, what's God going to do? He's not going to stop loving us. He doesn't let us go. He tightens his grip. He draws us closer. He'll chastise us. But that's all a process of bringing us back. Bringing us back to himself. He doesn't turn his back on us. He loves us. And he will never stop loving us. That's the everlasting Love of God. There are no conditions to that love once you are in the Lord Jesus Christ. God doesn't love us because we're valuable. We're valuable because God loves us. He cannot love you any more than he loves you right now. And he will not love you less. This is sometimes called, theologians call this God's love of complacency. Now, when we use the word complacency, we think of somebody who's apathetic or unconcerned, but that word complacency used in a theological context comes from the Latin, which actually means to be pleased with That's what the Latin means to be pleased with. And God loves you and He's pleased with you. You know why? Because you're His child. And you bring him pleasure. And he will never, ever turn away from you. He will never stop loving you as his child. Now I would say this I don't have much time, but I'll finish up here quickly. As parents, we are to model this kind of love to our children and grandchildren. This love of pleasure. Again, this doesn't mean that our kids are always going to please us. But we're still pleased with them and in them. And we show our love to them, this unconditional love. And we need to express this love. And again, let me just again clarify: unconditional love, again, doesn't mean that you agree with it. And this is what the world thinks. You know, I was getting attacked because they were saying, you know, you don't love your son unconditionally. And what the world meant by that is, I don't accept what he's doing. And since I don't accept what he's doing, I don't love him unconditionally, I want you to know that that is junk. Do you uh do you agree with your children on everything? Well then you don't love them unconditionally, do you? That's just not even rational. We love them. The way God loves us in Christ. God demonstrated his love for us in that while we were yet sinners. So we need to express this flow. How do we do it? Now, let me just uh go through this quickly. And what I'm going to give you here now is not original with me. There's a book out called The Blessing. Some of you may have heard of that book. And the book actually was written by John Trent. And the whole concept of the book is that in the Old Testament, whenever a father blessed his family, it conveyed, along with other things, it conveyed unconditional love. And if you go through the Old Testament, this is the motif of the book, if you go through the Old Testament and see when a father would bless his family or his children. There were certain things that he did. And by way of application, we could still do those things today to bless our families. And one of those things was, he says, always when a father blessed his children, it would included a meaningful touch. There was always an embrace. There was a kiss, uh, a a hands on the head A hug sometimes. In Genesis 27, 26, Isaac said, Come near now and kiss me, my son. He was giving a blessing to his son there. Did you know according to a study from UCLA, your children need eight meaningful touches a day just for emotional stability? Eight a day? And researchers continue to discover the importance of touch. They say it lowers blood pressure, it increases resistance to pain and sickness. It leads to a more positive attitude. It can even add months and years to your life. When someone is touched meaningfully by someone else regularly, that's healthy, according to researchers. It also included to bless your family, it was not only a meaningful touch, but also through spoken words. When Abraham blessed his son Isaac, he spoke a blessing to him. When Isaac blessed Jacob, he spoke a blessing to Jacob. When Jacob Blessed his twelve sons. If you read that passage in Genesis, he spoke blessings to each one of his sons. He used beautiful uh word pictures to talk about them and their character there. He spoke those words. Never underestimate the power of your words to your children, or to anyone in your family for that matter. The tongue is a very, very powerful thing. The great theologian Rocky Balboa said a good insult lasts a long time. A good insult lasts a long time. And you know what he's right. Some things that you might say Be careful because your children may never forget that. In fact, sometimes I've counsel with adults that are telling me things that their parents told them when they were children. And they're still struggling with those hateful negative words that were given to them when they were a child. Speak words of blessing. But then also another way we express unconditional love is expressing high value, telling them how incredibly valuable they are. Again, we see this in Genesis 27 when Jacob is blessing his children. He gives these beautiful word pictures. I just encourage you. I don't have time to Go over it. We're already over time, but sometimes read that. But another way we bless and we show unconditional love to our family is by picturing a special future for them. Saying, you know, God's got something special for you in the future, telling them what makes them very unique and what makes them so very valuable. And finally, the last thing would be active commitment Being actively committed to them. That includes spending time with our kids. Now I know that parents are busy. I get it. I I feel sorry for young couples because I think that they're busier than we were when we were younger. It takes everything that they can to to make the house, you know, run. to pay all the bills. It's such a challenge. And so we have to make whatever time that we have with our family. We have to we have to soak it in. We have to use that time in a very valuable way because it seems like we have less time. You know. And you say, well, it really doesn't matter to our kids. Yeah, it does matter. It really does matter. You know, my dad, he he worked hard when we were growing up. He worked he worked two jobs, sometimes three jobs. when we were growing up. And so I understood that I got it. And I don't have any scars about the fact that, you know, he wasn't there for me. I honestly I don't r if you know if I had those scars, I'm going to need some psychologist to bring them out Because I don't know I have them. I don't I have nothing but love and appreciation for my parents. But I do want to tell you this. I played Little League Baseball from the time I was eight years old until the time I was 16. I had so many at-bats in that span. I don't know how many hundreds of times I was at the plate, and I don't remember what I did when I was batting. I know I hit a lot of home runs. I know that. I only remember three at bats. There's three. I only remember three at bats. One time I struck out, one time I hit a triple, and one time I hit a dinger. I hit a home run for those of you that don't know baseball terminology. You say, why do you remember those three abats? Because those were the abats that my dad was there. I remember those, but I don't remember any of the others. Isn't that amazing? It means something to your kids that you're there and that you show that love. to them. Now I'm out of time, so let's let's bow for prayer together tonight. And with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to make a commitment. I I know that some of you already do this. But just make a commitment to express that love. Don't hold it back Don't be reluctant to show love, to to to give those meaningful touches, those spoken words Don't be reluctant to do that. Because you know why? It's just like the woman of Tokoa said, our life is like water spilt out on the ground. Once it's gone, it's gone. You're not going to get it back. And let's let's determine to model for our family the love that God gives to us. Let's model that. I know we don't do it perfectly, but let's try to remember that and to do that together So Father, take these words that we've heard tonight and seal them into our hearts. Lord, we're going to make our share of mistakes. We already have. We're far from perfect. But Lord, we aspire to love like you do. We desire that. We know that we're not going to accomplish that in this life. But Lord, we want to model it as best we can, especially with those that are ours that you have entrusted to us, our children, our grandchildren. May we show them this unconditional love, the love of God. May they sense that love. May it draw them unto Christ. May it cause them, Lord, to turn to you with all their heart. I know that I'm not the only parent here tonight that has a prodigal. I know that there are others. I pray, Lord, that you would give them great wisdom and grace. And that Lord, you would draw home their banished, that you would bring them back, bring them back to you, back to the place of blessing. The place of love. Where they experience that love. And Lord help us in all these things. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. What I want you to do is just take a moment there. Again, I'm not going to ask for anyone to come to the altar. I just want you to make where you are an altar. Maybe God's spoken to you. Well, something that was said here tonight. God's spoken to you. Just talk to the Lord. Just tell him. Maybe there's someone you need to pray for in your family. Maybe there's some repentance that you need to do. Maybe you've banished someone from your love and y you need to tear down that wall. Whatever God says to you, just yield to him tonight. Father, again, thank you for how your word speaks to us, how relevant it is for us. And Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.