Would you take your Bibles please and open to the book of First Corinthians this morning? I want you to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 2. 1 Corinthians chapter 2. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I want to read a few verses here, verses 6 down to verse 9 of 1 Corinthians 2. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Yet not the wisdom of this world, nor the princes of this world that come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of men the things which God has prepared for them that love him. Thank you so much. You may be seated. And pray with me. Father, would you please help us to understand your word today? Thank you for the Word of God, the inspired Scripture. May we be submissive to it. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A pastor once asked one of his staff men to open in prayer for the sermon and he wasn't used to doing that and he was very nervous and he prayed and he meant to say, Father, illuminate our minds. Instead he said he prayed and said, Father, eliminate our minds for this sermon. There's a big difference between the two. When we come to church, God does not want us to eliminate our minds. We have to put our minds in gear. We have to use our minds. Some would rather it that we don't use them at all, and though there are some services that are designed that way. They're all designed to make you feel a certain way. Um to it's all feel good. But we are to use our minds. We need to do that if we're going to comprehend truth. And it's truth that what changes us. Whenever God begins to change his people, he always starts by renewing the mind. It comes through the mind. But if that's all we depend upon, we're never going to learn God's truth. In fact, sometimes the mind can get in the way. If that's all that we use. We need beyond just our human reasoning, we need illumination And that's the work of the Spirit. And that's what Paul's going to talk about here in this particular passage. And his whole point is simply this: you'll never comprehend the wisdom of God. You'll never comprehend the wisdom of the cross. You'll never comprehend the word of God on your own. You have to have the help of the Holy Spirit. And really what Paul's doing here in chapter two, he's kind of continuing an argument that he began in chapter one, when he said, the preaching of the cross to them that perish is foolishness But unto us which are saved it's the power of God. Now Paul is trying to get the Corinthians to turn from human wisdom and to embrace the wisdom of the cross. You see, the Corinthian church had a lot of problems. If you've ever studied the book of Corinthians or been in a study of it, you know. You can go down the list of many problems that they had. But the root problem of it all, I think the problem that caused all the problems was their love of human wisdom. That was what was causing the the the division in the church. They were breaking up into groups because they saw that among the uh philosophical factions that were part of the culture back in that day, people became zealous for their teacher wisdom and they would Promote their teacher and they would criticize competing sophist teachers that taught back in Corinth And so that's why you had some people saying, Well, I'm of A Paul, and others saying, I'm of Apollos, and others saying, I'm of Cephas, and the real pious ones would say, I'm of Christ. These people had serious spiritual immaturity issues. They were dependent upon philosophy. In fact, the word philosophy means love of wisdom. They loved human wisdom. They loved Greek philosophy. They loved man's wisdom. And it was stunting their growth spiritually. They were depending on man. Remember a few Sundays when I was here the last time I quoted Jeremiah 17, Cursed be the man that trusteth in man that makes flesh his arm whose heart departs from the Lord. When you trust in men, then ultimately your heart will depart from the Lord because you'll go to men. as your refuge. But on the other hand, blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord, whose hope the Lord is. And so Paul's trying to get them to stop trusting in man and the wisdom of man and put your full Faith and confidence in the cross. Because if you don't do that, it's going to keep you from getting divine wisdom. So what Paul does in chapters one and two of First Corinthians is he compares the wisdom of man versus the wisdom of God and he shows how much superior the wisdom of God is over the wisdom of men. And he just gives a list of reasons. Look in uh back up to chapter one, look at verse eighteen. Let me just go through them real quickly with you. It's God's wisdom is superior because of its power. Look at verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is of them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it's the power of God. The word for preaching there is not karuson or karuso. It's not uangelion, which are the normal Greek words for preaching. It is Logos, the logic, the message of the cross. It is the power of God. The power of God is locked in the message of the gospel itself It is in the fact that Jesus Christ died for our sins, was buried, and rose again. There's where the power is. And so, but the people thought that whole message was foolishness. But Paul says we know it's the power of God. Human wisdom has never changed anyone, it doesn't have the power to do it. But the power of the gospel changes hearts. In fact, you're here today because of the power of the gospel. You're here today because of the power of the cross. You're here today because of what Jesus Christ has done for you. We know it as the power of God. So God's wisdom is superior because of its power. It's also superior because of its permanence. Look at verse 19, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Human wisdom will come to nothing But God's wisdom is eternal. It'll always be around. In fact, human wisdom is coming to nothing. And God's wisdom is being exalted and it will until the end. But also, it's superior because of its product. Look down at verse 21. For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. Man cannot get to know God by human wisdom. That's his whole point here. Philosophy does not bring salvation. You don't get to know God through the philosopher. You get to know God through the preacher. It is the preaching of the cross. It is the foolishness of the preaching that changes lives. God's wisdom is dispensed through the preacher when he preaches the cross and all of its power. But also its superior, not only because of his power, permanence, product, but also because of his plan. Look down at verse 26. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty. And the base things of the world and the things which are despised has God chosen. Yea, the things that are not To bring to naught the things that are watch this verse twenty-nine. I love this verse, that no flesh should glory in his presence. You know what God's plan is? The wisdom of the cross is superior Because what it does is it takes nobodies, it takes the unwanted, it takes the weak, it takes those that the world considers as insignificant, and it makes them somebody's We I'm a nobody. But through the cross I'm somebody. Through Jesus Christ, and so are you And Paul was thinking about the very people in Corinth. He says, Look, look at yourself. Look among you. There's not many wise. There's not many mighty. There's not many noble. God's chosen the foolish things of the world. The word for foolish there, moros, moron, we could say I'm not calling you morons, by the way. I'm calling myself one by the way. I will say that. I I'm I'm one of those. I'm the weak. I'm something that is not a foolish thing, but you know what? God has given me wisdom through the cross. And he takes nobodies like me and he makes them somebody's. That's his plan. That's why the wisdom of God is so superior. Man's wisdom can't do that. Man's wisdom can't elevate you beyond what you are, but God's wisdom can. And then it's also superior, not only because of its power, permanence, plan. product, but also because of his purpose. And we already saw this in verse 28 and 29, that no flesh should glory in his presence. God he says to bring to naught the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. When you depend upon the wisdom of God and learn it, God gets all the glory. I love that phrase in verse 30. Notice where it says, but of him are ye in Christ. In other words, the source is God. God does it all. If we become anything, it's because of him. It's because of Christ. It's all of God, not of men. But of him are ye in Christ, it says Who is of who of God has made unus wisdom. We get all the wisdom we need when we come to Christ. He is my wisdom. That's why I don't need the wisdom of the world. He is my righteousness. He is my sanctification. He and redemption. He is all of that and more. And look at verse 31. That according as it is written, he that glories, let him glory in the Lord. I don't want to boast in anything except Christ. And the cross. Because he is unto me wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. He is all And he has exalted me and took a nobody and made me somebody in Christ. That's what God's wisdom does. That's why it's so superior. It's superior because of its power, its permanence, its product, its plan, its purpose, but also in its presentation. Look in chapter two and look at verse one. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech Or of wisdom declaring unto you the testimony of God, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling, and my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstrations of the spirit and of power that your face should not stand in the wisdom of man but in the power of God Paul here is contrasting the way he presented the wisdom of God in the cross to the way the Greek philosophers, the sophists. presented their philosophy. And you know how they did it? They love to keep people spellbound through their oratory, through their master mastery of the language, through their rhetoric. Through their style. People loved it. They loved to be spellbound by these orators, these Greek philosophers. And Paul said, I didn't do that. I didn't come among you with wisdom of words. In fact, what I did is I I just simply preached Christ. I didn't use excellency of speech. Verse 2, I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified I just preached the cross very simply. I just tried to make the cross clear. Because when souls are saved, it's not because of man's rhetoric. It's the power of the message of the gospel. And Paul said, I did that on purpose. In fact, when I came to you and when I spoke, you weren't swayed by my oratory because in verse 3 I was with you in weakness. And I was with you in fear. And I was with you in much trembling. You know why he's saying that? Because when he got to Corinth, he had just been beaten in Philippi. I promise you, if you've been beaten just a few days before for preaching the gospel, you might be a little bit tentative about preaching it the next place you go. You know, if you got a really bad reception, Paul said, I was with you in weakness. He was chased out of Thessalonica after Philippi. He said, I was with you in fear. He was chased after out of Berea, beaten in Philippi, chased out of Thessonica, chased out of Berea. And finally, when he got to Corinth, he was shaky. He was afraid. Physically, he was weak, mentally, he was fearful, emotionally, he was trembling. That's where we get the word trauma from the Greek word. I was with you in much trembling, trauma. And when Paul stood up to speak, he didn't sway them with his rhetoric. You know what he did? He just simply fearfully Preach Christ. He preached the cross. And you know what happened? They got saved. You know why? Because the power is not in the messenger, the power's in the message. In fact, perhaps the more weaker we are, the better the cross comes through. Did you know that you can preach the cross in a way that robs the cross of its power? You can do that. Go back to chapter 1, look at verse 17. For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of what? None of that. You robbed the cross of its power. Oh, you get up there and you just run around and you show everybody how great a speaker you are in oratory, and people walk away saying, Oh, what a great preacher. When they should walk away saying, What a great savior. What a great message. That's the power of the cross. So God's wisdom is superior in the way it's presented. It's presented not in a way where man is exalted. It's just simply the simple preaching of the message. And God uses it. And it's superior because it changes lives. And this leads to the next thing in Paul's argument: God's wisdom is superior because of its perception. That is the way in which we receive it. By the way, all that's introduction. Now I'm getting into the main body of the sermon. So here's the main body. This is the next point. You have to see the logical progression here really to get it. You have to see what Paul's saying. God's wisdom is so superior to the wisdom of man, and it's superior in how we comprehend it. And so the question is: how do we comprehend the wisdom of the cross? How do we comprehend God's wisdom? What is the way in which we learn it? And this is Paul's whole point. In verses 6, chapter 2, down to verse 16, you don't learn or comprehend the wisdom of God through ordinary human ability or intellect. It's not a matter of IQ It's not a matter of education. It's not a matter of reasoning. God's wisdom is superior because it is spiritually imparted and it is spiritually received. And if you don't get it that way, you're not going to get it. God's wisdom is not humanly discovered, it is divinely revealed. Let me read you what one man said. It was so insightful. He said, It's impossible for a lesser creature to understand a more advanced one. How can anything understand something more complex and advanced than itself? For a flea to understand a dog, it would have to be at least as advanced as a dog. For a dog to understand a man, it would have to be at least as advanced as a man. How much greater distance is there between creator and creature? And that's so true. How can we finite creatures understand the infinite? How can we do that? You know, men like to boast and through their own reasoning like to portray their own God, but n that's just speculation. None of that really matters. God has revealed Himself in Scripture, but the only way we're really going to get that It's not just through our human mind and reasoning and ability. It comes through the Spirit. The Holy Spirit has to reveal it. So, two points. To the rest of this sermon, number one, God's wisdom is not humanly received. It's just not humanly received. We already saw Paul said to those that are unbelievers, the preaching of the cross is foolishness. They just don't get it. They hear the message of the gospel and they some people shake their head. Especially the Greeks back then, they were looking for some complex philosophical system. But the the gospel is very simple. It's very simple. And yet it's profound. It's simple enough that even a child could understand it. And yet it's so profound that scholars can't get to the bottom of it. It's both, but it's simple. The message of the cross is by no means devoid of wisdom. In fact, it is a higher wisdom than any in the world But how do we get it? Well, it's comprehended by the mature. Look at verse six. How be it, we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor the princes of this world that come to naught. You know what Paul's doing here? The Greeks and their philosophical systems, they like to brag, oh, we you have to be really mature to understand this. You have to be initiated. In fact, the word perfect there, telios, someone who is initiated into a group. And Paul is referring, and and they like to brag. Oh, you can't understand our system. You're not initiated. You don't have the knowledge. It's almost like it's this elitism, this elitist m mindset where oh you're you're never gonna get it. You're not up to our level. And so Paul says, you know what? They're the ones that don't get it. You are initiated. Talking to believers. He's saying, How beeth we speak wisdom among them that are perfect? And Paul here is really referring to salvation He's basically saying, look, don't worry about them. You do get God's wisdom. You are the initiated. The moment you get saved, God, through his Spirit, teaches you the wisdom of the cross. You have been initiated into that group. When you become a child of God, you begin to learn the hidden secret things. And guess what? They don't get it. In verse 7, where he says, Nor are the princes of this world that come to naught Princes Architon, leading men, men of authority, they come to nothing. Paul is saying, you get to understand the wisdom of God, not the wisdom of this world. Which the elite of this world brag about, but it all comes to nothing. It all comes to nothing. We're privileged to learn the superior wisdom of God. You know more things than a lot of these PhDs out there that don't believe in God. You know a whole lot more than they do. These scientists that boast about all their knowledge speak as if they know all things about the you know, the world. I by the way, it just baffles me how a person can look into the heavens, be call himself a scientist, and look at all the wonder of creation and not believe in God. I don't get that. Talk about blindness But you Paul says, this is revealed to the mature. When you get saved, God gives it to you. It was contained in a mystery. Look at verse 7. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Paul again repeats that he's speaking about real wisdom. True wisdom. But this is wisdom that was contained in a mystery, mysterion, something that was intentionally kept as a secret until It was revealed at a certain time. And again, Paul's referring to the plan of salvation, the wisdom of the cross, was not fully revealed until God wanted it. God planned it all from the very beginning. In verse 7, we see that which God ordained before the world unto our glory. This plan, this wisdom of God, was Planned in the past, and it came together piece by piece, like a little pu a puzzle. Finally it was fully revealed in Christ and in the New Testament, and it's all under our glory. We get saved, and when we get saved, God begins his work of sanctification on us and he begins to conform us into the image of Christ and the wisdom of the cross results in our glory. That's why it's so wonderful. It is something that was contained in a mystery and then revealed. And it was concealed from the mighty. Look in verse 8, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Paul said the crucifixion is proof that the rulers of this age did not have the wisdom of God. Because the wisdom was right there in front of them. They didn't see it. Remember Jesus standing before Pilate? And what did Pilate say? What is truth? What is truth? The embodiment of truth is right there in front of them. And he asks, what is truth? Pilate didn't get it. And the people that crucified Jesus didn't get it. And the and some of the people standing around the cross they didn't get it. That's why Jesus prayed on the cross, Father, forgive them for they They don't know what they're doing. They don't see this. The Jewish leaders didn't get it. The gospel was a stumbling block to them. They were looking for some kind of sign, and they missed the signs of the cross. The Gentiles didn't get it. It was foolishness. They wanted some philosophy. And Paul is basically telling the Corinthians, look. When you pursue human wisdom, you put yourself on their level. They didn't get it. They never got the cross. They never got God's wisdom. Why are you chasing after it? You've got something so much superior. God's revealed it to you. And it's not conceived by the mind. Look at verse 9. But as it is written, I has not seen, neither ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of men. the things which God has prepared for them that love them. This is a verse that's really frequently misapplied. Paul here is not talking about the wonders of heaven, although we can apply that to heaven. When you get to heaven, you're going to be blown away, trust me. We can't conceive all that God has for us. But really what he's talking about here is the wisdom of God. The wisdom that God prepared for his people. And the point is natural eyes and ears. And our natural reasoning can't really comprehend this. If that's all we use, you'll never get it. The depths of God's wisdom cannot be discovered through the typical ways that we learn We cannot learn about God's wisdom externally. You know, how do we learn? We learn through seeing, through hearing, through the senses, the empirical ways, or through observation. We learn inwardly through reasoning. That's normally how we learn. But you can't learn God's wisdom outwardly that way if that's all you use. You can't learn it inwardly through reasoning. The Bible says, Oh Lord, I know that the way of man is not in himself, it is not in men that walketh through direct and steps. If you think that you're going to figure this all out outside of God on your own through your own brilliant philosophy and thinking, you're you're totally wrong. Man doesn't have it in him to be able to do that. We are just helpless in trying to discover his truth subjectively through our minds. Rationalism cannot reason out God's truth. So here's the second point. God's wisdom is divinely revealed. It is divinely revealed. While it's impossible for man to discover God's truth on his own, Man cannot come to know and learn of God or know God on his own. God has to come to him God has to reveal it to him. And he does it through the Holy Spirit. That's how he does it. So look at verse 10. There's spiritual revelation. But God has revealed them unto us by His Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. The word revealed Apocalypto to rip away the veil. To take away the veil, unless the Holy Spirit pulls the veil away from your mind, you're not going to get it. It doesn't matter how much you dig and you study and you research, you can do all of that. But if the Holy Spirit doesn't rip the veil away, you're not going to get it And by the way, you do need to dig and you do need to study and you do need to research. You need all those things. You need all the normal empirical ways in which to learn But if that's all you have, again, you don't you're not going to get it. You need something extra. You need the illumination of the Holy Spirit. He's got to rip the whip the veil away. And if he doesn't do that, you're not going to get it. Look at verse eleven. For what man knows the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. And Paul uses the illustration to help us understand. No person can know another person as well as they know themselves. Nobody knows me better than me. I think the person in this world that knows me better than anyone else is my wife, Carolyn. She knows me better than anyone else. We've been married for thirty-five years. Pray for her. She knows me better than anyone, except me. I know me better than she knows me. There would be one way in which she could know me even better. The spirit of man, the Bible says, we see in verse 11, knows the man. And if I could take my spirit out of me and put it into Carolyn, then she would know me even better. She would know the depth of me. You see, but it's not possible to do that. It's not possible for me to take my spirit out that knows me and put it in her. I can't do that. But you know what? When you get saved, it's possible for God to take his spirit and put it in you. And that's exactly what happens at salvation. And why does God do that? Why would God give us this precious gift of Himself? Why would he do it? Look at verse 12. Now we have received not the spirit of the world. When you got saved, God didn't give you more philosophy of the world. He didn't give you the spirit of this age. He didn't want you to have that. You got that enough being in the world. But the s look at this, but the Spirit, which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. You know why God gave you his spirit? So you can know the things which are freely given. What is he referring to here? He's referring to the Word of God. Those are the things that are freely given. The Scripture. Spiritual inspiration, the Word of God, which we got. And this didn't come through human wisdom. The Bible is not a product of human genius. There were men who were under inspiration of the Holy Spirit And God so controlled their intellect and their education and their background and their personality, so that the words that they chose were the words that God had already chosen from eternity past. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. And we have the inspired word of God. This is freely given to us, spiritual inspiration. And then we have the Spirit so that we can know this. So that we can have these things and know them. Know the things that are freely given to us. It says, Look at verse 13. Which things also we speak not in the words of man's wisdom teach us, but which the Holy Ghost giveth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. God gives us his spirit. So that we can know him through his word. We can know the deep things of God. The deep things of God. There's so many Christians that want to stay on the surface when God says, I want you to know some depth. I want you to know the deep things. That's why it always bothers me with sometimes people say, Oh, you're too deep for me. You're too deep for me. Well, you might be telling on yourself there Because you if you have the Spirit of God, then you should want to hear some of the deep things. There should be a hunger in you for that, to know truth. And so we have to have the help of the Holy Spirit. There's a lot of people that have a lot of knowledge about the Bible, but they just don't seem to have that illumination. You know, uh the Pharisees in Jesus' day knew the Old Testament really well. They just didn't know God. They were not illuminated. Many times Jesus said to them, You two err! Not knowing the scripture, neither the power of God. There's a lot of scholars out there with letters after their name that have a lot of knowledge, but they just have never been spiritually taught And on the other hand, you know what? I've met Christians who have never been to college or even graduated from high school, but they open the scripture and they read, and the Holy Spirit has taught them, and they have more wisdom than PhDs that I've met Because they've been taught by the Holy Spirit of God. They get on their knees, they open their Bible, they pray, they say, Lord, open my eyes. And a person on their knees with their Bible open, dependent upon the Holy Spirit, knows more. They know more than the PhDs of this world So we have to have that. We have to have God open our minds. Look at verse 15. But he that is spiritual judges all thing. Some of you when I said that a Christian on her knees with her Bible open knows more than all the PACs, some of you kind of looked it at me like, what? Well, I'm just telling you what Paul says here. Because he that is spiritual judges all things. What does that mean? Through God's wisdom, you're able to judge and discern things correctly. He gives you that ability. The unbeliever, however, really can't accurately judge or discern the believer. If you don't believe that, just think, just look what's happening in our world today. I know some of you will get mad at this, but go right ahead. We have a government. That is supposed to protect the innocent and punish evil. And instead, they're doing the exact opposite. They're protecting evil and they're punishing the innocent. And they call themselves the brilliant leaders, the one the the people of intellect, the ones who have graduated from the Ivy League schools that have all this knowledge. That's why they don't understand us. They don't understand the church. Look what it says in verse 15. For who hath known the mind of the Lord? Back up to verse 15. But he that is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. And what he means by that is that an unbeliever cannot really accurately judge or discern the believer. They look at us, they look at the church and they don't get it. They recognize our faults, they see our shortcomings, but they will never really fully be able to understand a believer. Because they don't get it. They can't know the mind of the Lord. In verse 16, for who hath known the mind of the Lord? That he may instruct him? They're not able to know the mind of the Lord. The natural man doesn't get the things of God. But on the other hand, are you ready for this? Here's the culmination. But we have What? The mind of Christ. We have the mind of Christ. That's why I'm just blown away with what's going on in the church in America today. Why there are some leaders that would encourage the church to go after human wisdom. To go after man-made philosophy, as if he could help the church in some way. As if we need that to discern the Heart of man or to help man along in his sanctification process in some way. And I tell you it's a it's a curse to the church That anyone would stand and teach people to trust in anything but the sufficiency of the cross and the sufficiency of Scripture. And that's where I stand. And I'm not leaving from that spot. We need illumination. We need the Holy Spirit to open our eyes. We need to see the truth, the wisdom of the cross, the wisdom of God in Scripture. And then you know what else we need to do after that? We need to obey it. We need to do it. We need to apply it to our life. So the next time you're opening your Bible, pray this prayer. Pray the prayer of the psalmist. Open thou my eyes. That I might behold wonderful things out of your word. Beyond the sacred page, I seek thee, Lord. Teach me about you. Show me you. Let's bow for prayer. It may be that you're here today and you've uh never been to the cross and salvation. I don't say that in a demeaning way. I say that with a heart full of compassion and love. The only way I ever came to Christ is because God showed me the beauty of the cross. He opened my eyes to see it. I pray that He'll do that for you, that you'll come to faith in Christ. Put your faith in Christ because I want to tell you, if you're here and you want salvation, you want forgiveness of sin, you can have it. Anybody that wants it. You know what the Bible says? Whosoever will may come. You want it? You can have it. Are you hungry? Spiritually hungry? The table's loaded with bread. Just come and get it. Are you thirsty? I'm talking about spiritually thirsty for the living water. Well here's the fountain. Just come and drink. You want forgiveness of sin? Then he'll do it if you ask him. That's the wisdom of the cross. And no man can do that for you. Holy Christ. So would you reach out in prayer and would you say, Lord Jesus? Open my eyes. Help me to see the cross and the wisdom of it. Help me to see that on the cross all of my sins were judged in Christ. And I need only now to come in faith and put my faith in the finished work of Christ. Save me, Lord Jesus. Come into my heart. Be my Savior. And friend. If you come humbly, he will save you. He will save you. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.