So take your Bibles this morning. I want you to open to the book of Genesis, chapter three. A familiar passage of scripture, I'm sure, Genesis chapter three. And we're going to be looking at verses six down to verse Oh down to verse 10 or 11 or so. Let's just r read that. I'll read verse 6. And of course this is a in a reference to the fall of man. And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof and did eat, gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat And the eyes of them both were open, and they knew that they were naked. And they sowed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. And when they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked and I hid myself And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. And the Lord God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat. I read a excerpt from a book recently about a pastor who had a uh very close relationship with his golden retriever. And in the book he talks about how he wanted to protect this dog that he loved from the traffic that was around his house. And so this is what he did. He um He heard about a way that you can keep your dog on your property without a chain or without a fence. And what he did was uh he dug up a little trench, a very small trench around the edge of his property, and put down there a wire buried just a few inches beneath the soil. And then he put a collar on his dog, and this collar was designed to give out a chirp. Anytime the dog got close to the wire at the edge of his property, this collar would give out a chirping sound. And if the dog continued on and began to cross over that wire, then the uh collar would give the dog a shock. And by doing this the dog began to understand his boundaries with reference to the property. Have you heard of something like that before? Anybody here have that for your uh dog or your children or anything like that? And so it was this invisible fence, so to speak, this wire that was used to keep the dog in line. Now, there is a sense in which God has given man, because of his love for man, a invisible warning system, we could say. And that is what we call the conscience. And that's what I want to talk about this morning. This is going to be more of a topical study. I want to talk about the importance of the conscience. Did you know that God has given to you a gift In fact, he's given a gift to all of mankind, and that is this conscience that will help man to do what is right and to walk in the right way. In our spiritual life, we have to have the conscience to help us if we're going to be all that God wants us to be. And so it plays a very important role. in our life as Christians. In fact, it plays an important role in the world because of the sin of mankind. Now what I want to do this morning is just talk about this topic then and I want to talk about it under three headings If you take notes, we're going to talk about, first of all, the clarification of the conscience. And then secondly, we want to talk about the courtroom of the conscience. And then thirdly, we're going to end up by talking about the cleansing of the conscience. Okay? So we're going to hit on these three areas and Lord willing, we'll get all of this done. So first of all, let's talk about the clarification of the conscience. And the reason I say the clarification is because there's a lot of misunderstanding out there as to what the conscience is and how it really functions. I've heard different definitions about the conscience, different concepts regarding that. So let's talk about what it is. First of all, let me talk about what it is not. Okay, first of all, what it's not. First of all, it's not the voice of God. It is not the voice of God. I've heard people say, well, your conscience is the voice of God. Well, it's not that For example, did you know that your conscience can sometimes accuse you, but it can accuse you wrongly? The voice of God never is wrong Okay? Your conscience can accuse you wrongly. Write down 1 John 3, 19 through 24. You might want to look up some of these verses later on. But notice let me read it to you. By this we know that we are of the truth, and reassure our heart before Him. Verse twenty. For whenever our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart And he knows everything. But of it, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. In other words, there are times when inwardly your conscience can accuse you wrongly And when that happens, there are times that you have to appeal to a higher court. And what is the higher court? The higher court is God. In fact, He is the highest And so therefore the conscience is not God's voice, but rather it is another voice. It is an inner voice, but not the voice of God. And secondly, along with that, let me tell you what else it is not, it is not the Holy Spirit. Okay, the Holy Spirit can certainly use the conscience and can convict us through our conscience, but the two are not the same. Alright? Everyone has a conscience, but not everyone has the Holy Spirit. Okay? A conscience can make you feel bad, but it is the Holy Spirit that convicts you. Alright? A conscience uh has a different role there. And then of course the Holy Spirit uses the conscience The Holy Spirit can uh through the conscience make you feel conviction and feel bad about something and and make you want to uh do do the right thing. But a person, the truth of the matter is there are people who don't have the Holy Spirit, however, that can feel bad about something. Okay? And that's not necessarily conviction. That's just the stain of conscience at work and the heart of a person. I read where uh and your PA, uh armed robber uh went up to a man on the street and robbed him. He took his wallet, he took a a MP3 player, he took his cell phone He took a pack of cigarettes from the guy and then after he had taken all that, he looked at the man and he said, Uh, where do you live? And the man said, Well, I'm a homeless man, and I don't I don't live anywhere And the man said, Well I can respect that and he felt bad so he gave him it all back. He gave it all back to him. Because why? He had the sting of conscience. And there's a sense in which even a robber has a conscience. And so everyone has that in them. Now thirdly, let me tell you what else it is not. It is not the moral law of God. Some people think the conscience is God's law in us. The conscience is not the law, but rather it is the enforcer of the law. Okay, there's a distinction there. Just as we can make a distinction between the law and the policeman. The policeman is not the law. The policeman is simply an enforcer of the law And so it is with the conscience. The conscience is not the law of God, but the conscience is the inner policeman that enforces that law Okay? So we have to make that distinction. And then let me just say this in fairness to some who may have studied Freudian psychology. It is not your super ego, according to Sigmund Freud. That's what the conscience is, you know. He calls the superego that tyrant in us. that holds us back, the id inside of us, according to Freud, is that personality that wants to do all these things, it wants to be free, and it wants to be liberated. But it's the superego that suppresses this. And so therefore, according to him, that is uh it's a tyrant. It is not something that is healthy or good. Guilt is to be avoided at all costs. So he calls that a tyrant. And so it's not that. So what is it? When did man get the conscience? And when did God give him that conscience And so let's talk about now the manifestation of the constant. We talked about the misunderstandings. Here's the manifestation. And we just read it just a minute ago in Genesis chapter 3 from verse 6 down to verse 11. It all started in the Garden of Eden. And we see in this passage here that we just read the birth of the conscience of man. With the fall of man, with the eating of the forbidden fruit, came the conscience. But before that, the conscience was unnecessary. Why? Because man was totally innocent. Man was was totally sinless. And so therefore there was no need. But after the sin came the guilt of the conscience. With the fall came this sense of right and wrong. It came this sense of shame. So we could say that when sin came into the world, the conscience also came. Because what happens here is that Adam and Eve for the very first time feel a sense of shame and guilt. They felt that they were naked and they sensed the evil in them. You remember the deception that Satan gave. He said, listen, you know the reason God doesn't want you to have this fruit is because he knows that when you eat this, you're going to know good and evil. You're going to have a sense of good and evil But what he didn't tell them is that this sense of good and evil will not be from a healthy perspective, but from a very negative and destructive perspective, they would know good and evil. Okay? They they knew good and evil alright, but they wanted to hide from evil. And they felt the shame of sin. We could use the analogy, a healthy oncologist knows cancer. He has an expertise about cancer, but he knows cancer from a different perspective than someone who actually has the cancer. A person who has the cancer knows that disease, but they know it more from a destructive standpoint, from a negative standpoint, whereas an oncologist, a healthy oncologist, knows it from a good standpoint. And so it is with man. Satan says you'll know good and evil, but what he didn't tell man is that you'll know it from a very destructive standpoint. You'll know evil. And so there was the giving of the conscience at that time. But now I want you to think of the conscience as a gift from God. Alright? The conscience wasn't something that God gave to man to abuse him or to punish him, but rather the conscience was given from God to man to protect man, to help him. You say, why? Because with the fall came sin, and when sin came, man became positionally as bad off as he could be. Now practically he's not as bad off, but positionally he became bad. In other words, he was at that moment mankind became totally depraved in the sight of God That is his standing. In our world today, those who don't know the Lord, and even those of us who do, we're saved, but we have the Holy Spirit now. But however, we because of the sin nature are depraved. Totally depraved. Now that is man's position. But now man has not fully lived out the measure of that depravity. We could say that man is as bad off as he can be, but he's not as bad as he can be He hasn't fully lived out the measure of depravity that is in him. And why? Because God has put within man a restraining force. And what is that force? That is the conscience. It was a gift. It was an invisible fence. That God installed in man to keep man from going beyond the boundaries of what is morally right in the sight of God. It keeps mankind from reaching the depths of depravity that he's capable of reaching And so really the conscience we could say is a common grace from God Given to all mankind to restrain the newfound evil that lurks in his sin nature. And this is why man is not worse. Man is evil. But he could be a whole lot worse were it not for this restraining force, this this conscience. Now, so let me talk to you then about the morality of the conscience. That is therefore this inner warning system, this inner fence, we could say, is a moral guide. It is not a tyrant. It is a gift from God. Write down Proverbs chapter 20, verse 27. The Spirit of Man is the lamp of the Lord, searching all his innermost parts. It is something given to us by God. It is what we call the lamp of the Lord. Searching the innermost parts. I like to call it the traffic light of our soul. The traffic light of our soul. That internal warning system. Romans 2. 14. For when the Gentiles who do not have a law by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they don't have a law. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse them or even excuse them. Now the point is that Paul makes in Romans 2 here is that the Gentiles may not have a written law, but they have an innate sense of right and wrong that God has put in all men, and with that the conscience that lets them know when they are doing right or when they're doing wrong. And so the conscience functions first of all like this. Think of it as a traffic light. First of all, it gives you the red light, and that is when the conscience accuses you. But a conscience tells you you have done wrong. That's the one thing that it will do. It will shock us. You remember the story in Genesis 42 when Joseph's brothers, after all was said and done, they said to one another, After they were hearsing back and forth to each other what they had done, and they said, Therefore, has this distress come upon us. What were they talking about? They were talking about the tremendous guilt and shame they were feeling because of what they had done. That was the work of the conscience. In 2 Samuel chapter 24, verse 10, the Bible says, and David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. David knew that he did wrong. He knew that he had sinned against God. And what happened? The Bible uses this expression, his heart smote him. That is a description of the conscience at work in his heart. And uh it was making him feel the guilt and the shame of what he had done. And so the conscience will flash a red light. It'll tell us You've done wrong. Or stop here. But then secondly, it excuses us. It'll flash the green light. It affirms when we do what is good and right. And again, write down these verses and I'll just read them to you quickly. Romans chapter 9, verse 1, Paul says, As I'm speaking the truth in Christ, I am not lying, my conscience. Bears me witness in the Holy Spirit. Paul says, look, my conscience is affirming me inwardly that I am speaking the truth, Paul said. 2 Corinthians 112. For our post is this the testimony of our conscience that we have behaved in the world with simplicity and godly sincerity, not by earthly wisdom, but by the grace of God. Again, Paul is a saying his conscience is affirming his behavior. Other people were making accusations against Paul's behavior, and Paul is saying other people may accuse me, but my conscience does not accuse me. My conscience is bearing me witness. My conscience is affirming me that I have done the right thing. Job 27, verse 6. I hold fast my righteousness and will not let it go. My heart does not reproach me for any of my days. Job is able to say, look. I don't know of anything that I've done wrong. My heart doesn't accuse me. We could say like this, my conscience is excusing me and bearing witness about my behavior. And then in Hebrews chapter thirteen verse eighteen, pray for us that we are sure that we have a clear for we are sure that we have a clear conscience desiring to act honorably in all things. And then 1 Timothy 1. 18. This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went on before thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare, holding faith and a good conscience. And so all of these are verses that, again, affirm this idea that the conscience not only accuses, but it excuses or affirms our good and right behavior. So with all that in mind, what are we saying? We're saying that the conscience then is this tremendous gift that God has given to all mankind. Now let me give you the second heading. So we talked about number one, the clarification of the conscience. But number two, let's talk now about the courtroom of the conscience. The courtroom of the conscience. And this helps our understanding about it even more. And so I want to use the metaphor of a courtroom. And by the way, this is not original with me. And I'll tell you that as we go along, but there are several analogies or metaphors that we could use regarding the conscience, an inner light, an inner voice. We could say it's the soul's warning system as we have. The internal GPS, we could say. The Puritan John Trapp called the conscience God's spy and the overseer of man. He also called it a domestic chaplain. Another man, Nehemiah Rogers, said this, the Lord has set it as his deputy in the breast of man. And so um we could also use the analogy of an alarm clock and a pillow. Okay? How many of you when your alarm clock went off this morning, you took the pillow and you wrapped it around your ears Okay? The alarm clock would be the conscience. When we wrap the pillow around the ears, that's the ignoring of the conscience. And what happens in the scripture when a person ignores the conscience. We'll talk about this as we go. But what happens is that you can actually harden yourself. You can have a seared conscience. But I think the best metaphor that I've ever read on this understanding the conscience and how it works inside of us is the metaphor of a courtroom. And again, this is not original with me. This was by the Puritan Richard Siddherson. By the way, the Puritans have a lot to say about the conscience, uh if you ever want to read any of the books by R Richard Sibbs or by men like William Ames or Richard Baxter. And by the way, reading the Puritans is a bit of a challenge. Uh they the the way they used to write back then where sentences were paragraphs long. And so uh it takes a uh uh a good deal of just focusing and rereading sometimes what they say, but there's a lot of mean in what they have to say. But Richard Sibbs uh uses this analogy of a courtroom And the heart. That's how the conscience functions. As a courtroom in the heart. And so this is what he writes: quote, to clear this further concerning the nature of the conscience Know that God has set up in man a court, and there is in man all that are in a court. So the conscience kind of is what he's saying. The conscience is that courtroom inside of us. And it holds court and it rules. And it hits the gavel on the desk of our heart. And it either says guilty or it says not guilty. Okay? Now, the question is, what member of the court is it? Because in a courtroom, you have a lot of different members, right? You have the judge, you have the registrar, you have the accuser. The registrar records what has been done. The accuser lodges a complaint. Then there's the witness in the courtroom who witnesses against a person or for a person. Then there is the judge. Who will render the verdict? And then there is found the executioner who will give the punishment. And so the question is: what member of the courtroom is the conscience? And Richard Sibbs says, in his analogy, the conscience is every member of the courtroom, not just one of those, but the conscience is every one of those things in the courtroom. For example, Richard Sibbs says the conscience is the registrar registrar who records what is done. The conscience when you do something will record it. And this is what he writes. The conscience keeps diaries. It sets down everything. It is not forgotten, though we think it is. There is a registrar that writes it down. Conscience is the registrar. You can hide things from others, but you can't hide it from your conscience. The conscience records everything. This is why Richard Sibbs goes on to write, this should discourage us from having secret And again, the truth is you can escape your family and friends and neighbors and even your counselors, but you cannot escape your conscience. Do you remember the story when David was running from Saul and he was hiding in a cave, and Saul went in to get relief from the heat, to rest there in the cave, and David was hiding right there in that cave. And you know the story in 1 Samuel 24, where the Bible says that David saw him there. And uh he reached over and he cut off a part of his robe. Now why did he do that? Because did you notice that at the edge of a man's robe were tassels? And those tassels were a symbol of authority. And there's a sense, now David was the anointed next king And so there's a sense in which David was taking a part of that robe, a symbol of that authority, as if to say, this position belongs to me. I am the rightful next king. And so as a symbolic gesture, he secretly cuts off a part of Saul's robe. And then afterwards, what happened? What does the Bible say happened to David? The Bible says his heart smote him. He had a surge of guilt for what he had done. You know why? Because Saul was God's anointed. And he knew that that was not his responsibility. And what he did to Saul was extremely disrespectful. Even though Saul was hunting him, he had no right to behave in that manner. Now here's the point. No one else saw him do it No one else knew that he had done it. Saul didn't even know he had done it. David's men perhaps didn't even see him do it. But you know who saw him do it? His conscience. David saw it and knew he had done it. His conscience did not hide from that, and his conscience immediately began to accuse him. And say, this is not right. It registered the deed that he had done. And so the conscience is the registrar, but then also the conscience is the witness A Sibs also says the conscience bears witness. You say, well now wait a minute, what's the difference between a registrar and a And a witness, a registrar sees it and writes it down. A witness, however, will testify in the court. A registrar doesn't testify. A witness will testify. And so Sibs writes this, the testimony of conscience. Conscience doth witness this I have done, excuse me, or this I have not done. The conscience will, in the courtroom of your heart, will either witness against you or will bear witness for you. And so it's the witness in the heart. And then also the conscience is the accuser. The accuser. When the complaint is lodged, The conscience will begin to accuse. And again, we see this in Joseph's brothers. The conscience was constantly accusing them. Write down Proverbs 28. 1. The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are as bold as lions. What is it why is a person why does it say the wicked are fleeing when no man pursues? That is describing the work of the conscience in the heart. You ever see someone who's paranoid is always wondering who's after me Why you know why are you saying that? Why did you ask me that question? Someone said you good morning, what do you mean by that Or they say something and you kind of fly off the handle. Why? Because there's something wrong inside. The conscience is accusing you of things. And you get a bit paranoid. When someone says something, you say, what do they mean by that? And you always feel like you're being investigated. But also the conscience is not only the accuser, but also the judge. The conscience is the judge Sibs again says this, there it doth judge this is well done or this is ill done. And so the conscience will render the verdict. Guilty or not guilty. But then the other role is the executioner. What does the executioner do? It punishes. And that's what the conscience will also do. The conscience will punish. Again, Sibs, upon accusation and judgment There is punishment. The first punishment is within a man all the way before he come to hell. The punishment of conscience is a prejudice, or actually what he means by that is a prejudgment. Of future judgment. In other words, what he's saying is the punishment of the inward conscience is a pre-judgment of the of what you're going to experience in hell. And so there's a sense in which he's saying that the conscience can torment a person's soul so much so that it is a foretaste of what a person may experience in eternal judgment. That's how effective the conscience can be. Again, he writes, there is a flash of hell presently after an ill act. It will punish us again and again. And there's no rest from the punishment that the conscience will inflict upon a person because of an evil deed. I read a story that some years ago in the state of Washington, there was a horrible murder committed. A hitchhiker murdered a young man who had given him a ride. The body was not found. There was no trace of the murder. There was no leads for the police, at least for the time being. And it seemed as if it had gone away. Two years later A young man was coming home from work to meet his young wife, and out from the bushes there came a police officer. They cuffed this man. They had tracked him down. They found out that this was the murderer. And when they placed the cuff on him, this is what he said. He immediately dropped his lunchbox and he said, I'm glad it's all over. He said, I've lived in hell for years. What is that? That's the work of the conscience. Someone said if a sinner could go to heaven with a burden conscience, even heaven would be hell to him. And so the conscience is that executioner. Sibs against that God has set and planted in man this court of conscience, and it is God's hall, as it were, where he keeps first judgment. And conscience does all the parts. It registers, it witnesses, it accuses, it judges, it executes, it does all, he says. But now let me just add, this is where Richard Sib stops, and this is where Jerry Harmon kind of picks up, okay? I would add one thing to this And that is that it is not, the conscience, although it is a judge, it is not a perfect judge. It is not a perfect judge. The conscience is not infallible. Okay? So let me again, let's use this analogy, let me ask you a question. Think with me about this. Can a human judge make a bad ruling? Okay. Some of you are laughing when I ask that question. Why are you laughing? No, I'm kidding. Uh c can a so why then and how can a judge Let's just assume this judge wants to make the right decision, and yet he makes a wrong decision in the court. How can that happen? It happens when the judge doesn't have the right information. Is that true? A judge can get wrong information And based on that wrong information, then, he can make a wrong ruling. And so we see this happening in human courts, but this can also happen in the courtroom of the soul. The conscience Can make a ruling and that ruling be wrong. And why is that ruling wrong? Because the conscience hasn't been given the right information You have to give it the right information. Let me quote to you Colin Cruz. He wrote this. The conscience is not to be equated with the voice of God. or even the moral law of God, rather it is a human faculty which adjudicates upon human action. And then listen to this. He says, by the light of the highest standard a person perceives. And that's a key phrase there. The conscience acts according to the light of the highest standard a person has been given. And so it judges according to that standard. Your conscience will hold you according to the standards that it has been given by you or by others. Okay. He goes on to say, seeing that all of human nature has been affected by sin, both a person's perspective perception of the standard of action required And the function of the conscience itself are also affected by sin. For this reason, conscience can never be accorded the position of ultimate judge. of one's behavior. It is possible that the conscience may excuse one for that which God will not excuse, and conversely, it is equally possible that conscience may condemn a person for that which God allows. End quote. See, you understand what he's saying there. The conscience can accuse you of something where God says there's nothing wrong with this. But the conscience, who is not an infallible judge, the conscience will accuse you. Why? Because it's based on the information that you have. And then also the conscience might say, this is all right, and God says, no, it's not alright. It's not alright. That's not according to my standard. But again, the conscience acts according to whatever standards it has been given. And so again, to use another analogy, I like to think of word picture sometimes. The conscience is not like an electric light. Electric light furnishes a room with its own light. A conscience is more like a skylight, a window in the ceiling that lets the light in. Okay, a conscience doesn't furnish its own standard of right. The conscience just is a skylight that lets in the light that gives it the standards. of what is right and wrong. That's why, and this is a very important point here, we have to educate our conscience correctly. We have to educate our conscience rightly. And beloved, we don't educate our conscience according to the standards of the community or the standards of the world. We don't educate our conscience according to the culture and according to what the culture feels is right or wrong. Understand that? Uh we think I can't help but I know some of you are probably thinking about this, we can't help but think about the recent Supreme Court ruling. And that really you can trace that all the and by the way, has the Supreme Court made some bad rulings through the years? Absolutely. We could trace some of those bad rulings. But a lot of this we can trace all the way back to the 19th century Oliver Wendell Holmes book on common law. where he was the I think the first one to propose that we can no longer make judgments or we can no longer interpret the Constitution according to the grammatical historical principle of interpretation. That is, with the idea of getting back to what the original framers of the Constitution meant by the law. We could simplify that by saying a literal interpretation of that law. And what they meant when they originally penned that law. He says we can't use that principle of judgment, of interpretation anymore in the courts. He basically said that now we have to make judgments according to the cultural communities idea. And with that, the courts, in my opinion, began a slippery slope downward, where if you're no longer going to make judgments based on literal interpretation of the Constitution, but according to the cultural community This is where we end up. This is where we end up. Okay? And by the way The conscience of most people in the society today, they don't care about that. Their conscience is educated by the community, by culture. They see nothing wrong with those things. But beloved, there's only one authority when it comes to these things. It's the authority of God and the authority of God's word. And so the principle then is that we have to educate our conscience according to the right standards. And that standard is the Word of God. We have to educate us in the Scripture. Paul wrote to Timothy, he said, the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience. and a sincere faith. Now, if we fail to educate our conscience properly, then Then what'll happen is it won't it won't uh function the way God designed it. It won't function the way God wanted it In Philippians 3. 19, Paul spoke of people whose consciences were so misinformed, their conscience was so convoluted, that their glory is in their shame. Paul said their conscience is so messed up that they're glorying in things that they should feel shame about. And beloved, we are seeing that today in our culture. We're glorying today in things where we should feel shame. And that's the situation that we're in. Their misinformed values cause their conscience to make reverse judgments And so we have to go to the Word of God. And by the way, this is what Paul calls a weak conscience in Scripture. When he says a weak conscience here, what he means by that is a conscience that is not properly informed. It's not properly instructed, okay? This might be a person whose conscience is needlessly condemning them over something that is not wrong And the reason the conscience is doing that is because the conscience has not been properly instructed. And so Paul calls that a weak conscience. And so um and by the way, uh let me give you an illustration of this. And we see this in 1 Corinthians, and there's another principle I want to show you here regarding the conscience. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 8 real quick. Again, this is a familiar passage of scripture, but let's look at this in light of the topical study that we're doing here on the conscience. 1 Corinthians chapter 8. Now you remember this story here. Uh there are a group of Christians in Corinth that are young in the faith, and their conscience convicts them over this idea of eating meat sacrificed unto idols. Okay. But let me again let me give you a little background into this. Actually you had two groups of Christians in the church. We could call one the uh the the libertines. These were people who were Christians who basically said, we have the liberty to do anything we want. We have great liberty. And in fact, they were taking that liberty beyond what God intended. And they were doing things that God never wanted them to do And part of the problem with the Church of Corinth is that they were, again, they were they were getting inf information from the world and they loved Greek wisdom and they were quoting Greek wisdom to justify some of their behavior. Look in chapter 6, verse 12. They would utter these slogans, and Paul would use the yes but argument. Look at 1 Corinthians 6. 12. All things are lawful unto me. That's what their slogan was. Liberty and Christianity. Yeah, all things are lawful. And Paul would use the yes but argument. Yes, but all things are not expedient. And they would say in verse 13, meat for the belly and the belly for meats. That was another slogan from Greek wisdom. And Paul would come back with, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now, these same Christians were saying that it's okay to eat meat sacrificed to idols. Look in chapter 8, verse 1, why? Now, as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we have all have knowledge. That was another slogan. We all have knowledge. We have knowledge. We know there's nothing wrong with this Now what was the problem? There were some Christians in the church, and they were boasting in the knowledge that they had. They would call themselves, we were the those who had knowledge. We have knowledge. We're in the know. And we know that there's nothing wrong with eating meat sacrificed to idols. We know that there is no such thing as an idol. Look down in verse 4. As concerning, therefore, the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice on idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one? For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is but one God. The Father of whom are all things, and we in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by Him Now those who had this knowledge, they would say, yeah, we know that there's nothing wrong with this sacrificing meat to idols or eating meat sacrificed to idols. We know that there's only one God, and they think these idols represent gods that are not real, they don't exist. And so therefore, to eat meat sacrificed to these idols, there's nothing wrong with it, because all of that is just myth. There's nothing to it. And of course we know that. That's exactly right. And Paul, by the way, he affirms that. He says in verse 6, yeah, we know there's only one God. And besides him, there is no else, no one else. Yeah, we understand all that, and there's one Lord Jesus Christ. There's a sense here in which Paul is referencing Deuteronomy 6, 4, the Shema. That there's only one God and you should love the Lord your God with all your heart. And that this is what these these Christians in the Church of Corinth was use were using to justify the fact that we can Eat meat, sacrifice idols. Now did they have the liberty to eat that meat? Of course they did. And were they right? Of course they were right Why? They were informed. They had their conscience informed. They knew that there was nothing wrong with it. However, there's a problem here. What's the problem? There was a group of Christians, younger believers in the church at Corinth. Who did not have this knowledge. And their conscience was accusing them. They didn't, they they would not eat meat sacrificed to idols because for them they perhaps were saved out of that idolatry and to go back and do something like that would remind them of the old days of idolatry and so their conscience was accusing them of something that they shouldn't do. Now what does Paul say? By the way, this is a very important point here. Paul is making a point to these Christians in the church Especially these old older and more mature Christians, is that you never teach younger believers to ignore their conscience. You never do that Because for a younger believer to ignore their conscience, it puts them on a destructive path Because if you get in the habit of ignoring your conscience, what will happen is that you will obliterate a force that God has put inside you for your own good and sanctification. You never ignore your conscience. In fact, if your conscience tells you that this is wrong, then to you it's wrong. And to you you don't do it. Now, you say, what about a younger believer that uh is is is their conscience is so sensitive about things that are not wrong. Well what you need to do is you need to nurture that young believer and you give them time to grow spiritually. You give them time to mature in the things of the Word And by and by their conscience will become more informed and their conscience won't accuse them about things that are not wrong. But you never teach a younger believer to ignore that conscience, ever. That's destructive. So how do we to act as believers? Well look what Paul says in verse 7. Howbeit there is not in everyone that knowledge For some with knowledge with conscience of the idol, unto this hour, eat it is a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. You don't ever want a younger believer to get to ignore the conscience. Here's a younger believer and they think that there is something to this eating meat sacrifice to idols, and to them, if they do it, it'll defile their conscience And you don't want them to do that. The issue is not eating meat, look at verse 8, but meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we the better, neither if we eat not are we the worse. Look at verse 9, but take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. How are we who have knowledge, maybe we're more mature in Christ Or how are we to act around those who may have a weaker conscience? We are never to teach them to ignore that conscience and we're never to tell them to do it. Oh don't worry about that, go ahead and do it. There's nothing wrong with that. We never do that. In fact, what do we do? When I'm around the weak, I become weak. What does that mean? If I'm around a person that feels like this is wrong, I'll never do it. That's what Paul later will say in 1 Corinthians 9, to the weak I became his weak. If this person feels like doing this is wrong, even though there's nothing wrong with it, I will not do it Because I don't want to offend them or do anything to teach them to ignore their conscience. You know what this is called? This is called love. Now someone will say, well, you mean I gotta live my life according to other people? Yeah That's called loving your brother. And that's called limiting your liberty. Why do we limit our liberty? Because we don't want another person to ever defile their conscience. Because that conscience is so very important. It is so very necessary for the sanctification of that brother or sister. And so we we walk in love. We walk in love. We love others. Look at look at again, look down at verse 10. For if any man see thee which hath knowledge, You who have knowledge. I think he uses that in a sarcastic way. Paul says, yeah, if anyone see you who have knowledge, sit at me in the idol's temple. Shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And through thy knowledge shall the weaker brother perish for whom Christ died You who have knowledge, yeah, you go ahead and go and eat and eat in the temple and a weaker believer see you do that, and they'll think it's okay, and they'll do it even though their conscience tells them not to. And what happens is they defile their conscience and you teach them to ignore their conscience. And what happened? You have basically crushed your brother, or you cause him to perish. That one for whom Christ died. Look what Paul says, a monumental statement in verse 12 and 13. But when ye s but when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience Ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. You know what he's saying here? This is not hyperbole here You know what he's saying? He's saying, if eating meat causes my brother to be offended, I'll become a vegetarian. I'll be a vegetarian. Why? Because that brother for whom Christ died is more important to me than anything else. And so I'll I'll walk in love for him. Now we've run out of time. Uh I have so much more here. But Let me say one word and we're done, the cleansing of the conscience. Let me just say this and we'll be done. God wants us to have a clean conscience. He wants us to operate according to a clean conscience. Did you know that when you got saved, the blood of Christ wiped your conscience clean All the guilt and things that was piled up all became clean by the blood of Christ. And you know how you maintain that clean conscience? Keep confessing your sin. Keep short accounts with God. Make sure that if you've done something wrong, you make restitution. Keep that conscience clean and pure and educate the conscience according to the word of God. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, such an important thing for us to learn. Thank you for your word that instructs us. And Lord, may we be able to stay like the Apostle Paul. That I have a conscience that is void of offense towards men and most importantly, towards God. May we be sanctified vessels in your sight, Lord, to be used for your kingdom, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Lord bless you.