It's good to see you here today. Would you take God's word, please, and open to 2nd Corinthians chapter 6. 2 Corinthians chapter 6. And we're going to look at verse 14 on down. Would you stand for the reading of God's word today? 2 Corinthians chapter 6. Verse fourteen, be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness, and what communion has light with darkness, and what concord has Christ with belial What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them. and walk in them, and I will be their people, and they shall they shall be I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. and will be a father unto you. And ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. And chapter seven, verse one. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness and the fear of the Lord. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Pray with me. Father, thank you for your precious word and for what it teaches us. And such an important passage today, Lord, may you please be with us and help us and give us understanding. And Lord, help me as your servant to be clear in communicating the truth of your word for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. When I was a newly saved teenager, still in high school, on a new spiritual journey, I made some mistakes. One mistake I made was as a new believer, I continued to associate with the old crowd. As a new believer, my old friends, the old crowd, began to pull me down spiritually. And I remember that it culminated on one day when I was with the old crowd and they said, you know, let's play hooky from school and let's go over so and so's house. His parents aren't home and he has a pool table. We could just play pool there all day and And uh then go home and I and my conscience was already telling me, you know, you shouldn't do this and you shouldn't be with this crowd. But I went with them And uh then began to drink. They had beer in there and they all began to drink and they again I was convicted by the Holy Spirit. And uh suddenly they noticed that I was the only one there that was not drinking. And one of them said, you know, Harmon, you've been different since you've been going to that church. And uh they kind of gathered around me and put a a bottle of beer in front of me and said, Look, just drink with us. Be one of us And they began to to shame me and chide me. And just to get them off my back, I reached out and I took a drink. And when I did that They they cheered. It was like some victory almost for them. But I was completely broken in my heart. I knew that I had sinned against the Lord. I knew that I had done wrong. I had violated my conscience and I had sinned against God. And I knew from that point on, and by the way, I left and I went home and I remember getting on my knees and confessing that sin and saying, God, please forgive me for failing you in this way. And by your grace, I won't let that happen again in my life. But I knew that at that point in my Christian life, I had to make a conscious decision to live separated from the world. I couldn't continue to be with the old crowd. I could love them. I could pray for them. I could share the gospel with them, but I couldn't do the things that they did. Because God was calling me to do something different as a Christian. And I soon learned that God calls all of his children to be separated from the world. In fact, look in Second Corinthians chapter 6, look at verse number 17, and notice where it says, Wherefore come out from among them And be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will receive you. In this passage Paul is warning the Corinthians of the dangers of associating with unbelievers. He's asking the Corinthians to re-examine their relationship with the world. Now let me give you a little background. This may help you to understand why Paul was doing this, uh the city of Corinth was an exceedingly corrupt and immoral city. In fact, uh they had uh uh one writer says this They had a term for people that would live loosely, live wickedly, and commit fornication. They were called they were they were said to Corinthianize or to be a Corinthian. Or a woman who lived a loose moral life. She was called a Corinthian girl. This was the most licentious city in all of Greece. Many of the people that lived in Corinth suffered from STDs. There was a temple there in Corinth, a temple of Apollo, and there was a cult that was a part of that temple, and they had temple prostitutes in order to make money. The moon the most notorious of these temples was called the Temple of Apaphrodite that stood on the top of a high mountain just south of the city of Corinth, called the Acro Corinthus. Hundreds of female slaves. work there as prostitutes and men would visit that place. It was more like a brothel. But all that was under the guise of religion and worship and pagan rituals. And here's the shocker. There were some cringe uh Christians in Corinth that still visited those temples. They still went there. Under the banner of Christian liberty. Well, now that we're a Christian, we have the liberty to live as we want to. And in fact, in 1 Corinthians, Paul had to deal with this issue because there are a lot of people walking around quoting a slogan, all things are lawful. As Christians, you know, we we we have the liberty to do whatever we want and live however we want. And Paul would say this in 1 Corinthians 6. 12: all things are lawful, but not all things are expedient. And they would quote quote another slogan, meats for the belly and the belly for meats, that is, you know, all of this is natural, eating is natural, you know, sex is natural. Meats for the belly and the belly for meats, and Paul would follow up and say, Yeah, but God will destroy both it and them. And Paul said, Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And so Paul had to deal with this issue in 1 Corinthians, and yet he still has to deal with this issue here in 2 Corinthians, because there were still some Corinthians. that were thinking this way, and they were not living separated from the world. So notice 2 Corinthians chapter 7, look at verse number 1. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved Let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. Now Paul had just wrote in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, if any man be in Christ, he's a what? All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. He said to the Corinthians, you have to leave that old life behind. You have to leave that old world behind. And then in chapter 6, verse 1, Paul talked about receiving the grace of God. Don't receive the grace of God in vain. Remember, he talked to them about that. You don't want to use the grace of God as a license to sin or to live any way you want to. And when you don't practice separation from the world, You receive God's grace in vain. And so Paul kind of continues on this same vein here. And what we're going to look at are three basic arguments for believers to practice separation from the world. Look in chapter 6, look at verse number 14. Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. Look in chapter six, look at verse seventeen. Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord and touch not the unclean thing. Now this separation is not a suggestion, it is a command. When God said, Be ye separate, that's in the imperative mood there. That is, this is the mood of command God is commanding his people to come out from among the world and to be distinct from unbelievers. That's always been God's will. All the way back in Leviticus chapter 20, verse 24, God said this, I am the Lord your God, which have separated you from other people. And then in Leviticus 20, verse 26, God said, This, and ye shall be holy unto me, for I the Lord am holy, and have severed you from other people, that ye should be mine. God said, Look, I redeem you and I separated you from other people. You're holy unto me. And all throughout Scripture, this rule is repeatedly emphasized. In Numbers chapter 33, God again warned Israel, don't mingle with the pagan nations, and yet they disobeyed the Lord. If you read through the Old Testament, you'll find Old Testament prophets pleading with Israel to come out from among the pagan nations and not to worship those pagan gods. You might remember Solomon had an affair with many pagan women, and the Bible says they turned his heart away from the Lord. And then in the New Testament, the apostles, in their letters to the churches, they also emphasize to the believer doctrinal and personal purity. The believer is in the world, but the believer is not to be of the world or to be like the world. Now let me just clarify here. The call to separation from the world does not mean we're to live in isolation. That's not what God wants. It doesn't mean we're to live in monasteries like monks. Totally isolated from the world around us. No, God has called us to go into the world and to take the gospel into the world without being tainted by the world. We must not isolate ourselves from people that need our ministry the most. We're to be like Daniel and the three Hebrew children We work in Babylon. We go to school in Babylon. We have friends in Babylon, but we don't live like Babylonians. We are to witness, we are to be the witness of the true God in a pagan land. We refuse to engage in Babylonian practices while at the same time we love the people and we Demonstrate an excellent spirit. We love the Babylonians just like Daniel loved King Nebuchadnezzar, but we will not eat the king's meat. Because it was sacrificed to pagan gods. We will not compromise God's word. Think about Jesus. Jesus, the Bible says Jesus was a friend of sinners. And yet at the same time he was sinless. He was holy. He was undefiled. He was separated from sinners. Yet at the same time he loved them and he ministered to them. James 1. 27 tells us that while we minister to those that are in need, we are to keep ourselves unspotted from the world. And then in Jude it says this, some having compassion making a difference, and others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. We share the gospel. Our heart yearns for people to come to know Jesus. We befriend them in order to share the Word of God with them, but yet at the same time, we hate the garments spotted by the flesh. We will not live like them in order to win them, because that's not what Scripture says. Like a skilled physician, we must practice contact without contamination. Now look at the concept here in verse 14 where it says, And be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. What does Paul mean there by that? Well that concept comes from Deuteronomy 22. 10. It says this in Deuteronomy 22, 10, ye shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together. Only a city boy wouldn't need to be told that, by the way. Someone who doesn't really know animals. The ox, again, what is Paul's point here? Well, in the Jewish mind, the ox was a clean animal, and the donkey was an unclean animal, and it was wrong to yoke together a clean animal with an unclean animal. But furthermore, these two animals have opposite natures. They would not work well together. The ox would want to go in one direction, and the donkey would want to go in another direction. You're not going to get a lot of work done with animals that want to go in opposite directions. It would be foolish and even cruel to put them in the same yoke together. And so the argument that Paul uses here is that nature determines association. Pigs love the mud. They love wallowing in the mud. That's their nature. Sheep love the green pastures. They don't love the mud. And so sheep and pigs don't hang together because they have different natures. And that's Paul's whole point here. It's wrong for believers to be yoked together with unbelievers because they have different natures. And when you get saved, What is put inside of me and you when we put our faith in Christ is the divine nature. And that divine nature gives us new desires. And we're no longer going in the same direction. We're now going in a new direction We're going in the way of God, not the way of the world. And the lost world has an opposite nature. The unsaved world, they hate Christ, whereas the believer loves Christ. The unsaved world has no time for the things of God. And a yoke here has the idea of partnership. Now, again, it's fine to be a friend of an unbeliever. And we should love everyone and befriend everyone, but you don't want to enter into a yoke with an unbeliever You don't want to enter into a partnership or relationship. This could be in the marital realm. This could be in the business or financial realm. Or most importantly, and especially, I think, is the emphasis of Paul here, is the spiritual realm. That's why as a minister, I will not get into an association or a yoke with those who claim to be religious, but don't hold to the Word of God. Or the gospel of Jesus Christ. They're going in a different direction. And so I have to practice separation in that area. That's also in in in marital relationship. This is why the Bible says that I'm speaking to here to you young singles. Don't marry an unbeliever. And don't date an unbeliever. Why would you date someone that you can't marry? And again, this principle goes all the way back to the New Testament. When God made a covenant with Israel, God expressly forbid the Israelites to marry pagans because it would lead them away from God Deuteronomy 7, verse 3 says this Neither shalt thou make marriages with them, thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. For they will turn away thy son from following me, that they may serve other gods. So will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you and destroy thee suddenly. When a believer marries an unbeliever so many times, the unbeliever will pull them down and turn their heart away from the Lord. Now you might say, well, I'm wise enough and strong enough to be able to hold my ground spiritually. You think so? Remember King Solomon? He was pretty wise He loved God, he feared God. The Bible says he was the wisest man in all the Bible. Yet it says this in 1 Kings 11:4, for it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods And his heart was not perfect with the Lord, his God, as was the heart of David, his father. And so it's very easy easy for even the strongest believer to be pulled down and away from the Lord. So this is the scriptural rule. for separation. Paul makes it very clear, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. But number two, I want you to see what I call the simple reasoning for separation because in verses 15 on down, Paul is going to basically ask five rhetorical questions for which there is an obvious answer. And the answer to each of these questions is nothing or none. For example, look at the first question. Look again in verse number 14. It says For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What's the answer to that? Nothing There's no fellowship. The word fellowship here actually means partnership. This was a word that was used in Luke 5. 7 to talk about Peter's partners in his fishing business. What partnership can righteousness and unrighteousness have? And the answer is none. There's no partnership. What do righteousness and unrighteousness have in common? Again, nothing. They are polar opposites. Practical righteousness is the characteristic of true believers. Unrighteousness is the nature and character of unredeemed sinners The righteous and the unrighteous, they can't partner together. Notice the next question in verse 14. What communion has light with darkness? Again, the answer is obvious. None Nothing is more self-evident than the fact that light and darkness are mutually exclusive. Light and darkness cannot be in the same place at the same time. And so light and darkness can't commune together. They can't have fellowship together. Light and darkness is a metaphor used often in scripture. Light means truth. Or righteousness. Darkness means error or unrighteousness. God's people are children of light. Those who don't know the Lord are called children of darkness. How can children of light and children of darkness work together? That they can't. To expect the children of light to work together with the children of darkness is as foolish as to expect both light and dark to be at the same place at the same time. That can't happen. But notice the next question, verse 15. What concord has Christ with Belial We know who Christ is, our Savior, the ruler of the kingdom of God, of light, of truth. Who is Belial? That's an ancient name for Satan. He's the ruler of the kingdom of darkness. Do Christ and Satan have fellowship? The word actually here, Concord, is an interesting Greek word. Sum phoneeo And it actually means agreement or in cooperation. It's actually where we get our English word symphony, a symphony. And again, it's the idea of togetherness. Do you think that Christ and Satan are in symphony together? Is Christ and Belial in agreement? No. It's ludicrous to think there's an agreement between Christ and Satan. Then why should there be any partnership between the children of Satan and the children of God? And what part has a believer with an unbeliever? Again, look at verse 15. What part hath he that believeth with an infidel? Again, the answer is obvious: nothing. There's no part, none. Faith has nothing in common with unbelief. The faithful and the faithless are committed to mutually exclusive ideas and beliefs. The Bible says, can two walk together except they be agreed? And then another question, finally, what agreement has the temple of God with idols? You see that in verse number 16. What agreement with the temple of God with idols? Now again, some of the Corinthian believers were still visiting those pagan temples. And Paul had to admonish them to say, stop doing that. In fact, just go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 8 with me real quick. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And look in verse number four of 1 Corinthians 8. Paul said, As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that idol is nothing in the world. And that there is none other God but one. Paul's answering a question. There were some believers that were buying meat that was sacrificed to an idol, but they were buying it at the meat market, the agora They would go to the marketplace and this meat would be there and it was very affordable. And so they would buy that meat and another Christian would say, wait a minute, that was meat sacrificed to an idol. And some believers thought they had the liberty to do this and others didn't. And so Paul says, look, we know that an idol is nothing Every idol represents a false God that is a real, Paul said. We understand that. We know that. And what does he say in verse number five? For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is but one God the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus, by whom are all things, and we by him. Paul said, look, we know That there's only one real God, one true God, all those idols represent false gods that are nothing. They don't exist. We understand that. And so Paul says, you know, a Christian has liberty to buy meat at the marketplace sacrificed to an idol, unless you offend another believer. If me buying that meat in the marketplace is going to offend another believer, Paul said, I'm not going to do that. I'd rather be a vegan. I'd rather be a vegetarian than offend another believer. But there was a different issue that came up. There were some believers that were actually going into those pagan temples. And they were eating dinner there. Those pagan temples were like an ancient restaurant with a brothel included in. And people would go in and they would be a part of these bizarre rituals in those pagan temples. And Paul said, now that, however, is different. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And look down at verse number 19. Notice what Paul said there. What shall I say then? That the idol is anything? Or that which is offered and sacrificed to idols is anything? Look at verse 20. But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils and not to God. And I would not that you should fellowship with devils. Paul said, even though those idols represent gods that aren't real, here's what you need to know. Those idols are demonically inspired. They represent demons. And when a person sacrifices unto an idol, their false god, they're actually actually sacrificing to a demon. And when you go into those pagan temples and you participate in those rituals, you're actually fellowshipping with devils. You're fellowshipping with demons. And I wouldn't that you not do that. And Paul is saying in the final analysis is that all false religion is nothing but a doctrine of demons. That's all it is. And there can be no agreement with the temple of God and idols. Demons dwell in those temples. I told you before when I went to Nepal recently and my host took me to a uh a temple that was actually a temple complex that where people were worshiping many gods Doing all these bizarre rituals. It was nothing but demonic. That place was infested with demons. That's all false religion. And Paul is saying to these believers here, you can't uh be the temple of the living God and go and participate in the worship of pagan gods. You can't have one foot in the church and one foot in the pagan temple. You can't do that. Why? Well go back to 2 Corinthians and look down at verse number 16. He says this, for ye are the temple of the living God. That is in contrast to these dead. false gods. You are the temple of the living God. Do you understand that you individually, you have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you, and and you as an individual believer and us together as a corporate church. We are the temple of the living God. And the Holy Spirit is among us. And so therefore we can have no association with false religion or pagan things like that. That's what Paul is saying there. And God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And what Paul's doing here is he's making reference to several Old Testament passages where God promised that he would dwell among his people and he would be their God. As the temple of God, the people of his covenant. You are his precious possession. You are his dwelling place. And believers cannot join forces with false religion. is what he's saying there. So to be unequally yoked for the purpose of serving God is blasphemous. It's blasphemous. So there's the scriptural rule for separation. There is number two the simple reasoning for separation. But let me show you the final thing here today. There's what I call the spiritual reward for separation. To those believers who obey and live separated lives, God promises some wonderful blessings You say, what are they? Here's the first one. We receive intimate fellowship. Look at verse 17. Wherefore come out from among them. And be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the unclean thing, and I will what? I will receive you. The word receive here decomai is the idea of welcome. Just to welcome someone. Someone comes to your house, you give them a welcome, you know. And so this is a normal word that's used for welcome. We could also say to bring in the favor. But here there's a prefix placed in front of the word, epidecomai. Whenever you put a prefix in front of a Greek word, what it does is it intensifies the word. Epidicomai, a super welcome. Not just a normal welcome, but a super welcome. Give you an illustration. I adore my grandkids, like some of you grandparents. Only problem with me is my grandkids all live far away. Yeah, I've got some that live on the other side of the Atlantic, and my daughter Annie lives down in Tennessee, so we don't get to see them as much as we'd like to. But when our grandkids come to visit us, or I go to see them, I don't just give them a welcome. I give them a super welcome. I hug them up into my arms. I hold them like I'm never going to let them go. I rain down kisses on them because I'm so thrilled in my heart to see them. And so I give him a epidecomi is the Greek word there. That's exactly what the word here means. And God says to the believer, if you obey me in this, I will receive you. I will welcome you. And what this is talking about here is it's talking about a wonderful intimacy that you have with Almighty God. And this leads to the next thing. We will please our Heavenly Father. Look in verse 18. And I will be a father unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty. And the idea here is that those who obey God's command of separation, we will be recipients of the full blessings of God. Do you understand that God doesn't bless all of his children equally? He blesses some more than others. You say, why? One word, obedience. The more obedient you are to God, the more he blesses you. And if God says, if you're obedient to me in this matter, I will be a father unto you. There'll be a deeper love. Jesus promised this in John fourteen twenty one He that hath my commandments and keeps them, he it is that loveth me, and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him and will manifest myself unto him This is a deep, intimate love that we get from our Heavenly Father. We receive intimate fellowship. We will please our Heavenly Father. But here's the third thing. We will be motivated to perfect holiness. Drop down to chapter 7, verse 1. This is the same argument, same train of thought here. Notice what Paul says. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit. Watch this, perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. These promises should motivate us to perfect holiness. What promises? The ones that we just mentioned. This intimacy with God, this receiving of the Father. All of this should should elicit love from us and gratitude and thanksgiving for God's overwhelming goodness and grace. And it should motivate us to perfect holiness. with reverence to God. What does it mean to perfect holiness? Again, the word perfect here is teleo, which means to bring to completion, to finish, or fulfill. And again we see a prefix added here, epi We are to fulfill or complete righteousness and holiness in our own life. And so it's like this. Do you understand when you were saved, you were declared holy by God? That's your position right now? Because when you were saved, God imputed to you the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So when God looks down into heaven and sees you, you know what he sees? He sees his son Jesus Christ. He sees the righteousness of Christ. That's your position Your legal position before God is you are declared holy. You are declared righteous. But What about your practice? You know what spiritual growth is? It's bringing our practice up to our position. It's living out What God has already declared about us. It's fulfilling the legal standing that God has given us when He declared us holy. That's perfecting holiness. That's bringing it to completion. When you live out practically in your own life righteousness and holiness. That's perfecting holiness. And we do it with an attitude of reverence and fear. And we do it because it pleases our Heavenly Father. We want to obey Him in all things. But friend, you can't do that if you live unseparated from the world. If you just do what the world does. Sadly, there are some people who name the name of Christ and they still mingle with the world. They still live loose lives, immoral lives. Listen, God leads us in the world so that we can change the world. You know the sad thing is, instead of the church changing the world, the world is changing the church. God has called us for something better than that. We're not to be conform to this world. But we're to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. And so I have to ask you: have you cleansed yourself from all filthiness of the flesh and of the spirit? This is holiness inwardly and outwardly. Of the spirit is inwardly, the flesh outwardly. It all starts on the inside. It starts with how we think. That's why we have to get God's word in our heart and in our mind. and meditate on scripture and pray without ceasing because that is part of perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. And so there's the scriptural rule for separation. There is the simple reasoning for separation. There is the spiritual reward for separation. And I'll close with this. H. A. Ironside, a great preacher of the past, was sitting on a train and there were some nuns there on that train. And he enjoyed talking to them. And these nuns began to talk about saints. You know, Catholics believe that in order to be declared a saint, you have to do these list of things. Some of them are, you know, do a miracle. And that sort of thing, a long list of things, and you really are only canonized as a saint by the church after you died. And Harry Ironside couldn't resist. He said to the nuns, have you ever seen a saint? And they said, No. And he said, Would you like to see a saint? They said yes. So he stood up in front of them and he said, I'm Saint Harry. And they were a little bewildered. And then he explained to them what the Bible says, that you become a saint the moment you put your faith in Jesus Christ. And when that happens, God, you become God's. You're the child of God. And God separates you unto himself from the world. That's what saint actually means. And Harry Arnoldstadt, I think, was the first one that said, you're either a saint or you ain't. You're either a saint of God or you're not. And there's no qualifications for being declared a saint of God except for the fact that you repent of your sin and put your faith in Jesus Christ. However, after you have become a saint. There are qualifications. And we have to live up to what God has said about us. And part of that is by even though we love people and our heart yearns for people to come to know Jesus Christ. And we minister out of love to people like our Lord Jesus, who is such an example of that. We minister the love of Christ, yet we're not to be like the world. God has called us to be different. And if we follow God's command, we'll receive blessings from God. Let's bow for prayer together. I would just ask you to take this moment for your own spiritual evaluation. Look inside your own heart And ask God to judge your heart. Are you living a life where you're perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord? Are you allowing the world to drag you down, to keep you from being what God has called you to be? If so, you know what, take that to the Lord. Ask God to help you. Pray and tell God, God, please help me. To live out what you have placed in me. You've made me your child. You have made me a saint of God. Help me to live like that. God hasn't called us to be monks. He hasn't called us to live in isolation. No. We are to live in this world, but we are to represent Him correctly. As saints of God, sharing the gospel, and yet not allowing ourselves to be spotted by the world, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh, as we pull others out of the fire. Father, may we obey this command. It's so hard we live in an evil world, an insidious world that is constantly calling out. And your word tells us that the world is constantly trying to conform us to its mold. But Lord, help us to live transformed lives. That honor and glorify you for your honor and for your glory, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen