Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of Ephesians, chapter two. Ephesians, chapter two. We've been doing a study in Ephesians. And if you would please stand for the reading of God's word, Ephesians chapter 2. Look at verse 13 down to verse 22. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. For he is our peace who hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments, contained in ordinances, for to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby, and came and preached peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh. For through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. And now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners. with fellow c citizens, with the saints of the household of God, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto a holy temple in the Lord, in whom ye also are buildeth together for a habitation of God through the Spirit. Thank you so much you may be seated. Pray with me. Father, thank you for the word of God and for how you teach us and instruct us and show us all that we are and all that we have in Jesus Christ. Now, Lord, may the Holy Spirit open the eyes of our heart and may we understand the truth that you have for us here in this passage today. And help me, Lord, to preach it clearly, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Linus was watching TV and Lucy walked into the room and she said, change the channel. Linus said, what makes you think you can just waltz right in here and tell me what to do? She said, because you see this hand, it's not much when I hold it like this, but when I bring all of these fingers together like this, it becomes a mighty force to be reckoned with. Lina said, what channel do you want? Then he looked at his hand and said, How come you guys can't get together like that? Paul is writing to the Ephesians to remind them that one of God's great purposes in the church is to unite all of us together as one in Christ. And when we all come together as one, we become a mighty force to be reckoned with. The theme of unity in Christ permeates this letter to the Ephesians. And this is the theme and special focus of this section here in chapter two. Paul is really dealing here in greater detail with a theme that he presented in chapter one, verse 10, where God the Father is reconciling all things together in Christ. He's bringing all together in Christ. We live in a world that is so divided, so fractured. Racism is alive and well. Discrimination against people because of race, face, or place is very real. It is a monstrous sin. But this kind of division and the evil of racism, this should never be named among the people of God in the church. Because when we are placed in Jesus Christ, we all become one in Christ. We're united in Jesus Christ. There are some churches that are responding to the evil of racism by teaching critical race theory. Critical race theory comes from Karl Marx, who was an admirer of Charles Darwin. Both of these men were atheists that did not believe in God. Karl Marx developed this theory. It comes from the idea that in human society it can be divided up into two categories. Those who are the oppressor and those who are the oppressed. Those who have power and those who do not. Those who have power are the oppressor. Those who do not have power are the oppressed. Therefore, any institution, relationship, belief system established by those in power is best understood as a tool of oppression. And the categories of the oppressed can be divided into different top different uh categories, for example, race, gender, religion, status, income, and all those things we can go on Whether you're an oppressor or oppressed is determined by which group that you identify with. And so well-meaning ministers and churches, in an effort to stamp out the evil of racism have baptized critical race theory and have brought it into the church. And the result is that it has devastated the church. It has just divided the church even more. That's not a surprise to me because whenever the church gets away from the Word of God and turns to man-made philosophy, it always has a destructive end to it. Always. Jesus doesn't need the help of Karl Marx. The gospel is sufficient. Paul is addressing the church at Ephesus, which was made up of both Jews and Gentiles. Racism is nothing new. It was back in Paul's day. Mark Twain said prejudice is the ink with which all history is written. Prejudice and discrimination of every kind have shape the course of human events down through the centuries. It's a part of the the depraved, sinful human nature to put up barriers and shut other people out and act arrogantly towards others. This was present in Paul's day. It was present among the Jews and the Gentiles. We think that racism is bad today and it is. It was just as bad, if not worse, in Paul's day The Greeks in Paul's day thought they were racially superior to everyone else. They considered everyone else, if you weren't Greek, they considered you barbarians. Cicero said this. As the Greeks say, all men are divided into two classes. Greeks and barbarians. There was also a significant divide between Jews and Gentiles. Gentiles hated Jews. They saw them as a people that were easily enslaved, and so Gentile kings went out to conquer and invade. uh Jewish lands and slaughter Jewish people. Pontius Pilate illustrated the hatred toward Jews when he said this. Am I a Jew? Am I a Jew? He said that with disdain. It can be seen in the book of Acts, chapter 16, verse 20, when a demon possessed Philippine slave girl said, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our country. The phrase being Jews success or excuse me suggests that their rules and ways of living were causing trouble in the city. And so, and we could also trace uh uh anti-Semitism down through the ages, through the dark ages. Jews were blamed for the plague. They were rounded up and slaughtered by the thousands. But also, not only did Gentiles hate Jews, but Jews hated Gentiles. Some Jewish rabbis taught that Gentiles were only created to fuel the fires of hell. They were very prejudiced against anyone who is not a full-blooded Jew. When a Jew traveled from a southern part of Israel to the northern part, he would go a long way, he would go the long way to avoid uh The country of Samaria, the Samaritans were a half-breed Jew and Gentile race. The Jew would not enter into a Gentile's home because he thought he might defile himself by touching anything in there that was unclean. When a Jew came back to Jewish land from Gentile country, before he stepped over the border into the Holy Land, he would shake the Gentile dust off of his clothes. Because he didn't want to defile Jewish lands. It was unlawful to help a Gentile mother who was giving birth because if you did, you were responsible for bringing another Gentile into the world. That was the mentality of the ancient world. That was the prejudice that people had in the ancient world Now here's Paul speaking to the church at Ephesus, and some of this mentality had seeped into the church, even among some of those who were believers. There were Gentile believers, there were Jewish believers, there seemed to be little splits. uh divisions there in the church. And let me tell you something, this unity among God's people has always been a special heartache to Almighty God. Jesus prays in John 17. Three times he prayed that we would be one. His prayer is that we would be one. That we would exhibit perfect unity in the body of Christ. That is still the prayer of Jesus for his church today. Now, Paul had to deal with this issue in the church at Ephesus, so what did Paul do? Did he adopt some Greek philosophy? Did he adopt an early form of critical race theory? No. He doesn't do any of that. You know what Paul does? He points to the gospel. He points to the work of salvation. He points to the fact that God the Father is uniting all things together in Jesus Christ. He's uniting all people together in Jesus Christ. He points to the fact that the gospel removes enmity. Any enmity that previously existed in our heart, salvation removes that In fact the word enmity is a key word in this section. It's used in verses fifteen and sixteen in that section it's used also in Verses 16 down through 18. It talks about a twofold enmity between Jews and Gentiles. There is an enmity there, and there was an enmity between the lost sinner and God. And on the cross, Jesus removes the enmity between the lost sinner and God. He removes the enmity between Jews and Gentiles. All of that is gone. The whole mission of Jesus coming was a great peace mission where he would unite all things together in himself So notice three great works that God does in our salvation that unites us, that unifies us in Christ. Number one, we're reconciled to Christ. Look again at verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. Paul is using the terminology far off and near to speak about Gentiles and Jews. Gentiles were considered to be Far off, Jews considered to be nigh. But what Paul is saying here is that really Gentiles can be far off, but they can be brought nigh. Jews who were considered nigh can actually be far off. It's all dependent on whether or not you have received Jesus Christ. That's why he says, but now in Christ Jesus. Now those who were far off are made nigh. And the past Jews were near because of the blood of Abraham that flowed in their veins. Now Paul says the ones who are near It's not because of the blood that's in your veins, it's because of the blood of Jesus Christ that flowed on the cross. That's where your identity is right now. Your identity is not in the blood in your veins. Your identity is based on the blood of Jesus Christ. And we're in Christ. The blood of Christ determines whether we are near or far off. And so it's the blood that reconciles us. It means to bring together. That's what the cross does. Why would any church or minister turn to critical race theory to reconcile people when Christ does that in the cross? Why would we do that? That is a blasphemy to the cross of Christ. They're saying that the cross of Christ is not sufficient, but it is. It is sufficient. It does that work. We are reconciled to Christ. But here's number two. We are related in Christ. Look at verse 14. For he is our peace, who has made both one. And had broken down the middle wall of partition between us. And again, who are the two groups he's referring to? Again, he's referring to Jews and Gentiles. These are the two groups that God wanted to bring together and to make them one in Christ. And in order to do that, God had to break down some barriers. And he talks about these barriers here. First the barriers are in verse 14. He talks about the wall, the middle wall of partition or the dividing wall. Did you know that uh there was a barrier in the temple? Did you know that in the Jewish temple, uh if you went in there back in the days of the Lord Jesus, there would be a a a wall that separated the Jews from the Gentiles That wall separated the Jews from the court of the Gentiles. And there was an inscription that was found written on that wall. Archaeologists have discovered this inscription from Herod's temple, and this is what it read. Let no one of another nation come within defense or barrier around the holy place. Whoever will will be ta will be w that does so will be taken to upon upon himself his own responsibility for the f for the uh fact that he may die, for the fact that his death will ensue. And so it was It was a wall, it was a barrier that you could not go past upon penalty of death. It was this wall That the Jews thought Paul and his Gentile friends had crossed. You might remember that story in the book of Acts, chapter 21, when they grabbed Paul and they threatened to kill him because they thought Paul with his Gentile friends passed by that physical barrier And Paul is saying that wall, that physical barrier that existed is a symbol of the hostility that existed between Jews and Gentiles. But there was also another wall, the another barrier that that separated them. It was the barrier of the law. And Paul speaks about this in verse 15, having abolished in his flesh the e uh the enmity Uh, in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances for to make in himself of the twain one new man Uh there was the law with its requirements that made a distinction between Jews and Gentiles. And the law that Paul is referring to here is not the moral law of God because we all Are bound to obey the moral laws of God for all time, for all people. But the law that he's referring to here was the civil or ceremonial laws that referred specifically to the identity of Israel and the Jewish people. Paul said, those laws, those laws that apply to diet and apply to days and dress. And every other aspect of Jewish life, those laws formed a dividing wall between Jews and Gentiles Again, this is why Gentiles despise the Jews, because they kept these civil laws, these ceremonial laws. And the Gentiles and the Jews Looked at the Gentiles who didn't keep such laws and considered them to be unclean or separated from God. But here's the point. When Jesus died, he tore down those barriers. Those barriers came down. It says broken down in verse number 14, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. That's heiress tense completed action. When Jesus died on the cross, he tore down those barriers. He tore down the barrier that existed between A lost man and God. We now have access to God through Jesus Christ. The the the veil in the temple was t was run in twain. And Paul says symbolically and figuratively speaking that barrier, that wall of the temple, that was also broken down. So now the enmity that once existed between us and our fellow man, that's also gone. That took place on the cross. The enmity between God and man is now gone because of Christ. The enmity between man and his fellow man is now gone because of Christ. The barriers are removed. And then there's the blessings. Again in verse 15. Having abolished in his flesh the enmity. And why is he doing that? Look at the latter part of verse 15. For to make in himself of twain one new man. Now that this is what Jesus is doing. He's making something new. He's bringing the two together, and he's making one new Man. Now the Greeks had two words which could be translated new. There was the word neos, which means new in a point of time And then there's the word chainos, which means new in the sense that something that did not exist before is now in existence. This is the word that Paul uses in verse 15, canas. Something that did not previously exist now exists. Jesus brought together Jews and Gentiles and produced one new man in Christ. He brought them together in such a way that it's altogether a new creature. And you know what that is? That new man represents, that represents the church of Christ. We're one new man in Jesus Christ, the Bible says. Having abolished in his flesh. How did he do it? He did it in his flesh. And this is a reference to his life, his sinless life. When Jesus lived in this world, he obeyed all the law of God on the behalf of all of lost men. He lived an obedient life. And when he died, he took the sins of man upon himself. He lived and died in the flesh and living a life of complete obedience to God, a sinless life where he obeyed the law on our behalf, and then taking all of our sins upon himself and dying on the cross. When he did that, he abolished all of those barriers. The Bible says this in Galatians 3:13. Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us, for it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangs on a tree. Jesus became a curse for us. It was our sins that were placed upon Christ that made him a curse because he became the sin bearer. And he did that. Look in verse 16. And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. Again, reconcile means to bring together. Turning hostility into friendship. This is what happens on the cross. All of the enmities are gone. And so there's the barriers, there's the blessing of Christ now making us all one new man in Jesus Christ. And then there's the benefits. What do we get from that? Well, we get two things. Look at verse 17. And came and preached peace to you, which were sometimes afar off. Here's the first thing that takes place: there's peace. Jesus came and he preached peace. The whole mission of Christ, as I said before, it was a peace mission to bring peace to our hearts, but then also access. Look again in verse seventeen. And came to preach and preach peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh. Verse 18 and For through him we have both we have we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father. We now have access to God. We can go to God. Because of what Jesus did on the cross. Thank God for that access that we have now in Christ. So we are reconciled to Christ. We are related in Christ. Here's another thing that unifies us. We are restructured by Christ. Again, Paul says God is taking the two groups, Jews and Gentiles, and He's bringing them together, and He's making them, He's tearing down all the barriers, He's making them one new man. In fact, He's building something new He's restructuring us. And again, this is a reference to his church. Jesus said, I will build my church. And in his church, he unites us all together. And notice the illustrations that Paul uses to convey this. First of all, we are citizens in God's kingdom. Look in verse 19. Now, therefore Ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints of God and of the household of God. Paul again says, you know, you're not strangers or aliens anymore. Again, he's using these two words to describe Gentiles. A stranger was someone who was a foreigner living in another place. In the ancient world, a foreigner was always regarded with s suspicion and dislike. And here Paul says, you're not that anymore. You're not a stranger or a foreigner, but now you are part of the kingdom of God. You're a citizen in the same kingdom. And there's a certain amount of unity and oneness that comes by being a part of the same kingdom, the same city. Our city is heaven. The kingdom is heaven. You ever notice how being a part of one city kind of unites us some? You know, y some of you know I'm an Oriel fan. I go to O's games in the summer on occasion. And there's times when I go on you know I remember one time I was in an Oreo game and I went and I got my popcorn and hot dog and soda and was walking down to my seat and during that time an Oriol hit a home run and the stadium erupted And people that I had never met before grabbed me and hugged me, dropped my popcorn and dropped my soda. Dropped it all. But they're high-fiving me and they're hugging me and they're going, yeah. And I couldn't be angry. I was so happy myself about the home run. I'll get another hot dog, you know There's a certain amount of unity that comes from being in the same city, a citizen of the same kingdom. Isn't there a oneness that comes from that But the oneness gets even greater because not only are we citizens of the same kingdom, we are members in God's family. Look at the end of verse 19. And of the household of God. We're members in God's family. And a home is more intimate than a citizenship in a nation. So Paul says, you know, we are members of the same family. There's a greater closeness among family members There's a love among family members. Thank God for the people that God is bringing to Grace Bible Baptist. church. Thank God for every one of them. And uh there's one family and I I need to tell on Sister Juita Melton here this morning. Brother William and Juanita Melton just became members of our church. They've been visiting for a while. I'm so thankful for sending them to us. But I remember on the way out, I would say, uh, God bless you, uh, Miss Juanita, and she said would say to me, Don't call me Miss Juanita. You call me Sister Juanita And I I stand rebuked. I said, yes, ma'am, you're absolutely right. For now on, it's Sister Juanita Because that's exactly what we are. We are brothers and sisters in Christ. We're all members of the same family. And that's what Paul is saying right here. But then also, not only are we citizens in God's kingdom and we're members in God's family, but also we are stones in God's building. Paul presents another image here. And again, he's speaking about his church. Look in verse number 20, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. in whom all the building fitly framed together groweth into a holy temple in the Lord. And again, this is another beautiful illustration. Paul says, You know, we are all stones in God's temple. Temple. This church, this is the temple of God. And the foundation is strong in verse 20. What is the foundation? It's built upon the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Jesus Christ himself being the cornerstone. The cornerstone was the most crucial stone in any ancient building. It had to be a strong stone, and it determined the shape and the strength of that building. Jesus Christ is the cornerstone. And the apostles and the prophets, they are the foundation. And upon that foundation, you know what Jesus is doing? He's adding stones to his church. He's building his church one living stone at a time as he adds them to his church. We are the living stones in the church of God. Peter said it like this, 1 Peter 2, 5. Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. The most beautiful buildings are the ones that have different color and size stones that are woven together in one beautiful building. And one beautiful entity. They're bound together. And notice the function of this temple in verse number two, in whom all the buildings fitly framed together grow up to a holy habitation unto the Lord. Paul reminds the Ephesians that the desire of Christ for his church is that it grow. We're not to be static. We're not to just hold our own. We are to grow. Numerically, spiritually, we are to grow. He says it's the building being fitly framed together. It's God adding stones to his building, that one structure. But then notice the future of this temple. Look at verse twenty-two, in whom ye also are builded together for a habitation of God through You see, the goal is to have one big, beautiful temple that is unified where God's Spirit dwells in it permanently. And God has free reign. In the Old Testament, God had a temple for his people. In the New Testament, God has a people for his temple. And it is the church. And God's glory is to dwell in the church. And we reflect the glory of God when we dwell together in love and oneness. That is God's plan. That's his whole purpose. We display the oneness of God in this beautiful temple. And by the way, the Ephesians, they understood this language because you remember in the city of Ephesus there was a a temple, the temple of Diana that was considered one of the seven wonders of the world, a big, huge, and beautiful temple. And Paul, as it were, is pointing to that and saying, really, that's what we are, the church. We are this beautiful temple in the Lord. We are living stones that God has brought together as one in his church. And so therefore we are united in Christ. We're united in the gospel. We're united in Jesus Christ. We're one in him. All the barriers are gone We're reconciled to Christ. We're related in Christ. We are restructured by Christ. During World War II, In France, some American soldiers lost a comrade in battle. They carried his body to a little cemetery. There was a church there and they saw the priest that was out there by the cemetery and they asked the priest, they said, would it be possible if we could bury our friend in your cemetery? We we want him to have the dignity of being in a place that is gonna be well taken care of and have a grave that will not be lost or hidden in the in the brush. We want them to be in that cemetery. Can is it possible that And the priest asked him this question. He said, Was your friend Catholic? And they said, No. And the priest said, I'm sorry that only Catholics can be buried in this cemetery. And so they they took their friend and they they buried him just outside the fence of that cemetery. They dug a hole and they buried him and they determined to come back the next day and to put some flowers and There at that grave. It was late at night. So they came back the next morning and they started looking for the grave of their friend just outside the fence, and they couldn't find it. They were looking, looking, couldn't find it. And finally they saw the priest and they waved them to come over and they said, Sir, you remember we buried our friend just outside the fence here and we can't seem to find the grave now Can you please help us? Remember where we buried him? And the priest said, Yeah, I know where he's buried. And he took the men inside the fence. To a grave. And the priest said to the men, The first part of the night, I felt regret for what I said to you. About your friend not being able to be buried inside the fence. The second part of the night, I moved the fence. To include your friend in the cemetery. You see, friend, God moved the fence for us He moved the fence for us. We were on the outside. Now I praise his name that he brought us all together. inside in the fence in Jesus Christ. I praise God that He is making us one for His glory. It is his will that we dwell in love, that we declare to all the world our unity and love in Christ. That's how God is glorified. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, thank you for your grace that moved us inside the fence. That we who were afar off are now made nigh by the blood of Christ because of what Christ has done for us on the cross. To Father, I pray that as a church we will display before a watching world the oneness, the love. that you have given us in Jesus Christ. That we will show that the enmity is gone. The enmity that we once had in our heart against God, that's all gone. It's nothing but peace. And now we love our God with all our heart. And the enmity that we once had against our fellow man, that's all gone. It's all gone. It was taken care of at the cross. And when we came to Jesus Christ, when we were brought nigh, Lord, you abolished all of that. You tore down all of those barriers. And now, Lord, may we, as your called children, display this wonderful unity in Christ, where Christ is reconciling all things in Him. Lord, may we never lose sight of that. And Father, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, I pray that today they will come to know Christ. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I would just say to you, friend, if you're not a believer, this morning God wants to bring you inside the fence. He wants you to come to know Jesus Christ. And you and it happens when you put your faith in what Christ has done for you on the cross. He took your sins, he became a curse for you. That you might not bear the debt of sin, which is death and hell. He paid that debt with his own death on the cross Salvation is a gift offered to anyone who will come to Christ in faith. Would you just reach out in prayer? Would you just say something like this, Lord, I'm the sinner, I know it I want to be your child. I want you to please forgive me for my sin. I believe that Jesus died for my sins. And that he took the sin debt, the sin curse upon himself that I might have salvation. So I put my faith in the finished work of Christ. Lord, I believe. And Lord, I receive. Come into my heart today. Friend, pray that in meaning that he will save you, give you eternal life, make you his child. And you be can become one in this wonderful kingdom, this family of God, this temple that He's building for His glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.