We've been studying Jude here on Sunday night. And this is a powerful little epistle. And tonight we want to look at these verses here, verses eight to ten. And notice I didn't say what chapter because there are no chapters in Jews, just verses. Short little book. Well you're finding that my daughter Annie this week as you know she had surgery on her knee to repair ACL so she's wearing a brace and she's recovering. This week she flew down to Tennessee to visit with her brother Josiah And while she was at the airport, because she had this brace on, she was detained in security. And they had to detain her, and it took so long that the detainment, they took a long time checking out that brace. uh making sure that uh she wasn't carrying anything in that brace, you know. After all my little red headed girl can pass for a terrorist, I guess But the truth of the matter is, thank the Lord for that kind of security, right? Because terrorism is something that is on the rise. We hear about it every day in the media. Every day we are grounded with images of terrorism. And it's a constant threat to those of us who live here in America and other places in the Western world. And we know that this threat is a very imminent threat when we travel, when we go somewhere, such as the illustration I gave about my daughter and her travel. This is just something that is so dangerous. And what makes terrorism so dangerous is because it really comes down to this one thing, and that is that a terrorist is not very easily visible They operate clandestinely. They are hidden. They are unknown. A terrorist doesn't wear a uniform, doesn't wear a sign saying, here I am. They kind of seep in. They are hidden. And we don't know who they are. They could come in any shape or any size, any appearance whatsoever. We don't know where they are. And protection then from terrorism depends upon discerning who they are before the actual attack comes, right? And so that it's critical then to unmask terrorists. And by the way, the world is busily engaged in this governments in Western countries are spending billions of dollars trying to def defend and protect their citizens. And not only that millions of man hours are put into trying to discover and unmask them and expose them before they do anything. Of course we know the story of 9-11. We know the terrorists that did what they did. They snuck in quietly to the U. S. They lived among us for a long time. We didn't know who they were, what they represented, or what they were after. Had we known that, had someone had been able to detect that, we could have avoided a tremendo a terrible tragedy that took place on our country. But that's the essence of the terrorists. They slip in. Did you know that the Justice Department has a guidebook for Americans designed to help you recognize terrorist activity? But let me just say that there's another warfare that's going on. More important than the warfare of terrorism that is a very real political thing, there's also a terrorism that is a spiritual thing. A spiritual terrorism that is going on in the church. And when I say the word church, I'm talking about church in the broadest sense of the word. I'm talking about the church as a whole, the church all over the world. I'm talking about Christendom, Christianity. There is a danger, there is a spiritual warfare that exists within Christianity And it is spiritual terrorism. Satan has his terrorists that he puts into the church. And this terrorism is much more deadly. This is a spiritual thing. This is not physical, this is spiritual. And it's much more deadly. You know why? A terrorist can destroy your body, but they can't destroy your soul. But a spiritual terrorist can So lies which destroys the truth and leaves a heap of lies which people believe and end up damning a soul for eternity. That's why this battle is so much more important. Now thank the Lord that God also gave us a guidebook to help us recognize Spiritual terrorism when it comes. And it's in the book of Jude here. And Jude is giving us a warning. Look down in verse number three again. We already looked at this, but just look at it again. Beloved, I gave all diligence to write unto you the common salvation. It was more needful for me to write unto you. and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered to the saints. Judah is saying you need to be diligent to look for this spiritual terrorism. And it's deadly. And it's out there. And it's hard to recognize. Why? Look at verse 4. But there are certain men crept in unawares. Remember what we said about that? That's a word. It's really one word in the Greek which means to slip in the side door. To slip in unnoticed. And so this is what happens in the church. There are spiritual terrorists that slip into the church. And Jude is trying to help us to recognize them, to help us to uncover, to unmask them. That's why this book is so very important. It is so very needful. And what he says is so very effective. Now look down in verse number five. Let me just read to you these verses as we get down to verse 10 and we'll and we'll look at these. Verse 5. I will therefore put you in remembrance, though you once knew this How that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt afterward destroyed them that believed not. And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he has reserved in everlasting chains under darkness under the judgment of the great day. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them, in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after a strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Verse 8. Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities. Yet Michael the Archangel, when contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. Now remember the theme that Judas giving us here is that of apostasy. And remember what I told you about apostates. Apostates are those who defect from the faith. They receive the truth at first. But then ultimately they reject the truth. They turn from it. And they end up replacing the truth with something else. And then ultimately they ridicule the truth. And we saw that this is the most severe of evils. We saw last week that God judges apostasy severely. He judges it swiftly. The hottest hell is reserved. for apostates people who turn away from the truth. And we know that apostasy is not nothing new. It's been around for a long time. It's been around since Satan left heaven or was kicked out of heaven and he turned from the glory of heaven. Write down a few verses here, Deuteronomy 32, 15 It happened in Israel, it says this. Israel forsook God, who made him and scorned the rock of his salvation. Israel as a nation turned from God, the Bible says in the Old Testament In 1 Chronicles 28, David warns his son Solomon, this is what he said to his son, he said, Know the God of your father and serve him with the whole heart. and a willing mind, for the Lord searches all hearts and understands every intent of the thoughts. If you seek him, he will let you find him, but if you forsake him, he will reject you forever. There's a serious warning that David gives to Solomon about the deadly danger of apostasy. If you forsake him, he will leave you to yourself. Ezekiel 18, 24. When a righteous man turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity and does according to all of the abominations that a wicked man does, will he live? All his righteous deeds which he has done will not be remembered for his treachery, which he has committed and his sin which he has committed, for them he will die. On the outside it might look like you're ri you're living a righteous life, but if you come to the place where you turn away from that which you originally knew You demonstrate that that's all superficial. It was never real. And therefore, your righteousness will not be remembered and you will die, the Bible says. So again, this is nothing new. We see this in the Old Testament. Jesus warns about it in the New Testament. Remember in John 6 there were some disciples, the Bible calls them disciples, who turned away from Christ and they didn't walk with them anymore. They just walked away. They were like the branches described in John 15, 6, who were cut off and thrown in the fire And as we already saw in the book of Hebrews, there are serious warnings to anyone who is introduced to the truth of the gospel and yet turns away from that truth. The writer of Hebrews warns many times about this, how that when you're brought to a place of repentance and then you fall away from that place of repentance. that you'll not be renewed again. It's like trampling underfoot the Son of God, the blood of a covenant you're treating as an unholy thing And you are provoking upon yourself the severest judgment from God for somebody to do something like that. It's the most severe of sins. Now what Jude is doing here in this book is he's addressing apostasy. And here he is addressing a certain segment. These are apostate false teachers. They become instruments of Satan. These are people who seemed as if they had received the truth, then they turn away from the truth, and then they become false teachers. They may even wear a cloak of religiosity. They may even wear a cloak of Christianity But they're not really teaching truth. Sometimes they dress in backward collars. Sometimes they dress in clerical robes. These Apostates, sometimes they're homosexual priests and lesbian pastors and liberal preachers. Sometimes they wear a cardinal's hat or they sit on a Pope's throne. Sometimes they're a leader of a heretical sect. Sometimes they are professors in a so-called Christian university or seminary. Sometimes they are self-styled scholars who write on biblical issues in national magazines. Sometimes they're TV preachers and television healers. These terrorists teach lies. They sow seeds of destruction in the hearts and in the minds of people and damn souls. And that's what Judah is warning us about. In fact, let me go back to 2 Peter real quick. Let me show you a verse. Just flip back a few pages to the left, and you'll probably be right there in 2 Peter chapter 2. As we introduce our text tonight, look at 2 Peter 2, look at verse number 1. Notice what he says there. But there were false prophets also among the people. Look at the word false there in verse 1. Just kind of a side note here. You want to know what the Greek word there is for false? Plastos, where we get the word plastic. Plastic preachers. Plastic prophets. Even as there shall also be false teachers among you who prettily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them. And bringing upon themselves swift destruction, and listen to this verse too, and many, many shall follow their pernicious ways by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness shall they with fain words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now the long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not And that's the message of 2 Peter. And as we said before, we have every reason to believe that Jude was inspired by reading this epistle. 2 Peter was written before Jude. And 2 Peter essentially was saying that the apostates are coming, and Jews' message is the apostates have come. They're already here. And so, in verses, go back to Jude verses 8 to 11. This is really a great section, a very skillfully crafted portion of Scripture. Because what again, what Jude wants to do is he wants to unmask these enemies of the church, and he wants us to identify these spiritual terrorists. Now one thing I've noticed about studying the book of Jude is that it's kind of got a unique structure. It's structured in threes. Some of you probably noticed that maybe when you studied it. We see a group of threes. For example, in verse 1, we see three words that communicate security. There's called and sanctified and preserved. And then in verse 2 we see three great Christian virtues, mercy and peace and love. And then in verse 4, we see uh Three descriptions of apostates, men who are ungodly men, turning the grace of God into lasciviousness, and then number three, denying the Lord. And then in verses 5 to 7, we saw this last week that Jude gives us three illustrations of God's severe judgment on apostates. Jews in the wilderness, the angels that send, and Sodom and Gomorrah. Jude establishes that whoever the apostates are, whether they be Jews or Gentiles or even angels, they will receive swift judgment. So he gives three illustrations. Now what we're going to see here in verses 8 and 9 are three characteristics of apostates to help you identify them. Followed by in verse 11 three categories in verse 11 and that is they're like Cain. What did Cain do? Cain perverted the truth. They're like Balaam. What did Balaam do? He prostituted the truth And they're like Korah, what did Korah do? Korah protested the truth. Now again, this is all skillfully put together Jude writes this under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. That's a very powerful book with great illustrations, and really it's all given in summary form But it's so very strong the message of it. It's like a trumpet blast to help us wake up. Now with all that in mind, I just want you to see these characteristics, these identifying marks of apostates. Look in verse number 8. Here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down their satanic dreams. Look at verse 8. Likewise also these filthy what? Dreamers. Now the word likewise is a very important transitional word in this verse. It's kind of an interpretive key because it links verses 5 to 7, the three illustrations. To verse 8. In other words, the sins that characterize the apostates in verses 5 to 7 likewise characterize apostates in general. And Jude calls them filthy dreamers. Why does he call them dreamers? Look at that word dreamers. That's one very long word in the Greek. And it simply means this. It means to rely on visions. To rely on dreams. This word is only used one other place in the whole New Testament. It's used in Acts 2. 17 with the prophecy saying, your young men shall dream dreams. Now Peter there was preaching on the day of Pentecost, and he's quoting from Joel, and so therefore this word has the idea of revelation, supernatural revelation. Now when Peter quotes this verse from Joel, he was speaking about the fact that when the Holy Spirit comes, as a result of that, there will be young men who will give prophecy and revelation and dream dreams. We know that's a very big reality. It happened there in the early church. But we also know that with the completion of the New Testament, these prophetic revelations ceased. There's no more revelations being given. Why? Because we have the completed scripture. We have the Word of God. There needs no to be no more revelation given to the church than what we already had. Remember the warning in the book of Revelation? Anyone who adds to this book, God will add the plagues to them. The revelation is complete. God's not giving any more prophetic revelation. So what he's saying here then is that if these are dreamers, And their source of revelation is not God, and yet their revelation is a supernatural revelation. There's only one other option there. It's it's of it's of the devil. It's of Satan. That's why in verse 8, the King James Translators Add the word that you see and italicize filthy dreamers. That adjective there kind of is added on to let you know that these revelations, these dreams, they were not of God And so here's a warning. Jude says, here's one thing. They'll come and they'll say they have revelation, they have a vision or a dream. You remember Paul also warned about this in Colossians 2. 18. Let no man beguile you. Talking about your their visions, details about visions, puffed up in his sensuous mind. A lot of people out there That's claim to have these spiritual experiences and dreams and have revelation and they want you to believe that revelation. Then they teach you based on that revelation. The problem is it leads you away from the sufficiency of the scripture And it gets you to believe things that are not in the scripture. Think about all the false religions that have been started by people who claim to have dreams. All the way from Joseph Smith to Muhammad, who went to a cave and supposedly the angel Gabriel communicated with them there. All the way to Mary Baker Eddie, all the way to Benny Hinn, who has some of these bizarre dreams. You say, Well preacher, you shouldn't mention his name. Well then don't ever do it if you don't like it. But but let me tell you something, dear friends. He he says some of the most bizarre false things that I've ever heard come out of anybody's mouth. It's the very thing that Judas are warning about. The very thing. In fact, let me show you a passage. Look in Deuteronomy chapter 13. Look in Deuteronomy chapter thirteen and look down in verse number one. Look at verse 1. This is a really great passage here. If there arise among you, Deuteronomy 13, 1, if there arise among you a prophet. Or a dreamer of dreams. And giveth thee a sign or a wonder. Here's God warning his people Israel. God said, if there's ever a prophet who comes to you, or a dreamer, and he not only gives you a dream, but he gives you a sign or a wonder. Did you know that Satan can fabricate some things? He can fabricate signs and wonders. Look at verse 2. And the sign or the wonder come to pass? Whereby he spake unto me, saying, Let us go after other gods. Here is this prophet who comes with a dream, and accompanying the dream is a sign or a wonder or a miracle. And it comes to pass exactly as he says, and yet when you look at the theology of this person, and it leads you away from God, The Bible says, don't believe him. Don't you dare believe him. Which thou hast not known. Let us serve them. Look at verse 3. Thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet. Or of that dreamer of dreams, for the Lord your God, listen to this, proveth you to know whether ye love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul. You say, why would God allow some of these guys around there with this bizarre theology and these supposed dreams and revelations? And even the ability to do some of these signs and wonders? Why would God allow these people around? Well the Bible tells us right here is to test you, to see whether you love the Lord Whether you're going to cling to the Lord, God is seeing how your heart is. But here you're to reject that. Look beyond the miracle. Just because a person can do a quote-unquote miracle or a sign and a wonder or claims to have a dream, that doesn't mean that they're from God. Look at what they teach Examine their theology. See if it's sound. That's really what the Lord is saying here. So go back to Jude. So number one then They're satanic dreams. But I want you to see number two. Their sexual defilement. Look in Judah again, verse 8. Likewise also these filthy dreamers, here's the next thing, defile the flesh. They defile the flesh. And the word here literally means to stain, to dye something, like you would dye clothing or material. It means to pollute, to corrupt. And when you link it with the word flesh, which is Sarks, talking about our physical body, that is referring to sexual immorality. And again, remember the word likewise And you have to look back to the three illustrations. Likewise, these filthy dreamers defile the flesh. That is just like the Jews in the wilderness, they committed immorality. You remember what happened there? You remember when Moses went up to the Holy Mountain, what were they doing down below? They were worshiping a golden calf involved in drunken immorality, turning against the Lord Turning away from the truth. You remember the angels that sin in verse number six, how that they left their dominion, they cohabitated in unholy cohabitation with women And it angered God because of that severe, gross immorality, and then also of course Sodom and Gomorrah, and we know what went on there. And June's whole point is this apostate, false teachers, people who walk away from the truth are characterized by their sensual sin. They may be able to cover it up publicly for a while, but eventually their corruption will break out And you will see it sooner or later, they will be exposed on a moral level. And by the way, beloved, if you go down through history and you see some of these false teachers, some of these cultic leaders, you'll find that almost without uh without exception, that this is the common denominator of them. You know, men like Jim Jones was found out to be sexually depraved, David Caresh had a concubine thinking he was King David. Joseph Smith had many wives, Sun Young Moon of the Unification Church, and on we could go. All of them were sexually deviant, committing gross immorality, and Jude says this is another characteristic of a spiritual terrorist. This will be something that will be common. You say, why is this true? Look at verse number 19. Let me show you something in Jude 19 Talking about them again, he characterizes them. He says, These be they who separate themselves sensual, having not what? The Spirit. They don't have the Spirit. And so, friend, the only thing to contain the flesh and mortify the flesh is the Holy Spirit. But these apostates, they don't have the Spirit And so they're wholly given over to corruption. Again, 2 Peter 2. 14, having eyes full of adultery, they cannot cease from sin, beguiling unstable souls, a heart have they to exercise covetous. practices cursed children and so on. Sexual defilement. But here's the third thing. Number three, write this down. Their stubborn defiance. Look again in verse 8. These likewise these filthy dreamers defile the flesh and then watch this, despise dominion. There's the next thing. Their stubborn defiance, not only their satanic dreams, their sexual defilement, but their stubborn defiance. What does despised dominion mean? The word despise simply means to do away with something that is established, that is, they reject established authority. That's what he's talking about. The word dominion is related to the word curios. Curios is what? Lord. They deny lordship. They reject any kind of lordship. Who's lordship in particular? Back up to verse 4. Look at the end of verse 4. Denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. They don't want to be under any authority. That means they don't want to be under the Lordship of Christ. And so they deny his lordship. They don't submit to him. And well, I see this whenever I hear some of these liberals that deny the Bible. That's despising dominion. They don't want the authority of Scripture over them. That's the motivation behind all these people who try to question the Scripture and question the Word of God. You know why? They don't want the authority of God over them And so that they can dis discredit the Scripture, they can do away with that thor authority. That's despising dominion And so every time I hear some liberal question the Bible, the veracity, the inspiration of Scripture, that is exactly what Jude is referring to here. They're despising dominion. They don't want the lordship of Christ in their life. And again, this is exactly what we see in the previous illustrations. Israel turned away from God. They turned away from the rock who was Christ, 1 Corinthians 10. Paul said Christ was that rock in the wilderness. They denied him. They rebelled against the Lord of heaven. The angels rebelled against God. When they committed their sin, Sodom and Gomorrah rebelled against divine truth, they rebelled against the commandments of God That is all characteristic of an apostate. Eventually they will drift away and they will get to the point to where they don't want the lordship of Christ in their life. And by the way, they're very subtle in the way they do this An apostate can confess Jesus with his mouth and say, oh yeah, I believe he's Lord. They just don't want to do anything he says. Just because the person says they believe in the Lordship of Christ doesn't mean they're submitted to the Lordship of Christ. Right? I mean Jesus warned about that. And by the way, this is the contrast between someone who is false and someone who is a true believer. A true believer delights in the Lordship of Christ. They willingly, fully, and freely confess Christ with their mouth, but not only do they confess Him with their mouth, they want to obey the Lordship of Christ in their life. That is something that a true believer delights in doing. And is evident by their obedience, by what they do. Jesus again warned about this. Jesus said this in Matthew 7. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall what? Enter into the kingdom of heaven. But listen to this, but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. There's the contrast. You can say Lord, Lord, all you want to, but the one who really is submitted to the Lordship of Christ is the one who says, I'm going to do the will of God I'm committed to doing the will of the Lord. And then of course Jesus gives the illustration about the wise man who builds his house on the rock and the foolish man who builds his house upon the sand. And you know the difference Both these men heard the sayings of Jesus. The wise men heard the sayings of Jesus and he what? And he did them. The foolish man heard the sayings of Jesus. He didn't do anything. And what happened when the storm came, and by the way, the storm is judgment. And the day of judgment. The person who is not obedient to the commands of Christ has revealed that they are not real and they will not be able to stand in the storm of judgment when it comes. I've heard that verse preached a lot of different ways. But if you look at the context very carefully, Jesus is contrasting those who are real and those who are false. And a true believer is obedient to the commands of Jesus. They indeed believe in the Lordship of Jesus. because of their obedience. And a person who just simply hears Jesus sayings and then obey, they don't obey him, that's not real. And when the judgment comes, they're not going to be able to stand. There's the same contrast in 1 John 2. 17. The world is passing away, and the lust thereof, anyone who's part of this world system, it's all passing away. But Here's the contrast. He that doeth the will of God abides forever. That shows that you have real eternal life. And again in 1 John 2. 3, hereby we do know that we know him. You want to know that you really know Jesus? You want to know that he's really Lord in your life? How do you know that you know him? John says, if we keep his commandments. And the word for commandments is not Torah, it's entole, it's the commandments of Christ. You want to know that you're real? Sometimes people come to me and say, how do I really know that I'm a Christian? Can you give it to me really? Easy. I say, sure. One word, obedience. If you want to obey Jesus, that reveals that your salvation is real John says, hereby we do know. This is how you know. And by the way, the first time he uses the word know, it's a present tense. Here's how we continually know. Here's how we continually have assurance that we have. Perfect has known him, that we already knew him, that our salvation is real. Here's how you continually have assurance that your salvation is real. If we keep his commandments. That's a person who believes in the Lordship of Christ. They're obedient to Him. Luke says this, Jesus said, Why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say Why do you call me Lord and you don't obey me? That's hypocritical. And so characteristic of an apostate is they just reject Dominion or lordship. Their satanic dreams, their sexual defilement, their stubborn defiance. Let me give you the last thing. Write this down. Their sinful dialogue. Their sinful dialogue. Look again in verse 8. Here's the last word. Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh. Despise dominion. And here's the last thing. Speak evil of dignities. This is what I call their sinful dialogue. Speak evil is one word. Blasphemio, what does that sound like? Blaspheme, right? They blaspheme. Apostates are filled with blasphemy. By the way, present tense, they are continually ongoing in their blasphemy. They are continually speaking evil. And specifically, what do they speak evil of? Look at verse 8, dignities. Dignities. Yet the word is there, Daksal. Doxology. You ever heard of a doxology? Where we get that from. And doxa simply means glorious things. Glorious things, glories. They blaspheme glories. They speak evil of glories. And this could be referring to the glories of God or the glories of divine truth. Or the glories of Christ. We could say they speak evil of glorious ones. And really, beloved, this could be anyone who has been put by God or placed by God into a position of authority. Anyone that God dignitaries, we could say, that God has appointed in a position of authority, glorious ones Dignitaries, anyone who is important because they hold an office and God has appointed them in that office Jude says, apostates have no problem speaking evil of dignities of those in authority. And to show you how bad it is to do this. To show you how bad and how we shouldn't do this. What does Jude do in verse 9? He gives us an illustration about this very thing. Look in verse 9. Yet Michael, the archangel When contending with the devil, he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee. Now here Judah is going to illustrate this last point about speaking evil about glorious things or dignities. And Jude says, let me show you, let me give you an example in Michael. Michael Would not speak evil. Now, this is a somewhat obscure story here. And then what this is dealing with here, what Judah is referencing is the burial of Moses. We know that according to Deuteronomy 34, when Moses died, God personally took care of the burial. There was no one else there on the mount when Moses died And God took care of the burial. And what Judah's referring to here in verse 9 is he's giving us a quote from an apocryphal book. Called the Assumption of Moses. Now, by the way, in the book of Jude, this is the second time that Jude has referred to a written document, a historical document, that is not inspired scripture. This is not an inspired book of the Bible You remember before we saw last week he quoted out of first Enoch. And now here he's w he's quoting out another uh out of another non-canonical, and the word canon means standard These books that are in the Bible are because they meet the standard of being inspired books. There are other documents out there that are non-canonical. They're not inspired. But that doesn't mean they don't have some historical value. And when Jude quotes from a book like that, keep in mind that he's not giving his support to everything that's written in there But he's saying this story here has some historical truth to it. And rest assured that Jude, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, when he quotes from this non-inspired source, is saying that this is historically accurate. This is historically true. Anytime the Holy Spirit leads a scripture writer to quote from a non-canonical source, you can rest assured that that is historically accurate. And that's what Judah is doing here. And by the way, preachers do the same things today. We quote from all kinds of sources, and when we quote from those sources, we're not saying that all those sources are all true in everything that they say. We're not giving a blanket approval of everything in that source. We're just saying this part here has a ring of truth to it. And that's exactly what Jude is doing here. Paul does this in the New Testament many times. In Acts 17 he quotes from Greek philosophers, not because he's a proven philosophy. No, in fact later on he'll speak against wholly giving yourself to the philosophy of men, but he'll take a piece of truth out of it And he'll link it with the Word of God to convince people of the Scripture. And so this is what Jude is doing here. He's taking this story. He's quoting this historical source out of a book called The Assumption of Moses, and he elaborates what happens at the burial of Moses Michael, the great archangel, by the way, who is Michael? He is one of God's chief archangels. You know in scripture there were three archangels. There was Lucifer and Gabriel and Michael, and Lucifer was perhaps in charge of the other two He had the highest authority. And Michael was an archangel. And by the way, his name means who is like God. And that is a name that conveys all in reverence to the name of God. But also there's a sense in which it's a defensive posture. We could say it like this. Who would dare say that they were like God? Who would dare try to be like God? And so you can see, by the way, what's the answer to that? Lucifer, he tried to be like God. And Michael is defending the uniqueness of God, saying, who would dare say they're like him? And so you can see how that Lucifer and Michael Would be natural enemies. We see Michael in Daniel 10 when uh he comes to put down a demon spirit. We see him in Revelation 12. when he comes against Satan, warring with Satan in heaven. And notice again in verse number nine, yet Michael the Archangel, when contending with the devil. Now again, who's the devil? The devil is Lucifer And he's one of God's glorious beings, the one that God created. In fact, really to understand this, I want you to turn to Ezekiel 28 real quick. And let me just reference this before we get into it. Look at Ezekiel 28. Go back there and look at it. I know we're going through the Old Testament a lot, but it's necessary when you come to Jude because he's referencing Old Testament passages a lot throughout this little epistle. Look in Ezekiel chapter 28. And notice in Ezekiel 28, this is a reference to Lucifer. The prince of tires in verse 2 is the person on the throne. But then when you get down to verse twelve, he's talking about the power behind the throne, the king of Tyrus. Look at verse twelve, Son of man, take up the lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say to him, Thus says the Lord God Thou sealest up the sum full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. Here is his perfection. This is the perfection of Lucifer. The Bible says he seals up the sum. He's a perfect ten. He's perfect in beauty. Now, beloved, God did not create Satan. He created the perfect angel Lucifer. And he created him perfect in beauty. He and it had this surpassing wisdom. The Bible says, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. And then look in verse 13, thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering. This could only be either be, some people some scholars think it's talking about Adam. Who was in the garden. This is not talking about Adam. Get real. This is talking about Lucifer. Look in verse 14. Thou art the anointed cherub. Can't be Adam. Adam wasn't a cherub. This is talking about an angel. And notice his position in verse 13. Notice the twelve stones that are mentioned here. Nine of these were worn by the high priest. on his breastplate. And this signifies the high position of a priest. And I think the same could be said here of Lucifer. In heaven, he had a high position. Look at the end of verse 13. And the workmanship of thy tablets and of thy pipes that was prepared in thee in the day thou hast created. One of the duties of Lucifer in heaven was, I think he was God's choir director. I think he wrote music to praise and honor the Lord. He had a musical ability And then in verse 14, thou art the anointed cherub. That is, he was in the inner circle. I think he had the closest access to God. Look in verse 14 again where it says, Thou was upon the holy mountain of God. Thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. He was he had an inner inner circle access to the throne of God. He walked up and down the Bible says the mist of the stones of fire. What is that talking about? A lot of explanations on that, but I'm not going to go into it. Let me just say this. I think what it's referring to is stones make up a wall And a wall is for separation. Stones of fire referring to glory. There was a separation there in heaven, a wall of glory. In which no other angel could enter. And this is speaking about God. The Bible says God dwells in unapproachable light. And God is so glorious that not even the angels in heaven can fully look upon him. His glory is so high. He has to humble himself even for the angels in heaven to see him. And so they couldn't go there. They couldn't approach God. God's glory is so transcendent, they couldn't approach him. Unless, of course, you're an anointed cherub. Unless God has given you that ability. And I think that's what Lucifer had. He had the ability to go beyond the wall of glory and to go into the inner place of glory where other angels feared to tread Because he was the anointed cherub. He had a privilege that no other angel had. I think he was the highest ranking angel in heaven, the prime minister of the angels in heaven. And he had this incredible access. And because of this, he was lifted up with pride. Because of this access, because of his beauty because of his wisdom. The Bible says, look in verse 15, thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou was created till iniquity was found in thee. This is the original sin here, beloved. It started in the heart of Lucifer, and he became corrupted. Now go back to Jude. He has here's this incredible angel, this incredible dignitary, you could say. Now he fell from heaven, of course. But he was the highest ranking angel. And in verse 9, when Moses died, he was alone there in the mountain. And I think God's instructions to Michael were Michael, go and take care of the burial of Moses And Michael went to do it, and when he went to bury the body of Moses, Lucifer showed up and said, hold on there, Michael. You're not going to get that body. I want that, the body of Moses. And the two of them had a dispute. The two of them had an argument. And according to the assumption of Moses, Satan made a claim because Moses was a murderer. And so he said, since Moses was a murderer, I can make a claim on him. And some people might wonder, why would Satan want the body of Moses? It's not hard to imagine. Moses was the greatest prophet. He was honored by all Israel. According to Josephus, he was the greatest man that ever lived. Whatever pronouncement he made, said Josephus, you would think that you heard the voice of God himself. That's the way Israel treated him. And we also know that Israel had a tendency towards idolatry. I mean, they were worshiping a golden calf while Moses was gone. What would they do with the body of Moses? You remember the serpent in the wilderness that healed people when they looked on the serpent and lived the serpent on the brazen, the brazen serpent on the pole. Did you know according to the Bible in 2 Kings 18, hundreds of years later Hezekiah is purging the land of idols, and guess what he finds? There are people that are still worshiping that serpent. Israel had a tendency to the people of Israel had a tendency to idolatry. So you can imagine what Satan would want to do with the body of Moses. And so they're disputing verse 9. And then notice what happens. And it says When he disputed about the body of Moses, listen, this is Michael, durst not bring against him a railing accusation. That is, when they're contending, when Michael is arguing over whether he should have that body, and he's simply trying to do what God said, and Lucifer's trying to get the body He would not, the Bible says, bring against Lucifer a railing accusation, the Greek crisis blasphema, a blasphemous judgment. He would not slander Satan. He would not render against him a blasphemous judgment during this dispute. Now, I would suggest to you, if anybody deserves a blasphemous judgment, it was Lucifer. If anybody deserves to be blasphemed, it's the devil. But Michael refused to do it. He said, I'm not going to do that. And here's the point. If the greatest of the good angels refuses to speak evil against the greatest of the evil angels, How much more should we never speak evil against another? You see the point there We should never speak evil against authority. We should never speak evil. And they say, no, wait a minute, Lucifer, he sinned against God. That's right, but he was still created by God, one of God's glorious beings, one of God's dignitaries And you know what Michael said? Michael said, I'm not going to bring against you an accusation or a judgment. I'm just going to say the Lord take care of you. I'm going to let the Lord take care of you. And again, if Michael refused to speak evil against Satan, how much more should we not speak evil against authority? That's the point. Paul said later in Titus, speak evil of no man. But now, of course, in our society today, we make a game out of that. We love to speak evil. In fact, you can't get elected to political office unless you speak evil. Isn't that true? You can't be president of the United States We've gotten to that point unless you speak evil of your opponent. But that's not what the scripture says. It's wrong to slander someone in authority. Michael wouldn't even do that to the devil. And we shouldn't do it. Michael simply said, I'll let the Lord be the judge. I'll let the Lord take care of you. And that's what we should do. And that's the point. But again, beloved, this is characteristic of apostates. Apostates speak evil against God's glories. All the time. They speak evil against the Word of God. They speak evil against Christ. They say that they assault his deity. They assault his virgin birth. They assault his miracles. They assault his atoning death. They assault his resurrection. They assault his second coming. And I want to tell you something, beloved, no wonder God's wrath is against apostasy. No wonder he's going to judge it severely. Look down in verse number 10. But these speak evil of those things which they know not, but what they know naturally is bruise peace in those things, they corrupt themselves. That his false teachers criticize things that they don't even understand. They don't even have the faintest idea. You know why? Because a natural man, he can't receive the things of the Spirit of God If you don't have the Holy Spirit inside of you teaching you truth, you are not going to get it. And I don't care what your IQ is or what how smart you are If you're not taught by the Holy Spirit of God, if the Holy Spirit doesn't open and enlighten your mind to spiritual truth, you're just not going to get it And here these apostates, they may claim that they got letters after their name, and they may claim to be smart, but their mind has never been open to see the light of truth, and they speak evil about things they have no idea. They don't understand it. They don't get it. They're spiritually dead. And Jude calls them brute beasts. That is, they just follow their own ungodly instincts, fleshly impulses, and they and it until it corrupts them. Until they're corrupted. Let me give you this quote of this commentator and I'll be done. Michael Green had an incredibly, I think, insightful thing to say. He said this, quote, if a man persistently is blind to spiritual values Deaf to the call of God, and rate self-determination as the highest good, then a time will come when he cannot hear the call that he has spurned. But is left to the mercy of the turbulent instincts to which he once turned in search of freedom. And those instincts, given free reign, are merciless. Lust, when indulged, becomes a killer. End quote. I think that's incredibly insightful. And that's exactly what Judy's saying here. He's saying they become like brute peace. They're nothing like ignorant, nothing but ignorant animals who are following their own fleshly desires And so these are the marks. Their satanic dreams, their sexual defilement, their stubborn defiance, their sinful dialogue Say, how does all this take place? When a person just superficially receives the truth, but they don't receive it so as to be saved. And then they drift away. They turn from Christ. And then they reject it. And they replace Him. And so friend, I don't know about you, but when I study a passage like this, I'm studying the book of Jude getting ready, some of this is so very fearful You know what it makes me want to do? I pray and say, Lord, I don't ever, ever want to drift away from you. I don't ever want to be characterized by any of these things in my own life. Are you allowing your mind to be led away from the truth by others? Are you a slave to fleshly lusts? Are you rebelling against God's authority? Are you speaking blasphemies? Against the things of God. Friend, you better guard your heart. You better make sure you're not drifting away from the Lord. I'll close with this. I read this illustration. There was an old gentleman That when he was a small boy he lived on the coast and one morning after a great storm he saw an old ship that had been stranded there. The storm had blew blown her in and she was badly damaged and the ship was deserted by her crew. And he said that often the tide would come in and strongly surround the old ship and she would almost be loosed from her moorings But it was stuck there and could not go out. And he would go day by day and look at this ship as a child, hoping that the tide had loosened the ship and it was able to go out And on certain occasions the tide did come in. And the tide did loosen the ship. And it was able to be freed and moved, but the shi ship wouldn't go anywhere. And he would say, go out, old ship. Go out with the tide. Go out. But she never did And finally, one morning, after a severe storm, he went down to look at the old ship, and sure enough, the old ship had been blown to pieces by this storm. And all he could see there was just floating on the water was the pieces of the wreckage of that ship. And he remembers saying, she had so many chances to go out with the tide. But she never did. And then he said like this, this reminds me of so many people who have drifted away from God and now they're stuck. And you know what? When the tide of God's Spirit moves and frees you from that place to where you have been stuck, you better go with the tide. You better move with the tide. Because if you don't, friend, you might end up destroyed And so you better go out while the tide of the Spirit moves in. Now friend, I don't know where you are in your life spiritually, God knows, but I know this. God wants you He wants to draw you unto himself. And friend, if you're stuck in a certain spiritual place, he wants to free you. And he wants you to go out with a tide. He wants you under the control of his spirit. But you better guard your heart. You better make sure that you haven't drifted away and you're not listening. You're not responding to the tide of the Spirit of God when it moves. So Lord, again, we just thank you for your word. And Lord, every time I read Jude, I'm convicted of something. Just tears at my heart. And I have to examine my heart over again and say, Lord, don't let me drift away. Don't let my heart drift. Keep me close to you. And Lord, may none of these things ever be characteristic of my own life. May I indeed confess Christ as Lord. Fully and freely, not just with my mouth, but how I live my life. May people see the Lordship of Christ. In my own life, the way I walk, the way I live, the way I have my move and live in this world among others. May they see the Lordship of Christ. And Lord, may these verses just speak a warning to anyone here tonight who may be drifting away from the Lord. May they examine their heart. May they truly know that they know Christ. And may they come to Him for renewal, for revival. Let the tide of the Spirit move in their heart. Perhaps there are some people here tonight, Lord, that are stuck. And they need the touch of your grace in their life to draw them under yourself. Lord, use your word to do your work. And heads are bowed, the eyes are closed. And how many people here, no one's looking around, but how many people here would say that's my prayer, that the Lord would just, I feel like I'm stuck spiritually. I need a move of God in my own heart To draw me onto himself. And I'm praying for that tonight. I'm turning from things that have weighed me down. And I'm turning to God with a fresh vigor. Anyone here? God bless you, sir. Pray for me, God bless you and others. God bless you. Father, use these words to speak of hearts. And Lord, may we learn these identifying marks so that we can be aware and alert of what's going on around us. And so that Lord we can be safe. And defend the truth and keep others from going astray. Use these words. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.