Romans, a very familiar passage of scripture tonight. Romans chapter 1, verses 1. We're going to be dealing with verse 1 on down to verse 8 tonight. Romans chapter 12 verses 1 through 8. And while you're finding that, I was reading, according to the Wall Street Journal, a research firm conducted an investigation, and they investigated unused gift cards. And this is something interesting. Did you know they they discovered that you know you know what a gift card is, a card that you give someone to use at a store or at a restaurant? that they discovered that forty-one billion dollars of gift cards have been unused. That's people who have a gift card and they just don't use it. They're not spending it. I'd like to contact those people and ask if I could have those gift cards. But they're just not using them. People give them a gift card, perhaps they're setting it aside, but somehow, some way They're neglecting that gift that was given to them. Also, along the same line, I read another kind of humorous story from the Detroit News They published a story about the mother of the comedian Bill Cosby. He has an elderly mother and sh and he grew up living in extreme poverty and and and her living in extreme poverty. And Mrs. Cosby never owned a uh you know the appliances that normal people would have And so she did everything manually. She was accustomed to doing it that way. When Bill Cosby started making money from the comedy clubs, he bought his mother for Christmas a toaster. Because she would normally toast by using the oven. Some of you ladies may be familiar with that method, but that's how she would make toast. But he later on discovered that she never used the toaster. In fact, she never even took it out of the box. She put it on top of the refrigerator and left it there And she continued to toast, make toast by using the oven. And Bill Cosby said she was so stubborn and set in her ways that she would not use this gift that was given to her. Now when I read those stories, it reminded me of the verse in 1 Timothy 4, verse 14, where the Apostle Paul wrote to Timothy and he said this, neglect not the gift that is in thee. Which was given thee by prophecy. Now God has given some gifts. Now the most neglected gifts in the world are not gift cards, and they're not unused toasters. But I think sometimes the most neglected gifts in the world are the gifts that God gives his people in the church, and they don't apply those gifts. They're not using those gifts. to the glory of God the way they should. And so with the help of the scripture tonight, I want us to unwrap those gifts. I want us to use those gifts. The Apostle Paul is going to help us to take the gifts out of the box and discover the gift that God has given to all of us. Can you imagine what would happen in the Church of Jesus Christ all across this country if believers discovered the gift that God had given them and then they began to employ those gifts the way God intended. Two pastors were talking and they were lamenting. One pastor said, I have wheel wheelbarrow saints. They're no good unless they're pushed. And another pastor said, I have lily saints, they toil not, neither do they spin. But I want to tell you the believer that understands their gift And the divine power that comes with that gift will not be Christians who have to be pushed. They'll want to use what God has given them for their master. Now, with all that in mind, I want you to just give you three steps from the Book of Romans, chapter 12, verses 1 through 8. Three steps in discovering your spiritual gift, or we could say unwrapping your spiritual gift. And if you're taking notes right down, number one, here's the first point. There has to be, first of all, a total dedication. A total dedication to God. Look at verses 1 and 2. familiar verses but read them with look at them as I read them. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Now I think that these two verses are the greatest verses in all of the Bible on true worship. This is really what true worship is all about. True worship begins when we surrender ourselves, body, soul, and spirit, to God. We give Him our all, we give Him our mind. We give Him our heart, we give Him our will, we give Him our body, we You give 'em all of us So let us look at this a little closer. First of all, there's the plea where Paul says, I beseech you, a very familiar word, paracaleo, to come alongside and to encourage. To come alongside and admonish. Paul is saying, I am begging you to present your bodies. Here is the plea, but then notice the people. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Now he's talking to God's people. Real worship comes from true believers. And so it's the people of God that worship and employ the gifts that God has given them But then I want you also to know the purpose. Look again in verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. Here is the basis of our worship and our dedication. This is what motivates us To give ourselves fully to the Lord. What is it? Notice the word therefore in verse 1. Remember that always points back, right? And Paul is referring to the things that he had already written from verses from chapter 1 all the way to chapter 11 Notice it's mercies plural, not mercy singular. And what are the mercies? That's everything that God has given to us in this wonderful plan of salvation. Now you realize, of course, that the book of Romans is the sum and substance of all of the theology of salvation, that Paul brings it together. And he shares with the church. And so when he's talking about the mercies of God, he's talking about the love that God has given us, the grace, the peace the justification, righteousness, sanctification, the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives, and securing the believer. All of these things, all of these blessings, are the mercies of God. Let me ask you a question. What is your response to God's mercy in your life? What is your response to the mercies that He has so freely and so wonderfully given to you and to me? Psalm one nine one sixteen verse twelve. What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits towards And Paul is saying, listen, worship is when you give yourself to God because of the mercies that He has given you. So there is this idea of the mercies of God. Isaac Watts had it right when he wrote these words. Love so amazing So divine demands my soul, my life, my all. Isn't that right? Now notice next there's the presentation. Look again in verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. So now he's saying, I want you to present your body. Now, by the way, the word present there is a technical term. This word is used in the Levitical system to speak of an offering. In the Old Testament, when a person came to worship, they would present their offering to the priest and before the Lord They would lay that offering on the altar. And so that was the idea of presenting to the Lord Laying that sacrifice on the altar. That's the idea here. And what are we to present? Look again in verse number one. Present your what? Your bodies. And that's the idea of all of ourselves. Everything that we are, our whole being, we leave nothing back. It's a burnt offering to the Lord where we give everything, every part of me, my mind, my heart, all of my members of my body, my tongue. I remember reading the story of George Beverly Shea, you know him because he sang so much for Billy Graham, that when he was a young man he was so talented that a nationwide singing group wanted to employ him And uh he came in for an audition and they liked what they heard and they gave him a piece of music and he took it back and he read it and he tried to learn it, but then he read some of the words in that song, and some of the words were shady words. In fact they were words that a Christian shouldn't use. And George Beverly Shea prayed at that moment. He said, Lord, maybe you're testing me with this, but I can't do this. And so he went back to them and he said, Look, thank you, but no thank you. He said, I have dedicated my tongue to Jesus Christ. I've given him my all. And so no wonder when he's saying I'd rather have Jesus, he blessed so many people. That is what Paul's talking about here. Giving every part of yourself As a sacrifice. And notice where it says a living sacrifice. And of course we know this is an oxymoron, right? Because sacrifices in the Old Testament didn't were not living sacrifices. They were dead on the altar. But there's a sense in which when we come to the Lord, we do die, we die to ourselves, we die to our own will, but we're yet we're a living sacrifice unto the Lord. And by the way, this idea here, this where it says present, it is an aorist verb which means present once for all. You give yourself to the Lord one time for the rest of your life. Now, I know some people say, I'd like to rededicate myself to the Lord. Friend, you don't have to rededicate what's already been dedicated. It's a once-for-all, giving yourself wholly to the Lord. David Brainer was a missionary to the North American Indians, and he wrote this in his journal. He wrote, O Lord, to thee I dedicate myself. O accept of me to be thine forever. I desire nothing else or nothing more Henry Martin was a missionary to India, and he knelt on the shores of India, and this is what he said. He said, Here, let me burn out for God. That's the idea of giving your awe wholly to the Lord. But then notice the product. Notice the product. Look again in verse number one, which is your reasonable service. Literally we can translate this your spiritual service of worship. Reasonable simply means from the realm of the soul. And again we're talking about worship, the word service is Letraya where we get the word liturgy, and it has the idea of priestly activities. In other words, this is your worship to God when you present yourself a living sacrifice. And after that, there's a process. Look in verse 2. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. There's something else that happens that as we give ourselves to the Lord, the apostle also says, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed. In other words, as Christians, we're not to allow the world on the outside to squeeze us, to conform us to be like it. We're to be transformed from the inside That's how spiritual transformation takes place. God begins working on the inside. By the way, the word transformed here metamorphosis We understand that word to be transformed from within. This is the word that was used in Matthew 17 when it talked about Jesus being transformed. All the glory that was on the inside of him on the Mount of Transfiguration. transformed it metamorphosized onto the outside so people that were there saw his glory. And the idea here is that God is transforming us on the inside. He's making us more and more like Christ. And how does this happen? In verse 2, it says, by the renewing of your mind. True worship involves renewing the mind? That's why you can't have real worship unless your mind has been in the Word of God and you're learning Scripture. It starts in the mind. And so while the world is seeking to conform us From from the without, we as believers are being transformed from within. How? By the word of God and our relationship to the Lord Jesus, we are being transformed. into the image of Christ. There are two great influences. There's the world and the word. The world on the outside gives us pressure to conform, but the word on the inside resists that pressure And it makes us like the Lord Jesus. Does that make sense? And so we are being transformed by the truth of God's word. Now, you say, well, now what does this have to do with my spiritual gifts? This has everything to do with your spiritual gifts because first of all, number one, your spiritual gift is an outflow or an expression of your worship to God. You understand that? Whenever you use the gift that God has given you for his glory, that is an act of worship. This young lady that sang tonight, that was an act of worship, wasn't it? This wonderful family, dedicated Christian family that blessed us with the singing, that was an act of worship to Almighty God. You see, whenever you employ your gifts and you use your gifts for God, it's an act of worship. Every sermon that I preach, I preach it to you, but friend, there's an audience, an unseen audience, and that's before God. It is an act of worship to Almighty God. I want people to like my sermons, but frankly, sometimes people leave and they don't like it But I'm more concerned about whether or not it was acceptable to God, because every sermon is an act of worship to Almighty God. And so, first of all Using that gift is an expression of your worship, but secondly, there's another relationship, and that's this: if you're not willing to offer yourself as a living sacrifice You probably won't discover what your spiritual gift is. First, there has to be you giving yourself to God holy And on the heels of that, you know what will happen? God will reveal to you what your gift is. And how you can use it for his glory Now I know there are people out there that like to take these spiritual gifting tests, and that's all good and fine. But friend, you can take that test all you want to, but if you haven't given yourself to God first You won't likely really be able to know what God has for you. There has to be, first and foremost, a whole dedication on the part of the Christian. There has to be a total dedication I can remember when I was a teenager here, newly saved, I remember the time in my life when I said, Lord, I'm giving my whole self to you. I remember I was 15 years old. We were going to camp. And back in those days, that's when uh Bill Shade had Camp of the Nations. Some of you may remember that. and I was one of the teenagers that was going up to the camp of the nations. I remember taking that ride up, it's about four hours to get up there, riding in the church van, and I was reading the Bible And I was reading Joshua chapter 1, the very passage of the pastor priest on this morning, and I just remember reading that chapter. And I remember getting to verse 5, and it just seemed to jump off the page, as I was with Moses, so shall I be with thee. I will not fail thee nor forsake thee. And God so used that verse in my heart that I didn't forget it. I meditated on that verse. I thought about it. And that week at camp, I said, Lord, I'm going to give my whole self to you. For whatever you want, however you want to use me, I'm giving my life to you. It is now yours. And I want to tell you that I had such a wonderful peace from God At that moment on. And you know what came on the heels of that? God began to show me what my spiritual gifts were and how I could serve And in time, by and by, the Lord has continued to make clear what my spiritual gifts are and how I can use those gifts to help further his kingdom. I want to tell you something, folks. I have never one time in my life ever asked to preach anywhere. I've never said, I'm available, I can preach, can I preach? I've never ever done that And the Lord has opened up doors for me to preach. Why? Well, that's just a natural thing. If God gives you a gift, he's going to give you the opportunity to use that gift. That's all of the Lord. That's not of me. That's of the Lord. And that's the same thing that's going to happen to you. But first, I think there has to be a total dedication to the Lord. So I want to ask you, have you totally given yourself to the Lord tonight? Secondly, here's a second point. Not only a total dedication. But write down number two, a thoughtful estimation. A thoughtful estimation. Look in verse number three. For I say, through the grace of give it unto me to every man that is among you, Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly, according as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. Now Once you make the total dedication to God, the next step is what I want to call a thoughtful estimation, and that is to properly assess your own spiritual gifts. And in order to do that, we have to have the proper attitude. You know what sometimes happens? Many people have an inflated idea of their own importance. And here's the first thing you want to avoid, that is what I want to call sinful exaggeration. Where Paul says, For I say, through the grace of God, give it unto me to every man not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think Listen, don't think of yourself more than you are. There are some people that go around and think that they're more than they really are. And they boast about what they think they are, and they're thinking of themselves way too highly. More than they ought to. And you know what happens when a person does that? They'll attempt to do things that God never intended for them to do. That was never God's calling for them. You want to see a miserable, frustrated Christian, that it is someone who is trying to do ministry things that God never gifted them to do He never called them to do it. He never gifted them to do it. They have this high estimation of their self. This is what they want to be, this is what they think they are. But that estimation is an improper estimation of how God has called them and gifted them And so therefore they're trying to do things God never intended. And you know what? First of all, they're not effective. They're not really helping the kingdom of God And they're very frustrated. They may not say that on the outside, but on the inside, they're frustrated because the gift is not really being employed. And you know what? People around them know it, but that person doesn't seem to get it They have what I call a blind spot. And so Paul says, look, I want to caution you, don't think of yourself more than you are. In fact, the word think here, where it says more highly, the word for think is phoneo. But then here Paul uses a prefix hyperfroneo when he says to think more highly. That is to think in terms of sinful exaggeration. Here's a guy who thinks I'm God's gift to the world, I'm the next Billy Graham, I'm the next evangelist. And the truth of the matter is, God has gifted you, but that's not your gift. That's not what God has called you to be. And so we have to be careful in this thing. Write down Galatians 6. 3, for if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. And so we have to be careful of pride in this matter. God likes to keep us humble, amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 7. And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelation, there was given unto me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan, to buffet me. Paul said, God wanted to keep me humble And in order to do that, God sent a thorn in the flesh to humble me. You know why God can't use servants that are proud and inflated? He has to have these servants that are humble. And so Paul says, this is why God gave me this thorn in the flesh to humble me. They say, now why is Paul bringing this up? Well if you read 1 Corinthians 12 and 14 through 14, you know what you're going to find out? There were problems in the church of Christians abusing their gifts Why? Because they wanted the showy gifts. They were coveting the showy gifts, the public gifts, the ones where they got attention. And Paul had to correct that problem. He said in chapter 12, verse 31, you are coveting the best gifts or the showy gifts we could say, but I want to show you a more excellent way. I think James had the same problem when he said, don't be too eager to be a teacher, knowing that you're going to receive the greater condemnation. Now get this down friend. Understand this. You don't get to choose your gift. God chooses it. You understand that? You're not the one that can choose the gift. You don't go through the list and say, I want this gift and this gift. I think I'm going to do this. No It is God who divinely and sovereignly gives you the spiritual gift. Your job is simply to discover what it is. You can't make yourself what you are. Only God can do that. In fact, I want you to take a moment. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12 with me. Would you do that? Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And look down at verse number 12. And Paul's going to use an analogy of a human body to speak of the body of Christ. So look in chapter 12, verse 12. And let's just look at these verses. For as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. He's using a human body to speak about the body of Christ. For by one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether it be Jews or Gentiles, whether we bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit Verse 14, for the body is not one member, but many. And if the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? You know what Paul is addressing some people Wanted another gift. They weren't happy. They weren't content. They weren't satisfied with the spiritual gift that God had given them. They wanted more. And Paul said, what if your body acted that way? What if your foot says, well, since I'm not the hen, I'm not going to do anything? How would that work? Or if the foot tried to be a hen. Or the hand tried to be a foot, or the ear tried to be an eye, and so on. You get the uh the point that Paul's making. Every member of the body serves a specific function. And every member is important. You're what God called you to be, what God made you to be. And so you have to think in terms of sober estimation. This is what how God has gifted me. This is the level of gifting that God has given me. And this is what I can do. And I'm not therefore going to reach too far and try to do things that God never intended me to do, that He never called me to do. I'm going to be content to use my spiritual gift for the glory of God and the context and the ministry that He has given me. Now there's a second thing. Go back to Romans chapter 12. Not only do we want to avoid this idea of sinful exaggeration, but also there's a superficial humiliation In verse number 3, it says, I say through the grace of God, give it unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think soberly. Now let me just say that there's the other end of the pendulum swing. There's the opposite extreme. And what is that? That's where a person Will not value their gift. Or maybe they'll downplay the spiritual gift that God has given them. Or they won't employ fully the gift that God has given them If God has given you a spiritual gift, and by the way, the gift is not for your benefit, it's for the benefit of others. You understand that? It's not for you. It's so that you can help others And if God has given you a spiritual gift and you downplay that, you devalue that, oh, I'm nothing. By the way, that's a false humiliation. You are something. Being humble is not saying that you're nothing. If you just downplay or devalue what God has given you and you're not using that gift, that's another trap that you do not want to fall into. In the insightful book The Scrutate Letter, C. S. Lewis tells the story of about a demon who is telling his young apprentice demon how to affect believers, how to hinder believers, and this is what he said This one demon is saying to the other demon, you must therefore conceal the patience, talking about a believer, the patience from the true end of humility. Let him think of it not as self-forgetfulness, but as a certain kind of opinion, namely a low opinion of his own talents and character. Some talents I gather he really has Fix in his mind the idea that humility consists in trying to believe those talents to be less valuable than he believes them to be. And the devil would love for you to think that way. He would love to think that the gift, the spiritual gift that God has given you has no value. You have no contribution to make to the kingdom of God. Friend, if he can get you to think like that, you won't use your gift. And you know what? It'll be others around you that will suffer for that if you're not using and employing that gift. Either way, the devil gets the victory. So we don't want to think in terms of sinful exaggeration or in superficial humiliation, but here's the third thing, in sober realization. Look again, to think soberly in verse number three, but to think soberly according as God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. Look at that phrase to think soberly. Literally it means to think straight, to be sane in your mind. It's the opposite of the word manomai, which is the idea of being insane. An insane person is someone who thinks they're someone that they're not. They constantly live in a fantasy world thinking that there's somebody that they're not really that person. And so to be sane is to think Soberly and rightly about who you are and what God has given you for His kingdom And by the way, the very best example of this is the Apostle Paul, right here in verse three. Look at it again. For I say, through the grace of God given unto me Here's the Apostle Paul, you know what he says? He says, Whatever I am, I am by the grace of God. It's the grace of God. If I can ever accomplish anything or ever do anything, it's because of his grace. That he's given to me. Now, write down 1 Corinthians 3 10. Here's another phrase He says again, according to the grace of God, which is given unto me, listen, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another builds thereon, but let every man take heed how he builds thereon In another place, Paul says, listen, by the grace of God, I know what I am. I am a wise master builder. I'm an architecton. I know how to go in and lay a foundation, and that foundation is Christ And then when I'm done laying that foundation, I know that someone else can come along and they could build on that foundation. But my gift is to go in and lay that foundation. And you know what he says? He said, I say this by the grace of God. This isn't of me. This is a gift that God gave me. He soberly assesses what his spiritual gift is. And God gifts people differently. He doesn't give the same gift to you as he do uh to you that he does to me. And Paul said he realizes that his job was to go in and he would preach the gospel where no one else would go He would start and plant a church there. That was his gift as a church planner of laying that foundation. And thank God for men that can do that. But friend, thank God also for the one that could come in and build on that foundation Everyone's gifted differently. But here's the thing. You have to assess whatever gift God has given you and realize it is by the grace of God. that we have anything to contribute to his kingdom. 1 Corinthians 10 or 15, 10, but by the grace of God I am what I am. And he goes on to say, and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly than they all. Paul realized that God's grace in his life was such a special thing. And Paul says, I don't want God's grace that he's given to me to be in vain, so I want to work hard. You see, whatever spiritual gift God has given you, don't let that be in vain. You should labor diligently Whatever gifts he's given you, giving you that gift is not enough. You need to work hard. You need to be diligent. You need to develop whatever spiritual gift God has given you and use it for the glory of God. Now let me give you the last thing Number one, I said there has to be a total dedication. You have to just give yourself to the Lord. Secondly, there has to be a thoughtful estimation Don't think in terms of sinful exaggeration or superficial humiliation, but in sober realization. Realize what God has given you by His grace. And then here's number three. A truthful participation. A truthful participation. Look in verse 4. For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. So we being many are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another. Now here in verse 4, Paul again is using the same analogy that he used in 1 Corinthians 12, and it is that of a body. And Paul is careful to point out a very important truth here in this verse, and that is we're all to participate. There's unity in diversity. We all have a different gift, a different calling, but yet we all come together and we exercise that gift, and when we do, there is tremendous unity. There is one body, but we all have different gifts in this one body, and that's how we serve one another. in the body of Christ. Right? So there is this oneness. Look what look in verse number four again where it says the word office. For as we have many members in one body, all members have not the same office. That is the Greek word praxis It's where we get the word practical from. Praxis, and it means function. Every member has a different function. And I would use the analogy of a football team. What if one day the team gathered together in a huddle and the quarterback in the huddle called a play and the other guys in the huddle said, now wait a minute. We want to be the quarterback too. You're not the only quarterback here. We all want to be the quarterback. You say what would happen on that team? They would lose Because everyone can't be the quarterback. There can only be one quarterback. But you need someone to block. You need someone to run the ball. You need someone to receive the ball Everyone has their own function. And if they stop realizing what they really are and try to be something else, it's going to damage the team. And friend, that's exactly what Paul is saying here. We are all diverse, and yet we all serve the body, this one body. There is unity and diversity. Now I was reading a book called Fearfully and Wonderfully Made, I'm sure you heard the book, written by Dr. Paul Brand, and he's talking about this the amazing diversity of our body, but here he's talking about the body's cells. Let me just read you a little bit of what he says. He says this I am first struck by talking about the cells of our body. I'm struck by their variety. He says, chemically, my cells are almost alike. But visually and functionally, they are as different as animals in a zoo. He says, you know what? All of our cells in our body, we have so many different kinds of cells, and they're so different. It's like animals in a zoo. He says there are red blood cells. These look like discs resembling lifesaver candies. They voyage through my blood loaded with oxygen to feed other cells. And then he says, and then there are muscle cells which absorb so much of that nourishment they're sleek and they're full of coiled energy, and then there are cartilage cell uh cartilage Cells with shiny black nuclei. They look like bunches of black eyed peas glued together for strength. And then he said there are bone cells. And then he went on and listed a whole bunch of others And then he said this, my body employs a bewildering zoo of cells, none of which individually resemble the larger body. And he said, so it is with the body of Christ. We're all assorted in our gifts and callings, yet we all serve a specific function in the body. Now, Paul goes on to list some gifts here, and this isn't the only place that spiritual gifts are listed. But he lists several, but look, let's look at them real quick as we close out. First, there's a gift of prophecy. Look in verse number So we being many are one body in Christ, and every one members of one of another. Verse six. Having therefore differing according to the grace that is given unto us, whether prophecy Let us prophesy according to the portion of faith or ministry. Let us wait on our ministry on he that teacheth on teaching, on he that exhorteth on exhortation. On he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity. He that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. Now let's just look at him. Prophecy, this is the ability to speak for God. This is someone that has the boldness to speak. And normally with this gift there's an accompanying discernment where you discern wrong and you're willing to stand up and speak against sin or speak against wrong or call things out We would say call it like you see it. And then there's the gift of ministering. This is the Greek word diconia, that's where we get the word deacon. And this is the spirit-giving capacity to just serve in the church. And then there's teaching. Didaskatan. And this is just someone who is divinely gifted with a special ability to make things clear. They can take hard things and make them simple. They can take hard doctrine and make it simple. They can present God's truth in an understandable way. And then, by the way, the the gift of pastor-teacher has in p has this gift with it in Ephesians chapter 4. A pastor has to be Didocticos skilled in teaching. And then there's the gift of exhortation. Paracaleo. And this is someone who has the gift of encouraging. Maybe someone is down or depressed or hurting. This person can come along and encourage them. They've had something difficult in their life. This person can pick them up and push them on and encourage them to do more things. And then there's the gift of giving. the spirit-giving capacity to take and get resources and give those out to help and bless others. And then there's the gift of ruling. This literally means standing before is the Greek word, and it has the idea of administrating, telling others what to do. It's really the gift of leading. administrating. And then there's the gift of mercy. And this is the Spirit-given capacity to sympathize with someone else. And you know what? We need these gifts in the body of Christ. You know that? We need all of these gifts. They helped help us in the church. Let me give you an illustration of how this works. Let's just say we're having a fellowship downstairs. And uh I go over to the table and I get a big piece of cake and I put it on a paper plate. And I'm standing there and the cake falls off the plate. Now a person with the gift of prophecy is going to come up and say to me, that's what happens when you get too much cake. You don't you shouldn't be eating that much cake anyway. There's other people here in this fellowship, you know. So don't eat so much cake. Now a person with the gift of teaching is going to come up to me and say, you know why that fell, don't you? It fell because the plate was too thin. The cake you had, it was too big a piece. And you have to put it more in the center of the plate. And if you're going to get a big piece like that, you know, use two plates instead of one. Make it stronger And a person with the gift of mercy is going to say, Oh, I'm so sorry. Here, have my cake. I'm going to stand here beside you and I'm going to suffer with you through this whole thing. I want you to know how bad I feel about this. Now the person with the gift of exhortation is going to come along and they're going to say, Don't stop eating cake. Go back and get another piece. Don't get discouraged. I want you to know I've dropped cake before in fellowships. This has happened to me, and you know what? God has always given me more cakes That's a person with the gift of exhortation. And then there's a person with the gift of ministering. You know what? That's the person who serves. And they're not going to say anything. They're going to put their stuff down. They're going to get on their hands and knees and clean up the cake. and start serving. And they're going to do it behind the scenes where no one they don't want any attention to themselves. And the person with the gift of giving is going to say, you know what? I'll buy another cake. No problem. I'll pay for it. And a person with the gift of ruling is going to say, Bob, you go get the vacuum cleaner, Mary, you go get the go get the Ajax, you go get another piece of cake, and they're going to start telling people what to do, right? But that's how it works in the body of Christ. And by the way, listen, when the Bible says gift, it's singular. You know what I think happens? I think the Holy Spirit, what he does, is he takes these gifts and he combines them in such a way that every person has a unique gift. I might have a little bit of teaching and a little bit of mercy and a little bit of administration and he'll kind of combine it in a very unique way and give to me that singular gift That is unique for me. One gift might be the prominent gift, but I'll have a certain combination. And I think that's what he does. And there's a sense in which no person has the exact gift of another person. You're exactly what God made you to be. And the spiritual gift that He has given you. And it is unique. And you know what? If you don't exercise and use that gift, the body of Christ will suffer And so God wants you to be unwrapping the gift that He has given you. Let me just close with this one illustration. You probably heard about during World War II a church had a statue of Christ. in front of it. And during the look during the bombing, that statue was blown apart. And after the war, people from the church came back and they began to put that statue back together, but they couldn't find the hands for Christ And so they left the hands off, but they put at the base of the statue a little sign that read this, Christ has no hands but your hands. And that's really true for the church. And the body of Christ, we are his hands to do the work by exercising our gift. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for the grace that you have given us. Whatever we are, whatever we have, we know it's from you. And so Lord help us to be faithful, to employ the gifts that you've given us. Help us to take it out of the box, to unwrap it, to use it. Not for ourselves, although we do find great joy in serving. But Lord, we we do it for others as we serve you as it's an act of worship. When we use our gift. It is a reasonable service as we take and bless the body of Christ and we do it as unto you. That is true worship. So Lord help us to not be dormant, to not be lazy, but to be active, to be fully surrendered to you, using what you have given us to bless and help others Speak to this word to our hearts tonight. May we do more for you as a result. And Father, we pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.