Well it's good to see you here on a Sunday night to close out our Mother's Day Sunday. And I invite you to take your Bibles. Open please to the Book of Romans, chapter eight. We're studying the book of Romans and we're looking at this great chapter, a triumphant chapter in this great letter, and we're talking about dealing with uh victory over sin. You guys don't have a problem with sin, do you? I think all of us are in this battle against sin in our life. I think all of us could say that. We're in a constant warfare. And Romans 8 helps us in this battle. And there's some things here that we have to know if we're going to be victorious in our walk and in this process of sanctification. So tonight I want to talk about getting victory over of a setting sin. Romans chapter 8, look at verse number 12. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live after the flesh. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Now It was said that Seneca, who was a great philosopher and moralist of Rome, one time he cried out and he said this, O that a hand would come down from heaven and deliver me from my besetting sin. I can relate to that, I'm sure you can. This is a plea that's been echoed throughout the years of those who are at warfare against sin in their life and want victory. In fact, the Apostle Paul made a similar cry, and we saw this in Romans chapter 7, verse 24, where Paul said, Oh, wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death Erwin Lutcher, who wrote a book on winning the inner war, this is what he said, quote, Sinful habits begin innocently enough, but if we don't master them, they will surely master us. And he's absolutely right. He went on to describe the warry face. He said this, we have all experienced the cycle of enjoy a forbidden pleasure, feel guilty. Determined never to do it again, take pride in brief moments of self-control, and then fall once more. Each time we repeat the pattern, the ruts Cut a little bit deeper. You know, I I I think all of us can say we all have besetting sins in our life. The writer of Hebrews said this. He said, laying aside every weight and the sin which what? Beset us. Now, all of us are different. We all have different personalities. We all have different bends. We're all given to different things. And each one of us uh have these particular things that just seem to trip us up These sins that seem to get us down. Is it possible to overcome the stubborn sin that gets you down? Now I think Romans chapter 8 gives us the answer to that question. And I hope that as we look at these verses tonight, we'll find the answer to that. But let me just give you what I think are some inadequate approaches to sanctification that are often talked about. um and recommend it as a means to victory, but sometimes they can lead to even greater frustration. Sometimes when people think in terms of victory over sin, uh they think in terms of a method a method. In some circles, this is what they recommend. You know, there's a special approach, you know, prayer, Bible study, a way of ordering your life daily. And let me just say methods are good. I'm not saying that in and of itself it's wrong Um but and I highly recommend that you get into uh these spiritual disciplines. In fact there was a whole denomination called what? Methodists, right? I mean they were known for their rigid self-disciplines and and and that's all good. The point is that a method, however, in and of itself doesn't guarantee victory over sin. That method in and of itself. And then some people think in terms of a formula They have these little expressions. You've probably heard some of these. Let go and let what? Let go and let God. I just need to less of me, more of him, or give Jesus control, or take it by faith. And they appeal to these formulas that are easy to grasp and for time might provide some solutions to what we're seeking, but they're too easy, they're too simple in the end. Uh that in itself is not enough. And then there are some people that when they want to get victory over sin, they think in terms of an experience. They want to have some experience with God where they seem to be lifted to a new level of sanctification. Or a transformation where they don't have to worry about indwelling sin anymore. In fact, there are some who teach that it's possible for a believer to get a second blessing. You ever heard of that on Anybody here ever heard of that? Or they call this entire sanctification? This is a uh a view that if you uh seek God hard enough uh with enough diligence that there's going to come a point in your life where the Holy Spirit will so move upon you that the sin nature is completely overcome. It's completely eradicated. And this is a a view that is held by the holiness movement. It's really rooted in Wesleyan theology and can be found in, I think, uh, still strands of traditional Methodism. the Salvation Army, for example, or maybe the Church of the Nazarene, and and some charismatic denominations where they believe that a second work of grace elevates a believer to a position of perfect holiness where he or she no longer has to worry about indwelling sin. Oh that that were true Oh, that that were true. I wish that that were true. H. A. Ironside, in his book called Holiness, the False and the True, talks about his struggle with this theology. Because some of you, if you know anything about H. A. Ironside, he started out in the Salvation Army, which is a good movement. I don't mean to criticize them. They're good folks. But in this area of theology, I think they got it wrong And H. J. Ironside wrote a whole book about this because he was taught that you can pray hard and you can reach a point where you can have the sin nature absolutely removed, you can have the second blessing of grace in your life if you just seek God for it. And on one occasion in his uh Christian life, the Salvation Army sent him to a retreat center for rest because he was so weary of all the labor he was doing in the ministry that he went to this retreat center and he went there for rest and he determined that while he was there, he was going to get this second blessing He was going to pray for it. He was going to get it. And so he went out one night and prayed all night long. And he says in his book that when the sun came up there was such a peace in his heart. It just seemed like the Holy Spirit had so moved upon him. That he was convinced at that moment that the Holy Spirit had given him the second blessing, and he would no longer have to struggle with indwelling sin He got up from that place. He was so filled with joy. He started down the path on the way back to his room. And even on the way back, already he could feel sin arising up inside of him. He could feel pride over where he was now spiritually. He could feel inward thoughts that were or excuse uh thought inward thoughts that were unworthy of God. And by the time he got back to his room, he was depressed Because he realized that he still had that sin nature. And he was in his room and he was thinking, you know what? How am I going to get this second blessing? And he thought There's a woman here at this retreat center, and surely if anyone has the second blessing, it's her. I know what I'll do. I'll go and talk to her and ask her how she received it So he got off his bed and he went over to the door, and before he could put his hand on the doorknob, there was a knock on the door, and when he opened the door, there was that very woman he was going to see And she said to him, She said, Sir, I have been looking for the second blessing. And she said, I thought if anyone here had it, it was you. And I thought I would come to you and ask you how you got it. Well, he sat down with this woman and they began to talk, and he began to look deeper into God's word, and he realized that there's no such experience in the Christian life where the Holy Spirit will so move upon you That the sin nature is removed where you never have to deal with indwelling sin ever again. Now, friend, it's just not true Uh oh that it would be true. But the fact of the matter is, uh we do not get that kind of second blessing. Someone said there is a second blessing in the Christian life. You know what it is? It's realizing everything you got in the first blessing, you know. And once you realize all that you got in salvation, that is the second blessing. God doesn't really encourage us to seek and experience. So the question is, how does Paul tell us to get victory over stubborn sins in our life? One man wrote this. He said, but sin cannot be annihilated through legalism, monasticism, pietism, asceticism. Phariseeism, celibacy, self-flagellation, confession booths, rosary beads, hail marys, or any other external means. The instrument of mortification is the Holy Spirit, and his power is the energy that works in Christians to carry out the process. And that is exactly what Paul is saying right here. We have an inward power given to us at salvation. It is the power of the Holy Spirit. This is the means by which God uses in our life to give us victory over besetting sins. It's not necessarily a method, although I'm not against methods. It's not necessarily a formula, although those can be helpful. It's not an experience, so to speak. It is allowing the Holy Spirit to work, to sow work in our life, to give us victory over sin. Now What I want you to see here tonight then are three basic principles that Paul gives us in this passage that we have to understand In this battle, if we're going to get victory. So here's the first one. Number one, we must remember our obligation to live in the Spirit. Friend, it's an obligation. It's an obligation. Look again in verse 12. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh to live after the flesh. And so what do the word debtors here, of course, we understand what a debtor is. It's someone who has an obligation bound by some duty. And the sanctified life of victory over sin is not necessarily a method or a formula or an experience. Friend, think of it as an obligation. This is an obligation. Paul says, you are a debtor not to your flesh. You don't owe the flesh anything. You don't owe this body anything. You are a debtor to the Spirit. In other words, we can say it like this: you owe it to God to live victorious over sin. And that's true. And what does that imply? That God has given you all the resources that you need to live victorious. And so, since you have those resources, God says, you owe it to me. I've given you the resources that you need. And so why does he say then that we are debtors, not to the spirit? And by implication, we are debtors, or excuse me, not to the flesh, and by implication We are debtors to the Spirit. Look at the first word there, therefore. And again, it looks back to what Paul previously said in this battle against sin. And he's talking about what he previously said, what we learned in Romans 8 He's describing the triumphant experience in the Spirit. What does the Holy Spirit do for us when we get saved? He liberates us from sin and death. We saw that in verses 1 and 2. He enables us to fulfill the law in verses 3 and 4. And then the Spirit changes our mindset And remember Paul talked about this? You have a whole different mindset. Look down in verse number five. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. And remember, Paul is contrasting the mindset of an unbeliever with a believer Those who follow after the flesh, and those who follow after the spirit. And a believer simply is someone who walks in the spirit, and the key word here is walk. A believer can lapse into fleshly acts, but he doesn't live there. That's not the normal pattern of life. And so he's describing the mindset that is dominant in the life of a believer. Again, when God looks at the world, there's only two kinds of people that he sees. Those who walk in the flesh, that's the unbeliever, those who walk in the spirit, that's the believer. And so the point that Paul makes here is that life in the Spirit is opposite from the unbeliever. All true Christians are in the Spirit Again, look at verse number nine. Now if any have not the Spirit, he is none of his. Again, look at verse number fourteen. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Now, what Paul is suggesting is that the Holy Spirit changes a person's basic disposition when he is born again. And the point is, believers are no longer of the flesh. We no longer have any debt to the flesh. We might live in this flesh, but we have no debt to the flesh. And in verse number 9, again, he says, look at that. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the spirit of God dwell in you. The word for dwell means I inhabit. Paul says that the very Spirit of God dwells in every person who trusts in Jesus Christ. The Spirit is in believers. They are in the Spirit. They are not in the flesh. Believers are not of the flesh. Now, look in verse number 10. But if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin, but the spirit is life because of righteousness. Now the Paul the term that Paul uses here is the word soma for the body instead of sarks, which is normally the term he will use for flesh. And by using this word, he's making the meaning clearer. He's talking about this physical body. Now when God saves you, uh the body is still dead, Paul says. That's why when we die, we're not going to carry this body to heaven with us. This body is a body of death. We're going to get a brand new glorified body, amen. So we have to separate from the body to go to heaven. So this body then is still under the sentence of death And so get his logic here. So you don't owe anything to this body. So he says, therefore, the Christian has no duty. Look at verse number 12. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh. to live after the flesh. And now he changes from soma to sarks here because now he's talking about our fallen nature. And he associates it with the body. Now why does he do that? Because when the sin nature works, what is the instrument that he uses? He uses his physical body He uses our mind to to plant bad thoughts. He uses our tongue to say the wrong things The instrument that the flesh, this fallen nature uses is this physical body. So sometimes Paul will use the word soma talking about the body, and then he'll use the word flesh. Again, he's referring to our mortal side Because the f the the nature, the sinful nature, uses this body, and so sometimes he he thinks of them as just one thing. And what Paul is saying is now that you are in the spirit, God has changed your mindset. You are not a debtor to this body anymore. Or the flesh that's sin nature, you have no obligation to them whatsoever. But you know what's hard for a Christian? That's hard for a Christian to get that in their mind. And because we have a tendency to act or to respond to the old sin nature or even this body the way we did before we knew the Lord Jesus. And when he says jump, we say how high. But Paul is saying, look, you have no more obligation with the flesh. Say no to the flesh. Say no to sin. The freedom of the Spirit brings an obligation for the believer to say no to the flesh. And so you have to understand that it is your obligation. We are debtors not to the flesh. We are debtors to live after the Spirit by implication of what Paul is saying right here. And so living in the Spirit is not a matter of convenience. It's not a matter of suggestion. It is an obligation. You have a debt to pay. You have the spirit now inside you. You have the resources to say no. There's no more obligation to this body, to this old sin nature. You need to learn that principle right there, Paul says. You're not a debtor to the flesh. Now here's the second principle. Write this down. We must consider the consequences of living according to the flesh. Look at verse 13. For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall what? Die. Now what does Paul mean by this statement? First again, not only does he tell us you're not a debtor to the flesh. That's not your mindset anymore. And if you live after the flesh, ye shall die. Now Again, what does he mean here? Does he mean that a believer will lose their salvation? Let me just say absolutely not. I've read some who try to argue that point But remember that Paul begins this chapter with what statement? There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. And how will he end this chapter? There's nothing that can separate us from the love of Christ. So this would be very contradictory if in the middle of this Paul said he means here that you'll lose your salvation. That's not what he's talking about here. What does he mean then? And then again, there's several views, but let me just give you two. Some say that Paul simply Reiterating what he has said again and again throughout this entire epistle. He's drawing a line of distinction between Christians and non-Christians Those who live whose lives and hearts are together, altogether fleshly, I should say, live after the flesh, are not Christians. And those who already are uh who are uh spiritually minded. They are believers. And so what he what he might mean here is some may say is that he's referring to those who are lost. They're already spiritually dead. We saw that in verse 6. For to be carnally minded is death. And unless they repent, they're headed for eternal hell. So some people say he's referring to a lost person here, and they're headed for spiritual death if they don't repent. I don't think that's what he's talking about here. And here's another view on this. What does he mean? Some say Paul is referring here to the sin unto death. Even if a believer who's saved lives according to the flesh, there's a possibility that they could die. Possibly they could die. Let me read to you the late great Donald Gray Barnhouse. How many have you ever heard that name? A great preacher Now he's very dogmatic in his interpretation of this verse as a reference to the second death. He wrote this. He said, what is this death then? That is mentioned in our text. I believe, he says, that the answer is to be found in a series of verses in the New Testament which speak of a sin unto death. And then he goes on to say one of the most solemn texts in all of the scripture is to be found near the close of the first epistle of John. And then he quotes first John five sixteen, if any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death And then Donald Gray Barnhouse went on to tie these two passages together. He believed that what Paul is speaking about here Is physical death as a punishment to a believer who lives according to the flesh? You get his logic then Paul says, you're not a debtor to this flesh, this uh old sin nature that uses this soma, this body, to accomplish so many things that are wrong, you have no debt to the flesh. But if You live according to the flesh. This body can die, which is the penalty for sin If a believer continues to live in sin and live after the flesh, what does God do normally when that happens? Let me ask you a question. What does he normally do? If a believer just continues in sin, what will God do? If you're a real child of God, you know what God's going to do? He's going to chastise you. He's gonna spank you, right? Isn't that what we do with our children? Or at least we we used to. Used to spank our children. I'm speaking, you know, sarcastically there. But as Christians, we believe the Bible, right? We believe that what the Bible says about discipline. And God says this. Listen to Revelation 3. 19. As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten, God says. Be zealous therefore and repent. So you know God's pattern? First of all, they're speaking. If a believer is living in continual sin, what will God do? God first will speak to them. He will speak to them through his spirit, through their conscience, through the preaching of the word, through the lack of peace. He will let them know that they're not doing what's right. And I want to tell you the most miserable person in the world is not a believer living in sin. It's an unbeliever living in sin. Or excuse me, it's not an unbeliever living in sin. It's a believer. You guys keep me straight here Because a believer doesn't belong there. A unbeliever will leap into sin and love it. A believer will lapse into sin and he will loathe it. But you know what God will do during that time? He will speak to them. He will rebuke them. Well, what if they don't repent? Well, God goes from speaking to spanking. Providentially, there'll be things that he will do. He may take away blessings. He might turn us over to the consequences of our actions. He might take his hand off And sometimes the greatest way God can spank a believer is just his absence. He would just withdraw himself. And then you say, what if they still don't repent? There's speaking, there's spanking, and then there's scourging. Write down Hebrews 12, 6. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he will receive. God will work even more severely in his punishment. You say, well, what if that doesn't work? Well God might say, well, you know what? I'll just take you home. I'll just take you home early. I think there is a point in time in which God says to a believer, that's enough. That's enough. You've crossed the line. I'm not going to leave you here unless you shame my name through your behavior. There is a sin unto death. Now, this is what Donald Gray Barnhouse says Paul's talking about here, and I have the tendency to believe that. But no matter how one chooses to interpret this, it still has the same conclusion. To live in sin and to live according to the flesh has horrible, indescribable consequences that far outweigh the pleasure of sin. That's what he's saying. Don't get the idea that sin is a small thing. Don't think lightly of it. Don't think, well, I can indulge myself in this small indiscretion, and what harm will it do? There's always a heavy price to pay. Always. It's like one country preacher said, sin will take you farther than you want to go. Sin will keep you longer than you want to stay. Sin will charge you more than you're willing to pay. And we have to understand as Christians the horrible consequences of living after the flesh. It's horrible. The Holy Spirit is grieved. We don't want to do that. Our prayers go unanswered. Our life becomes powerless. Our praise is unacceptable to God. God withholds his blessings from us. Jeremiah said this: your sins have withheld good things from you. God will withhold his blessing. Our joy is forfeited. Our spiritual growth is hindered, our service is limited, our fellowship is polluted, God is dishonored. You know the best analogy of sin, I think, is just it's a cancer. When we hear the word cancer, it strikes fear in our heart, doesn't it? We don't say, well, it's just a little cancer, it's not all that bad That's never the way we think about it. Because we know that a little cancer can do what? It can metastasize, it can spread, it can cause death. And in a spiritual way, sin is like that. It's a cancer that can metastasize in us inwardly, and it can spread throughout and infiltrate our entire being. And if left unchecked, it will bring death. to us. You know what? Maybe that's just me, but I just think in our time today that it seems like the church thinks lightly of sin nowadays. It just seems like we've almost grown accustomed to it. Like it's not horrible to us. Take a little experiment. Go into a Christian bookstore and see if you can find a book devoted to the danger of sin that was written in the last 10 or 15 years. See if you can find one. I dare you. See if you can find just a book that talks about and warns about the danger of living in the flesh or living in sin. You know what? Let me just save you some time. You're not going to find it. You want to find books like this? You've got to go back to the dead guys. You've got to read all those guys that are already in heaven. For example, did you know the Puritans of the 17th century? They feared sin. I have four books in my library by pastors from that era. Let me read you the titles of their books. The Sinfulness of Sin, The Mischief of Sin. The anatomy of secret sins, the evil of evils, or the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And these aren't small books, these are like this thick Where they are just writing and writing about what the Bible says. These pastors all saw sin for what it is, deadly to the believer. In fact, there's one book written by Ralph Venning called the Sinfulness of Sin. The original title was The Plague of Plagues, and they changed it to the Sinfulness of Sin. Then he was educated at Cambridge and he pastored in London. He was fired from this position in the Church of England, and he became minister of an independent church in London. And he states that he was writing against sin because sin is against man's good and happiness, he says And over the space of a few pages, this is how he describes sin as vile, ugly, odious, malignant, pestilent, pernicious, hideous, spiteful, poisonous, villainous, abominable, and deadly That's just in about four pages right there. He goes on to say, it cannot but be extremely useful to let men see what sin is. How vile, how deadly, mischievous, and therefore how monstrously ugly and odious a a thing, a sin really is. And he just goes on and on. And friend, we have to develop this mindset about sin. We cannot think lightly of it. And this is Paul's point here. Look, if you live after the flesh, you will die. You understand the consequences of thinking lightly and allowing it to go free, unchecked in your life So let me give you the third principle. Number one, I said we must remember our obligation to live in the Spirit. You have an obligation, you have the resources. Number two, we must consider the consequences of living according to the flesh. But here's number three. We must daily put sin to death in our life. We must daily put sin to death in our life. Look again at verse thirteen. But if ye through the spirit Let me back up. But if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall what? Ye shall live. You gotta put it to death. The word mortify here means literally that. To put to death to kill sin. The believer must actively declare war against Sin. There can be no peace treaties with it. Paul is calling upon the believer to deal thoroughly with it, or it will deal thoroughly with us. Isn't that what Jesus said? If your right out of end you what? Fluck it out. Now he wasn't being literal there. He was using hyperbole, and he was basically saying this one thing: deal thoroughly with sin in your life. Do not make peace with it at all. And so, now, in closing, in the few minutes I have, let me just give you a definition of mortification. Let me tell you what it's not. It's not final elimination. We already talked about that. It's not having the sin nature eradicated. It's not pretending that sin is removed. Sometimes when perfectionists fail, they simply say, you know, oh, it was just a mistake, or they try to cover up. John Owens said this only adds hypocrisy to iniquity. It makes one only more cunning, not holy. It's not covering up our sins. Many people think they can just cover up their sin and pretend it's not there. It's not occasional conquests over sin. There are cycles where you might have victory, but John Ow John Owen, who wrote the book, The Mortification of Sin, he said this. He said sin has a way of lying low in order to start its felony once more. It's not occasional conquests. It's not substituting one sin for another. You're not substituting the devil for a witch. Well, I've got victory over this sin, but I, and in order to do that, I submitted to this other sin. That's not victory. It's not outward conformity while ignoring inward corruption It's not repressing one's sin. Well then what is it? Here's what he says it is: it's the habitual weakening of sin. It is the weakening of these evil desires, putting them down. Again, remember, we have no obligation to the body And remember, Paul equates the deeds of the body, meaning our physical body, with the flesh, that is indwelling sin. Why? Because our physical body is the means or instrument through which our sin nature operates. And so mortification then is putting to death, it's subduing these desires that go against the Word of God Or out of harmony with what the Spirit of God does. We're not living according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. And so it's the weakening. John Owen said this. The old man with his faculties and properties, his wisdom, craft, subtlety, strength, must be killed, put to death. That is, have its power, life, vigor, and strength To produce its effects, taken away, listen to this, by the Spirit. It's the Spirit that does this work. of weakening this these e the evil that is in us, this constant war That's in us, this evil. The Spirit of God does it. And we have to ask the Spirit to do it. Allow the Spirit to do it. But here's the second thing he says it is. It is a declaration of perpetual war against sin. It is a constant watch. It's a constant warfare. There's no discharge from this war, friend. It is a daily, constant war that you wage. And how do we know that we're winning? It's evidenced by an appeased conscience. By an appeased conscience. When you have victory and the Spirit of God weakens that desire in you and you get victory over it, and your conscience is appeased. Because you know you're walking the way the Lord wants you to. That's part of it. Um this process of mortification to get victory. And so And so uh there has to be these things happening in our life. And part of this is the guilt that comes with uh this process. John Owen again he writes this, he said, if you want to mortify sin, load thy conscience with the guilt of it. You know, we we live in a world today where guilt is such a negative thing. You ever notice that? We uh psychologist psychologists and psychology tell us today, oh, guilt is such a bad thing, you just need to ignore it or get it away. You understand that guilt is an emotion that God created And it's part of the conscience that God gave you. And if you feel guilt, you know what you should do? You should thank God. Because that means your conscience is working well. And guilt is designed to do what? To drive you to God. To ask for help and victory. And that's why John Owen says, load thy conscience with the guilt of sin. Don't just sin and then not think about it and then try to forget it and don't allow your conscience to work with it or ignore your conscience on it. No, your conscience is there so that you can feel that guilt, so that you can go to God, so that you will ask for forgiveness and overcome it And so be ashamed, he says, for sin. He wrote, for he saw shame as an advantage in the mortification of Sin. He says, as those who give a nod to the head, to their guilt, claim the promise of forgiveness, quickly reassure themselves. and think no more of their wrongdoing, are subjecting themselves to a heart hardening deceit of sin, especially when the sin threatens to become a habit. And so he says, allow sorrow, allow the guilt to do its work to bring into you a deep, honest repentance. And that's part of the weakening process of sin in you. Now let me talk to you about the discipline of mortification. We talked about the definition of it, but the discipline of it is to be done daily. Look at the word mortify. That's present tense, continual action. It is something that we constantly do. And I don't have the time to spend on all these, but let me just give them to you quickly. We do this daily, we do this diligently. This is an imperative In the Greek, it is a command. God commands you to put to death sin in your life. We do it diligently, friend. We do it decisively. It's not going to happen by accident. You have to make a determination. to do this. We do it defiantly. There's a defiant tone here in Paul, and we do it discerningly. But then let me give you finally the devices for mortification. And how do we do that? Let me just give you some practical things here as we close. I think the first thing is that we have a person to love that is Christ. We focus on Christ. We focus on the cross. We focus on the work of what Christ did for us on the cross. We think about how sin put our Savior there, and that worship experiences experience that we have helps give us a holy resolve against sin. when we go to the cross and our heart and in our mind. That's why the Lord's Supper is so important. Because there we do what? We contemplate the agony of Christ. We contemplate the sufferings of Christ and the victory that He gives us, and that should give us a holy resolve against sin in our life. We have um A person to love, we have a power to live. Again, we do this through the Spirit. Romans 8. 13. It is through the Spirit that this takes place. He convicts us. He operates within us as we walk in the Spirit, giving us this victory. And then, friend, finally, we have principles to learn. You have the Word of God. These are the tools. We focus on Christ. We allow the Spirit of God to work in us. We use the knowledge of the Word of God. That's why we memorize Scripture. Because that has a sin-killing effect in us. We meditate on the Word of God because that has a sin-killing effect. And we determine by the Spirit's help that we're just not going to do it You know you have the power to say no. You understand that? Memorization, meditation, modification. Just say no. Uh the Bible taught that a long time before Nancy Reagan. Uh some of you got that. Just say no to sin because you have that ability. You know, sometimes again I've said this before, believers like to say, well, I'm going to go Bring my sins before the Lord Jesus. Look, friend, he already took your sins on the cross. He has no more relationship with sin You just stop doing it. Just say no. Just don't do it because you have the power in you to resist and to say no. And by the way, when you do that, When you resist and say no, that in itself mortifies sin in you. It weakens it in you. And so this is how we get victory. It's not an experience It's not just a typical method or formula. It is a daily work of the Spirit of God That takes place over a period of time. It's a process. It's a lifelong process, by the way. But it happens daily, diligently, decisively, defiantly. And discerningly, we determine to put to death sin in our life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, I just pray now that you'll give us understanding into all these things. Help us, Lord, to remember your word and how that we have no obligation to live after the flesh. And if we do live after the flesh, we'll die. But if through the Spirit we do mortify The deeds of the flesh will live. And so Lord help us to do that very thing. Help us to declare war. With indwelling sin. May we focus upon the cross, our Savior. May that in itself motivate us to holiness. May we yield to the power of the Spirit in our life, knowing that that power right there gives us victory. It's not us, it's the Spirit of God. And may we load our mind with the scripture, knowing Lord, that there's victory, there's sin-killing power in your word. Lord, help us to apply these things tonight as we all continue in this constant process of sanctification. Use this word, Lord, to our heart. We pray in Jesus' precious name, Amen