All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the Old Testament Book of Judges. As you know, we're going through Judges on Wednesday night. And tonight uh we're going to look in Judges chapter 15. Uh as we're looking in the life of Samson, a very interesting character in Scripture. And uh tonight I want to preach on victory by a jawbone. And how God works through flawed servants. In case you don't know, the greatest baseball player to ever play was born in Baltimore. Uh he played for the Earls actually before he played for the Yankees. Babe Ruth was born here in Baltimore. In fact he played baseball right across the street from St. Agnes Hospital. That that field there used to be the uh the St. Mary's School for Boys and that's where he learned to play. Uh just a little trivia there. He still holds legendary status and uh for just the incredible things that he did. Just a a really strong uh player, I think the greatest player in baseball. He was strong and gifted, but if you read about his life, he was also a very flawed person He was undisciplined, he was excessive, he was impulsive. He had a lot of different issues going on in his life. One summarize one sportwriter summarized his life by saying that Ruth, according to uh Ruth basically was a person where no one failed more spectacularly while succeeding so greatly. That's how he summed up his life. And the parallels really fit Samson here. When I read that, I thought about our story tonight of Samson. He was a man that was very strong. He was immensely gifted by God And yet he had serious character falls, and we've already seen that in studying his life. He was a man who was ruled by his passions. And yet God used him in spite of himself, not because of him. But history is full of stories where God's purpose has moved forward through deeply flawed individuals. And all God has to work with are sinners. That's it. But flawed people were used by God. Martin Luther was courageous, but sometimes he was harsh and sometimes he was impulsive. Peter was passionate and rash. Jonah ran from the Lord, and yet God used him to preach a great revival. But in each case, imperfect people were used by God, and God's purposes prevailed despite their flaws. And that's really the lesson that we learn here in the book of Judges. God can still accomplish his purposes even through flawed servants. And God's victories over the Philistines are displayed in his sovereignty, his sovereign works, despite the failures of his servants. So what I want you to see are just three lessons we can learn from Samson's story here tonight. Three ways God works, not because of us, but he works in spite of us. And here's lesson number one. God's purpose is survived despite our foolishness. Now in chapter 14, when Solomon last interacted with the Philistines, you remember that uh he failed in a lot of ways and um Uh he lost his wife. He was kind of left humiliated after the wedding. And this is the story picks up here in chapter 15. And his desire now is to get even with to with the Philistines In fact, his whole motto we find in verse 11, as they did to me, so have I done to them. That was the ethic of the Philistines. Whatever they do to me, I'm going to do to you. And Samson kind of picked up that ethic, and he's saying the same thing And Samson is going to go down to the Philistines, but he's really not fighting the Lord's battles here. He's fighting his own selfish private war. When David faced the Philistines, you remember when he faced Goliath, he said, I come to you in the name of the Lord. But that's not how Samson comes to the Philistines. He comes to the Philistines in his own name. This is all personal with him. And so the lesson for us is we need to be careful that we don't have selfish motives for doing what we do, that we do what we do in the name of the Lord, not for selfish reasons. So here in so in chapter 14, we saw that Samson's behavior ruined his marriage and calls him humiliation and now he wants revenge. And so uh he had one thought, I'm going to fix the Philistines. So notice what I call Samson's rejection. Look at verse one. But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid And he said, I will go into my wife into the chamber, but her father would not suffer him to go. So this is the time of the wheat harvest, and that's going to be important. As we'll see. Evidently the Philistines controlled the Shepela. That was the farming land that was so rich that Israel and the Philistines fought over. Samson comes to visit his wife and he brings a young goat as a kid and he wants to pick up where he left off. Now some people might think it's foolish for Samson to be gone for a few months and then to come back and think that he could just pick up uh where he left off having abandoned his wife. But you have to remember that in that culture there was a ma marriage known as the Satakai type marriage where the the uh Broom basically leaves the bride at the a at her father's house and he just comes to visit from time to time with a gift. That was kind of a cultural marriage in that time. And that seems to be what's going on here. He brings a gift, he's going to go visit his wife. His father-in-law, or ex-father-in-law, we could say, meets him at the door, and he won't allow him to go in. Look at verse number two. And her father said, I verily thought that thou hast utterly hated her, therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister fairer than she? Take her, I pray thee, instead of her. And so the father informs Samson, no, your wife is not your wife. She now belongs to another. I thought you abandoned her, so I gave her to your best man at the wedding. Yeah, Samson's not very happy about this. But the father makes another offer, he says, Look, I tell you what, her younger sister is prettier than her, so why don't you just take the younger sister after all? Samson was a man who did what was right in his own eyes. It seems like a pretty good offer for him, right? But Samson is not going to allow s anyone to tell him who he's going to marry So we see next Samson's rage. Look down at verse number three. And Samson said, concerning them, Now shall I be more blameless than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure. Insulted, he acts in fury. And Samson basically says, you know, I'm going to take it out on the Philistines and I'm going to be innocent of what I do to them, the harm. The word for harm here is ra'a. It's a word that can mean moral evil or disaster This is the same word used in Judges 9. 23 when it refers about when it's referring to God's providential actions. did. And so I think the writer is kind of cluing in the reader that what Samson is about to do is something that God is going to use here. And so, what does Samson do? Well, it's the wheat harvest, but Samson's going to spoil all that for the Philistines. So notice verse 4. And Samson went and caught 300 foxes. And took firebrands and turned tail to tail and put a firebrand in the midst between two tails. Now I would submit to you that to catch 300 foxes to begin with is not an easy thing. That's gotta be hard to do. The Hebrew word here can actually mean jackal, and they were actually very prevalent in Palestine and Joppa. But nevertheless, it would be hard to do to catch 300 of them How he did it, the writer doesn't tell us, but it's an amazing thing. And he's very creative in what he does. He takes them, puts them in groups of 150, ties their tails together, puts a torch between their tails, and sets them off in the wheat fields of the Philistines. Uh so why did he tie their tails together? Well the animals uh they couldn't run into their burrows. It would be impossible for them to do that. And they would run zigzag through the wheat field, lighting everything on fire, not just the wheat harvest but also some of the vineyards and the olive groves as well. This would be a devastating blow to the Philistines, to their economy at harvest time. And this would be a just punishment to the Philistines because they had been oppressing Israel, taking over that area called the Shepelah, not allowing Israel to have any farming there. And so what Samson meant for revenge, God is actually using it as a punishment to the Philistines. And so Samson's hands may have captured these foxes, but the outcome is from the Lord. Now in response to this, the Philistines, they investigate, look down at verse number six. Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up and burnt her and her father with fire. So they investigate, find out it was a father-in-law who really caused Samson to be angry. And uh so they go and they burn This woman and her father, most commentators believe that they simply burnt the house down while they were inside. And this shows really the cruelty of the Philistines How cruel they were. Matthew Henry says, the Philistines were barbarous people. They made no conscience either of threatening or performing the most cruel murders. Ironically, Samson's wife betrayed him in the beginning because they threatened to burn her and her father. And here she's unable to uh To avoid that, her sin and compromise didn't save her. And they end up being burned by these Philistines But then we see Samson's retaliation. The Philistines underestimated Samson's response. Perhaps they thought if they did this that Samson would be happy with that, but he's not. Look down in verse number seven. And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease. In other words, Samson says, I'm going to have the last word on this matter. I'm gonna get the last laugh in. I'm gonna have the final say, and after it it's gonna all gonna be over. I will rev put my revenge on you, and then it's gonna be over. And so look in verse number eight. And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock a Tam. So when the Bible says he smote them hip and thigh, That phrase is an ancient Hebrew expression that basically has puzzled interpreters, but really it's just an idiom, I think, that means that it was a severe uh uh beating. It was just devastating Kyle and Dalish say the it was a proverbial expression for a slaughter. Literally one body upon another. I mean he's just so strong. He just slaughters these Philistines here. It's a merciless slaughter, striking them down, utterly devastating But from the beginning until the end, Samson's actions are all driven by anger, it's all driven by vengeance, it's all driven by personal desire to get even. None of it is really for the glory of God. And yet God will use his foolish anger to accomplish his own purpose. And again, this is the lesson that we learn through this. Through his through his flawed motives, God still advances his plan to judge the Philistines, to weaken the Philistines, to keep them from continuing to oppress Israel. Do you know that God sometimes uses our foolish mistakes? He can do that. I re I uh it reminds me of the story of David Brainerd when he was a student at Yale and they were having a revival going on and he made a rash comment about one of the professors he didn't think he was saved and he said, I don't think that professor has any more grace than that chair over there. And word got back to the administration and he was expelled. Uh and there were some preachers that thought that was a little rash, a little bit too much of a punishment. And so what they did was they gathered around him. Now because he was expelled, he couldn't be a pastor because you had to graduate from one of the schools, Harvard or Yale, to be a pastor in that time. So that ruined him from being a pastor. But these men got together and they formed another seminary, another school, and by the way, the name that school now is called Princeton. That's the way Princeton started. And Now he could not be a pastor, uh, but he decided to be a missionary. And he became a missionary to the Indians, one of the greatest missionaries, and his journals have been published and they have inspired so many other missionaries. That foolish mistake that Brainerd did, God used it. God used it. And that's what God does. That's what God in his sovereignty does for us. His purposes continue, not because of us, but often in spite of us. God's purposes survive despite our foolishness. But here's number two, another lesson we learned. God's power strengthens despite our selfishness. Now, after this slaughter, Samson takes refuge. He hides in the cleft of a rock. This is believed to be a cave in the clefts near Samson's home. So notice the c notice the camp of the Philistines next in verse number nine. Then the Philistines went up and pitched in Judah and spread themselves in Lehi. So they didn't come with just a few men here. The word encamped has the idea of a military camp spread out. So this is the Philistine army coming. War has been declared. But then notice the compromise of Judah. Look at verse 10. And the men of Judah said, Why are you come up against us? And they answered, To buying Samson, are we come to do him as he did to us? That's their ethic there. What did us we're going to do to him And they find they they uh they are there for revenge. Now these men of Judah rather than Saying, you know what, let's go get Samson, let's rally behind him, let's go into battle, let's defeat these Philistines. After all, Samson is a mighty deliverer. That's not what they do To show you how weak and beaten and oppressed they were, they go to get Samson to take them back and deliver him to the Philistines. They would rather um deliver their countrymen into the hands of the enemy and live under the enemy's domination than fulfill God's mandate to drive out the Canaanites out of the land. And so instead of standing with Samson, they want to hand him over. This is a vivid picture of compromise. It shows you the condition of the men of Israel and Judah in that time. They're happy to be in that position that they're in. They're happy with the status quo. But notice the capture of Samson. Look down at verse number 11. Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock of Echem and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? What is this that thou hast done unto us? So notice 3,000 come to get him. Wow, that's a pretty big welcome crew. Why, 3,000 guys to get Samson and bring him back? Why 3,000 here This gives you an idea of what they thought of him and his strength. Uh they thought that maybe he would resist. I mean by this time Sansom had already killed a lion barehanded. He had already smote the Philistines, hip and thigh, as the Bible said. They knew that they were not approaching any ordinary man, but a man with legendary strength. And so they bring all of these men and they say to him, No, why have you done this? You know the Philistines are rulers over us Uh again, these men are cowards. They're comfortable in their bondage. They didn't come and say, hey Samson, how can we defeat the Philistines? No. They came and said, you know, you're causing us trouble. And so we want to take you back They would rather stay in their bondage and take Samson back. So Samson consents to do it. Look at verse 12. And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me that ye will not fall upon me yourselves. Now Samson allows himself to be bound. The one condition is if you bind me, you need to promise that you yourself will not fall upon me. You won't try to kill me while I'm bound yourself Now I don't think that Samson was worried about the fact that they could kill him. I think he just did not want to fight against his own countrymen, and you have to give him credit for that. But why does he allow himself to be bound? Again, he doesn't want to fight with his own people. I think he knew that the ropes couldn't hold him. And I think really he's allowing himself to be taken because he's baiting the enemy into a trap. Rather than going out and running after all those Philistines, why not let them all come to me? Let them all come together as one and let them all come to me. And I think really that's what he has in mind here. And this also shows God's providence in work. This entire narrative demonstrates again how God is using this flawed servant to accomplish his purpose to judge the Philistines. We'd already saw in chapter 14, verse number 4, where it says, it was of the Lord, because God was uh that God was using this that he would have an occasion against the Philistines. God was seeking an occasion against the Philistines. And so even Samson's surrender becomes part of God's larger plan They think they have 'em now, but no they don't. What appears to be weakness, what appears to be uh humiliation on Samson's part is actually a setup for one of the greatest victories he's going to have against the Philistines. And God again often works in this way. He might allow his servants at a time to be bound to fulfill his larger purpose. Joseph was sold into Egypt But God used that for his purpose. David was hunted by Saul. Daniel was cast into a lion's den. Each time God used that to fulfill his own purpose. And this is what God is going to do here with Samson. And so notice next the conquest of the enemy. Look down to verse fourteen. And so the Bible says they they bound him with two new cords. They brought him from the rock. Verse 14. And when he came to Lehi So here he is bound, and the army of the Philistines is there. And when they see him, it says the Philistines shouted against him. I mean, I think they got up and they ran towards him And then what does the Bible say? This is great. And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became his flax, that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands. And so here the Spirit of the Lord just falls upon Samson. The word here is a word that means to come to rush upon, to advance forcefully, like electricity flowing through a conduit, God's Spirit just comes upon Samson in a mighty way. And this is for the purpose of Samson having this victory. Again, this is the same Hebrew word used to speak when the Spirit of God comes upon someone and empowers them for something extraordinary, for some extraordinary action. And so the ropes just melt away. And uh one commentator I like what Leon Woods wrote. He says he believes that when Samson's Uh when the Philistines saw Samson break the ropes, they were rushing to him, and when he breaks the ropes, they turned and started running away. They made it a bow face. Leon Woods writes they wanted no part of anyone who could do such feasts. But fleeing they became only easier prey for the mighty Samson. And then what does he do? He finds an unorthodox weapon. Look at verse 15. And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith. A thousand men. And the jawbone in verse 15 underscores one of the recurring themes throughout the whole book of Judges. And what is that? That got God often delivers his people through unorthodox instruments. Judges repeatedly surprises us by showing us the weapons that God uses to accomplish his victories. I mean the jawbone of a donkey is not a military weapon. It's not sharp like a sword. It's not something that you would choose to go out into battle. And the reader is supposed to think, you know, how could this possibly work? And the answer is only one, because of the power of God. Only because of God. And again, this fits the pattern of We see in Judges where God uses unexpected instruments to accomplish his purpose. Samgar uh Shamgar in Judges 331 killed six hundred Philistines with an oxcode. Jael killed Sisera with a tent peg. Gideon had his 300, and what were their weapons? It was just simply torches and pictures and lamps and so on. Humanly speaking, the strategy would be absurd. And now here is Samson, and he defeats a thousand Philistines with the jawbone of a donkey. Why does God use unorthodox instruments? Because the whole message of the book of judgment of judges is salvation is of the Lord. It is God who does it. And so I love what Daniel Bloch wrote in his excellent commentary, that this emphasizes that the victory belongs entirely to Yahweh. entirely to the Lord. And again, that's the message here. The weapon looked foolish, but God often accomplishes his purposes through what it may be foolish to others. Now another thing that we have to point out about this is that Samson did not hesitate to grab this jawbone, this dead animal, part of a dead animal, and you have to remember that according to number 66 as a Nazarite he was not supposed to touch anything like this a dead body. This is another example of Samson's disregard For his vow of consecration to the Lord. He didn't hesitate to just pick up this bone and to use it And again, that we we saw where Samson had already been drifting. This is not an isolated event. Earlier we saw where he taught he touched the carcass of a lion. Uh he probably drank wine in that wedding feast. And here he he again we see the same pattern where he treats holy things casually, and yet God still empowers him. That's the tension that we see in the passage. Samson is compromised, and yet God still uses him. And this is one of the great themes of Samson's life. This story doesn't celebrate his compromise. Rather, it magnifies the sovereignty and the mercy of God. God is not using Samson because of Samson. God is using Samson in spite of Samson. It is the mercy of God that does it. But what we see is Samson is continuing to compromise, and his life will move closer to destruction because of it And really the lesson that we learn from this is that giftedness is not the same as godliness. A person may be very gifted A person may be very strong and wise in their own way, and God can use that, but just because they're gifted and just because they're effective in using that God-given gift doesn't necessarily mean that they're godly And that's what Samson shows us here. He's not a godly person, but he's a very gifted person. So this is an incredible display. of divine power, and yet it came through a man who was so very flawed, whose motives were still very mixed. He's not out there for the glory of God, he's still out there for himself. Again, God can empower flaw servants when it serves his higher purpose, when it serves his sovereign purpose. Someone said that a crack bell can still ring, but the sound is distorted. Samson's victories rang out loud but not clear. But notice the third lesson we learn from this. We see God's purpose has survived despite our foolishness. God's power strengthens despite our selfishness. But here's the third lesson we can learn. God's provision sustains despite our forgetfulness. Next we see right after this slaughter, Samson gives a poem. Now, he he seemed to be a man who liked riddles and poems. It kind of strikes me when I read him, you know. He already had a riddle that he wanted the Philistines to uh to solve. And now here, right after the battle, he puts together this this poem, and in his typical narcissist narcissistic fashion, he really makes it about himself and his victory. I mean, the theme of it is I. Look at verse 16. And Samson said, with the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of an ass, have I slain a thousand men. I slay a thousand men. How forgetful we are. I mean, who was it that did this victory? It's like the coach who said to the team, you know, there's no eye and team. And one player said, Yeah, but there's an I and win. And here's Samson saying, you know, here's the I and win. I win here, it's my victory. He's celebrating his win. I have struck down a thousand men. And to appreciate this poem, you need to know that there's a wordplay in Hebrew. The Hebrew word for donkey and heap is spelled the same. It's spelled exactly the same in Hebrew So a more playful English rendering might sound something like this. With the jawbone of a jackass, I have made them a mess. With the jaw of a mule, I made heaps of those fools. That's kind of an English equivalent, you know, not quite, but you kind of get the idea there. There's a word play going on in the Hebrew there. But notice that this poem says nothing about God. It was the Spirit of God that gave the victory. How soon we forget. And look at verse number 17. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called the name of that place Rameth Lehi. Or so he memorializes his victory there and he renames it Ramath Lehi, which is Jawbone Hill. That's literally what it means, Jawbone Hill. Now you might think, well, he's talking here about a geographical spot. Everyone will see that spot there, kind of a military designation. This is Jawbone Hill. But really the hill that he's referring to here is not geographical. The hill is the mounds of corpses that he stacked up there The bodies of the Philistines. I mean, he killed a thousand. So a thousand men are stacked up there on a heap. And that's what he names Jawbone Hill. to commemorate his victory there at that place. So we see Samson's poem, but then we see Samson's prayer. Because as the adrenaline dies down and the thrill of victory begins to fade, he realizes how thirsty he is. Look at verse number 17. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking that he cast the jawbone out of his hand and he called the name of faith Rahm Lehi. And verse eighteen, and he was sore of thirst, and called upon the Lord and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant, and now shall I die for thirst and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised Samson realizes how thirsty he is. There's no spring around. I mean, he's he's so worn down that he could die of thirst. He's desperate. He needs some water fast. So here for the first time And the book of Judges is Samson crying out to God. This is the first time we read of Samson praying to the Lord. And uh In this, he's a mirror of Israel. He only cries out to God when he's desperate. And he's not praying for the nation, he's praying for himself. Now, at first, when you look at this prayer, it seems to be pretty good. But a closer look reveals it to be a really selfish prayer. Now to his credit, he does acknowledge the role of God in the deliverance. Okay, good, Samson. You did acknowledge the Lord here. But the prayer comes across really bold and demanding, almost like a complaint to God. That's the way it comes across. He prays with a sense of pride and entitlement I mean, he does call himself your servant, but Samson has only been serving his own interests and not God's interests. And even though he mentions God, the expression in Hebrew shows that he feels like he deserves the credit. By the hand of your servant, you got this victory by the hand of your servant. By me? I mean you got this because of me. Daniel Block again writes, his prayer is as narcissistic as his manner of life. And then the next part of the prayer, shall I now die of thirst? Again, he's not concerned about the fate of Israel, he's not concerned about the honor of God's name, he's not concerned about the deliverance work he has yet to do This is purely personal. It's more a cry of self-pity. Here I won this great victory, and now you're going to leave me here to die of thirst? I mean, that's really the sense of the prayer here. And then he says this, and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised? Since when are you worried about being defiled by pagan Philistines? I mean you married a Philistine and you're hanging around the Philistines more than you're in your own place. What's all this sudden concern about defilement and ritual purity? Where's this sensitivity to contamination when his parents protested about marrying the Philistine to begin with? I mean, you know, it's almost like he's trying to manip to manipulate God. All of a sudden now he's concerned about his separation and his Purity. You know, God, you're going to let me die thirst and then fall into the hands of these uncircumcised Philistines. But you know the amazing thing about this is that God answers his prayer. That's the patience and mercy of God. You know, if we're honest, some of the prayers that we pray are pretty pathetic Some of the prayers that we pray are pretty bad, selfishly oriented, and yet God in his mercy and patience, he answers us. He still gives us the answers that we need. So notice verse 19. But God clave a hollow place that was in the jaw. And there came water thereout, and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived. Again, this is an amazing mercy of God in response to this selfish prayer. And again, we need to examine, you know, when I study this, I I I I I got convicted because I said, you know, Lord, sometimes I'm so selfish the way I pray. And we need to remember the words of our Lord Jesus when he taught us to pray. Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done. To put God's interests first before our own here. Samson had forgotten God until he was desperate, but God did not forget Samson. And so God, being merciful He answers the prayer. A child may only call for a parent when in trouble, but a loving parent still comes running. And God is our loving Father. He pities us. He knows our frame. He remembers that we're dust. But then we see you know one final thing here about Samson, Samson's proclamation. Because you would think even after this, this is a miraculous answer to prayer. I mean water comes out of you know the ground, no God just makes a spring there for him. That's an incredible answer to prayer. You might think, you know, wow. And Samson is wowed by that. And now he's going to name the place of this spring after God. You better guess again. That's not what happens here. Wherefore he called the name of it thereof En Hakur. And what does that mean? The spring of him who called The spring of him who called. You remember that story in Genesis chapter 16 where Hagar is in the wilderness and she's about to die of thirst and God is merciful and preserves her by a fountain there in the wilderness. And the angel reveals himself to her. And you remember what she named the well? The Bible says in Genesis 16 that she named it Bir Laha Roy, the well of the God who sees me. She named that well after God. You're the God who sees me. And here, and but by the way, she was an Egyptian woman, and she honors the Lord by naming the well after him. You would think that Samson would name the well after the spring after God, but no, it's not the spring of the one who hears prayer. And he answers miraculously, that's not the name. It's the spring of the one who called. It's all about Samson. It's all about him. And again, Bloch, I refer to him, writes, it memorializes the power of this man to manipulate and move the hand of God rather than the gracious action of God on his behalf. But despite Samson's forgetfulness, God is faithful. God is faithful. And that's really the thing that we need to learn. Even when we're forgetful, God is faithful. And God's mercy is so great. When we're faithless, he remains faithful And so, Judges 15 reminds us that God's purpose is stand even when his people stumble. His purpose is continued despite our foolishness. His strength appears despite our selfishness. His mercy provides despite our forgetfulness. Samson was a man of divine calling, but he had a divided loyalty, and he was so flawed, and yet God still sovereignly accomplished his purposes in his life. God was still working to deliver his people. And God still does the same today. God's plan of redemption doesn't depend on perfect people. God's plan doesn't depend upon flawless people. But let's end this by again pointing to Christ because all of this again should point us to the perfect deliverer Jesus Christ. While Samson fought for himself, Jesus fought for us. Completely selfish. While Samson used his strength to kill others, Jesus used his strength to save others. Where Samson's victory was temporary, Christ's victory is eternal. And so let us be reminded about our perfect deliverer, our perfect mighty one. Who is mighty to save, who is always faithful to us, even when we're not faithful to him. And let us be mindful to always give God the glory for any good victory that happens in our life because we know it is from Him And he alone deserves the glory for that. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you again for this reminder in your word of your mercy and your long-suffering and your grace, and how you, Lord, are not limited by the flaws of people. But your purpose will be established. The thing that you do, Lord, cannot be overturned by the sins of men. And Lord, your patience and your kindness and your mercy is not because of us, it's in spite of us. And how we thank you for that and we praise you for that in Jesus' name, Amen