All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight, please? And I want you to open to the book of Judges, chapter number seven. On Wednesday nights we're going through the book of Judges. And tonight we're going to deal with chapter 7, a very familiar story, I think, to many of us with regard to the life of Gideon. And the title of the sermon tonight is Victory by God's Power, Not Ours. Uh there have been great moments in history when just a few were able to overcome a multitude. I remember just over a year ago we went to Greece and uh while we were there we were able to visit a very famous uh mountain pass. That was a place where uh the Persian army, under the leadership of Xerxes I, invaded Greece with uh hundreds of thousands of soldiers. And in that narrow pass, they were met by just a group of 300 soldiers, Spartan soldiers, under the leadership of Leonidas I. And uh they met that huge army and were able to hold them off. And that is a very famous battle in Greece. In fact, if you go to that spot you can see uh uh a statue that is dedicated to Leonidas and that brave army of three hundred men that were very legendary for that battle. Now there's a story here that we're going to look at tonight in Judges chapter seven. It's about another 300. Before there was Leonidas I and his three hundred, there was Gideon and his three hundred here in the Bible. And the difference between these two battles that were uh that will that we see is very, very significant. Uh the battle with the gr the the three hundred Spartans did not end it the way they wanted it to end, although they were very brave and heroic. They didn't end with the victory that they wanted. However The 300 in this story tonight end with overwhelming victory. It's a tremendous victory. And the big difference is that The Spartan 300 is an example of what bravery, man strength can do. Valent soldiers who are heroic. and who are brave and who fight. That's an example of what they they can do and man gets the glory. But here in this story, this is an example of what God can do with the weakness of man. You see, it's not a bunch of brave soldiers that we're going to look at tonight. In fact, it's going to be a bunch of fearful soldiers. And God was able to use them. You know why? Because they were able to put their trust in God despite their fears. And that was the key here, and that's what we're going to learn. This victory here tonight that we're going to see in this chapter was not explained by courage or training or tactics. It was God who gave the victory. And so Judges chapter 7 teaches us how God prepares us to have great victory in our life. Maybe you're facing an overwhelming uh circumstance, some kind of overwhelming odds in your life, and you need God to come through for you. Well, we can look at this story and draw some principles that will help us. in our own life as we streak uh seek to have victory in our own life. Now there are three steps to victory when facing overwhelming odds that I want you to see in our story tonight. And here's number one. First of all, God reduces our strength. God reduces our strength. Look in look in chapter seven and look down at verse number one. Then Jeroboam, who was Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose early and pitched beside the well of Herod. So that the host of the Midianites were on the north side of them by the hill of Morah in the valley. Now so here the first thing again God's going to do is that God is going to kind of weaken this army that Gideon brings together. You know the problem with many people is not that they're too weak, but that they're too strong. That is a lot of times our problem. We're too self-reliant. We're too independent. And we're trusting in our own strength. There are a lot of people that are like uh the King Uzziah in the Bible, the Bible says of him he was marvelously helped till he was strong, but when he was strong his heart was lifted up unto his destruction And so a lot of times the problem that we have is not our weakness, but our strength and the pride that comes from our own strength. And so God has to reveal to us how truly weak that we are. And sometimes God has to put in us a circumstance that uh put before us a circumstance that's literally impossible for us to deal with. It's something from a human perspective that we're completely unable to And he does that to show us how weak we are, so that we will trust in his strength alone And that's why God is going to, first of all, going to reduce this army that Gideon has together. Notice first of all what I call the place of the reduction. We see this in verse number one It gives us a setting. Gideon's army encamped beside a spring. It's called the spring of Harad. Now strategically this was very wise because an army has to have water. A refreshed force can stand a better chance in a battle. But the name of the spring is very meaningful here. It's called the spring of Herod, which comes from the Hebrew word meaning to tremble or to quake. or to be afraid. So literally we could say it like this, the spring of trembling. He brings them to the spring of trembling. Now why would they name a place like that uh the spring of trembling. Well because it is the emotional state of the army that is gathered there. You may remember that we Earlier in Judges chapter 2, the people gathered at a place called Bokim because Bokim means weeping, and that was where they wept when the angel rebuked them for their disobedience. And so it was called Bokim, the place of weeping. Well, here we have the same thing. Israel is trembling at the spring, and therefore it is called Herod, the spring of trembling. And they had every reason to tremble, because the odds against them were overwhelming. Now Gideon has gathered together thirty-two thousand soldiers. We saw that in Judges chapter six, verse 35. 30 35, excuse me, 32,000 soldiers, 32,000 men. That sounds impressive until you compare it to what they were facing. Because Judges chapter 8, verse number 10 tells us that the Midianites numbered 135,000 men. In fact, look in chapter 7, look down in verse number 12. Just look at that verse there. It says, And the Midianites And the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay alone in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude, and their camels were without number as the sand by the seaside for multitude. That doesn't sound like a very fair fight to me. Here's an army that is uh d that's hard to even number. And the camels, which were were instruments of warfare. were numerous, the Bible says. As the men were looking down into the valley of Jezreel, they see an army that looks like a l an ocean of living people there. Camels were everywhere, tents were everywhere, torches were everywhere. One commentator writes this, the enemy looks like a plague of locusts, Israel looks like a small town militia. And so you can understand why these men were trembling. while they were there at that spring. It's not accidental. And by the way, God led them to this spring before he leads them onto the veil to the field of victory. God had to show them their weakness before he can actually give them the victory. And that's what God has to do with us a lot of times. God has to show us our weakness. before God can give us the victory that we need. Matthew Henry says this: when God designs to magnify his own power, he first makes us sensible of our weakness. And so there are times when God is going to have to bring you to your spring of Harad. There are seasons when you're going to stand in front of something that is so much bigger than you. So intimidating to you. It may be a financial strain, it could be a health crisis, it could be an impossible responsibility, some kind of a leadership weight, and you tremble before this thing that is before you But what if the trembling is not evidence that God has abandoned you? What if the trembling is evidence that God is about to do a work in you? Just write down Psalm 56, verse 3, where it says, At what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Fear is not the opposite of faith. Self-reliance is Self-reliance is the opposite of faith. And God brings us to places where we cannot trust ourselves. It's Martin Lloyd-Jones that said the Christian life is a life of utter dependence upon God. And so Harad teaches us that God is not alarmed by your trembling. He brought you here. And trembling can be a prelude to a great triumph in your life. This is the staging ground for a victory and a triumph that God wants to have in your life. So we see then the place of the reduction, but notice the purpose for the reduction. You would think that with the odds that the way they are, that God would say to Gideon, you know, 32,000 men is uh is not enough, you need to go out, you need to get some more men, Gideon. But that's the opposite. God doesn't say you need reinforcements. Instead, what does God say to him? Well, look down at verse number two. And the Lord said unto Gideon, the people that are with thee are too many for me. You have too many. 32,000 against 135,000. And God says that is excessive. You have too many men here. Now now the key to this whole passage I think is in verse two, uh the latter part of verse two. Why are they too many? Notice the rest of it where it says, Lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me. This is the key to the entire chapter. The problem was not military weakness, the problem was spiritual pride. God was not concerned about Midian's size. He was concerned about the state of Israel's heart. And God knows Israel He knows the pride that they had in their hearts. Matthew Henry said, pride is one of the most dangerous enemies God's people have. And therefore God sometimes empties them that they may not be exalted above measure. Look in verse number two where it says vaunt, you know, that they would vaunt, God says themselves, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me. Again, God knew Israel's history. They had a pattern. They would cry out in distress when a burden came. They would receive deliverance. And then somehow in their own mind they would think that they were the ones that gave them the victory. It was it was their ability that was able to overcome that situation. And they would drift into pride and they would fall back into idolatry And if they won with 32,000 men, they would kind of rewrite the whole narrative and say, well, you know, it was our training, it was our strategy, it was our bravery. God says, no, that's not going to happen here. God is going to make sure that they understand that their victory comes from God and God alone. It couldn't possibly happen because of them. Uh and so God is going to make that message very, very clear. When Gideon's army is overcomes this massive army, the the enemy army with three hundred men, no one's gonna be able to say, wow, what a great general Gideon is. Or, man, what an incredible strategy they had. No, they're going to be leave the field saying, what a mighty God they have. What a mighty God they have. And so this reduction is not punishment, it's protection. You see, the weakness is not the enemy, the weakness is pride. And scripture gives a lot of warnings against pride. Martin Lloyd-Jones said the greatest enemy of the Christian life is self-sufficiency. And so God removes every ground for boasting so that grace alone stands here in this story. And so this is what God will do in your life. This is how God works among us. God reduces human strength in order to reveal divine power. God sometimes will shrink the budget. Sometimes God will shrink the attendance, the manpower, the influence. Sometimes God will shrink the options, the comfort, the certainty. And what is our response normally? Well, we panic, but heaven says, No, it's perfect. My strength is made perfect. and your weakness. So there's the purpose of reduction. We see the place of reduction, the purpose of reduction, but then notice the next thing, the process. God is going to sift through this army. And notice how he does it. Before God sends them, he will sift them. And he'll do two tests here to thin out the army. And he's not simply just sending out an army. He's training people to trust in him. And so notice the first sifting. I call this the sifting of fear. Look at verse number three. Now therefore God says to Gideon, go to proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from Mount Gilead. So here God gives the command. You just go and stand before the army and tell the army, Look if you're afraid, you just go ahead and go home and you would think, Oh, surely these guys aren't gonna well, you know, leave because of that. I mean these are men, these are soldiers, they're gonna man up. They're not gonna show You think so? Well the Bible says in verse number three, and there returned of the people twenty and two thousand, and there remained ten thousand. Well, 22,000 immediately leave. Oh, are you okay? Sure. Are you sure, Gideon? Okay, we're out of here. They just left. They just up and walk away. If you're afraid, God says go home. That's a staggering result. 22,000 leave, 10,000 remain. You say, why would God send away the fearful? Well, because fear spreads and fear infects. Fear is contagious. One trembling soldier can make a line collapse. God's not going to build his victory upon panic and instability. Again, Matthew Henry says this: that God would not have such men to fight for Israel as had no heart in them. And the real truth of the matter is, is when the battle came, these men wouldn't be able to stand anyway. So it's better to get rid of them before the battle starts than after the battle. Sometimes God will reduce the crowd around you, not because you are failing, but because he is removing those that cannot stand under pressure. When the fight gets serious, commitment is required. And casual commitment fades away When obedience to God will cost you something, shallow loyalty evaporates. When trouble comes, some just turn back. And God will allow that. Again, not to discourage us, but to clarify. God is not impressed by but with how many show up at the beginning. But he's impressed with those who will stand when the trumpet sounds. You ever notice when you start something new, there's always a big crowd that's there to start out with you? But how many are there when it's all said and done? When commitment is required, when perseverance is required, how many are actually going to follow through with that? And so, who will stand when the trumpet sounds? But there's another lesson that I see here about fear that we can learn. Fear is not just an emotion, it is often a revelation of what we're trusting. It's a revelation of what we're trusting. You see, if I trust numbers, then when the numbers shrink, I'm going to be afraid Or if I trust resources, then when the resources start to dry up, then I'm going to be afraid. Or if I trust control. Then when I'm when I lose control, when that's all gone, then I'll be afraid And so really fear is reveals that what you're trusting in. What is the thing that you are trusting in? Now I've heard preachers argue that fear and faith cannot dwell together. Here's another thing I'd like to point out. I've heard that many times. Fear and faith cannot dwell together, but I would just like to argue that point and say that is not true. Even the strongest faith can have some fear mingled in with it. Remember what David said again in Psalm 56 verse 3? At what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Notice David didn't say, I have faith, I'll never be afraid. No. He says, when I'm afraid, then I'm going to trust. Fear is acknowledged. Faith is exercised. They're both dwelling together there. And so this is not the absence of fear. It's the subordination of fear. Faith is not the absence of fear, it's the decision to trust God in spite of your fears. And not give way to fear, not be overwhelmed by fear. And so this is not saying that any believer who ever feels fear is disqualified. Gideon himself felt fear. We saw this right in chapter 6. He was very fearful. I mean, that's how we found him, hiding behind the winepress while he was sifting wheat. But God brought his uh Gideon to a place to where he was obedient. And Gideon brought his fear to God, and he obeyed anyway. So the issue here is not the presence of fear, but the rule of fear. We cannot let fear get the victory over us. That's the point. We cannot be dominated and ruled by fear. Fear may visit, but fear cannot reign in us. So faith and fear can inhabit the same heart temporarily, but only one can actually sit on the throne. And you have to uh not allow fear to govern and to rule you. One man wrote this, we shall never be free of fear in this life. But faith restrains and moderates it. And I think that's so very true. But notice the second sifting. I call this the sifting of focus. And uh so at the first reduction, Gideon still has 10,000 men. But again, look in verse number four. And the Lord said unto Gideon, the people are yet too many. That's still too many, Gideon. Ten thousand is still too many. We need to wheel it down some more. So the Lord is going to bring them to the water And God, the Bible says God will try them there. Look at verse 4 and the Lord said unto Gideon, the people are yet too many, bring them down into the water, and I will try them there. For thee there, and it shall be that they that of whom I say unto thee, this shall go with thee, and the same shall go with thee, and of whomever I say unto thee, this shall not go with thee, the same shall not go So God is going to bring them down to the water. He has a test for them there right at the spring. And what is the test? Look at verse 5. So he brought them down. down the people unto the water, and the Lord said unto Gideon, Every one that lapeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by thyself Likewise everyone that bowed down upon his knees to drink, and and verse six, and the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men, and all the rest. bow down upon their knees to drink the water. So what's happening here at the water tests? Well the men will respond in two ways. Everyone will get an opportunity to drink water to refresh themselves by the spring, and Gideon is to observe. And some men, some men kneel down and they put their face to the water. I mean they're just down there with their face all the way in the water. And then some will laugh water with their hands. They'll bring their hand down into the water, they'll bring it back up to their mouth, and they'll laugh the water out of their hand, bringing it to their mouth Only 300 men actually use their hand to bring the water to their mouth and to lap it. 300. And these were the 300 that were chosen. The rest are sent away. Now you say, what's going on here? I know this passage has kind of been allegorized through history, so we have to be careful not to overdo it here. I do think, however, that there's there's it's reasonable to observe that those who lap their water with their hand remain more ready and more alert less absorbed, while others appeared to lose awareness of the moment. These men were chosen because they were more focused. on the battle, on the enemy. Uh they were more vigilant. Whereas the other men, they just kind of put their face into the water in a in a kind of a a you could say a a careless way. Not really concerned about the battle or the enemy behind them. But the other men were a little bit more vigilant in the way that they drank the water. So God chose the men whose posture kept them from becoming consumed by their appetite, we could say Some soldiers are more controlled by their wants than what is more necessary And so I think the application is that God sifts our appetites. Water is a legitimate need, yet even legitimate needs can overwhelm us and become dominating demands. Some men drank as if nothing else mattered. And some men drank while they were also at the same time ready. They remain ready. So the issue is not that you have needs. The issue is whether your needs rule you, whether your comforts control you, whether your appetites dull your readiness for what God has This second sifting asks this question. What happens to you when your legitimate desires are put in front of you? Are you still watchful? Are you still disciplined? Are you still God-centered, even when those needs are those things are put in front of you? The Bible tells us later in the New Testament that uh thou endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that wareth entangles himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who has chosen him to be a soldier. And so, appetites must not dominate readiness. So, in summary, God will sift the army in two ways. First, with fear, who will turn back when the pressure rises. Secondly, with focus. Who will stay alert when relief is offered? Who will put comfort and appetites above readiness? So God reduces the strength of this army, and that's what God will do to us a lot of times. He will reduce our strength. But here's number two. God reassures his servant. This is the second step. God reassures his servant. So though Gideon had seen God's power, he was still afraid. And I imagine the night before the battle, he is uh tossing and turning in his bedrobe. He's trying to maintain faith, but he still has some fear in him. And God knows this. Look in verse number nine. And it came to pass the same night that the Lord said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host, for I have delivered it into thine hand. So God is going to give assurance to Gideon in that moment of fear. No, God is so very gracious, and he wants to give Gideon this Another confirmation. God had already confirmed victory to Gideon before. He'd already done that. But uh Gideon is it Gideon and you know still has some fear in him. And it we should note here that Gideon is not asking for another sign. God just graciously offers it because God knows his heart. God knew the heart of his servant. And so even though God had already given the other signs, you remember that Fire from the rock in chapter six and then the f the fleece, you know, was was wet one day and it was dry the next and and that test that Gideon gave the Lord. All of this was God's confirmation, but even this even Despite those signs, Gideon is still struggling. Now we I would just say this about Gideon. Even though he had fear, he was still obeying. He believed God. You say, how do we know that? Well, he was there. He was there. He was ready to fight. He was doing what God said, but he still had some fear. And I want you to notice that God doesn't rebuke him for that. We should be grateful that God understands us. He doesn't condemn us when we have doubts and fears. God is patient with his servants And if you're battling with a fear in your life, God is not out to rebuke you. He wants to reassure you. And that's exactly what God is doing here with Gideon. The Bible says this in Psalm 103, verse 14, for he knoweth our frame, and he remembers that we are dust. We have a great high priest who understands our weaknesses and who's sympathetic to our infirmities. And so God is patient and he's gracious. And he understands Gideon's fear. And he gives him another word. Look again in verse 9, the latter part which says, For I have delivered it into thy hand. Again, God gives another affirming word. Gideon, I've given you the victory. It's already yours. But there's something else that God does. Notice Gideon's assignment. We see God's assurance. God will assure him, despite his fear But he also gives them an assignment. There's something else that God wants Gideon to do here. This is the prescription for Gideon's continual fear. God tells them to take a visit to the enemy camp at night. Notice verse number 10. But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Fura, thy servant. Down to the host, and thou shalt hear what they say, and afterward it shall strengthen thy hands. God is going to give Gideon another sign. And God says, This is going to encourage you, Gideon. But notice the encouragement will come only after his obedience. Now, if you're afraid of the enemy, what's the last thing you want to do? You want to sneak into their camp at night. But God is telling Gideon, this is what I want you to do. I want you to go down to their camp. God is requiring Gideon to face his fear. Go down, slip into the camp. So Gideon, face your fear. God doesn't say, wait here and I will remove all your fear. In a sense, God says, No, step forward into what frightens you, and I will strengthen you there. And this is God's method with us many times. He doesn't limit eliminate every anxious thought before obedience. He calls us forward and he strengthens us in the act of obedience. It will take courage for Gideon to go into this enemy camp. To get close enough to where he can actually overhear a conversation that's going on between these enemy soldiers, between two Midian soldiers, and this is exactly what he does. So Gideon it goes into the enemy camp. Providentially he'll get there at the right time, this is God's timing, at the very moment that these two Soldiers are talking. Look down at verse number twelve. And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of East lay along the valley like grasshoppers for multitude, and their camels camels without number as the sand by the Seaside for multitude. Verse 13. And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian. and came into a tent, and smote it, that it fell, and overturned it, that the tent lay along. And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, the man of Israel, for into his hand hath God delivered Midian and all the hosts. Incredible here. Gideon sneaks into the camp. He overhears this conversation. One man says to another, hey, I had a I had a really crazy dream last night. What did you dream? Well, I dreamed that a barley loaf rolled into the camp. And it overturned all the tents kind of like imagine a bowling ball, you know, tumbling over pins. Here's this barley loaf that just rolls into the camp. Now in the ancient Near East, streams were very, very special. In fact in Mesopotamia Um they had dream manuals to interpret these dreams. They were so very meaningful to many of the people, especially in a crisis situation, right before a battle, kings would often consult with dream interpreters before the battle And so here is this dream, this vivid dream that the soldier has, and he says, you know, and this is what happened. Here's this barley loaf and it it comes into the into the camp and it just tumbles over the tents And God is using this dream. You can say God gave them this dream and is using this as an idea to terrify the soldiers. And as he's telling this dream The symbolism is very clear here. The barley loaf rolling into the camp. By the way, barley was the bread of the poor. It was the cheapest grain. And this symbolizes weakness. And this barley loaf represents Gideon, Gideon who was said, my family is poor. I'm the least of my father's house house. He is the barley loaf. Small, he's insignificant, he is unimpressive, and yet this loaf comes in and it overturns all of the tents. The tents symbolize Midian's nomadic dominance, these tents, this army that is moving, it uh uh symbolizes the military power and structure of this whole army. And here's this little barley loaf that just wipes out these tents. And the man who's listening to this, the comrade interprets it, and he said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon. For into his hand hath God delivered Midian. He understands it correctly. In God's hand, this little barley loaf is going to be a mighty force. And so the message is God topples tents of power with loaves of weakness. And so when Gideon hears this, he immediately, his fear immediately turns to faith. I love verse 15. Look what it says. And it was so. That when Gideon heard the telling of the dream and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, I love that response. First thing he does is he worships. This is the turning point. This is before the battle, before the trumpets, there's worship. And all his fear gives way to adoration. And this trembling leader becomes this worshiping leader. This is true strengthening. And then now all of a sudden he's filled with courage and he rallies the 300. Look at the rest of verse 15 where he comes back. And he says, Arise, for the Lord hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian. So notice the shift. Before the dream there's this hesitation, but after the dream there's no more hesitation. There's this proclamation. Courage now flows out of the worship. that he has for God. Fear turns into faith and he rallies these men. God often gives us unexpected encouragement to remind us that he is in control. I mean, I imagine Gideon went into that camp expecting some kind of a sign that God was going to give him from heaven. Instead, what he receives is encouragement from the mouth of the enemy. That was an unexpected encouragement. And God will sometimes strengthen you, maybe perhaps through an unexpected conversation, maybe through a providential circumstance or some kind of encouragement that's unlikely. But God rules over every detail. And God reassures his servants. So God reduces our strength. God reassures his servant. But here's the third thing quickly. God reveals his strategy. And this is from verses 16 on down to verse number 25. When Gideon returns to the camp, again he's a new man. And the plan that he gives is really not his own plan. This is a plan that the Lord gives him So look down at verse number sixteen. And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand with the empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers. And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise, and behold, when I come outside of the camp, it shall be that as I do, so shall ye do. So Gideon divides the men into three companies. Each man carries a trumpet, an empty clay pitcher, and a lamp inside of that. There's no no swords here, there's no shields, just jars. and and and lamps and uh and the uh trumpets and the and the and this by the way a trumpet was uh uh typical And so really the the picture here, the illusion is of a vast army. If one trumpet was was per several hundred in a in a army, and you have three hundred of these trumpets, it gives the illusion that there's a big army there. And now in verse 17, Gideon, he speaks with confidence. He says, look, you just do what I do. You watch, you follow, you obey. This is the definition of a leader now. There's no hesitation. And notice verse 18, notice his instructions. When I blow it the trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side of the camp, and say the sword of the Lord and of Gideon I love that. At Gideon's signal, blow the trumpets. And uh and then you say the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. So they are to blow the trumpets, as Gideon said. And they'll also, along with that, they'll break the pictures and lift the torches, and they'll shout the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. Notice the order, the sword of the Lord. and of Gideon. The Lord comes first. Why? Because God is going to get the honor from this battle. So look at verse number 19. So Gideon and the hundred men that were with him came into the outside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch, and they had but newly set the watch, and they blew the trumpets, and they broke the pitchers that were in their hands. So the in the beginning of the middle watch, that's approximately 10 p. m. to midnight. That's the changing of the guard. That would be the moment when they were the most vulnerable. God's timing is precise here. And so notice their actions in verse number 20. And the three companies blew the trumpets and break the pictures and held the lance in their left hands and the trumpets in their right hands. to blow with all, and they cried, the sword of the Lord and of Gideon. And so the trumpets are blown, the pitchers are broken, the lamps burn brightly there. It's a beautiful message that I see in this for us today. You know what? The light could not shine until the clay was shattered. And a lot of times God will have to break you before people can see the light in you. God often uses broken things to reveal his glory. The earth and vessel had to be cracked before the light could be seen. And so Brokenness is not discarding you. Brokenness is God displaying Himself through you. But look at verse number 21 I love this. And they stood every man in his place round about the camp, and all the hosts ran and cried and fled. Some would say, Well what happened after that? There's confusion in the camp? Well did Gideon's men then, you know, take the swords and go out and and And you know, go after these men and and cut them down? No. Verse 21 tells us you know what they're doing? They're they're standing around, they're watching. Because God is the one doing all this. They don't charge. They don't swing swords. They stood and watched. And God did all of the rest. A lot of times all we can do, and what God wants us to do, is just to stand still and watch Him work. Watch Him do it. Then notice verse 22 and verse 23. And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the Lord set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the hosts. And the hosts fled. So now that in panic, these Midianites and the Amalekites, they're turning on each other. They begin to devour each other. It's not the Israelites that defeat the Midianites, it's the Lord who does it. And so what happens in verse 24 and 25 is that now the wider tribes join in pursuit, the princes of Midian fall. The oppression that plagued Israel is now over, and the barley loaf has turned, overturned the tents of Midian. But it wasn't the strength of Gideon's army, it wasn't their weapons, it wasn't their numbers. It was the strategy of God. It was God. It was God who did it all. And God gets all the glory for it. So let me make just four quick applications. Quick I know I'm out of time here. Be careful what you ask for. So he let me just give these quickly. Number one, God uses broken people. That's what I see from this story. If you feel cracked If you feel your strength is thin, if your confidence has been shattered, you're a perfect candidate for God to use you. And number two, another application is hidden light has to be revealed. The lamp was there all along, but it was concealed. Some believers carry the light, but it never shines because they're not broken enough. And the clay has to be surrendered, it has to be broken. And when God allows break-in, he may be preparing you for something great. Number three, stand where God places you. I love verse 21. It's very powerful. They stood every man in his place. You don't need this you don't need someone else's physician. You need to stand in the place that God has put you. You need obedience in your spot. Victory comes when God's people stand faithfully where He assigns them. And then another one would be the battle is the Lord's. Again, we see this. The Lord is the one who gives the victory. When you surrender, God moves When you shine and your brokenness and humility, God fights. So Gideon's 300 did not win because they were strong. They won because they were obedient Because they were broken, because they were bright. They did exactly what the Lord said. And perhaps that's what God is doing in you. God is breaking your pride. He's breaking your self-reliance. He's breaking your fear. So that when the moment comes, the trumpet will sound. The clay will crack, and the light of Christ will shine, because that's God's plan for you. So Judges 7 teaches us the principle of victory is by God's power, not by Ours. God reduces our strength so we won't boast in ourselves. He reassures his servants so that our fear will turn to faith. He reveals his strategy so that he alone gets the glory. But let me just say this: this whole chapter points to one who is greater than Gideon. We see these same principles in the life of our Lord Jesus. It was God's plan to give us the greatest victory, victory over sin and death. Through the weakness that Christ had to experience at the cross. He was broken there on the cross for us. At the cross, Jesus appeared weak. He was beaten. The disciples trembled, but it was in that weakness that God gave the greatest victory in all of history. A victory that we are partakers of as those that are in Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. tonight. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to just focus on what the God's Word has spoken to you about tonight. If you're here and you've never been saved, just know that Christ on the cross became weak by taking your sin upon himself, so that that sin would be defeated, so that Satan would be disarmed. So that death would be conquered. And your greatest victory comes by turning from your sin and putting your faith in his finished work. But secondly, you say, I'm already a Christian. Well perhaps God is reducing something in your life. Something is smaller, your numbers feel smaller, your strength is thinner. Don't mistake God's reduction for his rejection. God's not rejecting you. It may be that He's emptying you so that He can fill you. He's breaking you so that He can shine through. He's weakening you So that he can win through you. And the victory doesn't belong to the strong. It belongs to those who are surrendered. So just take a moment there and just say, Lord, work through me. Let your light shine through me. Maybe you're facing some kind of overwhelming odd in your life, some overwhelming circumstance, and you're afraid. It's okay. Just remember don't let that fear dominate you. Choose to put your faith in the Lord and trust Him. Father, again, thank you for this wonderful reminder in Scripture. Help us, Lord, to live accordingly, to apply all of this to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.