Thank you for ministering to us. Would you take your Bibles tonight, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. We're doing a study on Sunday nights in Hebrews chapter eleven and twelve that we're calling the Hall of Fame of Faith. And tonight I want to talk about walking with God by faith. In Hebrews chapter 11, we're going to be looking tonight at verses 5 and 6. A few years ago I had the privilege of going to an Oriol game and watching a game from in a suite on uh club level. My son Jeremiah sang at that game and the Orioles uh in return gave him the suite. uh to watch the game from and we went in there to that suite and when I walked in, guess who was there? Lo and behold, the uh the great Oriole The greatest third baseman to ever play. Brooks Robinson was sitting there in the suite waiting there. And uh he was my childhood hero, a Hall of Fame player. What a treat to be able to talk to him and watch an Oriol game with him and get to know him I gotta tell you he liked Carolyn a lot more than he liked me because Carolyn's from Arkansas and he's from Arkansas, so they had a little bit in common. But I enjoyed talking with him. We talked about a lot of things. Of course I told him I was a pastor and I invited him to grace. And we talked about another great Oriole who was a member of this church at one time, Pat Kelly. Many of you remember Pat Kelly. What a godly, godly man. Pat Kelly was. I was in Louisiana pastoring. I had him down from many of the youth conferences that we had there and he always preached the gospel with such power. And while Pat Kelly was an Oriol, he was a witness for the Lord. And uh he loved to tell a story of how he witnessed one time the Earl Weaver. Uh Pat Kelly was on deck getting ready to bat. Earl Weaver was in the dugout And he was uh being Earl Weaver saying some you know unkind things and some nasty words. And Pat Kelly looked at Earl Weaver and said, Earl, I wish you would learn to walk with Jesus. And uh Earl Weaver looked at Pat and he said, Pat, I wish you would learn to walk with the bases loaded. What does it mean to walk with uh God? That's what this passage is all about. And uh So let's find out what it truly means to walk with God as we look at this. Now remember the design of this chapter is to list Old Testament heroes of faith. These are people who came to God by faith. They were saved by faith. They lived by faith. They walked by faith. They died by faith. So why does the writer of Hebrews list them? Why does he focus on their life of faith? Well, he was emphasizing to the readers that faith is the only way that you can approach God. Faith is the only way that you can please God. Now you remember that first century Judaism was a system that was corrupted. It was a a religion that was corrupted. It wasn't Old Testament Judaism. It was a Judaism that kind of apostasized from the faith when they believed that you had to have works in order to please God. That the way to God was merit through works. That you gain salvation by effort, by ceremony, by uh your morality. But the writer of Hebrews is reminding them that faith is the way to God, not works. Faith and faith alone. In fact, we looked at it a few times, but look at it again, chapter 10, verse 38, if you look just up a few verses from Hebrews 11 where it says this, now the just shall live by faith. The writer is quoting from Habakkuk 2. 4. Justification is being made right with God, and it comes through faith alone. It's being declared righteous by God because we place our faith in the finished work of Christ. God in return declares us righteous. We get saved by looking back at the cross, by putting our faith in the finished work. Old Testament saints were saved by looking forward to the cross and putting their faith in the finished work of Christ. So this idea of approaching God by faith. And being saved by faith, that is nothing new. And just to prove that coming to God by faith is not a new concept, the writer of Hebrews goes all the way back to the beginning. all the way back to the book of Genesis, and he goes through and he highlights Old Testament saints that were heroes because they place their faith In God, they came to God by faith. And he goes all the way back and he starts at Abel. And we looked at that verse last Sunday night on verse number four Where it says, by faith, Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice. Abel came to God by faith, and he was accepted. Cain came to God by works, and he was rejected. So the first example was Abel, the son of Adam and Eve, who demonstrated that the only way you can come by God and be accepted by God is by faith. Not by works. Cain wanted to give the works of his hands, the the the produce as a farmer he wanted to bring to the altar. Abel brought a lamb, which proved that uh someone innocent had to die. The blood of a innocent one had to be shed. to satisfy the wrath of God. And it pointed forward to that coming one who would die for sin. And Abel was simply following the instructions that God gave on how to worship And that's what faith is. It is believing in the Word of God and acting on it. And so Abel then Came to God by faith. Now the next illustration that we see is in verse number five. The writer says some interesting things about Enoch. If Abel shows us how to enter the life of faith. Enoch tells us how to live the life of faith or how to walk by faith. So notice verse 5. By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death. And was not found. Because God had translated him, for before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God. Notice in verse 5. Three times it mentions the word translated. It says he was not found. One day they just couldn't find Enoch because he was translated. You might say he was lost in translation. Look, if I think the joke is funny, I want you to laugh, all right? Give me a courtesy laugh anyway. What does the word translate mean? Uh Usher, get this person out of here What does the word translate mean? It simply means a change of place or a change of location. In this case, it means he was taken up to heaven. Enoch is one of two people in biblical history that did not die. They were taken to heaven. God simply translated them from earth to heaven. And because of this, Enoch really becomes a type of the New Testament believer Who during the rapture will be taken to heaven. He really is a foreshadowing of that rapture when Jesus Christ comes again. There will be a day when Jesus comes and takes his children home. And there will be a generation of people that will not see death. At that time, those alive, when Jesus comes, will not die, but would be simply translated to heaven like Enoch. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we were the terminal generation that we didn't have to face death because we were taken to heaven at the rapture? It was Alexander McLaren, the great uh Scottish expositor, who loved to say, I'm not looking for a cleft in the ground called a grave, I'm looking for a cleft in the sky called glory. I'm not looking for the undertaker, I'm looking for the uppertaker. So Enoch is a type of the believer who's taken to heaven. God simply took him. And the Bible says in the Old Testament in Genesis 5 that Enoch walked with God. He walked with God, and God simply took him to heaven. And I think the writer of Hebrews wants to emphasize this. What is the reward for a life of faith? What happens to a person who comes to God by faith and walks by faith, well ultimately it will lead to God taking that person to heaven. That's the end of that walk If you live and I live a life of faith, God takes us to heaven. And so faith opens the door to eternal life. Now, in order to live a life of faith and walk by faith, there are three basic necessities that I want to show you here from our passage tonight. Number one, Is you must believe God. You must believe God. Again, look at verse 6. But without faith it's impossible to please him. For he that comes to God must believe that he is. And that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. What does it mean to believe that he is? It means that you believe that God is who he says he is. How God revealed himself in his word. When the author says that we must believe that God is, he means we must believe that God is exactly how the Word of God describes Him to us. The God of Scripture. Scripture reveals them. Sinful people cannot know the living and true God apart from God revealing himself to us. And how did God do that? He did it through the scripture. He does it through the Word of God. To believe in a God that you conceive of in your own mind, that's idolatry. That's making a God of your imagination. No, we believe that God is who He has revealed Himself to be in the revelation of Scripture, not as we imagine Him to be. But as he reveals himself to be. Again, many people create a God in their own imagination. That's not safe, because that's not the God of the Bible To believe God is to believe God's word. Now to get a closer look at Enoch, I want us to go to Genesis chapter 5. Because it gives us a little more details into the life of Enoch. So hold your place in Hebrews 11. But go to Genesis chapter 5, and let's look at his life as it's put in this chapter. Genesis 5 is all about the descendants of Adam. This is the family tree of Adam. Genesis 5 gives us the record of people who were born between Adam and Noah. These are all Adam's children and grandchildren. Of course, aren't we all? But these are the pre-flood family members of Adam. And here's what's interesting. is when you look at the numbers here, when you come to Genesis 5, you have specific numbers to indicate that the time of 1,656 years was from creation to the flood, 1,556 years. The people born between Adam And Noah are named here. And the firstborn are named. We know others were born, but the firstborn names are given here in Genesis 5. So this is a literal genealogy with no gaps in it. A literal genealogy. So in verse 4, we see the name Adam. He was the father of Seth, Genesis 5. 4. In verse 6, Seth became the father of Enosh. Down in verse number 10, Enosh became the father of Canaan. Verse 12, Canaan became the father of Mehal. How'd you like to call that name now? For supper. Methuselah, verse 22. In verse 25, Methuselah is the father of Lamech, and verse 29, Lamek is the father of Noah. And verse 32, Noah was the father of Shem and Japheth. So you have between Adam and Noah ten names we could say from Adam to Noah. Specific names. specifically identified in sequence, and even the age at which they died is all given here in Genesis 5 Now to show you the precision of this, we don't have time to go through all the passages, so let me just give it to you. 1 Chronicles chapter 1, we have a repeat of this genealogy. The exact names are given in 1 Chronicles 1 as they're given right here in Genesis 5. There's no deviation, there's no variation. In Luke chapter 3, verse 36, verse 38, the same genealogy is given, only we kind of work it backwards there in Luke 3. And then write down your margin, Jude verse 14, where it says, Enoch was the seventh from Adam. Enoch was the seventh from Adam. Now if you go back to Genesis 5 and 1 Chronicles 1 and Luke chapter 3 and you count, you'll find that Enoch is indeed the seventh from Adam. Again, there's no gaps there The seventh from Adam. So you have the testimony of the writer of Chronicles, you have the testimony of the writer of the Gospel of Luke, you have the testimony of the Epistle of Jude, that there's no gap here that there are no breaks in this genealogy. This is in fact a precise genealogy. Now just kind of follow that away. Just think about that. Another thing in Genesis 5 we see something interesting. If you look closely at the numbers, we see several things. In verse 3 It says that Adam was 130 years old when he had Seth. Then he lives on 800 years and he died at 930 years old That helps us to see that Adam was still alive when Enoch was born. When his son Methuselah Enoch has a son named Methuselah. Adam was still alive when Enoch was born, and he's still alive when Methuselah is born. So Adam is still alive 200 years into his life. So Methuselah could have met Adam. Methuselah actually overlapped Noah 600 years. And so the point is you have one man who bridges the gap between Adam and Noah. Just one man who bridges that gap between these two. Alright? That means Adam was alive during Enoch's years. Think about that. Why is that important? Well, because there was no written revelation at that time as of yet. Divine truth was passed down orally. It was given orally. Adam would have been a witness to the people of that day as to God and his character. He could have personally told Enoch about God. Adam was able to pass down divine truth about God that he is, that he is who he claimed to be. And so Enoch believed the revelation about God, that he is who he says he is. And again, that was passed down from a man who spoke to God and saw a visible manifestation of the Shekinah glory of God. Wouldn't you have liked to talk to Adam? That would be a nice interview. The man who was never born, but was created out of dust? That would be a a good chat to have with a person to talk to. But then also something happened in in Enoch's life that had a huge impact on him. Look in Genesis 5 and look at verse number 21. And Enoch lived 65 years and begat Methuselah. And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah 300 years and begat sons and daughters. So, Enoch lives 65 years. He has a son. At the age of 65, he's still a young guy. That gives me some encouragement. And he has this son, and he names him Methuselah. Now the Bible makes a distinction as to when Enoch began his walk with God. In verse 22, after he begat Methuselah, He begins to walk with God. Something happened in his life that gave him the incentive to walk with God when he has this Little boy. Now Methuselah has a very unique name in the Bible. It comes from the Hebrew word mouth, which means to die. And it's combined with shalach, which is a Hebrew word which means to send, or it shall be sent. And so when you put the name together, when he is dead, it shall be sent. That's the name of Methuselah. When he dies, it shall be sent. What is this talking about? This is talking about the flood. God revealed his word to Enoch about the flood, and Enoch believed it. He believed about the coming judgment. God told him there was coming a judgment of water, of a flood. And God is basically telling him what he's going to do. The world was so evil, it was so corrupt, that God was going to destroy the world with a flood. Now, how did God reveal this word to Enoch? We're not really sure. Maybe God told Adam, and maybe Adam told Enoch, because again, Adam was still around. By the way, Adam must have been a very unhappy man to see the devastation that his sin brought to the whole world, to live and to see what the world had come to. As a result of his sin of disobeying God, being kicked out of Eden, and what was taking place in the world. Maybe Adam shared this with Enoch, and Enoch believed that revelation. Or maybe God just spoke to Enoch directly. We read in the book of Jude that Enoch was a preacher, a prophet who made a prophecy. So God may have said straight to Enoch what he was going to do. There's a flood that's going to come. It's going to destroy the world because of evil. And Enoch says, When is this going to happen, God? And God says, Well, your wife's going to have a child when she when that child that your wife has dies It will be sent. The judgment, the flood will be sent. And you know what? Enoch believes God. He believes God. How do we know? Well, he believes God enough to name his son Methuselah, to give him that name. He believed that rain was going to come. There was no rain on earth up until this time. There was no four seasons. The earth was kept at a perfect temperature and moisture. You say, how do we know that? Well, go back to Genesis 2 and look at verse number 5. Look at this verse. Genesis two five And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before be before it grew, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the the ground But there went up a mist from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. That's how God watered the earth at that time and kept it f fertile. So this earth was kind of like a big greenhouse. Perfect temperature and moisture. But all that was about to change. The rain would come, the flood would destroy the earth, it would change the whole ecology of the planet after this flood. Even though Enoch never saw reign, he believed in the promise of God Never heard of anything like a flood before, yet he believed what God said. Remember the description of faith? Faith makes the future unknown a present reality. That was what God promises do in the future. You believe it. You believe it so much that it affects how you live today. It affects the way you conduct your life. Faith takes something hoped for, not realized, and it gives it substance. It sees it. We have faith in something that God says. And Enoch believed in a promise that had not yet been realized. But he believed it so much so that he named his son Methuselah. That was a one-word prophecy about the flood that was going to come. So Methuselah was a constant reminder of this coming judgment. Enoch watched his son grow. Every time this strange name was spoken, it was a prophecy about this coming But Methuselah is also a symbol of the long suffering of God because according to Genesis 5, verse 27, he lived 969 years. And when he died, the flood came. Say, how do we know that? Well, if you trace back the years in Genesis, you'll see that the he died the year the flood came. For example, if we make the year of Adam's creation Year one. Let's just say we make the year of Adam's creation year one. And we calculate the years in the genealogy of Genesis 5. We discover that Methuselah was born in the year 687. Add the number of the years that he lived, 969 years, you add that, and you arrive at the year 1656. That was the year that Methuselah died. And then by doing some more addition in the genealogy, we discover that Noah was born in the year 1056 That is the year from Adam, 1056. He was 600 years old when the flood came, which meant the flood came in 1656, the very year that Methuselah died. And according to Jewish tradition, Methuselah died just seven days before the flood. So that's why I've said before jokingly that while Noah was building the flood, he would go visit his grandfather Methuselah and see how he was feeling. How are you feeling, Grandpa? Because Noah knew that when he died, the flood was going to come. Enoch believed God. He believed God's word. And because of his faith, he pleased God. So that's the first thing. You must believe God. You must believe in the revelation that God gives in his word. But here's number two. You must walk with God. You must walk with God. Again, in Hebrews 11, 6, for he that cometh to God, he that cometh to God, the word here where it says cometh is pros urchomai to draw near This promise caused Enoch to draw near to God, to walk with him. He believed God. He believed all that God claimed to be, and he drew near to God. As a result of that, he began to walk with God. Again, in Genesis 5, look at verse number 22. And Enoch walked with God, after that he begat Nathuselah 300 years, and begat sons and daughters And all the days of Enoch were 360 and five years. And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Two times it says that Enoch walked with God. You see the future invisible promise of God that Enoch believed was so real and had so much substance to it that it not only prompted him to name his son Methuselah, but it also prompted him to walk with God. It motivated him in getting to know God. What does it mean to walk with God? What does that mean? Well, it means to walk contrary to the world, for one thing. To walk contrary to the world. Enoch was out of step with the world around him. And faith will cause you to walk to the beat of a different drum. You will not walk according to the way of the world. You'll walk differently. You'll walk in step with God. And if you walk in step with God, you will definitely be out of step with the world. You can't fellowship with the world and fellowship with God at the same time. That's impossible. Faith is contrary to the world. Faith defies how people live in this world. And Enoch was a witness to that whole pre-flood world back then that was so given over to evil. I don't think Enoch was a silent witness. I think he was a guy that was pretty bold. And his witness of God and of the coming judgment. In fact, in the New Testament book of Jude, it says that Enoch gave a prophecy about the coming judgment. Listen to this. This is Jude verse 14 and 15. And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with 10,000 of his saints. to execute judg judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them, of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against them. That sounds like a pretty hard sermon to me. How many times does he use the word ungodly here? Four times in one sentence. He doesn't come across as a timid Soul. He prophesied about the coming of God. No doubt Enoch warned the people of that day. of the reality of this holy God and the coming judgment, and people thought he was crazy But yet to walk with God means to be out of step with the world. And friend, that's what you will be. If you really, truly walk with God. you will be out of step with the world. The Bible says, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. And so we will walk contrary to the world. But here's another thing: to walk with God is to walk consistently by the word. It means to live according to God's word. Consistently. Walk as the idea of just one step at a time. Day by day. The pattern of our life should be faithfulness to God, faithfulness to his word That's walking with God, not hiddenness. You know, we have people that go, you know, a long time where they're not walking with the Lord and they're, you know, they're not in church, they're not in the word, they're not in prayer, they're not faithful to the Lord. And then they try to get back in, and then they that's not walking with God. Walking with God is consistent every day, step by step, walking with the Lord, submitting to his word. Reading God's word, letting him speak to you, praying, talking to God, pouring your heart out to him, being faithful in all of your spiritual disciplines and duties to worship God and to live for his kingdom. And that's uh that should transcend how you feel. It should be a duty that you do in your life, not because you always feel like doing it, but because it's your spiritual responsibility and you love the Lord and God takes priority in your life. Not because it's convenient to do, because there's a lot of times when it's not convenient. But walking with God is that consistent pattern day by day. Seeking the Lord. So many believers seem to be hid in this and are so very unfaithful. Get out of step with God. They kind of get the demon's disease, you know, having loved this present world. But you have to be consistent in your walk. You might think, well, I don't backslide that often. Only happens from time to time. Do you realize that the Bible calls backsliding or friendship with the world? You know what it calls is spiritual adultery. That's what it calls it. What if a spouse said to the other spouse, Hey look, I've been faithful. I uh you know, I've I've only committed adultery just a few times How would that work in that marriage? That wouldn't work, wouldn't go over really well. We are married to our Lord and to Be worldly is to commit spiritual adultery. To walk with God as a consistent walk. And it's a walking against the world. Now you might be tempted to think, well, the culture and society that Enoch lived in was not as bad as ours today. Really? You think so? That society was so corrupt that God drowned them in a flood. He drowned the whole soci civilization. In Genesis 6, look in Genesis 6, look at verse number 5, where it says, God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, that every imagination, the thought of the heart, was only evil continually. Enoch lived three hundred years in a world that was absolutely corrupt. What would your testimony be like if you were left on the earth for 300 years? Could you survive the corruption of society and live a godly life for 300 years? years. That corruption was so bad Jesus in his sermon said, look, when he returns to earth, it's going to be just like it was in the days of Noah. Just like it was in Noah's day. The fact that he hasn't returned means we're not there yet. People sometimes say, I don't know how my kids or grandkids are gonna survive trying to live 70 years in this world. Well, how do you think Enoch felt? He's 365 years old. He's a kid He's got a lot of children and grandchildren. I probably said to Mrs. Enoch, I don't know how they're going to make 750 years in this society. How are they going to live in this world? But it's by walking with God by faith. Enoch resisted the lure of the world for 300 years. But then here's the third thing. You must believe God. You must walk with God. And then number three, you must seek God. Hebrews 11, 6 again, but without faith it's impossible to please him, for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, that he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. A person who lives and walks by faith doesn't just seek God once in their life. They live daily seeking the Lord. Diligently seeking the Lord. The word diligently here is a word that is very intense. Zeddo, which is seek, but ek zedo, the prefix in front of that word makes it something really intense. This is a zealous seeking of God. It's present tense here, which means continually. You continually, zealously seek God. It is a lifelong process. A lifelong seeking after God. That's what Enoch did. And because of that, God rewarded him because he sought the Lord so much. Well, how did God reward him? Well, God's reward was that he just took him to heaven. He had this testimony that he pleased God and he was translated to heaven. God just took him one day, decided to take him. Notice again in Genesis 5. We could call this chapter, if we wanted to label this whole chapter and summarize it, we could just call the chapter and he died. And he died. Because that's what you see over and over again. In verse number five, the last part of verse five, and all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died. Again at the end of verse 8, and all the days of Seth were 912 years and he died. The end of verse 11. And all the days of Enos were 905 years and he what? We see it at the end of verse 14 and he died. At the end of verse 17, and he died. At the end of verse 20, and he died. At the end of verse 27, at the end of ver thirty one So all these guys, all of these descendants, this family of Adam, they all they lived a long time. We have to give it to them. But they died. They died. This pattern of death that you see all the way here in Genesis 5, it's broken by one person. And you get to verse 24. And Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. He he didn't die like all the rest of them did. It just says he was not. That's an incredible statement. He just one day wasn't didn't come home. It's not there He walked by faith. He was not, we could say, since he was not, he was not like the rest of the world, he was not like others, and he was not found This means Enoch walked with God, and one day he just was not found. He did not come home. This is the first missing person case in human history. Everybody said, Where is Enoch? Where's Enoch? And the Bible just says God took him. And a sermon on Enoch walking with God by Dr. G. Uh G. Campbell Morgan. He told the illustration in his sermon. He said, a little child gave a most exquisite explanation of walking with God. She went home from Sunday school and the mother said, Tell me what you learned. And she said, Don't you know, mother, one day Enoch and God went for an extra long walk and they walked on and on until God said to Enoch, You're a long way from home. You'd better just come in and stay with me. And he went. That's a good illustration. That's a good way to put it. But that was his reward. You talk about a reward. What was Enoch's reward? The reward was that he broke the death cycle of mankind and he didn't die. God just took him to heaven. The reward is heaven. The reward is eternal life. This is the believer's greatest reward. This is what God has laid up for us. Coming to God by faith, faith in Christ and the finished work of Christ, and walking and living a life by faith, what is at the end of that? Heaven, eternal life That's the place of reward. So we could say that Enoch then becomes a paradigm from all people who put their faith in Christ and walk consistently a consistent walk with God that reveals that their faith is genuine. And we end up in heaven. That's the reward. And if you walk by faith, God will reward you also. So in order to have a life that pleases God, to walk with God, you must believe God, you must walk with him, you must seek him. You must seek him. We could say the Enoch's life was like a quiet river flowing gently through a corrupt bustling city, while others were caught up in the noise. Enoch just consistently, steadfastly walked with God daily, sought God daily. And this kind of peaceful rhythm of the life of Enoch invites us really to what? To evaluate our own life. Are we walking with God? It encourages us to prioritize our walk with God in this overwhelmingly corrupt world. But really when you think about it, Enoch was really he was just this is just a a description A basic description of a genuine believer, because if you are truly a believer and you've come to God by faith, you're going to want to walk with God. You're going to want to walk with them. That's a truly saved person. So what about your walk? Are you walking with them? And if not, would you like to Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you again for the scripture. And Lord, how we, when we come to passages like this, stories like this, that we can't help but evaluate our own life. Are we walking with you? Are we diligently seeking you each day Are we living a life by faith? Is it a life that's contrary, out of step with this world, this corrupt world in which we live? That reveals that we We have true faith. Because the promises that you give us of our future glory, of our future reward, even though they're unseen and they're yet in the future, they're so real to us, Lord, it changes how we live right now. We live our whole life based on these future promises, the unseen reality of what you have laid up for those that truly know you. And Father, if there's someone here tonight that's not walking by faith, I pray, Lord, that they would, by faith, put their eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Even though we've never seen him, we believed your revelation about him. It tells us that he came, the virgin-born Son of God, lived a perfect, sinless life, on the cross, took all of our sins upon himself, paid that sin debt. Satisfied the wrath of you, Father. And now salvation is a gift that we receive by faith when we trust Jesus Christ. Savior. And Father, so someone here that hasn't done that, I pray that tonight would be the time when they put their faith in Christ. And they enter into the kingdom of God by faith. And that begins a lifelong walk Day by day, walk seeking God each day. Father, may that be true of all of us. Bless your word, Lord, to hearing hearts, we pray in Jesus' name