I invite you to take your Bibles this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 9. We are going through this wonderful gospel. And we are in chapter 9 this morning. And I want you to look down at verse 42 on down to verse 15. Mark 9, verse 42. Let me read this. Whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck. and he were cast into the sea. When I was uh in Liberia, Africa, uh back in uh November of twenty nineteen, we I we stayed in a guest house that was right on the shore there of the coastline. And all through the night you can hear these these waves crashing. Um, because uh the room I was in it had a window and you could look out and just see the waves just crashing against the shore. And on when you came out for breakfast there was a big room and again a a big bay window and you could look out and you could just see those waves. And these were some of the biggest waves I think I've ever seen uh crashing violently against the shore there. Well on one afternoon I I managed to have some time. I was over there uh uh teaching and preaching, but I had some time one afternoon and I decided to take a walk along the beach. And as I was walking along the beach, I noticed some signs that were very clear, and they were warning signs. Do not swim. Now I had learned from asking around that the undertow at that particular beach was so strong that uh you could just go out and wait in it up to your waist and be pulled out and uh never be seen again were the words that they used. And in fact, sadly, many people did not take the warning signs seriously, and many people had drowned at that particular beach. Warning signs are given for our own good and for our safety. That's why in Scripture we have many warnings that are given to us by the Lord, because God loves us. God wants to protect us, and so He will give us serious warnings. Now the passage that we're going to deal with from Mark chapter 9, verse 42 down to verse 50. is really one of several warnings that Jesus wants us to take seriously as his followers. Now you remember that in this particular section of the Gospel of Mark Jesus is giving lessons to his disciples. And Mark chapter 9 and chapter 10 has been called the instructional period of Jesus' life. Remember I told you that Jesus at this particular time in his life is not no longer doing public ministry, whereas before he was out preaching in villages and towns openly to big crowds. He's no longer doing that He is on his way to the cross. He's on his way to Jerusalem to die. And he's preparing his disciples for his impending death and for the time that he will no longer be with them And so Jesus is teaching his disciples privately these important lessons that they need to learn. And if you you've been with us, you know that one lesson that he gave them was that suffering must come before He's telling them more about the cross, about what's going to happen to him, and he invites his disciples, pick up your cross and follow me. There is suffering that must come before glory. We saw glory emphasized on the Mount of Transfiguration. And then also he taught them the importance of faith. That you must exercise faith, whatever you ask, ask believing, and you shall receive it. And then he also taught them the importance of humility, which we looked at last week When they were, you remember the disciples were arguing about who would be the greatest in the kingdom, and Jesus took that opportunity to teach them that in the kingdom it's reverse. The values are reversed from the values of the world. Those that are seeking to be first are last. Those who make themselves last will be first, and the greatest in the kingdom is the servant of all. Right upon the heels of that, Jesus then launches into several warnings to his disciples. And I want you to see from this passage three straightforward warnings. that Jesus gave to them and he also gives to us as well, that we must take very seriously from our Lord. Here's the first warning. Number one, don't cause others to stumble Look again at verse 42. And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. This is a warning about offending. Jesus calls one of these little ones. Now the word for offend here is the Greek word scandalizo, and you can hear in that Greek word our English word scandal. That's where it comes from from this Greek word. And it literally means to cause to stumble, or to cause to fall, or to stumble into a trap. And it's and really originally what it was used to speak about was a stick that was used to bait or or excuse me to trigger a trap. When I was growing up in South Baltimore Uh, you know, we uh as kids we were always trying to figure out something fun to do. And we thought that on one occasion we would try to catch some pigeons that were there in South Baltimore. And so what we did was we devised a plan where we would take a milk crate and we would stand up stand it up up with a stick and we would tie a string to the stick. And then we put some breadcrumbs under the milk crate, hoping that the pigeon would go in, eat the breadcrumbs. We would then pull the string, catch the pigeon, and uh it never worked, just to let you know We wouldn't know what we would do with the pigeon once we caught it. Mom, I brought home something. I brought a pigeon home. But the word for that stick there that was used to trigger The trap is actually what this Greek word was originally used to describe. Scandalizo, and it came to refer to uh spiritually to any enticement to sin, anything that led to a defection from the faith, anything that led to a fall into sin And it was used in other places to speak of those who fall away from the faith, those who fall into sin. And so the warning here is that don't be the cause, don't be the trigger That causes someone else to fall away from the faith or causes someone else to fall into sin. Now who are the little ones that Jesus is speaking about here? And he's not referring to little children here when he uses this expression little ones. This is an analogy. This is a picture of a child of God. The little one is anyone who has humbled himself or herself and has entered into the kingdom of God. Because remember, you can't come into the kingdom of God unless you come with a humble spirit, a humble childlike spirit. And Jesus used the child to illustrate those who are who the world might think are unimportant, who are humble, who are of no significance, but that's what we are when we come into the kingdom of God, we're poor in spirit, we're humble like children. And so Jesus is speaking when he says little ones, and notice that this is in the plural here. Little ones, he's referring not only to just an individual, but but even to the church. He's warning about hurting the church as well as individual believers. And again, we have to ask ourselves, who is he talking to here? Well, remember, he's talking to the disciples. Is it possible for true Children of God, true disciples, true teachers of the Word, to actually cause another to stumble? Well, the disciples in this particular occasion were certainly candidates for that because they were again arguing about who was the greatest in the kingdom. And it's very possible for leaders to be so self-focused, so selfish So concerned about the vanity of glory for themselves, so consumed about making a name for themselves, that rather than serving and and helping the church Ministering to the children of God, they actually use God's people for their own selfish agenda. And you can cause someone else to stumble. You can there is such a thing called spiritual abuse. It can happen when anyone in a position of authority uses the Bible to control another or uses their platform to maneuver another person and just doing something that they feel is very important. And so Jesus gives this strict warning. Don't cause one of these little ones, one of my children, to stumble. But this, of course, can also also apply to false teachers. We know that. There are many warnings throughout the New Testament that the Lord gives to those who are false prophets and false teachers, and the judgment for them is very, very severe. But this, I think, in general, it includes any believer in the church. We don't want to in any way live a life that would cause someone else to stumble Because of the things that we do. Grant Osborne said this. He said corporately, this applies in in essence to the life of the whole church. This is something for all of us to take to heart. Now what's the penalty that Jesus said would happen if we caused someone else to stumble? Again, look at verse 42. It is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he were cast into the sea. What will Jesus do if we cause another believer to stumble? Well, he doesn't really say for sure, but he lets us know that it would be pretty bad. What's a millstone? It was better than a millstone were hanged about his neck. A millstone was a huge round stone that weighed several tons. And there was another circular stone put on top of it that would roll around in this stone. There would be a beam attached to it, and they normally had a donkey attached to the beam that would just constantly push this stone around. huge base round stone. And why would they do that? That was for the purpose. They would throw grain in there and they would crush it to powder. These stones were so huge. that uh they needed a donkey to move the stone. In fact, the Greek word here is from two words, myelos, where we get the word mill And then anikos, which is a word that pertains to a donkey, so literally a donkey-driven stone. And it was called that because no man could push that stone around because it was so heavy, unless you were Samson. In the Old Testament in Judges chapter 16, Samson was grinding at the mill, he was pushing that millstone around that gives you an indication of how strong Samson was. He was able to do it but no one else. Now if this stone were uh attached to a person's neck and that stone were thrown into the sea, I guarantee you you would never see that person again. That stone's going straight to the bottom This person would drown for certain. And the disciples knew exactly what Jesus was talking about. And by the way, execution by drowning was a frequent Roman punishment the leaders of a Jewish insurrection under Rome, uh uh to against Rome, I should say, under the zealot Judas the Galilean. were all drowned in the lake by the Romans in this manner. And so this was a very horrifying way to die to the Jewish people. There could be no burial. There was no peace in the afterlife, according to some Hellenistic thoughts. And so really this is a mafia-style death to have a millstone cast around put around your neck and thrown into the sea And listen, Jesus isn't is not saying that this is the penalty for causing a believer to stumble. He's just saying that that would be a better option for someone than for the punishment that God has in store. For someone that would cause a believer to stumble. That's very serious, if you ask me. A very serious warning. What an incredibly vivid picture This was to terrify the listener to show how serious God was in reference to this. Warning number two. Don't play around with sin. Look at verse 43. And if I hand offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter into life maimed than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched. Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off. It is better for thee to enter halt into life than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. And if thy eye offend thee, pluck it out It is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye than having two eyes to be cast into the li into hellfire Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. Now, what's Jesus doing here? He's warning about sin. This is a command for us to deal thoroughly with our sins. Don't play with sin in your life. Jesus refers to the hand. He refers to the foot. He refers to the eye. These are the problem areas in our life when you think about it when we're dealing with sin. The hand refers to the things that we may do. The foot or the feet refers to the places we may go. The eye refers to the things that we see or the things that we desire to have. And these are the areas in our life Where humans are tempted to sin. Remember what John said, for all that is in the world is the lust of the flesh and the lust of the eye and the pride of life. It's not of the Father, but is of the world. And Jesus says that if the hand or the foot or the eye would cause you to sin, we are to take drastic action. And we're to amputate that part of the body. So that it will give no desire, or I should say, will not give fulfillment to those desires. Now let me just be quick to say here that Jesus is not speaking literally here. You can breathe a sigh of relief there. He's not talking literal self-mutilation. He's speaking figuratively here He's using hyperbole. Jewish rabbis and teachers often use hyperbole and rhetoric overstatement to make a point And so he's speaking spiritually. We have to spiritually deal thoroughly with our sins. He's not talking about self-mutilation here. He's talking about spiritual mortification of putting sin to death in our heart in life and not yielding, not giving in to it by giving any doing anything we have to do. To keep from sinning is what he's saying here. Now, unfortunately, some in church history who study these verses didn't understand this. They didn't understand that Jesus wasn't being literal. I read a story about a Scottish preacher, A. J. Gossip. He told of a brilliant theological student who studied this passage and says he went crazy one night and cut off his hand with a razor. And when the preacher found them, he was laughing happily, saying, I did it, I did right, I can look into the face of Jesus. And then I also read of the early church father Origen of Alexandria, who had himself castrated in an attempt to overcome sexual desire. Again, Jesus is not advocating physical mutilation, but spiritual mortification. And the point that Jesus is making is that the person needs to do what is necessary, no matter how painful it may be To keep himself or herself from sinning and from keeping others or causing others to sin. And again, Jesus is simply saying that you must Deal radically with your sin. Use radical self-discipline. One Puritan John Owen wrote this: where sin, through the neglect of mortification, gets a considerable victory, it breaks the bones of the soul. It makes a man weak, sick, and ready to die, so that he cannot look up. And when poor creatures will take blow after blow, wound after wound, foil after foil, and never rouse up themselves to a vigorous opposition Can they expect anything but to be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin? Are you fighting, are you warring against sin in your life, or have you just simply given up This battle. Jesus is saying you better not give up. Is there an area of weakness in your life that would cause you to suck to stumble? Jesus says, you better get serious about it. Are there places where your feet have been carrying you, where you have no business going? You better deal radically with that. Are there events in which you're involved in that you shouldn't be involved in? Are there places where you go that where there are temptations that might pull you down? You better not go there. Are there hidden activities or hidden habits? That occupy you, that if others knew about it, you would feel shame and embarrassment. Are there things that you're seeing that your eyes should not see? Things that you're watching that your eyes should not watch Jesus is saying, you better not play with sin. You better not treat these things lightly. The word the idea of cutting off means separation. Separate yourself from it. Get it out of your life. There's an implication here that overcoming grace is available for any believer. Who wants to have victory? Don't tell me that you can't have victory over it. You can have victory over it. God has given you the strength and the power and the grace through his spirit so that you can have victory over it. You have those resources in you, so don't play with sin. This is a serious warning. And notice what he says here. Notice three times Jesus refers to hell. Three times Jesus used the expression, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. What is Jesus referring to there? Hell here is the is the word gehenna. Gehenna is a garbage dump that is just outside of Jerusalem. It's really the Greek translation of the Hebrew word for the valley of Henan. The valley of Hinnan was a raven south of the city. At one place in the Old Testament days, it was used under the reign of Ahaz and Manasseh. To it was a place for one of the worst practices in pagan religion ever. It was the practice of the sacrifice of children to the pagan god Molech. If you were worshiping Molech back then and you wanted to sacrifice your child to that god, you would take them to the Valley of Henan. And you would sacrifice them there in the fire. Now this cruel practice was abolished by King Josiah. And just to make sure that it never happened there again. Josiah sought to desecrate that ravine and made it into a garbage dump. And so from there on out that particular spot became the garbage dump. It became the place where uh the refuse of the city was dumped. And this included the carcasses of animals. This included even human corpses that were discarded there daily. Things like that were carted out and thrown onto a huge pile of refuge there in that particular valley And to keep the dump from overflowing, the refuse was burned, and so the fires that were burning the garbage in that dump never went out. It was constantly burning, day and night, 24-7, constantly burning. Likewise the worms or the maggots were constantly devouring the carcasses in that horrible place. And Jesus, when he wanted to speak about eternal punishment, when he wanted to speak about hell, pointed to the valley of Hennan, Gehenna, and said, that's what it's like. That's what it's like, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. This horrible place, this terrible place, no one would ever want to go there. The worst calamity that can befall any human being is to go to hell. Now, unlike the Greeks who despised all things physical, Jesus placed a very high, or excuse me, Jews placed a very high value on the body, and the Jewish minds, hands and feet and eyes, they were gifts from God. They were gifts from the Lord. And they were gifts to be enjoyed. They were precious possessions. Yet Jesus said it would be better to cut off one's own hand than to go there to hell. It would be better to have bodily disfigurement than to go to this place called hell. Again, it's the worst Calamity that could ever befall a human being. And Jesus may be indicating by these verses that anyone who's not willing to radically deal with sin in their life If you're just complacent to allow sin in your life and to do those things that are displeasing to God and doing them on a continual basis, it may be an indication that you're not really saved and you are on your way there anyway. And you better get serious about your salvation. You better get serious about your walk with God, because if you're not, it may be an indication that you're on your way there. This is a serious warning. Warning number three. We saw the first warning: don't cause others to stumble. The second warning was don't play around with sin. And warning number three is: don't forget that you are salt. You are salt. Look down at verse 49: for everyone shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. Now, verse 49 is a very difficult verse to understand. What does Jesus mean when he says, For everyone shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt? Who is the everyone here, and what does it mean, salted with fire? Well, there are some who think that this is referring to every unbeliever who enters into hell, they'll be salted with fire. That's one interpretation of it. And then there's another interpretation which says that this refers to every follower of Jesus living in this hostile world. They will be salted with fire in the sense that you will go through fiery trials as a believer, and they will they will basically um Change you. They will season you. They will purify your soul when you go through fiery trials in this life as a believer. That's another interpretation of this. And then there's a third interpretation that basically says it means both of those things. Everyone refers to unbelievers who will be salted with fire and hell. And it also refers to believers who will be assaulted with trials which will purify them in this life right now. But I think there's another way to understand this. And I think the best way to understand this is to look in the Old Testament to see how salt was used. And did you know that in the Old Testament there were several sacrifices that the Lord instituted in the book of Leviticus. There was one sacrifice, the meal offering, where salt was used. Salt was put on that that offering as a way to set it apart, as a way to be dedicated unto the Lord, and it symbolizes the soul symbolizes permanence. And it has the idea of a permanent dedication to God. And I think that's what Jesus is referring to here. Believers are to present their bodies as a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto the Lord. It is to be an enduring dedication. We don't get on the altar and then crawl off. We don't get on the altar and say, well, whoa, whoa, wait a minute, Lord. I didn't bargain for this. I'll see you later. No, we have an enduring Dedication to God. That's what salt is. So in the New Testament, the believer is compared to salt. Jesus said to his people, you are salt. And notice in verse 50 where Jesus says, have salt in yourselves. Jesus is calling us to be salt, to have a life that is wholly dedicated to God. And not to lose our saltiness. You remember in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus used this same analogy. In Matthew 5, 13, he said, Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thenceforth good for nothing, to be cast out, to be trodden under the foot of men. Jesus calling his people Saul, that's a very high compliment. Did you know that? William Barclay wrote this. When Jesus said this, He provided men with an expression which has become the greatest compliment that can be paid to any man. It's the greatest compliment You know, we still use this to compliment people today, don't we? What do we say about people that are just good people? They are the salt of the earth, right? Oh, that person, he's the salt of the earth. You see, in the ancient world salt was highly valued. The Greeks called it thaon or divine. The Romans had a phrase, it was a jingle that they spoke in Latin, nilutilius sole etzel, which basically means nothing is more useful than sun and salt. Roman soldiers were paid their wages with salt, salt rations. And if they didn't get it, they were upset. They would revolt. In fact, did you know that the word salary is in Latin, and you know what it means in Latin? Salt money. Salt money. It's been valued. All the way back then. Romans, again, were paid in salt, and if you were derelict in your duty as a Roman soldier, you were said to be not worth your salt. You're not worth your salt. Anyone ever say that to you? That's not a good thing. You're not worth your salt. So when Jesus uses this analogy, He is describing the tremendous worth, the tremendous value that Christians are to the world. Now I know that the world looks at the church. And they don't think much of us. But I want to tell you something, friend, from God's perspective, God knows that it's the church that's preserving this world from evil. It is the church that is blessing this world. And when Jesus says to this people, you are the soul of the earth, The you there is in the emphatic position in the Greek. He gives a grave emphasis. You are the salt of the earth. What does salt do? Well just several things. It has a purifying effect. Salt was connected with purity. The Romans saw the connection between salt and purity because it was so white. They said it was the purest of all things. And did you notice salt has a cleansing ability? In ancient times when babies were born they were given a salt bath to uh cleanse their bodies and provide firmness to their skin. You remember in the Old Testament story in 2 Kings about Elisha, the waters of Jericho were corrupt, and he took a bowl of salt and he threw it into the waters. And he cleansed the waters. And the verse says, Thus says the Lord, I have healed this waters from now on, neither death nor miscarriage shall come from it. So the waters were healed. And what a beautiful picture of the church. We are the salt that God has cast into this corrupt world to bring healing to this world, to bring purity to this world. Salt has a purifying effect. Salt has a penetrating effect Salt will penetrate and infiltrate anything that it touches. And God has put the church into the world that we might penetrate this world, that we might infiltrate this world with the gospel, with the cross, and salvation. The idea is that our lives should affect the lives of others. So it has a preserving effect Did you know that in the ancient world they didn't have, of course, we know this, they didn't have the conveniences that we have today. They didn't have refrigerators or freezers. They would use salt as a preservative. It would keep things from going bad. They would rub it into meat, into fish. In fact, there were wars fought over this commodity of salt because it was so important to an economy. In short, it could make the difference between life and death. And I believe that Jesus is implying here that we live in a corrupt world. All around us we see the effects of corruption, of sin, and of immorality in our desi in our society. Without dedicated Christians, our society would decay even more, left to itself. It would fester, it would rot, it would get much worse. Let me just go ahead and say this. I may not be popular, but I'm not running for any office. You know, the worst thing you can do in it right now is to tell the church that you can't worship. Now I understand all the restrictions with this COVID. I believe I believe in being safe. I'm totally on board with all that. But I'm telling you, beloved, it's gone beyond just the reality of this of this to being an issue where the government is taking advantage. To tell the church you should not worship, you cannot worship. Let me tell you something, friend. If you can go into a casino and put coins into a slot, you can go into God's house and worship God You better not close the door of the church. The church is preserving the decay and the corruption of this world. It has a preserving effect. It has a pleasing effect. Salt gives flavor to things. What does the Bible say of us? We are to always with our speech let it be seasoned with salt. Greeks called salt charitas, which means grace, to give flavor to things. It also has a punishing effect. Did you know that when a city was conquered back in the ancient days that sometimes the enemy would sprinkle salt on the field to poison the fields, the soil from being able to produce any future growth. And there's a sense in which We are also a reminder to the world. God's people are a reminder of eminent judgment to those who do not repent of their sins, who do not turn to Jesus Christ. We are a reminder of the eminent judgment of God that will come. Paul said it like this: for we are unto God a sweet savor of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish. To the one we are a saver of death. Unto death, to the other, a saver of life. Unto life. To the other believers, we're a saver of life. But to those that don't know Christ, we are kind of a savor unto death. We are a reminder that punishment is coming for those who do not trust the Lord Jesus Christ. And finally, salt has a permeating effect. One little bit goes a long way. One little bit goes a long way. We were at the dinner table with my little grandson Theo, who's about three years old, and he tried salting his chicken. You probably know where I'm going with this. He powdered on pretty high on that chicken. And when he tasted it, he realized it was a little too much. You know, there's a reason why salt shakers only have little holes in the top of them, right? Because a little bit of salt goes a long way. And you might be here thinking, well, you know, I'm just one Christian. What can I do? You can do a lot. One person can do a lot. Wherever you are, wherever God has placed you, whatever. Place you go to work, wherever you are, you are the salt that's there. And you can permeate. You can do a lot of good, just one person. Spurgeon said this one wise man may deliver a whole city, one good man may be the means of safety to thousands of others. The holy ones are the salt of the earth And then I said that was the last one, but one more I promise. This is the last one, a promoting effect. It promotes thirst. Makes one thirsty. You know, when I was uh a little kid, we used to go up and visit my uh great-grandfather who had a dairy farm up in Winchester, Virginia, and we would go out sometimes and look at those cows that he had in the in the yard and I noticed that they had these giant white looking things. I didn't know what it was as a as a child, but I later found out they were called, you know what it is, salt licks, right? And the cows would come over and lick those things. Why did they have them there? Well, because licking the salt, it was flavorable to the cow, but it made them thirsty, and if they were thirsty, they drank more milk, or excuse me, more water, and if they drank more water, they made more milk. And so it just made them thirsty. And the idea here is that salt should make you thirsty. And there's a sense in which, as the church in the world, when people look at us and they see our life They should have a thirst for what we have. A thirst for the things of God. A thirst for something that is real. Not religious ritual, but real living water. Real living water through the Lord Jesus Christ. If people see us totally satisfied with Christ, not drinking of the things of the world, they will want to know why. As the salt of the earth, we should make them thirsty for the real things. But then look at verse number 50 and we'll be done. Salt is good But if the salt has lost its saltiness, wherewith will you season it? If the salt has lost its Saltiness. And here Jesus asked a rhetorical question. It's designed to make us think and evaluate our own life. Jesus' question should cause us all to ask ourselves that question: have I lost My saltiness. Am I really being an influence to those around me? Now, we have to consider the context. Again, Jesus was talking to the disciples. And you remember, they were just arguing about who was greatest in the kingdom. They were acting like children. When Jesus was getting ready to go to the cross to accomplish the greatest event in redemptive history, and Jesus kept over and over again telling them what was going on. They were so foolish as to ignore that and still think about themselves and argue among themselves. It's very possible for us to lose our saltiness if we are Given to trivial matters, arguing over trivial things, instead of focusing on the great thing, which is the gospel. And the kingdom of God and seeing the gospel spread without focusing on the cross of Christ, we can lose our saltiness. Some churches, all they do is fight and quarrel and bicker and backbite. And you know what? They've lost their influence. They've lost their saltiness. I was reading about Gandhi in his autobiography. He was deeply touched by the Gospels by reading the Gospels, and he seriously considered becoming a Christian. And he went to church, to a nearby church one Sunday. He decided to see the minister to ask questions, but when he walked into the sanctuary, the ushers looked at him and they would not allow him to come in. They suggested that he go and worship with his own people. And Gandhi left. And he never came back. He never thought about Christianity again. And one time a missionary asked him, he said, what's the greatest hindrance to Christianity in India? And Gandhi said, Christians. Christians is the greatest hindrance. He said, I would be a Christian if it were not for Christians That's Christians who had lost their saltiness. They lost their Savior. So let us take to heart these solemn warnings from our master. Don't Cause others to stumble. Don't play around with sin in your life. Don't forget that you are salt, the salt of the earth. And so we should ask ourselves, where are we spiritually? Am I doing something that would cause another to stumble? Am I flirting with sin in my life? Am I living a life that will have a positive effect on the world? Jesus says, have salt in yourselves. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we thank you for these warnings. We know that whenever you warn us in Scripture, it is because you love us, just as any parent warns a child of imminent danger. Lord, you warn us because you love us. Lord, help us to take these warnings to heart To not just leave church and pass over these things, not think about it again. May we take true spiritual inventory of our own life to see where we are On all of these things. And Lord, may we apply this to our own life. May we judge our own lives in the light of Scripture. To see where we are. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted you as Savior, I pray that they will today. Come to Christ. And friends, with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to say that the greatest thing that you can do in your spiritual life Is to first of all make sure that you know Christ as your Lord and Savior. You don't want to go to that horrible place called hell. God doesn't want you to go there So, friend, make sure of your salvation. Make sure that you have truly repented of your sin and you've put your faith into the living Christ in his sacrifice for your sins and his atoning death that your faith is in what he has done for you. Salvation is not working for it, salvation is a gift provided by the sacrifice of Christ We can only receive it in faith when we repent of our sins. And if you haven't done that, I invite you to do that, friend. Would you pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me Make me your child. I turn from my sin today. I turn to you. Cleanse me of my sin. Make me salt in this world today, one of your children. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen