Now, chapters 27 to 30 of 1 Samuel, actually from chapter 27 of 1 Samuel through 2 Samuel chapter 1. It's a very interesting set of narratives here. This whole section here is called the accession narrative because it shows, number one, the downfall of Saul, and then the accession of David to the throne. And so there's a lot of different things, a lot of strange things that are going on here in this chapter, or in these chapters, I should say. Last time we saw David failed, you remember he went over to the Philistines, he ended up Fighting on the side of the Philistines almost against the na his own people, Israel. But the Lord intervened with that. David repented for what he had done. Remember, he and his men went back to Ziklag, and while they were went back, they found that their city had been burned, their wives and children taken captive. But God, after David's repentance, restored everything that David had lost And what we're going to see is a contrast here in 1 Samuel chapter 28. Remember, one of the purposes of the writer is to give a contrast between Saul and David. When David repented, he sought the Lord before a battle, God gave David guidance. But Saul here is going to seek guidance before a major battle. However, God doesn't answer him. There's no repentance on the part of Saul. God doesn't answer Saul. And so Saul, undeterred, what does he do in chapter 28? He goes and he seeks counsel from a witch. And so this whole chapter is about Saul and the witch of Indore, Saul seeking guidance through a familiar spirit. And uh that's what the story here will uh show us. And uh what we're gonna see here is that this uh woman Saul asked this woman to raise up Samuel the prophet from the dead. Bring him back so I can speak to him. And then Samuel appears, much to the terror which who's there. And then Samuel proceeds to pronounce final judgment against Saul for his disobedience. Now this whole chapter raises a lot of questions, doesn't it? For example, did Samuel actually return from the dead? Is this something that the witch did? Was this Appearance, a deception? Was this a uh a lying spirit that took place here? Would God use a witch to pronounce his word? Can God use a means that was expressly forbidden in the Old Testament law to pronounce his word? And so we're going to try to answer some of those questions as we go along. But here's the main idea of the whole chapter And that's simply this: that when you disobey the Lord, you pay a serious consequence. If you continue in stubborn disobedience to God's word, unrepentant disobedience then you pay a heavy price. And trust me, you don't want to pay that price. Because Saul, we're going to see in his life, pays a huge price for his stubborn disobedience against the Lord. In some strands of mystical Christianity there is a phenomenon known as the dark night of the soul And this was a term that was coined by the sixteenth century theologian and mystic John of the Cross. And basically his whole idea was that sometimes Christians will go through a night, or maybe several nights, of absolute darkness. where their experience causes them spiritual torment. But beyond that, after that, there's blessing. After that, there's peace that comes. Well in 1 Samuel 28, this is the dark night of the soul. for Saul. However, there's no blessing after it. There's no peace after this. There's nothing but dread In fact, there's death. Why? Because of Saul's continual stubborn disobedience against God. Now, with that in mind, And again, this is a warning to any person not to continue in disobedience against the Lord. The Bible says this in Proverbs 29:1. He that often being reproved hardeneth his neck shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. Now with that, and I want you to see six consequences in Saul's life of disobedience to God. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, physical danger. When you disobey the Lord, there's the possibility of physical danger. Look in chapter 28, and we'll start down in verse number 3. Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that were had familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. And the Philistines gathered themselves together and came and pitched in Shunan. And Saul gathered all Israel together, and they pitched in Geboah. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid. And his heart greatly trembled. Now the writer here is giving us the background. The Philistines now come together, they're massing their forces to assault Israel. This they had come down within around five miles where Saul was staying. This was a serious incursion. This wasn't just a small battle. This was a major force of the Philistines that were coming together. In fact, the size of their army was frightening. One commentator writes this, there was no major battle, this was this was excuse me, no minor battle to be carried out, but a major one between the standing armies of two nations And so they come there, the Philistines, to this place that's very level. Uh keep in mind that all the battles between Israel and the Philistines took place in hilly sections of the country, in mountains Uh there was kind of even when it took place in the hilly areas, but on the flat plain the Philistines had the advantage. Why? They had chariots. And so they assembled themselves in the valley of Jezreel. This is a very level ground. This is the only place in Palestine where it was possible to reach the River Jordan from the Mediterranean coastal plain without having to cross any mountains. This was one big long flat plain And here the Philistines had the advantage. Saul couldn't ignore this incursion into the land, so he had to go out and face them, and he knew that he was in danger because of this. And so what is so what's happening here is that Saul is now in physical danger because of his continual disobedience. I believe it's no accident that all this is happening. What we're going to see is that God is going to providentially use the Philistines to punish Saul finally for all of his rebellion against him. And Saul can sense what is coming. There's a sense in which God has removed his protection from Saul. If you're reading the narrative, every time David got into a gym, it seemed like the Lord providentially delivered David, didn't he? But that's not so with Saul. Saul is now in a gym, and God's not there to protect him. In fact, God removed his protection. This is one thing we learn about disobedience. When you're not walking with the Lord, when you're stubbornly defying and disobeying the Lord, there's a possibility of God removing his protection from your life, as we see here with Saul. I read about a woman in January 2013 She was a 67-year-old Belgian woman, and she was driving to pick up her friend in Brussels. It was about 90 miles away from her home. But based on the faulty direction she got from her GPS, how many of you know that the GPS is not perfect? She was listening to her GPS and she drove all of the way to Croatia, which is about a thousand miles away. Now think about this. This is only a 90-mile trip she was going to take. But she ends up driving a thousand miles away. The journey took the woman across five international borders. She stopped several times to get gas and take nets, but she kept driving, listening to the GPS. And and the article said that, you know, she kept going. She called she saw all kind of signs. First in French, then German, finally in Croatian. And she finally dawned on her that she should probably turn around. After a thousand miles. She she drove through all the signs. And when I read that I thought, you know, a lot of Christians are like this. They are off the right path. They're not on the right path They're listening to the wrong directions, and God's giving all kinds of signs to them that you need to turn around, you need to repent, you're on the wrong road. But many people don't listen to those signs And this is the case with Saul. And because of this, he was in physical danger. But also write down number two, emotional distress. Not only physical danger, but emotional distress. Look at verse 5. And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines He was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. And so this led to this consequence, emotional distress. He's extremely distressed. Two things actually that was causing this distress. Number one, the size of the army. In verse 5, when Saul looked and saw the host It says he was afraid. Now this must have been some huge army. Saul was not a rookie soldier. He was a veteran soldier. He was used to battles. He was battle-tested. However, when he saw the size of this army, it provoked terror in him. This was too much even for a battle-tested warrior like Saul. And the Bible says he was his heart trembled The word for trembled here in Hebrew literally means to physic physically shake. He was terrified when he saw this army You know, sometimes when a person walks in disobedience, a lot of times they feel like there's no situation they can't handle. But eventually a person like that is going to come to a situation where they know they can't handle it Where that it's beyond their ability to handle. That's what happens here with Saul. This was more than even he could bear, even though he was a tested soldier. And so it's the size of the army. But then notice also the silence of the Almighty. Look in verse 6. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord answered him not. Neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets. This is the first time we read of Saul seeking the Lord in a long time. And the Bible says, notice the ways he seeks the Lord now. He's looking for God. But now remember, what did Saul do to all the priests that were there in the land? Remember, he killed eighty-five priests. And then the only other priest was Abby Athar and he went with David. So there's no priest that he could seek. There may have been a man who probably had something that looked like a Urim, uh, you know, that was talking about the two stones that the priest wore. But that was meaningless. There was no real priest there to help him discern God's will. Uh Samuel died and verse number three tell tells us that. Now Samuel was dead, so Samuel wasn't there to give him any instruction, and God didn't send him any other prophet. to give him any instruction. And so and the Bible says that the Lord didn't speak to him in dreams. God had completely deserted Saul. Why doesn't God answer them? Why is God silent? Because the Bible teaches that people who consistently reject God's leadership in their life and refuse to follow his guidance. You shouldn't expect an answer when you finally seek him. You know, God says, look, you turn away from me, I'm going to turn away from you. That's what happened here with Saul. Write down Job 35, 12. There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil Men. Zachariah 7. 13. Therefore it has come to pass that as he cried, they would not hear, so they cried and I would not hear, saith the Lord. God said, Look, I cried to you and you didn't listen to me. Now when you cry to me, I'm not going to listen to you. And that's the way it was with Saul. God was speaking, talking to Saul. Saul wouldn't listen. Now Saul's crying out to God, and God is not listening to him. Because of his unrepentant, stubborn disobedience. This is a hard reality. God does not hear the prayer of a continually unrepentant disobedient person. The Bible says, God's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God And soul has emotional distress. But also write down a third thing. Not only physical danger, emotional distress, but personal desperation. Saul so desperate. Look what he does in verse 7. Then said Saul unto his servant, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her and inquire of her And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor. And so now the the information that we read in verse three kind of sets us up for the shock of what's going to take place here in these next verses. Remember, Saul put away all those who practiced necromancy or divination, spiritual mediums, those who consulted with the dead. He was supposedly purged the land of all of them. He must not have done a really thorough job because His servants knew of a woman who still practiced divination, but the shock here is that Saul would actually resort to this Here is another instance of Saul's total disobedience to God. This was totally against the law of God. In fact, the Bible says in Exodus 22:18, Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live. God was pretty strong on that. Leviticus 19, 31. Regard not them that have familiar spirits Neither seek after wizards to be defiled by them. I am the Lord your God. after wizards to go whoring after them, I will even set my face against that soul. So God was pretty clear in the law. You don't turn to this. This these familiar spirits. You don't you you don't have you have nothing to do with this but here is Saul again He's casting aside the word of God. He violates the law again. And this time this abomination kind of seals his fate. He's so desperate. And by the way, this is where his disobedience has brought him. God's not listening to him. He's desperate. He does something very, very desperate here to get an answer from the Lord. And uh notice verse number eight, it shows you how desperate he is. And Saul disguised himself and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him. And they came to the woman by night, and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up. whom I shall name unto thee. Again, this reveals the measure of his desperation. He's willing to go out of his way. Now, geographically, in order for Saul to get to Endor to speak to this woman, guess what he has to do? He has to sneak through the Philistine enemy lines. And so this is a pretty dangerous thing to do. So he brings with him two servants. He disguises himself, and he makes his journey at night. And he gets to this woman and he asks her, listen, I want you to bring up someone for me, the person I ask you. And look at verse 9. At first she refuses. She kind of thinks it's a trap. And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he has cut off those that are familiar spirits and the wizards out of the land. Wherefore Then layest thou a snare for my life to cause me to die. She thinks it's a trap, but what does Saul do? He assures her this isn't a trap. And notice the irony in verse 10. And Saul swear to her by the Lord. Saying, as the Lord liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee. You know, it doesn't seem to Saul doesn't seem to be aware of the irony of swearing an oath by the Lord while he's seeking help from a witch I mean that doesn't fit. Here he is swearing an oath to the Lord while he's seeking this familiar spirit's help. And so in fact the oath is a sin against the Lord. It's very foolish. It's blasphemous. That he does this. Verse 11, then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up. Samuel. He requests the prophet Samuel. So he knowingly, willingly violates God's word does something absolutely abominable to the Lord in his desperation. Again, this is where his disobedience has led him. Physical danger, emotional distress. Personal desperation. Right now, here's another here's a fourth consequence. Spiritual darkness. Spiritual darkness. What he's going to do here by going to a spiritual medium is nothing less than the works of darkness. This is what he does. One person wrote this, Never did Saul look so mean as when he went sneaking to a spiritualist at night. Such works are of the darkness and cannot bear the light. So what does the woman do? She look in verse 12. And when the woman saw Samuel, so she's calling up someone from the dead, and it says in verse 12, and when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice. And the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? For thou art Saul. So she seems like in verse 12 that she's genuinely surprised. By the presence of Samuel when she calls him up and she realizes now this is Saul in disguise. And so she's really Filled with terror. And so again, this whole account can't help but raise questions. How many of you have questions about this already in your mind? Just whirling around. What's going on here? Was this woman a fraud? Did she genuinely have some kind of clairvoyant skill? Was this really Samuel coming back to life, or was this some evil spirit, some kind of a trick? So what's going on here? Let me give you just two basic views on this, and it's pretty basic. Number one There are some out there, some scholars and commentators, who say that this was not really Samuel. They say that this was a deceiving, lying spirit that pretended to be Samuel This false spirit imitated Samuel in dress and in voice. And let me just say that most commentators in the course of the church history have denied that Samuel was truly summoned by this woman. And so this view then is a popular view in the early church that that this evil woman had summoned Satan, really. This is the view of the early church. This was Satan to appear in the guise of the prophet Samuel. One early church father, Tertillion, he wrote this, God forbid that we should believe that any soul, much less a prophet, could be called forth by a demon. In the Reformation, Martin Luther argued this. He said, Who could believe that the souls of believers who are in the hand of God and in the bosom of Abraham were under the power of the devil? And so Luther is saying here that this was a deception of Satan. And of course we know that Satan is deceptive, and he wants to put people in bondage to falsehood and Satan would love nothing better than for people to dabble in the occult world and the spiritual medium world so he can keep them in bondage. He can keep them from seeking the true God if he could get people to believe in these things. And so Satan has power. By the way, let me just say there is a real evil spiritual world out there that is not of God, that is of darkness. And that God's people should just stay away from. It's nothing to dabble in. Satan does have power. He can do supernatural things. And so the Bible is very clear that God's people are to avoid these works of darkness. And I think that in our world today there are far too many people that are dabbling in this, thinking it's some kind of an innocent game, and it's not It is something that is very serious. There is a real evil spiritual world out there that wants to put people into bondage I read about an interview with Barbara Walters on ABC on the show 2020. This was years ago. Barbara Streisand told of visiting a Long Island psychic. to contact her late father. And Streisand said, quote, it was very frightening. The table started to spell letters. It spelled Manny, which was his nickname. Talking about her father's nickname. I looked under the table, there was no wires There's no way this thing could move except with a vibration of some sort. And I never wanted to do it again. She was terrified at that whole prospect. There was a survey that was taken in August of 2009. 4,013 U. S. adults uh were surveyed and many claimed to have experienced some kind of supernatural experience. Twenty-nine percent said that they have been in touch with the dead. 15% said that they had counseled a fortune teller or a psychic. Again, let me be very clear. The Bible tells us to avoid this kind of stuff like the plague. Stay away from this. You know, this this is something that is real. And uh the the Bible in the Old Testament commands God's people to stay away from these things. Bill Arnold says this, Israel's ban on magic was a unique characteristic of the nation's overarching worldview. Significantly, however, the Old Testament's ban on magic is not based on the assertion that magic isn't effective. On the contrary, magic is banned precisely because it does work. And I and I think he's right there. There is a dark spiritual world that we should shun, that we should avoid. You're in Christ. The Bible says to get away from those works of darkness. The wicked one can't touch you if you're a child of God. Don't give him opportunity. in any way with these things. So there's one view that this was something that was deceptive, this was satanic, this was a deceiving spirit. But let me give you the second major view about this. The other view is that this is really Samuel. And that it was not the witch that called Samuel forth. But rather God intervenes to send Samuel to pronounce final judgment on Saul. And that this serves as a warning to anyone Who would ever be tempted to dabble in the occult? And really, this all ends in Saul's death. This was God coming to Saul, punishing him for this abominable act. God intervenes. And brings Samuel back actually and pronounces judgment against his disobedient king. And the next day, of course, Saul dies. There are many Old Testament scholars that hold to this view. For example, Walt Kaiser says that there is an authentic appearance of the dead here, but, quote, one that did not result from her witchcraft Instead, it was God's final means of bringing a word to a king who insisted on going his own way. He continues and says, our conclusion is that God allowed Samuel's spirit to appear to give Saul one more warning. about the evil of his ways. That's the great Old Testament scholar Wal Kaiser. Norman Geisler, the apologist, kind of agrees with that. He says, quote, The witch did not bring up Samuel from the dead, but God himself intervened in the witch's tent to rebuke Saul for his sin. The miracle was not performed through the witch, but in spite of her. That is in spite of this witch And her deception, God intervened, and God did bring Samuel to pronounce this judgment against Saul. Now, there are several arguments in support of this view. Number one Those who believe this view say this is the plain statement of the Hebrew text. The text says that she did in fact see Samuel. It doesn't say that she saw a lying spirit. It doesn't say that she saw some evil spirit, but that she saw Samuel. And not only does Saul and the woman say this is Samuel, But actually, they argue that the inspired writer of scripture says it is Samuel. Look in verse number 15. And Samuel said to Saul And so they point that out. Here the inspired word of scripture is saying Samuel is speaking here. So that's one argument. Second argument they use is the witch reacted as though she was surprised and genuinely terrified When Samuel appears, she screams at the top of her voice. This strong reaction of that Samuel's appearance was there was totally unexpected, he says on her on her part. This is what Warren Wersby argues here. The shock that she had from seeing Samuel shows that she was not expecting that She normally is deceptive, but this was something that was real, something that she's not used to. A third argument is that the words that Samuel spoke to Saul seem to confirm it. Look at the conversation. Look at verse 15 And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou desquited me to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed, for the Philistines make war against me, and God has departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams. Therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do. Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask me, seeing the Lord is departed from thee, and has become thine enemy The Lord hath done to him as he spake by me, for the Lord hath rent the kingdom out of thy hand and given it to thy neighbor, even David, and because thou obeyest not the voice of the Lord, nor executest his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath the Lord done this thing unto thee this day. So here's the argument. This Samuel here is speaking truth. He's affirming conversations from the past. He's speaking truth. And also notice that Samuel is not speaking through this medium He's speaking directly to Saul. Normally when there's a spiritual medium, the dead supposedly speaks through the medium to the person, but this woman's not in the scene here. In fact, verse twenty-one suggests that she was not uh in that presence when this conversation was going on. This is another argument. And then the other thing is The prophecy that Samuel gave about Saul came true. Look in verse nineteen. Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow thou Uh uh shalt thou and thy sons be with me. The Lord also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. So what does Samuel say? Tomorrow you and your sons are going to be where I am What was this? This was a pronouncement of death upon Saul. And so again, this is the point that many make. God allowed Samuel to come back, not to provide comfort But to pronounce judgment, to rebuke him for what he did. Again, Kylan Dalich. Said this, that Sam's appearance, quote, was of such a character that it could not fail to show to the witch and the king that God does not allow his prohibitions to be infringed upon with impunity And so, now, and let me just add one little footnote to this. This is, you know, we should remember that Samuel was not the last of God's dead servants to appear on earth in spirit form. Where else did this happen? In the Gospels at the Mount of Transfiguration, Moses and Elijah appeared in spirit form. So the Lord Jesus there on the Mount of Transfiguration. And so this would happen later. Those two appeared to Jesus to rejoice over the grace of the of the gospel, Samuel appears to pronounce the judgment of the law on Saul, some will say. But again, this is all The result of Saul's disobedience, God pronounces this judgment upon him. Physical danger, emotional distress, spiritual desperation, personal desperation, spiritual darkness. Notice the next thing, continual depression. Look in verse number 20. Then Saul fell straight lay all along on the earth and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel. And there was no strength in him For he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night. And so he's in a s just a terrible condition. He's worse off now Than he was before. There's no comfort from this. There's no hope from this. There's no reassurance. There's no joy as a result of this. Only further despair. I think there's a warning here which Seems to be the intention of the writer that this only resulted in further terror For Saul. He's so depressed, he can't function, he can't eat. Look at verse 21. And the woman came to Saul and saw that he was sore troubled. And said unto him, Behold, thy handmaid hath obeyed thy voice. And I have put my life in my hand, and hath hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest to me. Now therefore I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thy handmaid Let me set a morsel of bread before thee and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy way. But he refused and said, I will not eat But his servants together with the woman compelled him, and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed And the woman had a a fat calf in the house, and she hastened, and killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof, and she brought it before Saul and before his servants, and they did eat. Then they arose up and went away that night. And so finally Saul eats a meal prepared by this woman, but he leaves dejected. He leaves in great despair. And he's just totally depressed. By the way, all through 1 Samuel, what do we read about Saul? He's constantly battling depression. He's constantly battling this. Why? Because he's constantly disobedient to God. You know, sometimes Christians will come to me and they'll They'll have trouble with depression in their life and they'll ask me, you know, if I can help them. And I always say there's really basically Four reasons for a person's depression. One could be medical. It could be that you your body needs something that it doesn't have. You should go to a doctor, get physically examined to make sure that you have all that you need. It may be low vitamins or something like that. That's that could be one thing. Sometimes it's just temperamental. Sometimes a person's personality might be prone to be in depressed and you have to know yourself. Sometimes it's circumstantial. Sometimes people just go through a very difficult time, a time of sorrow in their life, and there are circumstances that make them depressed. And in times like that, God is our strength. And God will bring you out of that as you trust in Him. But sometimes it's spiritual. Sometimes it's just the result of a person just disobeying the Lord. Let me tell you something. Any Christian who continually disobeys the Lord, and I don't mean to be harsh when I say this, you should be depressed. In fact, depression is God's way of getting your attention. It is God's way of saying there's something wrong. And what you have to do is you have to examine your life and repent of your sin and turn to the Lord. Sometimes depression is spiritual. Here's Saul And he's been living in constant disobedience and he's been battling with depression all along the way. And it shouldn't surprise us that when he commits this monstrous sin Of disobeying the law of God, and then God intervenes and pronounces judgment on Saul that he's even worse off than before. That is the end of someone who is stubbornly defiant against God and his word. And so There's this continual depression that he's dealing with. And let me give you the last thing. This is the sixth consequence of disobedience, and that is physical death Go to chapter 31 real quick. Let me just show you how it all ends for Saul. Chapter 28 is the beginning of the end. Now here in chapter 31. We see the death of Saul. It gives this account, and we'll just touch on it before we wrap it up. Chapter 31, verse 1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel. And the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in Mount Geboah, and the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons And the Philistines slew Jonathan and Abinadab and Melkishua, Saul's sons, and the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was sore wounded of the archers. Then Saul then said Saul unto his armor bearer, draw thy sword and thrust me through therewith lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through and abuse me But the armor bearer would not, for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword and fell upon it. And when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with So here's the sad ending here. Just as Samuel prophesied, the Philistines quickly and easily defeated Israel. and those broad plains there at the valley of Jezreel, where their chariots had such a great advantage over Israel. And Saul was hit by the archers. He was so mortally wounded, he knew he had no hope. And he asked his armor-bearer to finish off the job before the Philistines could get to him and abuse him. And the armor bearer, of course, afraid and would not, and so finally Saul with his sword commits suicide. And this is the sad death. of this man who continually disobeyed the Lord. And let me just finish up with this one thing. Now a lot of people ask me this question: Was Saul really saved? Was he saved? And my answer to that is, are you ready? Get your notebooks out. I don't know. Honestly, I've gone back and forth on it. Just being honest with you. It could be that he was it was, but there are good arguments against the fact that he was not really saved, that he was an apostate, he fell away from the Lord. In fact, if you look at all the things that he did, if you look at the fruit of his life, it's bad fruit. I mean, just think about it. He Basically had a record of jealousy and hatred and murder. His whole rule was characterized by failure and rebellion. He directly disobeyed God's word in chapter 15 He was visited by evil spirits on several occasions as a punishment from the Lord. He spent a lot of energy and time trying to murder David, God's anointed king And he ordered the slaughter of eighty-five of God's priests. On one occasion, he even tried to kill his own son out of anger. And then, of course, we read here of him consulting a witch And then dying by suicide. And so when you put all those facts together, there are people that say, no, he was not truly saved when you look at the works of his life and you add all that up. But then there's more to the story, however Because if you look at the beginning of Saul's life, you know what the Bible says? God said to Saul, listen, when he you're going to be visited by some prophets, this was in chapter 10. And then the Lord said, The Spirit of the Lord will come powerfully upon you, and you will prophesy with them, and you will be changed into another person. And then the Bible uses these words, and God gave him another heart. Boy, that sure sounds like regeneration when you look at those words there. God gave him another heart And verses like this lead some people to say, well, he was saved. He had the Spirit of God on him. He prophesied like one of the prophets. God gave him another heart. And at the beginning of his reign, he was successful until he began to disobey the Lord. And so Some people look at this as evidence that he walked in the flesh. He was saved, but he walked in the flesh. God punished him, but he still didn't come to repentance. And they say that, you know, after all, if you look at our life as Christians today, we all struggle with the sins of the flesh, don't we? We all have that Romans 7 struggle in our life. But there's one more argument. Look, go back to chapter 28. Look in verse 19. Let me just show you this. And then I promise I'm done. Look in verse 19. Remember Saul speaking? to uh excuse me samuel speaking of saul and look what samuel says moreover the lord if you believe this is samuel If you take the view that this is Samuel speaking, look what it says. Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow shalt thou and thy sons be with What? Me? Wherever Samuel was. Now again, if you believe this was really Samuel, this is going to affect your view of whether or not you believe Saul was saved, right? Because if this was really Samuel, Samuel said to Saul, Tomorrow you and your sons are going to be with me. And by the way, one of those sons was Jonathan, and we know that Jonathan was a righteous man. was a godly person. And yet here, Samu says, you and your sons are going to be with me tomorrow. Now some argue this was talking about the realm of the dead, but this is very specific where I am Samuel says, you're going to be with me tomorrow. And so again, this would affect your view of whether or not you believe that Saul was truly saved. But let's not lose the overall point of this. What's the overall point? Disobedience to God is dangerous. It's dangerous. Whether you believe he was saved or not. His disobedience brought such a terrible price in his life. That we don't ever want to be like this. We don't ever want to harden our heart and continual unrepentant disobedience to God's word Listen, you want to be a happy Christian? It's not rocket science. Obey the Lord. Just obey God. What's that song that we sing? Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be what? Happy in Jesus. It's the truth. You want to be happy. You want to be blessed. Obey the Lord. Don't ever get into a pattern of disobeying the Lord and then hardening your heart and continuing in this path of disobedience, thinking that you're getting away with it. Saul probably thought all his life he was getting away with it, but here is the end, and he didn't. God's judgment came down on him. Let's obey the Lord. Examine your heart if there's anything in your life where you're not obeying the Lord, repent of that and live in happy obedience to God and be blessed. Let's bow for prayer. tonight. So Father, let this be a warning to us. Lord, we don't want to we don't want to disobey you. We don't want a pattern of stubbornness, resistance against your word, desire to have our own way. Lord, we know that this leads to destruction and death. Lord, help us to surrender every part of ourselves to you. to be totally obedient to your will, to your word, and our life And Lord, I pray that all of us will give ourselves a spiritual examination and ask ourselves this question, is there any area in my life Where I'm continually, persistently disobedient to God, where I haven't repented. Holy Spirit, I pray that you'll point that out. And let there be true repentance. Take a moment here tonight. Just examine your own heart. Ask yourself, is there any area in my life where I'm disobedient to the Lord? May God cleanse me of that. I forsake it. I repent of this sin, I forsake it. And I surrender all of myself, all of who I know that I am To all that I know about God, I'm giving myself freely to be his obedient servant. I don't want there to be any area of hardness whatsoever In my heart. Father, bless these words to our hearts tonight, we pray, in Jesus' wonderful and matchless name. Amen.