Would you take God's word this morning and open to Psalm 85? Psalm 85, and we're going to read this psalm together. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please, this morning? Psalm 85, starting in verse 1. Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land, and thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people. Thou hast covered all their sins. Thou hast turned away all thy wrath. Thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. Turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger towards us to cease. Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Show us thy salvation, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation. Show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation. And I will hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints, but let them not turn again to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Truth shall spring up out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase. Righteousness shall go before him. and shall set us in the way of his steps. Thank you so much. This is God's inerrant word. You may be seated. May God bless us today as we as we hear it. Would you bow in prayer with me? Father, we thank you for the Word of God, and I pray that Lord you will instruct us and teach us from it today as we look at it to this Psalm. And we consider our subject, Lord. May you receive honor and glory in all this done. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we know on this special weekend we celebrate the birthday of our country. And as we look out and see things going on in our nation, we uh we cannot help but be concerned. I don't know about you, but I am concerned about our country. I'm grateful to God for it was his providential hand that brought our country into being. We know that. But I also see a nation that is drifting away from God. And I I I really believe, beloved, that what we need in our country desperately is we need revival. We need revival in this land. And in order to understand what revival is, let me first of all tell you what revival is not. Revival is not just evangelism. Although we believe in evangelism, we need to get out and we need to do more of that. We want to see people come to Christ. And beloved, all of us need to be involved in that. Every person in here, we need to be sharing Christ with every opportunity every time God opens the door. But revival is not just evangelism and it's not just emotionalism. You know, you can have meetings and you can have great preaching and you can have tears and you can stir people, but that's not a revival in itself. It's not just excitement. You know, you can you can do exciting things in a church and not have revival. It's not just an event that you can put on a calendar and then just schedule it and then call it a revival. So what is revival? Revival is the extraordinary movement of the Spirit of God upon the hearts of people. It is God drawing his erring people back unto himself, people who have gotten away from the Lord that are his. It is God bringing them back. In fact, the word for revival comes from the word life. It's giving life and vitality. where it has been lacking. Revival is for believers who already have God's life in the middle, but they're being revived. You know, every once in a while in church history, what we see is that the church goes through periods where uh It's kind of moving away from God. They're getting errant in their path. There's no real passion for uh the things of God. And we get cold and we get apathetic and we get complacent. And when those times come, we need to return to God. We need for God to move in a very special way. And that's what revival consists of. And you mark it down that when true revival comes, there's always certain marks. There's certain things that we see that indicate to us that revival is happening. One of those will be extra extraordinary prayer. God's people won't be won't uh be negligent in coming out to the prayer meeting. We won't have to beg people to come and to pray together and to seek the face of God together because when real revival comes God's people will come to pray together. I hope that you're praying privately. I hope that every day you're you're praying for your family You're praying for people in your realm to be saved, those your family and your friends. We should be doing that every day. But there's a certain command in Scripture that when God's people come together, we should pray together as a church. And when revival comes, it'll be marked by extraordinary prayer. It'll be marked by extraordinary conviction and repentance. There'll be people that will turn from maybe a pattern of sin that they have been involved with in their life and it's causing them to move away from God. There'll be conviction. There'll be a crying out. Samuel Davies in his history of the First Great Awakening said this. Suddenly a deep general concern about eternal things spread through the country. He's talking about America when the First Great Awakening came. He said sinners started out of their slumbers. Broke off from their vices, began to cry out, What shall we do to be saved? And made it the great business of their life to prepare for the world to come. Then the gospel seemed almighty and carried all before it. It pierced the very hearts of men with an irresistible power. I have seen thousands at once melt down under it, all eager to hear as for life, and hardly a dry eye to be seen among them. He's just chronicling what God was doing there in the history of our country during that first great awakening that really formed our nation during that time in its history. Revival will be marked by an extraordinary love and unity. There'll be an outpouring of love among the people of God. Now we should always love one another because the Bible says when we get saved That the love of God is shed abroad in our heart by the Holy Spirit. That should be a natural thing for the people of God. But when revival comes, it it goes to another level. There'll be this extraordinary unity and love among one another. There'll be this extraordinary worship. There'll be a passionate worship of God. Uh you know, something I think that we miss sometimes in the church in America today. You know, I was in Los Angeles preaching at a a Korean congregation. And you know, uh Korean Christians have a uh a daily habit that you know it would be good for us to emulate. Did you know that they have prayer morning prayer meetings every morning at six o'clock in their church? And in this church, hundreds of people come out every morning at 6 o'clock just for the prayer service, just to pray together. Every day. That's every day. Think about that. When revival comes, there'll be this desire to pray. There'll be this extraordinary passionate worship for God. There'll be extraordinary witness. Did you know that during the Great Awakening, that's when a lot of these movements began, like the um American uh mission board and the Sunday school board and the desire to reach foreign missions. All those things came out of the great awakening during a time in our country because when God moved, there was a desire on the people of God to get out and to serve the Lord so much more And when real revival comes, there'll be an extraordinary spiritual awakening among the lost. Again, looking in the history of our nation, when the first and second great awakening came, churches that before were empty were began to be filled with people. God filled those churches when revival came. And so this is what we need. Let me just give you the definition from J. I. Packer in this book, The Quest. for godliness. He said this. We may list as marks of revival an awesome sense of the presence of God and the truth of the gospel, a profound awareness of sin, leading to deep repentance and a heartfelt embrace of the glorified, loving, pardoning Christ, an uninhibited witness to the power and glory of Christ, with a mighty freedom of speech, expressing a mighty freedom of spirit. Joy in the Lord, love for his people, and a fearing of sinning, and from God's side an intensifying speeding up of the work of grace, so that men are struck down by the Word and transformed by the Spirit. That's a really good definition of it. Now you might be sitting here thinking, you know, well that's wonderful. But why should I give myself to pursue revival in my own life and in my family and in my church. Why is this so important? Well Psalm 85 helps us in this. The key verse in Psalm 85 is verse number six If you look at it again, wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? Here he is praying for a spiritual revival to take place among his nation. The psalmist understood the condition that his nation was in, and it was his heart's desire to see God do a great revival among them. And let me give you a little bit of the historical setting of this psalm. This was written during a again a difficult time. Some say this was written during the time of Hezekiah. Some say this was written during the time of the Babylonian captivity, but I think perhaps the best explanation of when this was written was when the the exiles were returning home to Jerusalem And they saw this the shape that the city was in. But not just the city that was in ruins, but also the people that were there were in ruins spiritually and morally. The whole nation was in such sh a sad shape. I think the circumstance of this psalm really fits the setting of the time when uh the uh during the book of Nehemiah, when the exiles were coming back. And God had released them, and they were finally traveling back to their land, and yet they saw the challenge that was before them. And as they got into Jerusalem, the the reality of the situation began to set in. for the things of God. There was apathy all over the place. And they they wanted God this psalmist here wanted God to move. Now the people of God, they began to rebuild the temple, but then they stopped. They got too involved in their own life. And worship didn't really seem to be a priority with them. The house of God didn't seem to be a priority with them. They had lost their sense of national pride. They had lost their vision. And they lost their joy in the Lord and they began to forget God. And so the psalmist recognizes that there's a desperate need for revival. And what we said here of Israel in this point of time, I think we can apply to our own country, can we not? We see some of the same things today. It just seems like in recent days, churches all over America are suffering. We're suffering. There's been this sense in which you know the worship of God and being in God's house and pursuing the Lord with passion, it just seems to be gone There's this general apathy that exists all over. It's all over. And I tell you what we need, we need revival in our country. But I tell you, it's got to start in the church. It's got to start with the people of God. We don't expect a revival to come among people that are don't know the Lord. It has to start with us. I I remember the words of that historian, Alexius de Cote de Tokville, I think I'm pronouncing his name right, who was a Frenchman who came over to America because he wanted to see why They had, you know, given us the Statue of Liberty. What was it about this new nation? What was so very special about this new nation? And it says he says that he began to look for the greatness of America and the the businesses that that were b were that were popping up all over. And he said he looked through that and He didn't see it there. He he began to look into schoolhouses and didn't necessarily see it there. He was looking for the greatness of America. He looked into all these different institutions and places for what was making this country so great. And it wasn't until he visited the church That he said he found the secret of the greatness of America because when he went to the church, he found that the pulpits were on fire with righteousness and passion for God. And De Tocqueville said that that was the secret of the greatness of America. And friend, if revival is ever to come to our country, it has to start in the church. It has to start with the people of God. And so the psalmist here is seeking God desperately for revival. And I want you to see three ways in which he does it. First of the first step I call this is acknowledging. He's acknowledging the history of revival in verses 1 to 3. Look again in verse 1. Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land. Thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. Thou hast forgotten the iniquity of their people. Thou hast covered all their sin. We notice here in these first few verses that the psalmist is acknowledging what God has done in the past. And what God has done in the past is the indicator of what God wants to do in the present and in the future. The psalmist understood that God's way was to bring correction to peoples and nations. God's pattern was to look upon nations and people who were in spiritual and moral decline and to bring new life to them. To bring revival to them. That was the consistent nature and character of God. Read about this in history. We can see that. The people that were in such sad spiritual sh shape. There was a coldness and a deadness and so on. We see this in the early part of our country where And then in response to that, when there was a handful of people that got together and prayed, God acted and God brought revival Again, that's how the Great Awakenings in our country were started because there was this period of coldness and deadness and apathy and it was some People that got together, that knew God, that began to call upon God, and God responded. I'll tell you this, we won't have revival until we get serious about praying and seeking the face of God. That's what we need. We need a seriousness. And what what does God do? He restores his people, we saw in verse number one. God brought them back from Babylonian captivity, but he restored them geographically, but he also restored them spiritually. He says In verse 1, thou hast brought us back from the captivity. Verse 2, thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered their sins. God sent to them the prophet Haggai and the scribe Ezra. And you remember in the book of Nehemiah, Ezra got up and he spoke the word of God, and revival came as a result of the preaching of the Word of God. When God's people get serious about the word, about listening, about submitting to God, then revival will come. But we see this pattern of Almighty God. He restores his people. He forgives his people, as we see in verses 2 and 3. Did you understand it's the character and nature of God to forgive? Aren't you glad that we have a forgiving God? You may be sitting there saying, you know, you know, you you don't realize what I've done. It doesn't matter, friend. If you come in true repentance, God will cleanse you. He will forgive you. If you come to him, he'll do that. That's the character of God. And this is what the psalmist is placing great emphasis on. Four times we see thou hast, thou hast, thou hast, forgiven the iniquity, covered their sin, taken away thy wrath. The greatest of all mercies that we can receive from God is the forgiveness of sins. And God is always ready and willing to forgive to the one who comes to Him. And then we see not only is the soulness remembering revival. By the way, I know that there are people out there to say, you know, America was never really a Christian nation. These are these revisionist historians who don't want to acknowledge that America was ever a Christian nation. But friend, all you have to do is just look back just go to Washington, D. C. and look at some of the old monuments. Just read what is on there. You know what you'll see? Verses of scripture. You'll see that all over. Go look at the Liberty Bell and look at the verse that's inscribed there on the Liberty Bell from the book of Leviticus talking about liberty. In 1776, excuse me, eleven of the thirteen colonies required one to be a Christian to be eligible to run for political office. That's in 1776. In 1777, the Continental Congress voted to spend $300,000 to purchase Bibles to distribute among the nation. Do we think we'd ever see anything like that today? Coming from our Congress to give money to make sure that every citizen of the U. S. has a copy of the Word of God? 94% of all the writings of the Founding Fathers of the U. S. contain quotations from Holy Scripture Again, the liberty bell has Leviticus 25, 10. Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof. There's an image of Moses carrying the tablets of God, the law of God, and it faces the speaker In the House of Representatives, in the Congress. The President entering the oath of office puts his right hand on the Bible. It's just right here on the Bible. Where did all that come from? That came all the way back from the beginning. George Washington, the first president of our country, he's the one who added, when he took the oath of office, he added the word, so help me God. It wasn't part of the pledge But he added those words because he was a Christian and he wanted the help of God. The Supreme Court itself begins each of its sessions with the phrase, God save the United States and this honorable court. Friend and on we could go We were a Christian nation. We were a nation built upon the principles of the Word of God, but it's sad to know that we've moved so far from that now. We're so far from it. We we had one United States Senator say it's not th this Congress is not concerned with the will of God. He said that. Well you ought to be, dear friend. Because every government is under the authority of God. They're not a God unto themselves. It's under the authority of God. John Wycliffe, that great reformer, the first one to ever translate the Bible into English. Um he did it from the Latin. He didn't do it from the original sources like William Tyndale would do later on. But he was the first one to translate the Bible into English. And you know why he did that? You know what his motivating factor was It was because he believed that every government should be of the people, by the people, and for the people. Does that phrase sound familiar? That was in Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address. You know where Abraham Lincoln got that from? Because it's in the introduction to John Wycliffe's Bible, and Abraham Lincoln had a copy of that Bible. It was John Wycliffe that first said that. And John Wycliffe translated the Bible into English because he believed that governments need to be under the authority of God. That they're God's ministers, that they're accountable to the Word of God, and that the people need to keep the government accountable to the Word of God. But how are they going to be able to do that if they don't have a copy of the scripture in their own language? So John Waccliffe set out to give a copy of the Bible in English so that all the people would have that in their own language. so that the people can make sure that the government is ruling according to the word of God. But unfortunately we have strayed from that. As if the word of God is not important. But it'll be the thing by which God will judge. And so that's why we need revival. That's why we need to get a return to the Lord. And so the psalmist starts out by acknowledging the history of revival, but then number two by asking. I call this the hunger for Revival, look in verse number four. Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger towards us to cease Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice? Notice he's seeking God. He's asking God to bring revival. And what we see is in these next few verses, the psalmist passionately praying and pleading with God for his reviving hand. The way to revival, as I said, is through fervent prayer. It is said that Kottonather, this is before the Great Awakening came, prayed several hours a day for twenty years. for God to bring revival to the America. And finally it did in the Great Awakening, but it happened after his death. Perhaps God won't answer some of our prayers until after we die. But I gotta tell you, I'm concerned about what my children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren are going to have to live with here in this country if we don't see revival from Almighty God. Just begin to pray. Begin to seek the face of God. It might not come in our lifetime. God might answer that prayer after we're gone But we desperately need it. If revival in this land depended on your prayers and your faith and your obedience, will we ever have revival? Would we ever have it? And so he prays in verse 4, turn us. This is the word for repentance. Lord, turn us. You know, repentance is something that God commands. In Scripture, he commands all men everywhere to repent. And if you're here today and you've never repented of your sins and you've never put your full faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, I want to tell you that God is commanding you to repent. The gospel is not so much an invitation as it is a command to repent. But There's also a sense in which repentance is also given. It's a gift that God gives. The Bible says this in 2 Timothy chapter 2 that The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. After teach, that is the docticos. I have to be skilled in teaching the word of God to you. Why? Because lest per adventure God will grant them repentance according to the acknowledging of the truth. Repentance is also something that God gives He'll give it in an answer to prayer, I think, many times. My job is very clear. I'm to give the scripture clearly, because the power is here in the Word of God. I'm to skillfully just Give it to you. And then in response to that, we pray for God to grant repentance on the hearts of people. Not only something that God commands. It's also something that God grants. And so it's perfectly right and legitimate for us to pray that God would bring a spirit of repentance upon our country. upon the people in it. That people would truly come to God in sincere repentance. I fear what will happen if that doesn't take place. Thomas Jefferson said this: I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just and that his justice cannot sleep forever. We need a spirit of repentance. So he prays, turn us, O Lord. And then he prays, Revive us. And verses five and six. Wilt thou not revive us again? Again, this was a time of a Loeb in the country. And what he's praying for here, again, it's not it's not a national uh repatriation. They were already back in the land. He was praying for this spiritual need. We need spiritual revival. We need we need to turn back to God. I'm not I'm not saying pray that, you know, to get the gas prices down. That the grocery prices have come back down. Sure we would love that. But friend, we more much more than that. I'm not talking about a material thing. I'm talking about a spiritual thing. I'm talking about a return to God. Uh it was an incredible statistic I read from uh Thomas Rayner. who was studying the uh church growth and he did this in this intensive study and this is what he discovered. These are some amazing facts. He said this according to his study of the people born before 1951 The American church has seen 65% profess Christ as their Savior. Of those born from 1951 to 1964, the church has reached 35%. Of those born from 1964 to 1977, the church has reached 15%. And of those born from nineteen seventy-eight to nineteen ninety-four, the church has reached four percent so far. And if this trend continues, it's going to continue to go down. That means 96% of your children and grandchildren and their friends, as it goes as right now, will not know Jesus Christ. That's why we need revival. That's why we need to turn to the Lord. That's not we need to seek his face with all our heart. And so the psalmist praise, Lord. Turn us. Turn us. Give us this spirit of repentance. We need it. But then show us in verse number seven. Show us thy mercy, O Lord. And grant us thy salvation. You know, there's so many things I love about God. I love the fact that He's holy, and I love the fact that He's sovereign. But I tell you, I love the fact that God is merciful. He's so merciful. And he is waiting for opportunities to show his mercy. And this is what the psalmist is crying out for. Lord, show us your mercy Are you seeking the mercy of God? Are you praying for your family and your children and grandchildren that they would experience the mercy of God. So we see we see the psalmist here acknowledging the history of revival, asking now there is this hunger for revival. He's pouring his heart out in prayer. And then the final step here is anticipating. This is what I call the hope of revival. Look down at verse number eight. I will hear what the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints. But let them not return again to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. Mercy and truth are met together, righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. Having acknowledged what God has done, and having prayed and asked God to bring revival to his nation. Now the psalmist does something that the prophet Habakkuk did one time. He just waits on God now. He's waiting for the answer. He just is patiently looking to the Lord. Remember Habakkuk after he poured his heart out? Habakkuk said in Habakkuk 2. 1, I will take my stand at my watch post, station myself on the tower, look out, and I will wait to see What God's going to do. I'm just going to wait now. He's he's he's he's praying, he's seeking the face of the Lord, and he's waiting for God to answer his prayer. But then he in verses 8 and 9, what the psalmist does is he begins to kind of use his sanctified imagination and he begins to imagine what would happen if revival did come. What would happen? And he's thinking, surely his salvation is nigh. Surely God is going to hear this prayer. Surely God is going to answer. And surely dwell uh glory will come back and dwell in this land once again That was his hope. Friend, that's my hope for our country that glory will return. I'm again I'm talking about spiritual issues. I'm talking about a return to God. That glory will dwell in the land. Of course, for Israel, that was the Shekinah glory that left town in Ezekiel 8 through 10. It's got that story after they had committed such idolatry, God said, I'm out of here Ichabad, the glory departed. There's a sense in which glory has departed us and our country. And we need that glory, the presence of God to return. So the psalmist says, you know, I'm waiting. And he's thinking about what would it be like if that happened? And in a very beautiful and poetic way, he describes what would happen if God answered this prayer. Derek Kittner says of this stanza, the climax is one of the most satisfying descriptions of concord, spiritual, moral, material to be found anywhere in Scripture. What would happen? If God answered our prayer and God brought revival to us, there would be a spiritual prosperity. Verse 10, mercy and truth are met together. Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Mercy and truth would meet. You know. And they would they would, the Bible says here, met together, righteousness and peace have kissed each other. Now in the Bible, whenever there's mercy and truth, whenever it talks about mercy and truth, it's always they're hostile to each other. Because truth and mercy really don't have a whole lot of harmony. Truth demands truth and mercy once to give where there's it's undeserved. But there is a sense in which when revival comes, mercy and truth will meet. You know, and there's this kind of um uh there's this tension here. You know, God's holiness demands punishment, but God's mercy wants to forgive. And so all through the Old Testament we see this tension. How can these two meet together? And you know how that tension is resolved? It's resolved at the cross at Calvary. Because at the cross, God's holy demands, God's truth was justified when Jesus took all of our sins And God's wrath fell on Christ. So holiness and truth were satisfied, and mercy was also satisfied. And at the cross, mercy and truth met together, and they embraced And righteousness and peace kissed each other. And this is just a beautiful way to talk about what would take place. You know what would happen if revival came the There would be people that would come to Christ, and the truth of God would be upheld. Look what it says in verse 11 truth shall spring up out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down. We live in a nation now where they call good evil and evil good. But when revival comes, truth will spring out of the ground, and righteousness shall look down from heaven. That's the idea with approval. When God looks down today, He He doesn't approve of the things that are going on. That stirs his wrath. Truth will spring out of the ground. By the way, that's why the church is here. We're the pillar and ground of truth. We stand for the truth. And part of the calling of the churches is when the state gets out of line, we call it out. We stand for truth We call it out. But then you know else would happen if revival came. Yea, look at verse 12, yea, the Lord shall give that which is good. And the the land shall yield her increase as a byproduct of getting right with God. You know what will happen? Blessings will come We'll be blessed materially as we have in years past. You know what the lead what the leaders and all these experts and economic experts and political leaders don't realize Is that the answer to all the woes to our economy is to get your heart right with God. Because when God starts to judge a nation, he does it financially, materially, sometimes militarily. This comes right on the heels of spiritual revival, but then moral prosperity in verse 13. Righteousness shall go before him. And shall set us in the way of his steps. This refers to the future citizens of the nation. Righteousness shall go before That means my sons and my daughters and my grandchildren and your grandchildren, they'll experience blessing. And righteousness shall go before them and they'll walk in his steps. When revival comes, there'll be a new surge in passionate worship and church attendance and drunkenness and immorality and crime and dishonesty will be curbed. Righteousness shall flourish through the land, the Bible says. The psalmist is just imagining all these things happening. Can you see it? Would you use your imagination? Can you see that? Think about that. That's what he does. Let that motivate you. to seek God with all of your heart. Let's bow for prayer together today. And just take a moment while you're there. And would you just pray For revival. Ask God to bring it. It doesn't have you don't have to ask for it naturally, but let it start with you. Ask God to take away your fear of revival. Sometimes people are afraid of what would happen if God brought revival. Ask God to take away your fear from that. Ask God to use you. Let you be a conduit. Let it start with you. Ask God to make you an instrument. An example of it. And cry out to God this prayer that the psalmist prayed. Lord, wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice And Lord start with me. Start with me. Forgive me for being careless, apathetic, for being cold. Forgiving me for allowing myself to be lulled to sleep by the music of the world. And stir up my heart again to seek your face and to bring revival. And if you're here today and you've never put your put your full faith in Christ, I would just ask you right now, right where you are, repent. Trust Christ. Reach out to Him. He promised to save you if you would ask. So go to him now and say, Lord, you promised if I asked. And I'm doing that right now. Turning to you, I'm turning from my sin, I'm putting all my faith in your finished work. Save me Pray that, and he will save you, friend. We have the authority of Scripture. Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Pray for God to do that work in your heart. Father, revive us How we need it. Turn us, oh Lord. Turn us and show us your mercy. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.