Would you take your Bibles tonight? I want you to look in Hebrews chapter twelve tonight. And uh this is a topic that the Lord has laid on my heart that we want to talk about tonight. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses eighteen down to verse twenty-four. The writer of Hebrews says, Is for you're not come unto the mount that might be touched, that burneth with fire, or unto nor under blackness and darkness and tempest, and the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words, which voice that they heard, entreated that the words should not be spoken to them any more. For they could not endure that which was commanded, and if so much as a beast touched the mountain, it shall be stoned or thrust through with a dart. And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake. But ye are come unto Mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, and the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels. To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. A teenager once said to his dad, he said, Dad, I'm bored with the songs in church. And the father kind of said back to him sarcastically, Well maybe you can write some m some songs that are not boring. Well, that young man took that seriously and he actually did begin to write hymns and his name was Isaac Watts and he became one of the great hymn writers of the church. And one of the hymns that he wrote was a hymn called We're Marching to Zion. And in that hymn, it is an anticipation about heaven. And some of you know the words to the song. We're marching to Zion, beautiful, beautiful Zion. We're marching upward to Zion, the beautiful city of God. And that's what we want to talk about here in this passage here in uh Hebrews chapter twelve. Um there doesn't seem to be a lot of interest in heaven today by some people, so many people have it so good down here they don't see any reason to be interested in something that is over there. But I want to tell you as we w we grow older and we we begin to get more interested in heaven. As we lose loved ones, people that are dear to us, we uh we just we invest a little bit more there in that celestial city, we begin to think more about heaven. I just think it's an appropriate title now because again in this last week we've lost two more precious saints. That are part of our church here, Grace. And uh Miss Martha Daniels and Brother Adam Cassell, both wonderful saints of the Lord, faithful. And then of course, you know, in a few weeks ago the passing of my own father. And so I think heaven, it just grows sweeter. It grows sweeter when we lose loved ones. We know that there are people there waiting for us on the other side. And I think this is what God wants. God wants us when things like this happen, when providences like this take place in the body of a church. It's one way of God reminding us that we need to have a heavenly focus. We need to look at eternity. We need to look at heaven. We're so consumed with the things of this world. We're so consumed with the temporal daily things. That we should think about that place that we're going to spend eternity. And so I want us to kind of just think about heaven here tonight together. And all that heaven means to us. And uh so I want you to notice four truths about heaven that we're going to look at here as we look at this passage here in Hebrews chapter 12. And the first thing I'm going to talk about is heaven's destination. Again, look at verse number uh uh where it says verse twenty-two, but ye are come unto Mount Zion. And the word for come here in the Greek, present, indicative, active, so we can say it like this, you are coming. to Mount Zion. It's a fact that as we believers, you know what, we're we're on this pilgrimage. This world is not our home. You understand that, right? And I think that sometimes it's hard for us to get that concept in our mind that we are pilgrims in this world. This world is not the place that God has for us to be a permanent place. We're just traveling through And the writer here kind of picks up on that when he says, you are coming to Mount Zion. You're traveling towards Mount Zion. Each day that we live as a believer, you realize that we're one day closer to heaven if you know Christ. When each day that passes by, we're one day closer to heaven and all the joys of heaven. Again, when you got saved, you became a pilgrim. And I think that's one of the great uh metaphors in the Bible is that of a pilgrim. Ever since Adam was cast out uh the Garden of Eden. Man has been looking for a home. He's tried to make this place here his home, but it is no permanent city. It is no permanent place. And a man in his heart has been searching, looking. In the Old Testament, when Abraham was called out of Ur by God, he spent the rest of his life looking for that city. Living like a pilgrim. And I think that's one of the great metaphors of the Bible, one of the great metaphors of the quick Christian life. We need to realize that we're on a journey towards heaven. We're pilgrims. Home is our destination. This is the reason we should not turn our that we should not turn our back on God. The reason we persevere in faith when bad things happen, that doesn't matter. We're going to experience heartache. We're going to experience difficulty, but we don't quit on God because we know what our destination is. And so the writer of Hebrews is actually picking up on this idea. And you see, he's writing to uh Hebrews who uh embraced Christ, or they were considering embracing the gospel of Christ that glorious new covenant message about Jesus Christ the Savior. They were considering all the claims of Christ. Some had made that profession, but many of them missed the things of Judaism and they were considering turning back Many of them, because they trusted Jesus Christ, they were being persecuted. They were paying the price for loyalty to Jesus Christ. And as I was talking about this this morning in Sunday school, you know a lot of people they have a superficial faith and when they embrace it seems like they embrace the gospel and they get saved, but when persecution comes, they turn their back on the Lord, they walk away. From their faith. What does that reveal? That they were never really genuinely saved to begin with. The seed was on shallow soil When persecution arose, the the whatever growth was there withered away and died, which revealed it was not real to begin with. And the writer of Hebrews is challenging these Hebrew Christians to do not turn back Don't turn back on Jesus Christ. That's the worst thing you could ever do. And what does he use to motivate them? The reality of heaven. The reality of what you're going to, what you're traveling to. You understand the glories that await you one day? You understand how wonderful that is, how beautiful that is. And so the Hebrew, the writer of Hebrews is saying, listen, don't turn away from Christ. You're coming to Mount Zion. Remember, all those things in the Old Testament, all those things under the Old Covenant were shadows that pointed to the real substance. Now you have the real substance in Jesus Christ. You know. How many of you when your wife walks into the room, you begin talking to her shadow and ignore her? I I wouldn't recommend that. So that would be that would be foolish. Why talk to the shadow when I have the person right there? I can talk to the person. That's exactly right. That's kind of the logic that the writer of Hebrews is using. Why would you turn back to the shadows when you have the real substance, Jesus Christ? Why would you do that? That's just a foolish thing to do. And so one argument that the writer uses to contrast the old covenant with the new covenant is to contrast two mountains. And we see this here in the passage that we just read. In verse eighteen, we see Mount Sinai. He says, For you're not come unto Mount that mount that might be touched, that burneth with fire, nor unto blackness and darkness and tempest. And the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words, which voice that they heard entreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more That's a fearful, fearful place to go, Mount Sinai. And he contrasts that with Mount Zion in verse 22 when he says, but ye are come unto Mount Zion. Now, Mount Sinai, that's the mountain where Moses received the Ten Commandments. And the writer is reminding the Jews about the time when the law was given there at Mount Sinai. At that time, there was an awesome display of the holiness of God, of the justice of God, of the wrath of God. In fact, I want you just to hold your place here. Just look with me real quick. Go back to Exodus chapter twenty and and let's remind ourselves of what took place there when God was giving The law. Remember that the people of Israel agreed to enter into this covenant with God and agreed to obey God's law. And so this was the initiation of the Mosaic Covenant. But there were some stipulations to that and and that was the Ten Commandments that Moses received. But look at the great manifestations. Look in Exodus twenty, look in verse eighteen. And all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet. and the mountain smoking, and when people saw it, they removed and stood afar off. And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us. We will not hear we will hear, but let not God speak with us lest we die. And Moses said unto the people, Fear not, for God has come to prove you, that his fear may be before your faces that ye sin not. And the people stood afar off. And Moses drew near to under the thick darkness where God was. This was a very fearful thing here to the people of Israel when they stood before Mount Sinai, because this was God's manifestation of his his wrath against sin. His holiness, his justice. And the lesson of Mount Sinai was simple. God hates sin. And sinful man cannot approach a holy God. And so that's why this awesome physical manifestations were made visible to all of Israel to show that God was holy. And this is when God gave his law. You being sinful man cannot get near him. That's the whole point. You know, people want to drag God down to their level. They want to use flippant terms about Almighty God that which always Greaves in my spirit when I hear that. They they use careless terms, the man upstairs, the big guy in the sky, the big G. Let me tell you something, dear friend. God is not to be trifled with And he's not to be addressed in careless ways such as that, in blasphemous ways such as that. All throughout Scripture, when people experience the presence of God, they're stunned. When anyone encounters the presence of God, they're not light about it. They're not flippant about it. They're not careless about it. Remember Isaiah when he saw the Lord, he said, what? Woe is me. Because I'm a man of unclean lips. To see the holiness and splendor of God is frightening. And the law given at Mount Sinai reveals our sinfulness, reminds us that we cannot enter into God's presence as sinful people. And so the writer of Hebrews is saying to the Jewish people that had come to Christ or were considering coming to Christ, do you honestly want to go back to Mount Sinai? Is that what you want? You want to continue going to that mountain? Because that's not what the new covenant does. That's not what God requires of you now. You're not coming to Mount Sinai because you'll have only panic. You won't have peace. You'll have only fear. You won't have fellowship with God. Do you honestly want to go back to that But then again, look in verse number twenty-two where we see again in Hebrews chapter twelve, we see the contrast, but ye are come unto Mount Zion. And unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. Now Mount Zion is a picture of the person who is saved. He's a pilgrim on his way to heaven. Mount Zion is a type of heaven, and it shows that God now, now that you're a believer, now that you know Jesus Christ, God is a God who is approachable. We can come into his presence. I think sometimes we just don't grasp how wonderful that is. We don't really understand the blessing of that sometimes Now let me just talk to you about this idea of Mount Zion. When David conquered the Jebusites, he placed the ark on a mountain in Jerusalem called Mount Zion. Actually, Jerusalem is just a bunch of mounds, we could say, uh filled with hills. situated on a series of mountains, Mount of Olives and Mount Moriah and so on. And since the ark was on Zion, this mountain was considered the special earthly dwelling place of God. Listen to Psalm 132, verse 13. For the Lord has chosen Zion, he hath desired it for his habitation. This is my rest forever. Here will I dwell for I have desired it And so that place, Zion, became the place associated with God's habitation, God's presence. Now when Solomon moved the ark into the temple, which was built on Mount Moriah, the name Zion, was extended to that whole area. It kind of became broader. And then the whole city of Jerusalem then began to be called Mount Zion. And so, and then it extended even further to refer to heaven, a name for heaven. And so what the writer of Hebrews is doing is he's contrasting two mountains. You can choose Mount Sinai or you can choose Mount Zion. What's your choice? Let me help you out with this choice. Mount Sinai is God's law And you must obey it perfectly. Mount Zion is God's love and God's grace extended to you as a sinner. Mount Sinai produces panic. Mount Zion produces peace. At Mount Sinai, you're condemned because of your sin. At Mount Zion, you're cleansed because of the blood of Jesus Christ. At Mount Sinai We see God's wrath for sin. At Mount Zion, we see God's refuge from sin. At Mount Sinai, law was given. At Mount Zion, grace is given. At Mount Sinai, it's a physical mountain. Mount Zion is a spiritual mountain. Mount Sinai is closed to all. Mount Zion is open to all, all that will come. Mount Sinai is an earthly mountain. Mount Zion is a heavenly city. At Mount Sinai, man's sin is revealed. At Mount Zion, man's salvation is made perfect. So, which one do you want? Which one will you choose? And that's what the writer of Hebrews is doing here. Since you have been saved, he's saying that you are now marching to Zion. Christians are not citizens of earth of earth trying to go to heaven, but citizens of heaven sojourning through this earth on our way to that place called Mount Zion. That's heaven's destination. That's our destination. But I want you to see number two, heaven's location. Look at verse number 22 again, Hebrews 12. But you are come unto Mount Sion. Zion, unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem to an innumerable company of angels. And this brings up a question in the minds of many. Just where is heaven? Where is it? And there's been a lot of speculation about this. One writer says it's a hole in the northernmost universe Scientists say that there's a hole in the northernmost part of the universe, and they say it's possible that heaven is beyond that, about twenty-one light years away from us. That's according to one so-called scholar on that. I I don't think it's twenty one light years away, or that it's some hole in the universe Other people say, well, it's a state of mind. Some say heaven is simply a state of mind, and they use verses like Romans 14, 17, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and joy And and peace in the Holy Spirit. There's no doubt that when we come to Christ, that we do have a little bit of heaven given to us. And That righteousness and that peace and that joy, heaven does come into our soul. There's no doubt about that. But to say that heaven is simply a state of mind, that's biblically incorrect. Where's the location of the city? Where is it? It's a literal city. Heaven is a real place. It's real. It's real just as real as Baltimore City. But you're not going to find it on MapQuest. And and Siri can't tell you the location of it. Or you can't Google it. Oh, uh one Russian cosmonaut after going into space said this. He didn't see God or heaven. He was kind of being sarcastic, you know, kind of atheistic. Oh, he was in space. I didn't see God or heaven. My response is, look, if you get out of that spaceship, you'll see God soon enough. In second Corinthians twelve, the Apostle Paul went to heaven and he came back. He called it the third heaven. He was there, and Paul said he heard unspeakable words. Which is not lawful for a man to utter. Paul said, I'm not going to share any of that with you right now because you really don't need to hear that. It's not good that I do that. But what Paul did was he went to a literal, real place. Earth is but the shadow. Heaven is the real substance. You know, saints in the Bible understood that this earth is simply the shadow of the reality of heaven I mean this this is the shadow lands. Heaven is the real substance. We know that the earthly Canaan was the promised land of the nation of Israel But Hebrews 11 tells us that Abraham set his heart on something more than just an earthly promise. Even though he was there in the promised land, he was still looking for a city. A city that was not made with earthly hands, it says, for he looked for a city which has foundations whose builder and maker is God, Abraham knew that the promised land was simply a shadow of the real promised land, which is that place called heaven. And so it's a real place. I think that uh in Hebrews nine eleven it says, as Christ went through the greater and more perfect tabernacle that is not man-made. That is to say, it's not part of this creation. The tabernacle on earth is a copy of that one that's there in heaven. Hebrews suggests that God created earth in the image of heaven just as God created man in his own image. And so I think it's this is the shadow. Heaven is the real substance. C. S. Lewis proposed this. He wrote, quote, The hills and the valleys of heaven will be those you now experience, not as a copy is to the an original, nor as a substitute is to the genuine article. But as the flower to the root, or as the diamond to the coal. I think we think backwards. Why do we think that God patterns heaven's holy city after the earthly city? You know, it's the opposite. Earthly realities are derived from heavenly counterparts. And so It's a real place. Heaven is a physical place. Sometimes people when they think of heaven, they think of it as being a spiritual place. According to Scripture, heaven will be a physical place. Now it is spiritual, but there's also that physical element to it. It's compared to Mount Zion, which is an earthly an earthly place, that city of Jerusalem. And it the place where God dwells. And so, and we've read and we we talked about this last time when we were looking through Revelation that God is going to take this old earth and he's going to use the, he's going to melt it down with fire, and he's going to take the elements of this earth and he's going to remake a new heavens and a new earth. So I I again I think it the Bible tells us that it's it's it's a physical place. And we looked at that In the book of Revelation, I don't w we don't need to go back there, but in Revelation 21, we talked about that city, we talked about the majesty of that city, we talked about the measurements of that city, how incredibly big it is, and it and it's room for More than we you know we can fathom room for everyone there and then some. How huge it is. We talked about the materials of that city and what it's made of, all the precious stones and gold and pearl. Just a beautiful place beyond our imagination. But I think I would also say this: heaven is a near place. Many times we think of heaven as being so far away, so far off. When I read scripture, I read that it's not really that far off. It's not that far off. Paul ends in his book, Heaven Reveal, wrote this. He said, quote, It is not uncommon to read of authors locating heaven somewhere in outer space. They suggest that heaven is beyond our solar system, beyond the distant stars, far in outer space. Probably most people think that heaven is somewhere in the far distance. Where does the Bible locate heaven? Then he says, as scripture indicates that heaven is not distant, but rather heaven is near. Heaven is another realm. And I think he's right. I think it's just another realm. It's very near. There's a kind of a maybe a spiritual portal that you enter into, into that other realm. Quantum physics claims that there are many parallel universes. But I don't want to get into science. I don't think you can really explain it that way. I can just say this many times in Scripture, God opens the eyes of people so that they can see into this realm. Don't we see that in the Bible? Elisha Elisha excuse me, Elisha, get those two guys mixed up, saw Elijah go up into heaven. He saw it with his own eyes. Isaiah saw the Lord on his throne. How did he see that if it's 21 light years away? No, it was right there. God opened up his eyes to see that spiritual realm. Ezekiel saw into the throne room of God. Read the book of Ezekiel. He describes it the best way he can. He saw right into the throne room of God. Daniel saw into heaven. You remember that Old Testament story of Elisha and the servant and the invading Syrian armies that surrounded them? And and Elisha's servants saw this mighty army, and Elisha didn't seem bothered. It was in the morning time. He was at his Keurig machine fixing a cup of coffee. And he wasn't bothered at all about what was going on. And the servant was in a panic. And what did Elijah say? He just prayed, Lord, open up his eyes. Just let him see. Let him look into it. And he and all of a sudden he saw this mighty army surrounding. It's just as if God opened his eyes to look into that spiritual realm that was there. Remember the story of the stoning of Stephen? Stephen preached the word, he made the crowd so angry. And they picked up stones and they stoned him, and he was dying. And when he was drawing his last breath, the Bible says this, he gazed intently into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Then said Stephen, Behold, I see the heavens open up and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God Stephen, at his death, was looking there into heaven. It was not far away. It was near. He saw the Shekinah glory of God. He saw Jesus standing. Uh unique position because the scripture says that he was seated on the right hand of the Father, but he was standing there. And he was welcoming Stephen into heaven. Again, friend, that's that's very real. That's all very real I hear stories every once in a while of believers on their deathbed and they say they they can see into heaven before they die For example, I love the story that Billy Graham tells about his maternal grandmother. He said that when she died, the whole room seemed to fill with a heavenly light. He said that she sat up in bed and almost laughingly said, I see Jesus. He has his arms outstretched towards me. I see Ben, that was her husband that died some years earlier. I see the angels. And then he said, she slumped over. And then he says this absent from the body, present with the Lord. Now I know that sometimes that might sound fantastical to some. But again, friend, we can compare that to what it it says in the Bible. You know, my father, when he was kind of in and out in those last days, my mother told me one day he kind of sat up, which was unusual. under you know his condition and he said to my mom, do you see them? And she said, Who? And he said, right there, they're right there. And she said who? And he said, Jacob. That was my nephew that had passed away. Jacob and Abby's little baby. There they are. Now some people say, well, that was a morphine. He was on. Well, give me some morphine then. You know, or it was some kind of medication. He wasn't on medication then. Now let you be the judge of that. Whether that was real or imaginary, but I will say this the Bible does tell us that God opens up the eyes of saints at times. And they can look into that spiritual realm. It's not far away. It's close. And our loved ones are there. And I believe that at times they can see things here. I believe that. Then let me give you the third thing. Heaven's destination, heaven's location, but here's number three, heaven's population. Look in uh again, Hebrews chapter 12, look down at verse number 22. It says, But ye are come unto Mount Zion and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Let me tell you something. Heaven is going to be a populated place. That's one place where you're never going to feel lonely or alone. What are some of the groups that'll be there? Well the writer says the angels of God, innumerable. The Greek word here is myriad. In heaven there will be myriads and myriads of angels. Just to see one glorious angel would be wonderful. But to see myriads of them there in heaven. The Bible says in Hebrews 1:14, are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister to them who shall be heirs of salvation? The Bible says in Luke 15. 10. The angels in heaven rejoice over sinners repenting. And you'll see that, you see. And so the angels will be there in heaven. And then the church of the firstborn in verse number twenty-three to the general assembly and the church of the firstborn which are written in heaven. Firstborn is a reference to Jesus Christ. He called he's called the firstborn, which means first in rank or position. And these are the redeemed, the saved, who are written in the Lamb's book of life. They're part of the church of Jesus Christ, the church of the firstborn. The question is, are you a part of that church? Now I'm glad that everyone's here, Grace. I hope you make this your church home and you become a member. But the most important thing is, are you a member of the church of the firstborn? Do you know Jesus? Do you know him? You may need to have your name written down where it counts. You know, sometimes I hear people say they don't want to be a part of a big church. Well friends, the one in heaven is going to be pretty big. It's going to be a pretty big church. And we'll know each other then. Again, one of the big questions that I get is, you know, will we know each other? Again, I even had someone again ask me that today. As much as I've spoken about this, they still, you know, well we know then or we gonna know And again, the Bible's, I think, pretty clear on that, that we will know one another. And uh the Bible says remember in Matthew 8. 11, many will come from the east and west and recline at the table of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Kingdom of Heaven, how are we going to be able to do that if we don't know each other or if we have a different identity? None of that is possible what Jesus talked about. And so again, I just think that's kind of a pervasive bad idea that is preached by some people out there. That you know we're not gonna know any of these things in heaven, we're gonna have it totally our slate will be wiped clean and you know all that in the past will be gone from our memory. It just won't. We will know each other. We will know our loved ones there. We'll know others that we haven't met. We'll know others that we have met. It's going to be a wonderful place of fellowship. And the joy that those believers are having there in heaven is beyond our comprehension. It's one big long group of believers coming together and and Love and fellowship, knowing Jesus Christ, being in the presence of Christ, and the joy of it is unspeakable. But then the judge of all. Who else is there? Well, it says in verse 23, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn which are written in heaven, to God, the judge of all. Now again, I think the writer's making the contrast between Mount Sinai and Mount Zion. At Mount Sinai, you couldn't come to the judge of all. You wouldn't want to be there. But in Mount Zion, you're going to be able to approach this judge of all, this sovereign king, this great God. You can come near and you can have fellowship with God. What an incredible blessing that is going to be That will be in the presence of God. We were made to enjoy Him, to know Him. And heaven is going to be a time when we are there in His presence. The Bible says, in His presence is fullness of joy. And at his right hand are pleasures for evermore. And then also it says in verse 23, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, I think this is a reference to the Old Testament saints of God, those who could only look forward to the coming of Christ, to his death, to his forgiveness and deliverance. When we get to heaven we will join them. As we said, we will all be made perfect. And so this is all of the people and the population that we're going to enjoy there in heaven But then I want you to give you number four, the last thing. Not only heaven's destination and its location and its population, but heaven's celebration. Look at verse 24. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant. And to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. You know, the best thing about heaven is going to be Jesus Christ. That'll be the best thing about heaven. Like Spurgeon said, a heaven without Jesus is not a heaven at all. Jesus is the greatest thing about heaven. The fact that we will know him there. He will be the centerpiece of heaven. And I we talked about this when we were looking at Revelation 21, that Jesus will be the light of heaven. It is his glory that will fill heaven, will dwell, will bask in the glory of Jesus Christ there in heaven. When the writer mentions the blood of Christ, we will sing and rejoice over the blood of Christ, his sacrificial death. That's the reason why we will be there. We will rejoice over what Jesus Christ has done for us. All the glories that we will enjoy will be because of His precious blood. That's why the writer of Hebrews says in verse 24, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better things than that of Abel. What does he mean by that? In Hebrews 11, 4 it says, Abel, he being dead, yet speaks. And what is that an allusion to? I think that's an allusion to the story in Genesis 10, or excuse me, chapter 4, verse 10, where God said to Cain, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. Though Abel was dead, his blood was still crying out. And what was his blood saying? It was crying out for vengeance. It was crying out for justice. But the blood of Christ The blood of Christ speaks. It just speaks better things than that of the blood of Abel. What does the blood of Christ say? The blood of Christ says forgiveness, mercy, grace. That's what it speaks of. And so it's all because of his grace, it's all because of his mercy, it's all because of his forgiveness that we're even there in heaven. John Newton said this, when we get to heaven, there's going to be three wonders. Number one, who is there? He said, we're going to be surprised to see who's there. Maybe people that if we didn't think came to know Jesus Christ, we're going to see him there. God may have done something in their heart that we don't know about. Now I often think about the thief on the cross and the conversation that he had with Jesus. Do you think people that were standing around the cross, you know maybe a few yards away or feet away, could actually hear that conversation. They were probably looking at the cross saying, you know, those two thieves, they were wicked. They're both going through eternal judgment. But there is one, perhaps they didn't hear the conversation. that he had with Jesus, where Jesus said to him, Today you're going to be with me in paradise. I think that there are people that we'll be surprised. We're going to see them in heaven. We're going to be surprised who is there. We're going to be surprised who's not there. And the biggest surprise is the fact that he said that I'm there. That I'm there. It's going to be so wonderful, so glorious. He says it's going to be hard for us to even comprehend. That were there. What a wonderful thing. Now let me just close with a warning here. The writer of Hebrews gives us, look at verse 25. See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escape not who refuse him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape if we turn away from him that speaketh from Again, after giving the contrast between Mount Sinai and Mount Zion, the writer is saying, in effect, don't ignore the one who is speaking. Those who ignore his voice in the Old Testament, they didn't escape God's wrath. When they ignored the voice of God at Mount Sinai in the Old Testament, they suffered judgment for it. And the whole point is, if they didn't escape because they ignored the voice of God, do you think those in this dispensation, in this New Testament era, is going to escape? If they Ignore the voice of God. God is speaking today from heaven. In the Old Testament, God spoke from Mount Sinai. Today God is speaking from heaven. How does he do it? He does it through his son. He speaks through his word. And God is speaking from heaven. And the writer is saying, look, don't ignore the voice from Mount Zion. The ones in the Old Testament ignored the voice from Mount Sinai. They didn't escape. If you ignore the voice from Mount Zion, you won't escape. There'll be a fearful punishment. And so he says, you know, today. Make sure that you hear this voice. Look at verse 26. Whose voice then shook the earth? But now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. When God spoke in the Old Testament, it shook the earth. But the next time God speaks, God says, I'm going to shake the earth and the heavens. You better not ignore that voice. God says, today, today, not tomorrow. Hear my voice, come unto me today. Again, God's arms of mercy are open wide for anybody that wants it God says, come, come, come to Mount Zion. Come. Don't wait. And don't ignore the voice that you hear speaking. Respond to that voice, and what you'll find is mercy and grace and a beautiful eternity. And you're invited to come to Mount Zion through the precious blood of Jesus Christ that was shed for your sins. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a moment and ponder what you heard tonight. Think about the glories of heaven that God has for you. And God's voice speaking from heaven that says, but you're coming to Mount Zion. You're coming. I'm creating wonderful things for you. I'm preparing a place for you. And thank God for his mercy and his grace. That called out to us. And all the blessings he's got laid out for us. And if you're here today and you haven't come to that mountain, God's calling to you today. He's calling from heaven. He's saying, Come, come to me. You don't want to go back to Mount Sinai, do you? I've got something better, a better covenant, better promises, based upon a better resurrection. A better person, someone better. Moses was good, but Jesus is better. He's so much better. Come to him and know him. And if you are a believer, you do know Jesus Christ. Give God thanks and praise. And and remember how heaven is a real place. And don't turn back. Don't turn back. That's the message that he had to the Hebrews who was ready to. Look, you'd be a fool to turn back. You say I've been going through difficulty, but that's all the more recent. You just keep moving forward. Keep going towards Mount Zion. We're marching to Zion, the beautiful city of God. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Christ, today Jesus is reaching out to you. He's saying to you, come to me. It's no accident that you're here, that you're under the sound of this message. Ignore the messenger and his stammering lifts and listen to the purity of the gospel that he speaks. The message is one of grace and mercy. Come to me, Jesus says. Come unto me. I'll forgive you for your sin. I'll cleanse you. I'll give you eternal life. I'll give you a home in heaven. Father, we thank you that all of those who know Jesus have a glorious future. It's it's something that we should anticipate. It's something that we should think about all the time. Lord, we're so distracted in this temporal world with things And we don't think about heaven as we should. And Lord, will you take one of our saints from here? And by the way, Lord, this is all part of your plan. You you'll call Saints home when you're ready. And when those around us that we love so dearly, their seat is empty. You in your own way are telling us, remember Mount Zion. This is not a permanent place here. Remember what you're coming to Stop thinking so much about the things of this earth. Lift up your eyes. Look into the things of eternity, the things I have prepared for you. Father, help us to have that heavenly affection, that heavenly anticipation that makes this present life bearable And then, Lord, let it motivate us to be faithful in this earthly pilgrimage. And we thank you for the refreshing stops that we have along the way. But we should be longing for heaven every day. And Lord, make that real in all of us. Thank you, Lord, 10,000 times thank you for what you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's all stand together. Reverend Gorham's gonna come and lead us. Number 530.