Take God's word tonight, please. Open to the book of Hebrews, chapter twelve, as we continue in our study in this these two chapters of Hebrews 11 and 12. And tonight we're going to look at verses 18 down to verse number 25. Start of verse 18. For you're not come unto the mound that might be touched, that burneth with fire, nor unto blackness and darkness and tempest. And the sound of a trumpet and the voice of words, which voice that they heard, entreated that the words should not be spoken to them anymore. But drop down to verse 22. But ye are come unto Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. I heard about a teenager that said to his dad one time, he said, You know, I'm bored with the songs at church. And his father said, Well, maybe you can write some new ones. And this young man took that as a challenge, and he did begin to write some new hymns, and that young man was named Isaac Watts. He became one of the great hymn writers of the church. And back in that day in in church they only sang psalms, scripture that was set to music, and uh he started writing, others started writing hymns, and when that first happened with him singing. The church back then thought it was contemporary music and they rejected it. Sound familiar? And then uh so But however, the church decided to make a compromise. They would sing a few psalms, and then right before the end of the service, they would sing some hymns, and if you didn't want to sing the hymns, then you can walk out or you can be silent. And that was a compromise that was made there in in the church. And so Isaac Watts, um, no doubt when he wrote the song Marching to Zion, kind of took a shot at his uh his critics, so there's a line in the song that says, Let those refuse to sing who never knew our God. Yeah. But children of the heavenly king may speak their joys abroad. So next time when you sing that hymn you can remember that. There was a church split going on when when that song was being written. Then it then he writes the chorus for marching to Zion. Beautiful, beautiful Zion. We're marching to the city of God. And that's one of the great motifs in the Bible with respect to the Christian life. We are pilgrims in this world, and we're taking a journey, and that journey is to heaven. So really this whole passage of scripture that we're looking at is an anticipation of heaven. Now remember in the whole context, we've been looking at all the heroes of the faith in chapter 11 and how we are to learn from their faith and learn how they walked and to imitate and emulate their faith, even though it wasn't perfect. They they were an example of faith in their life. And then we're also to remember that now as we're running the race of life, there are that great cloud of witnesses. They're watching us and we're in the race of life now. And we need to m remember to run in the right direction. God is no not only our Father who will chastise us if we get out of line, but He's also our coach that will train us to make sure that we finish. So we need to make sure we're going in the right direction. We're following the path that was set before us. But we also need to remember our destination. And our destination is heaven. That's where all of us are headed that know the Lord Jesus Christ. So I want us to think about this today because that's what the writer here wants us to focus on. And I want you to see just four truths about heaven. As we look at this passage of Scripture. First of all, heaven's destination. We see in verse 18, for ye are come unto not come unto the mount that might be touched. That's talking about Sinai, but then in verse number 22, but ye are come unto Mount Zion. And look at the word come there in verse 22. That is present, indicative, active. We could say you are coming. You're coming to Mount Zion. That is, you're traveling towards Mount Zion. Each day as a believer, you're one step closer to Mount Zion in this pilgrimage that we're taking here on this earth. And a pilgrim is someone who's journeying to another destination. They're passing through a strange land. We need to remember that although we're grateful for the gifts that God gives us in this world, this world is certainly not our home. And we need to hold lightly to the things of this world because all those things are going to pass away. And we're all headed towards our destination, Zion. The life of a true Christian is a journey towards heaven. And that's the reason why we don't want to turn back into the world. Why would we want to do that? The reason we persevere in faith no matter how difficult things may get is because we know our destination. We know what lies ahead of us. The reality of heaven keeps the believer from backsliding, from turning back into the world. It keeps us persevering through the difficulties. It keeps us faithful even when others are not faithful. And this is the reason why we tell other people about Jesus. Because we know that heaven is real and we want others to join us there Now the writer of Hebrews was writing to Hebrew Christians. Some in his audience had been saved. Others in his audience were still considering the claims of Christ, and they were considering turning back into Judaism Because they had missed some of the ceremonialism of their old religion. They missed some of the elements of the old covenant. And so the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, um you need to don't turn back. You need to keep moving forward. and come to Jesus rather than turning back. He's trying to persuade them against turning back into the old covenant, into Judaism, into all those things that Jews would delight in that were part of the Old Testament and the Old Covenant. And he's trying to say, look, all those things are shadows. Christ is the real substance. When your spouse walks into the room, do you start talking to the shadow on the wall? And ignore your spouse? That doesn't make for good marital relations. Why would you talk to the shadow when the substance is there? Why would you trade the shadow or should trade the substance for the shadow? And that's the argument that the writer is using here. All those things that you Hebrews delight in Those are all types and shadows that point forward to the substance. Don't turn back to the shadow. Come to Christ. Now, part of his argument is that he'll use here is to contrast two mountains. In verse 18, we see Mount Sinai. And verse 22, we see Mount Zion. So let's look at these two mountains. First, Mount Sinai. This is the mountain where Moses received the Ten Commandments from God. And the writer is reminding the Jewish people of what it was like when God gave his law at Mount Sinai. I'm sure they knew very well, but he's reminding them about it again. At that time, this was an awesome display of the holiness of God, of the justice of God, of the wrath of God. In fact, in Exodus chapter 20, If you can mark this in your Bible, or you can turn here while I'm reading these verses here, where it says in Exodus twenty eighteen, and all the people saw the thunderings and the lightnings and the noise of the trumpet. And the mountain smoking, when the people saw it, they removed and stood afar off. And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, we will hear, but let not God speak with us lest we die. They were so afraid of the awesome presence of God. They said, Moses, you talk to us. If God talks to us, that's too much. We'll die. They trembled in the presence of a holy God. And Moses said unto the people, Fear not, for God has come to prove you, that his fear may be before your faces, that you sin not And so when this took place in the Old Testament, when God came down on the Mount Sinai, there was an incredible manifestation of the presence and the power and the holiness of God, so much so that it left people quaking in their sandals. They were just so afraid of the presence of God. And the message was simple: that sinful man cannot approach a holy God. And all those manifestations that were recorded was designed to show the awesomeness of God and the holiness of God. Now I think about this when I think about the people today, the way they they talk about God. They they talk in such a careless, uh flippant manner about an awesome God. You need to be careful how you talk about God. He is an awesome God. And if you were to stand before him, you couldn't even take it. God's presence is so great and so awesome. God is not to be trifled with. In fact, in verse 21 of Hebrews 12, it says that even Moses was terrified and he quake. Look at verse 21. And so terrible was the sight that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and Quick. Moses was accustomed to being in the presence of God, but even so, when God manifested himself in this manner on Mount Sinai, even Moses Shook. Now, all through Scripture, when people experience the presence of God, they're stunned. They're overwhelmed They're not light about it. They're not careless about it. They're like Isaiah who says, Woe is me, for I am undone. I'm a man of unclean lips. Now The law was given there when God was manifesting his presence. And the law was given again at Sinai to reveal the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man, how sinful we are. That's what the law does. It reminds us that we can't approach a holy God. The law is good, but it demonstrates that we are not. That we're sinful. The law is like a mirror. A mirror can show us what we really are, but a mirror doesn't have the power to cleanse us. The the law is like a like a yardstick. A yardstick can measure you, but a yardstick can't help you to measure up. A yardstick can only reveal how you come short. Now, the writer of Hebrews is saying, look, if you want to go back to Mount Sinai, that's up to you, but just remember what Mount Sinai represents. It shows you that you and you and of yourself, you can never approach God. You can never be close to God as a sinner. You can never be in the presence of God. You'll never have peace at Mount Sinai. What you'll have is panic. You'll not have fellowship with God. You'll only have fear. But, on the other hand, look at verse 22. But ye are come unto Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God. And the heavenly Jerusalem. Now, Mount Zion is a picture of a person who is saved. And they're on their way to heaven Mount Zion is a type of heaven, and it presents God who is approachable. Where at Mount Sinai you can't approach God. But guess what? At Mount Zion, you can approach God. Let me tell you one of the glories of heaven. You can approach God God in heaven. That's one of the glories of heaven. And so it's a picture of heaven. Now when David conquered the Jebusite city, he placed the ark on a mount in Zion called are in Jerusalem I should say called Mount Zion. And you know Jerusalem is a city that's situated uh with a bunch of mountains all around it, different different names of mountains, Mount Olaz, Mount Moriah, and so on. situated all around the city of Jerusalem. Now since the ark was on Mount Zion, this mount became the central place there in Jerusalem. And so Mount Zion then, that name, began to symbolize all of Jerusalem. Not just that one spot, but the whole city was called Mount Zion. That's equal with Jerusalem. Psalm 132, verse 13, for the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation. This is my rest forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. And so when Solomon moved the ark to the temple, which was built on Mount Moriah, the name Zion again was expanded to include that whole area there. It included not just Mount Zion, but also Mount Moriah and then of course all of the city of Jerusalem itself and now since heaven is the new Jerusalem, guess what heaven is now called? It's called Mount Zion. And we see that in Scripture. So we see the contrast between these two mountains. And the writer is saying, look, if you want to go back to the old covenant and the old ways then you're going back to Mount Sinai, and you could do that if you want to, but I wouldn't recommend it. Because at Mount Sinai, it's it's not good. It's uh it's only panic But in Mount Zion, there's peace. Which one would you rather live with? Mount Zion or Mount Sinai? Mount Sinai is God's law. Mount Sin or Mount Zion is God's love. At Mount Sinai, we are condemned. But at Mount Zion we're cleansed At Mount Sinai, we see God's wrath for sin. At Mount Zion, we see God's refuge from sin. At Mount Sinai, the law was given. At Mount Zion, grace is given. Mount Sinai is a physical mountain, but Mount Zion is a spiritual mountain and also a city where God's people will dwell forever. Mount Sinai is closed to all. Mount Zion is open to all who will put their faith in Jesus. Mount Sinai is an earthly mountain. Mount Zion is a heavenly city. Again, at Mount Sinai, God is unapproachable, but at Mount Zion, he's approachable. So since you've been saved as a believer, you're marching to Zion. That beautiful city of God. And the writer is saying to these people that he's writing to, look, which mountain do you choose? You want Sinai or do you want Mount Zion? I don't know about you, but I I don't want Sinai. I want to go to Mount Zion. I want to be in the presence of God. You see, Christians are not citizens of earth trying to go to heaven, but citizens of heaven trying to make it through earth. Mount Zion is our destination. Why would anyone want to go back to Sinai? Why would you want to do that So there is heaven's destination. But write down number two, heaven's location. Again in verse 22, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. And the writer is saying, you're coming to this city, the city of the living God. And this brings up a question in the minds of many. Just where is heaven? There's been a lot of speculation about this. I've read a lot of different opinions from people. One person wrote that the heaven is a is a hole in the northernmost universe. This is what he writes. Science says that there's a hole in the northernmost part of the universe. It is possible that heaven is beyond that. About 21 light years away from us. Now, where he gets that from, I, you know, I don't see that in scripture anywhere. Another person writes, well, heaven is a state of mind. Some people say it's just simply a state of mind, and and people who use this argument base it on Romans fourteen, seventeen, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. And there's no doubt that when we come to Christ Not when we take the promises of God and salvation, not only do uh does do these promises will take us eventually to heaven one day, but it also brings heaven to our soul, I would agree with that. But beloved heaven is much more than a state of mind. It's much more than that. So where is the location? It's a literal city. Heaven is a real place. Beloved it's as real as Baltimore, Maryland. But you know what? You can't find it on a map. Don't bother trying to Google it All right? You can't find it that way. Russian cosmonauts after they went into space they said, We don't see God or heaven. Well, you didn't go the right way. That's not the way you're going to see God. Step out of the bait the spaceship, you'll see him soon enough. In 2 Corinthians 12, the Apostle Paul went there and came back and he called it the third Heaven. He was there, he saw it. That's why he could write with authority on of course under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but also he was there He saw that that place. And uh Paul said, You know, I can't tell you what I heard and what I saw. It's not good for me to do that, but Paul went to a literal place. A place that all of us will go one day. You see, earth is but a shadow. Heaven is the substance. You know, saints in the Bible understood this. They understood that the earth is just simply a shadow of that greater reality of heaven. Yeah, yeah, earth is real, but friend, heaven is more real. That's the whole point. In Hebrews 11, it tells us about Abraham who set his heart on something more than earthly promises. In Hebrews 11, 9 it says, if by faith ye sojourn in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob. The heirs with him of the same promise, for he looked for a city which found foundations whose builder and maker is God. Abraham knew that the promised land was simply a shadow of the real promised land, that is heaven. It's just a shadow of that which is real. John Milton, in his 17th century classic, Paradise Lost, describes Eden as a beautiful garden paradise. But in Milton's story, the angel Raphael asks Adam, quote, What if earth be but the shadow of heaven, and the things therein each to the other like? And this idea of earth as heaven shadow is seldom discussed, but I really think that that's what it is. All the things that are designed here on earth are based on the pattern that was already existed there in heaven. And so, you know, we think backwards. Why do we think that God patterned heaven's holy city after the earthly city? The earthly city is patterned after the heavenly city. And so heaven is a real place. It's a physical place. Some people, when they think of heaven, they think of it as being spiritual. But according to Scripture, heaven will be a physical place. It's compared to Mount Zion on earth or the Jerusalem on earth. Now of course God's one day He's going to provide us with a new heavens and a new earth, and that will be our eternal abode. That's where we will dwell. Peter tells us about this in Second Peter. God's going to take the basic materials of the universe of our earth. He's going to melt it all down and he's going to remake it. That way all of the heaven and the earth will not be tainted or touched by sin at that time. It'll all be absolutely clear. But God will take the basic elements, melt them down, and then remake them. And so all of creation is going to get a brand new body, just like we're going to get a brand new resurrection body All of creation we're going to get a brand new body. That's why creation groans with us. You know, did you groan when you got up this morning an hour early? Well, creation was groaning with you. Because the Bible says the redemption of creation is tied into our own full, complete redemption when we are glorified one day there in heaven. And so heaven is a real physical place. Look in, you've seen this before, but just look at it. Look in Revelation 21. It just describes it, and it's really, these are just pictures of a reality that's really hard to even comprehend. Revelation 21, look at verse 1. And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away, and there was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And so here is John, and he sees this beautiful, beautiful sight. What an incredible passage. Drop down to verse number nine. There came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven bowels full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, and I will show thee the bride, the lamb's wife. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and he showed me the great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God, having the glory of God, and her light was like unto a stone, most precious, even like a jasper stone Clear as crystal. And it had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and the gates uh and at the gates twelve angels and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. And on the east three gates, and on the north three gates, on the south three gates, on the west three gates. And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. What an incredible passage that describes heaven as a real place, as a physical city. We see the majesty of it in verse 11. This is a city that doesn't have any need of a light. having the glory of God and her light was i it says there. Um aren't you glad when you get to heaven you won't have to pay V G and E? We won't have to worry about a blackout like we had a few weeks ago. The light of Christ, the glory of God, will light up that beautiful city that's compared to like a crystal stone that shines and all of its abundance and all of its Glory. Jonathan Edwards wrote this. Jonathan Edwards, you know, we we know him as the man who uh preached the sermon sinners in the hands of an angry god. And so we have this image of this guy who's always preaching. Preaching about hell and everything like that. But most people don't realize he wrote more about heaven than he did about hell. And he said this this The this biblical image, these images are very faint shadows that represent the joys of heaven. Humans are intended to And what he's saying is that in short, he the heavenly city will be far more wondrous than we could ever imagine. So more so much greater. So much greater. And so just an incredible, incredible thing. We see the measurements in verses 12 down to verse 17, the gates, 12 gates. And um and we see uh three gates for each of the four walls, and then the twelve foundations bearing the names of the twelve apostles And the size of this city is incredible. We see this in verse fifteen, where it says, And he talked unto me, which had a golden reed to measure the city and the gates thereof and the wall thereof. And so he goes to measure this city, and he measures twelve hundred furloughs furloughs, excuse me. The length, the breadth, the height are equal. That's fifteen hundred miles. That that unit of measurement. And our terms would be fifteen hundred miles. Can you imagine a city that's fifteen hundred miles? Uh I mean there's gonna be plenty of room here in heaven. Someone wrote, I think it was John Phillips who said that if you place the dimensions of the heavenly Jerusalem on a map of America, it would stretch from New York City to Denver, Colorado. The stars being wide. The surface area is just incredible. And so here's the bottom line. There's gonna be plenty of room in heaven Plenty of room in heaven. It's not going to be overcrowded. Someone estimated that, you know, um with the room that's there, they did all the math on it. Uh and I'm not sure how they know how many people are going to be in heaven when they did this, but they wrote that uh every person there should have about at least seventy five acres of land. Well, and I think the good thing is we won't have to cut the grass or anything. But I I think about seventy-five acres of land. I'm thinking, who's gonna cut the grass, man? I don't think I have to do that in heaven. But you know, there's going to be plenty of room there for all of God's people. And the materials, it's mentioned in verse 18, the walls are made of jasper. Again, I think the writer is just using things that we can relate to to talk about how beautiful, how glorious that city, that literal city of heaven is going to be. So heaven is a physical place, but also it's an it's near. It's near. Many times we think of heaven as being so far away, so far off. And when I read in scripture, I read that it's really it's not as far as we think. You know, I uh read where one person wrote uh regarding quantum physics, they claim that there are many parallel universes. I don't know how this works, but some people say, you know, uh that these universes can dwell side by side. I don't know about this, but I do know this, that many times in scripture when the people there re in scripture when God opens their eyes and they're they're able to l actually look into heaven and see heaven. And again, there's mysteries here that I can't explain How it's a physical place and a literal place, and yet it's in a realm that we can't see with our physical eyes, but one day we will be able to see it. But I do know that the scripture talks about God opening up the eyes of his servants so they can look into and see that realm. For example, Isaiah when he was lifted up in the temple, Saul the Lord There, high and lifted up on his throne. He saw God on his throne there in heaven. Ezekiel saw into the throne room of God. Daniel saw into heaven We also think about Stephen when he was being stoned. He looked up and he saw the Lord Jesus standing up on the right hand of the Father there in heaven, right when he was dying. Uh and so heaven is a realm that's really not that far off. Not that far away And so that gives me great comfort to know that. I hear stories once in a while of believers on their deathbed, and they say that when they die, uh, as they're dying, many have reported to being able to look into heaven and see heaven You say, Pastor Harmon, do you believe that? Well, it it's it harmonizes with God's Word. It harmonizes with what I see in Scripture of believers looking, God opening up their eyes. Letting them see into eternity. I love the story that Billy Graham tells about his maternal grandmother. He said that when she died He said, it seemed like the whole room was just lit up. She sat up in bed, he writes, and almost laughingly said, I see Jesus. He has his arms outstretched towards me. I see Ben, that was her husband that had died some years earlier. She said, I see the angels. And then he says this, she slumped over, absent from the body, present with the Lord. That was how she died. And I I think that heaven is closer than we think. It's it's a realm there that's not really that far away. But then heaven's population. Notice what the writer here says in verse 22, where he talks about those that are there in heaven. Where it says you're come unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. You know, heaven is going to be a populated place. This is one place where you'll never feel lonely. Who's going to be there? Well, first the angels of God. Notice where it says, an innumerable company of angels, the Greek word here is myriad. There's going to be myriad and myriads of angels. I mean to see one glorious angel is something, but there's going to be myriads of angels there, and angels are our servants. The Bible says in Hebrews 1. 14, are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? I like the idea that I'm going to have a lot of servants up there. Myriads of angels there in heaven. And you see at the where the Bible says the angels rejoice over one sinner that repents, which brings up a question that I have put to me frequently, some people say, Well the people in heaven know what's going on on earth. And I a lot of people ask that question because There's preachers out there that say, oh no, you know, the people in heaven are going to be uh unaware of anything that happens on earth. And uh they say they're all gonna be totally absorbed in the glory of Christ. I've heard that answer And I agree that the saints in in heaven will be absorbed in all of the glories of our Lord Jesus Christ and Savior and all the all the blessings and the wonders of heaven, of course. They're going to be absorbed in all of that. But that doesn't mean that they're unaware of the things that go on on Earth. And so I think that passage which says there's rejoicing in the presence of the angels over one sinner that repents. I think that that's who's in the presence of the angels? Well, God is. We know God the Father rejoices. Jesus is. We know Jesus rejoices. Who else is in the presence of the angels? Well, that's the saints. God's people in heaven. Those who are servants For the for the believers. Are you telling me that everyone else knows but the believers up there don't know when the sinner repents on earth? A believer goes up to an angel rejoicing and say, What are you rejoicing about? Well, I can't tell you, but it It's really good. Really good. I just sorry I can't let you know. You're not supposed to know. I I don't believe that at all. I don't think the Lord lets the servant know something that he won't let us know Right? So I think that there is a sense in which we will understand. Let me refer to someone smarter than me, Jonathan Edwards again, the one of the great theologians in America. He wrote this. I believe that it can greatly contributes to the happiness of the saints in heaven to see the success of the gospel after Christ's ascension. In other words, he's saying that when saints in heaven see the success of the gospel on earth and they see more people repenting and being saved, it adds to their joy in heaven. It adds to it. So, and I agree with that. I think that you know everything that I read in the book of Revelation backs it up that the saints in heaven are aware of God's redemptive plan unfolding on earth. That's all part of the glory of God and the glory of Christ that they are upheld or they are basically desire to see, that they want to see. And uh so but then also let me move on here, the church of the firstborn, look at verse 23. And to the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven. Who else is in heaven? Not only the angels, but the church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven. And this is a reference, firstborn is a reference to Jesus Christ. He's called the firstborn which is first in rank or position. So these are the redeemed, the saved, who are written in the Lamb's book of life. That's the church membership that you need to make sure that you're a part of. I want God to add people to grace. But more importantly, is your name written in the Lamb's Book of Life? Are you a member of the church of the firstborn? Because those are the ones going to heaven. Um where your name is written there. And so now sometimes I hear people will say, well, you know, I don't want to be a part of a big church because I really can't get to know everybody in a big church. Well, friend, you're not going to be comfortable in heaven then, because heaven is the church of the firstborn. And it's going to be huge. And by the way, you're going to get to know everybody. You're going to have all eternity to get to know everybody. That's there in heaven. We'll all will know each other. And again, that's one of the questions that people ask. Will I know my loved ones in heaven? Of course you're going to know your loved ones in heaven. You're going to know them better there than you do here. And there's going to be complete love and And uh there's going to be uh you know total selflessness. You know, all of our love here has a bit of selfishness in it, but we're gonna be able to love with a perfect love there in heaven because we're all gonna be perfectly glorified like the Lord Jesus Christ. We're going to know each other in a perfect way. And so also you come to the judge of all. Look again down in verse number um twenty-three, to the General Assembly, the Church of the Firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to the judge of all, and to God the judge of all, and the spirits of just men made perfect. And to God the judge of all Who else is there in heaven? The God, the judge of all. Now this had to be astounding to the audience that the Hebrew writer was writing to, these Jewish believers that could not approach God at Mount Sinai. But he says, look at Mount Zion, you're going to come to, you're going to approach God, who is the judge of all. You can actually be in his presence. You can approach this holy God. And the only reason you can do that is because of Jesus Christ. Because when he died on the cross, the veil in the temple was rent from top to bottom. We now have access to this holy God because of the precious blood of Christ. You can approach God there in heaven. What an incredible thing that we will be in the presence of God. And the Bible says this, You shall make known to me the path of life, in your presence is fullness of joy At his right hand there are pleasures forevermore. I promise you that you have never had an earthly joy that in any way can compare to the joy that you will have one day when you're in the presence of Almighty God in heaven. Our loved ones that are already there in heaven, their their hearts are filled with an incredible joy that it's hard to even describe. A joy unspeakable, the Bible says. And full of glory. But then also, where it says to the spirits of just men made perfect, I think that's Old Testament saints. I think this was referring to those who can only look forward to the coming of Christ, to his death, his forgiveness. Peace and deliverance that comes through Christ. And when we get to heaven, we will join them. And he says, you know, we will all be made perfect there in heaven. Can you imagine fellowshipping with these Old Testament saints there in heaven? Man, what a great time that's going to be to fellowship with the saints of God. And so we see then heaven's destination and heaven's location and heaven's population, but also heaven's celebration. Now the writer saves the best for the last. Look at verse 24. And to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, which speaks better things than that of Abel. The best thing about heaven is Jesus You're coming to Jesus. He is the centerpiece of heaven. He's the focus of heaven. He's the joy of heaven You ever notice that every city is built around something as its centerpiece? New York is the centerpiece of New York is. Commercial trade. The centerpiece of Hollywood is entertainment. The centerpiece of Dallas is oil. The centerpiece of Las Vegas is gambling. The centerpiece of Washington, D. C. is the government. But the centerpiece of heaven is going to be Jesus. That city's going to be all about Jesus. Jesus is the Lamb. Look in Revelation 21, 22, where it says that, and I saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it. No temple or sacrifice. Up until this point there has been a temple, but there's not going to be a need for one there in the new Jerusalem. His blazing glory will fill the new heavens and the new earth. And then also but notice verse twenty-four where it says in verse twenty-four um where and to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant and to the blood of Franklin that speaketh better things than that of Abel. Remember when uh uh uh what it says in Hebrews eleven four that Abel being dead yet speaketh. That's an illusion to Genesis four ten, where God said to Cain, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying from the from the ground to me. And though Abel was dead, his blood was still speaking. And what did Abel's blood say? Vengeance, justice. I want justice. You know what? The blood of Jesus Christ, the writer says, his blood speaks better things. And the blood of Abel. Because what does the blood of Jesus cry out? Forgiveness. Forgiveness. We have forgiveness of sin. Because of the blood of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the Lamb of Heaven. Jesus is the light of heaven. We saw in verse 23, there's no need of sun, neither of moon, to shine in it, for the glory of God did lighten it. Jesus is the Lord of heaven. Look at verse number 24 of Revelation 21. And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it, and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honor into it. Kings and nations will pay homage and glorify and honor the one who is king of kings and lord of lords one day there in heaven. And so heaven is going to be a wonderful, wonderful Place. Can you it's hard to even describe. It's hard to even imagine how great it's going to be. That we're going to see Jesus. Fanny Crosby, the great hymn writer, well, she was uh she was blinded when she was just a little girl by the error of a doctor. And one time a person just trying to express sympathy to her, by the way, she wrote, this this this dear woman wrote six thousand hymns. Many of the hymns we sing in our hymn book. But one time a person was trying to comfort her and said, You know, I'm so sorry what happened to you when you were a child. She said, I'm not sorry. She said, I'm glad that this happened. And they said, Really, why? She said, Because when I get to heaven, the first face I will ever see will be the face of Jesus. And she wrote the words to this hymn some day the silver cord will break, and I no more as now shall see, but all the joy when I shall wake within the palace of the King And I shall see him face to face and tell the story saved by grace. Those are beautiful words. And at the age of 95, Fanny Crosby passed into the glory of heaven and she saw the face of the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me close with this. John Newton said that when we get to heaven there's going to be three wonders. First one is who is there? We're gonna wonder at who's there. We're gonna wonder who's not there. And then we're gonna wonder the fact that I'm there. That I'm actually there. Because it's gonna be be so wonderful. But there's only one way there, friend, and that's through Jesus Christ. It's all because of Jesus Christ. And so you can go to Mount Zion if you want to, but you'll never make it to heaven at Mount Zion. And smack me here. You guys were with me, weren't you? Don't be afraid to correct me. Don't just give me dirty looks. Just say, Pastor, you messed up. You can go to Mount Sinai if you want to. I don't want to go there. Mount Zion is where I want to go. And it's only through the blood of Jesus that we can get there. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for the reminder that we have in your word of the glory of heaven and that that's our destination. We're in this race of life. We're following in the footsteps of those who have gone on before us, these heroes of the faith, all who walk by faith and live by faith. And Lord, there are a pattern for us to follow after. And they're following after the author and finish of our faith, the Lord Jesus, as we take this pathway through this life, this Pilgrimage, our destination is Mount Zion. And Lord, help us to remember that. Help us to focus on that. Help us to be faithful. To remember where we're going to end up. And Lord, uh may we bring others along with us. Help us to be good witnesses through this earthly sojourn. That one day when we see your face, we'll hear the words, well done. You've run a good race. Lord, may that be the testimony for all of us because of your grace. And we pray in Jesus' name.