Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of 1 John, chapter 5? As you know, we've been uh Going through 1 John, and we come really to the last sermon in 1 John chapter 5. We're going to look at verse 13 down to verse 21. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, please, this morning? 1 John chapter 5, verse 13. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life, and that you might believe on the name of the Son of God. And this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petition that we desire of him. If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death There is a sin unto death, I do not say that he shall pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. We know that whoever is born of God sinneth not But he that is begotten of God keepeth him self, and that wicked one touches him not And we know that we are of God and the whole world lies in wickedness. And we know that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding that we might know him. that is true. And we m we are in him, that is true. Even in his Son, Jesus Christ. And this is the true God in eternal life. Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you so much. Pray with me. Father, thank you for your word and help us, Lord, as we go to it. Give us understanding. And may we apply these truths to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A man pulled over a little boy and was asking him for directions and he said, Son, do you know how I can get to town? And the little boy said, I don't know. He said, well, where's Route 20? He said, uh, well, I don't know. He said, well, what what street is this? The little boy said, well, I I don't know. And finally the man said, Son, do you know anything? And the little boy said, Yes, sir, I know that I'm not lost. It's an important thing to know. Most people, however, uh can't really say that. Uh most people know a lot of things about a lot of things in this world about sports and politics and weather but when it comes to eternity they can't say I know I'm not lost But God has given us His word, and specifically here in 1 John, it's written so that you might know that you're a child of God, that you have eternal life. And John ends his book by using his favorite word that he repeats over and over again in this letter. No, we know, we know, we know. All throughout this letter, this is the dominant theme of 1 John. And seven times in these closing verses, John uses this powerful four-letter word. We could say that John is the apostle of assurance. God wants you to know some things. Contrary to this postmodern world that says you can't know anything for certain, the Bible says there is some things that you can know for sure. And John writes to remove doubts, to remove uncertainty, especially in this matter of knowing God and knowing Jesus Christ in salvation. And so that's the theme that we're going to look at here this morning. In the final section, verses 13 down to verse 21, John is going to give us some things that he wants you to know. John's aim is to uh anchor the believer in this unshakable confidence that you can have as a believer in Christ So there are five things here that John wants you to know as a child of God. Here's the first one. Number one, we can know that we have eternal life. We saw this in verse thirteen, and this is not new for us. We've been studying first John and we know that this is The major theme and thesis of his letter here, he wants you to know that when you die, that you're going to heaven, that you have eternal life. 96% of all Americans believe in God, and they believe in heaven, but there's a difference between believing in God and believing in heaven and knowing that you're going there. There are people out there that just get this idea that everyone goes to heaven just by default, unless you're really bad. But of course we know that that's not true. There's only one way to know for sure that you are going to heaven, and that's by knowing Jesus Christ. And John tells us right here in verse 13 that you might believe on the name of the Son of God. It's by believing on Jesus Christ. And as we saw last week, that's not just a mental, intellectual understanding, but it's a commitment of all that you are in faith to Jesus Christ and what He did for you on the cross. This is the most important thing for you to know. So I ask you here this morning, do you know that for sure? Because death is coming to all of us. All of us. And this is something that you can't be flipping about. You can't say, well, I'll deal with it later. No, you need to know with absolute certainty that you are a child of God, that you're going to heaven. That's why John has given us all these tests here in 1 John. He wants you to be certain. There are a lot of people that say, well yeah I'm a Christian, but they don't really give the evidences of being a true child of God. That's why he focuses on authentic belief, authentic Christianity. And that's why he gives us these spiritual tests that we've been looking at. And this is what John is doing here in chapter five. He's kind of summarizing everything that he's already said. Do you believe that Jesus is the Christ? And do you confess your sin and have a new sensitivity to sin in your life? Now that you're saved, there's a new sensitivity, so you confess your sins. Do you have a desire to obey Jesus? That'll be the pattern of your life. Do you love God's people? Do you experience the ministry of the Holy Spirit? Do you know how to discern truth from error? Do you pursue holiness and Christ-likeness? These are evidences or marks that you are a child of God. These aren't things that you do in order to be saved. These are things that you do because you are saved. These are the things that mark you as a child of God. So we can know that we have eternal life. Number two, we can know that God answers prayer. And follow John's logic here. If you know that you have eternal life, then that's going to give you confidence. Look at verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have in him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And this is the logical progression of John's thoughts. You can know that you're a child of God, that you have eternal life. What assurance does this give for you? It gives confidence in the matter of prayer If you know that you're a child of God, then you know that God will listen to you because He is your father. What father does not listen to his child in a time of need? Of course, that's what fathers do. And if in one place Jesus said, if you being evil know how to good give good gifts to your children, how much more your heavenly father who is perfect? God loves you and since you're his child, you can have confidence when you go to him that he will answer your prayers. And the word confidence here is a Greek word that means to speak openly, to speak face to face. Literally means freedom of speech. It can be translated boldness or openness. We can have confidence before him, prosothan, which means literally in his presence, face to face with God. This is the word that was used to speak about Jesus being with God in heaven, face to face So we can come into God's presence. We can have access to the Father. We can know that he'll hear our prayers. That's one of the blessings of knowing that you're a child of God. You have now access to God. Access in prayer. And don't think lightly of that, beloved. You have access, we were singing this morning about the King of Kings. You have access to the King of Kings I have a suspicion that if I went over to England and went to Buckingham Palace and knocked on the door and said, I want to speak to the king, they probably wouldn't let me in. They'd say, who are you? What who do you think you are that you would have this kind of access? Or if I went down to the White House and said, Yeah, I just need to talk to the President real quick, th I wouldn't have access But you know what? I have access to the King of Kings all the time. What an incredible privilege that is. And so you can have access, you can come to God, and He can know that He'll hear your prayers since you're His child, and that He'll answer your prayers. Prayer is the key that unlocks all of the storehouses of God uh and to his infinite grace and power. And then however he says here that we must pray according to his will. Look at verse 14 and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. He gives us a qualification, however. Yes, you have access, you can know that God will answer your prayer But you just need to make sure that you're praying according to God's will. Now, John already addressed prayer in chapter three, verse twenty-two, where he said God hears our prayers when we keep his commandments, when we're obedient, and we do those things that are pleasing in his sight. Now he adds this other requirement. We have to ask according to his will. So what is praying according to his will? It is praying according to what God desires. It's praying according to what God wants. Prayer is simply a means that God uses to accomplish His will on earth. He allows us the privilege of getting in on this thing of accomplishing God's will here on earth. As I look around in this world, I see a world where God's will is not always done. Now we know that God's sovereign will is always done. But God's standard will is not always done. And that's the will that we see laid down in His Word. We see a world that's in rebellion against God. The world in its fallenness. And prayer is the means of getting God's will done. Jesus taught us to pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And so prayer has one purpose, that is that God's will should be done. Prayer is not an exercise where we bend God's will to fit our will. But where we submit our will to His will, and we get His will done. Now, too many people have the notion that prayer is talking God into doing something that He ordinarily wouldn't do, and that's not true. Now someone would say, well I knew it was a catch to it. I gotta do God's will. I mean I have to have God's will done in prayer. All we get is just what He wants. If you're thinking this way, let me tell you that God's will for you is best. It's it's what you would desire if you had enough sense to desire it. It's not something that you have to do, it's something that you get to do. And let me assure you that God loves you so much that He wants to bless you. He wants to give you good things for you. No good thing will he withhold from those who walk up rightly. Some people think if I pray according to God's will, it's going to limit my prayers. Friend, it's not going to limit your prayers. It's going to free up your prayers. You're not hemmed in by the will of God. You're freed up to do the will of God. George Mueller, the great man of prayer, said this: prayer is not overcoming God's reluctance, it is laying hold of God's willingness. And God wants to bless. He wants to answer your prayers. Why would we want to pray contrary to God's will Christians don't function that way. We are submitted. We want God's will to be done. Now, John is going to give us an example of praying according to God's will. Look in verse And if any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death. I do not say that he should pray for it. All unrighteousness is sin, and there is a sin not unto death. So here John is giving us an example. And when you pray for the restoration of a brother or sister, you know you're praying according to God's This is the specific example that he gives us. If you want an example of praying according to God's will, if you see a brother or sister that is sinning, then you pray for them. Because God wants them to be restored. And here John mentions two kinds of sins. There are sins that lead to death, and there are sins that do not lead to death. Now all sin is bad. John made that clear. All sin is unrighteous. But there are some sins that are worse than others. And there are some sins that lead to death. Now the big question that a lot of people ask when they come to this passage is, what is the sin unto death here? What is he speaking about? And there are several interpretations to this. Some people say, well, this is referring to suicide. That is the sin unto death, but there's nothing in the context really to support that idea. I don't think John's talking about suicide here. And another interpretation is, well, this is just a really bad sin. This is some particular heinous sin that God will not pardon. And uh they use some Old Testament passages to speak about this. But then there's another interpretation that says, well, this is referring to blasphemy against the Holy Spirit. And Jesus refers to that in Matthew 12, that you can't be forgiven for blasphemy against the Holy Spirit, which is an extreme form of the rejection of the truth about Jesus Christ. Some people said that's what he's referring to here. Another view is this this is talking about apostasy. That is someone who looks like they have embraced the gospel, but later they turn away, they walk away from the truth. And um that's what it's referring to here, someone who turns from the truth. But then there's a fifth interpretation. Some of these guys have way too much time on their hands, right? I think this is the right one here. It's talking about physical death for a Christian. A Christian can sin, and God can punish them with physical death. There are several reasons I take this view. First of all, the context reveals that John is talking to believers. He says, if a brother, if a man say a brother, his brother sin a sin. And so a Christian can't commit the sin of blasphemy of the Holy Spirit or apostasy. John never calls an unbeliever a brother. And so this entire scheme has to do with those who are children of God. Now those who say this passage refers to an unbeliever say that he's committed a sin causing spiritual death. Well, believers are already spiritually dead. They're already spiritually dead, so that doesn't make any sense. I think John's emphatic statement leads me to believe he's talking about believers who can sin and it bring them physical death. Believers aren't dead spiritually, believers are alive spiritually. But they can have physical death, and that's the emphatic statement there. John says there is a sin unto death. That implies to me he's referring to believers. He's refer informing them, did you know, believer, there is a sin unto death? Perhaps this is something they didn't previously know about. And John's telling them, yes, for a believer there is a sin unto death. And since it's a believer, it's referring to physical death, not spiritual death, as I said before. There's a sin on the death where a Christian can be so stubborn and they can continue in a line of sin without repenting. And refusing to get right, refusing God's chastisement so much so that it leads to death in their life. If a true believer sins, what's God going to do to them? God's going to chastise them. It's going to spank them Going to bring them back in. First he'll speak to them. First they're speaking. God will speak to you through his word. He'll speak to you through other Christians, perhaps, He'll speak to you through the Holy Spirit. And if you ignore all that, God will then go to spanking. He'll do some providential things in your life to kind of get your attention, to let you know his disapproval. And if you continue headlong into sin and you ignore all of that Then there's a third form of chastisement that I call scourging. God is even more severe in the way that he deals with you. What happens if a believer ignores the speaking and he ignores the spanking and he ignores the scourging? What happens to a believer at that time where there is a sin unto death? God can bring physical death to his children. We see examples of this in the Old Testament. Achan who The sons of Aaron, Nadab, and Abahu who offered strange fire, and God immediately took their life. There are examples in the New Testament, Ananias and Sapphira, and the case of incense at Corinth in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And Paul mentioned at the Lord's Supper in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, that there are some believers who sleep, that is, they die. Why? Because they entered into that ordinance, that sacred ordinance in an unworthy way. Holding on to sin in their life So this is a fearful thing. There is a sin unto death. And when a believer crosses that line, God can bring that kind of punishment upon them. And John says, Look, if any man see his brother sin a sin, the word sin here, present tense, living in continual sin in their life. What is our response to be for a person who is living that way? Just gossip about them? Tell other people like, you know, I heard about so-and-so. No, John says we are to pray for them. Before we talk to anyone about them, we talk to God. We bring them to God. And we pray for their restoration, knowing that it's God's will for them to be restored. There's no question about that. Are you praying for straying people that God would restore them to that place of obedience? God wants to restore their joy. He wants to restore their vitality. He wants to restore their faithfulness. And so we pray for them in this case for God to do that very thing. So a sin under death is a stubborn, defiant, disobedient person who refuses all of God's correction and it leads to death. However There is a sin which is not unto death, and that's a believer that is on the wrong path, and their fate has not yet been sealed. He's committing sin and God is being patient, he's being merciful trying to bring them back And so there's still hope for repentance, there's still hope for mercy, and so what do we do? We we ask, we pray. This is what John is saying here. The word ask here is a very strong word, to beseech, to Plead, to beg. We go to God and we beg for them that God would restore them. This is praying according to the will of God. And John is saying, we have every reason to believe that God will restore a brother like that. And so that's great news. That's why we must urgently pray for those who are straying away. We pray for them. We can know that God answers our prayers. We can know that we have eternal life. That gives us confidence. We can know that God answers our prayers. Here's the third thing we can know victory over sin. Look at verse eighteen. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not But he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one touches him not. Sinneth not is, again, present tense. Doesn't continually live in sin. This is another characteristic of a true child of God And the pattern of their life is obedience. Now we know that if a person continues in that pattern, God will chastise them and ultimately take them home if they don't obey But the normal pattern for a child of God is obedience. They don't live continually in sin without God's chastisement. And so This is what he's talking about. We live in obedience. That pattern of sin is broken in our life by confession. And uh getting ourselves right with God. But another thing we see here is that a believer is kept by Jesus Christ. Look at verse 18 again. It says, We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not. But he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one touches him not. Now let me just tell you that verse 18 is this whole section is kind of difficult for New Testament scholars to be up front with you But verse 18 is presents some challenges to a lot of people, so don't turn me off. Just listen to me. Let me try to make this clear. All right. Pray for me while I'm trying to make this clear. What does it mean when it says he that is begotten of God keepeth himself? There's a variant in the Greek text here. There are some, that's why some English versions might say, keeps him. And other English versions say, keep himself. If you have a King James Version, it'll say, as we read here in verse 18, where it says he keepeth himself. Other English versions say keep him. Why is that? Well, because there's a variant in the Greek and the him keeps himself is is uh is the Greek word autan with a little Ada letter in front of it and then a hard breathe mark. So it's just one little letter difference from himself and him. That's why there's a variant there. And some say no it's keep him, others say no, it's keep himself. You say, what's the difference? Well, the difference is does the believer keep himself or does Christ keep him? That's the idea there. Um look at verse 18. Notice where it says, we know that whosoever is born of God. That's talking about a believer there. That is a perfect tense verb. That's where something happens in your life that has continual results. Whoever is born of God, that's a believer. They don't continue in sin. But notice the next phrase in verse 18, but he that is begotten of God, who is begotten of God, now he's not talking about a believer here. Now he's talking about Jesus Christ. The verb tense switches from perfect to airist, and the one begotten of God is Christ. Christ. It's not talking about a believer there, it's talking about Christ. But he that is begotten of God, Christ, keeps him. Who's the him? The believer. That's the idea there. You guys with me? So the idea here is that Christ is the one who keeps the believer. He keeps us. And there are other verses in the New Testament that assure us that Jesus is the one who keeps us from I I'm glad he keeps me because I'm not able to keep myself without him. When it comes to salvation. He keeps me. John ten, twenty-seven, My sheep hear my voice, I know them, they follow me. I give unto them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my father's hand. That's Christ keeping me. No one can pluck me out of the hand of Christ. In fact, I can't pluck myself out of the hand of Christ. Because he's keeping me. So he is the one who is keeping here. The Bible says in first Peter one five, talking about believers who are kept by the power of God. That's why I know I can't lose my salvation because Christ is keeping me. Amen. So, but that doesn't mean that I don't have to work to keep myself. That's the other side. You say, preacher, now you're sounding like you're contradicting yourself here. Well, it's not a contradiction. I am kept by Christ, but I also realize that I have to do the work of keeping myself. And I can't do that by myself. I need Christ to keep me, but while He's keeping me, I'm working to keep myself. That is, I don't say, well, I know that I'm not going to lose my salvation, so I'll just live however I want to. No No. He's keeping me, but I'm also doing the work of keeping me. Look at the very last verse of first John. Little children, what? Keep yourself from idols. So you say, which is it? Does Christ keep us or do we keep ourselves? It's both. It's both. And this was meaningful to the Ephesians that whom John was writing to, because there in that city was the temple of Diana, and there was a lot of idolatry that took place around that temple. Hundreds of people lived off the temple tray. There were silversmiths constantly selling idols, and John knew the temptation to fall back into that kind of idolatry. And he says to them, Look, you keep yourself from idols. And that would apply to us here today. There are so many things here in our world that can distract us from And pull us away from Jesus Christ and take our passion away from Christ and put it on that object or that thing. You better learn to keep yourself from the idols of this world. That's what he's telling us here. But knowing that, we can have victory over sin. We know that because of the keeping work of Christ. Because we know that if we're a true child of God, we're not going to be able to continue in that sin. We know that Christ keeps us. We can know we have victory over sin, but here's number four. We can know that we belong to God. And following in John's train of thought here in verse 19. And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in wickedness, which is literally in the lap of the wicked one. And so following John's logic, we can know we have eternal life We can know that we have God will answer our prayers because that confidence we have of knowing that we're God's children, we know that we're kept by Jesus Christ. And now, because of that, we can know that we belong to God. And therefore, we're different from the world because we belong to Him. In contrast to the world, the world lies in the lap of the wicked one. But we we belong to God. That's the distinction that he's making there. When God brought us into his kingdom, we're no longer under the control of Satan and the world system. It no longer pulls us in. And again, John has already made this argument several times in 1 John, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. That is no longer a part of what we are and who we are. Through our faith, we overcome the world. And we can know that we belong to God while the world is in the lap of the wicked one. We, however, as children of God, we belong to God. We're held firmly by the Lord Jesus Christ. And that leads to the last thing that we can know. We can know we have eternal life. John wants you to know that. We can know that that that our our prayers are answered, that God answers prayer. We can know that We got victory over sin in our life. We can know that we belong to God. But here's the last thing John wants you to know. We can know what is true. We can know what is true. Look at verse 20. And we know that the Son of God has come. And has given us an understanding that we may know Him that is true, and we are in Him that is true, even in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. And John's point that he's making here is that believers are certain that Jesus is God indeed. Now, what he's doing here is he's ending this little letter the way he started it. Remember he started that which was from the beginning, which we've heard, when we've seen with our eyes. What's he talking about there? The incarnation of Jesus, that God became a man, that Jesus is God. That's the way he starts the letter. This is how he's ending it. We can know this. And you have to remember the backdrop in which he's writing. He's writing against this false teaching of Gnosticism that they were trying to teach that Jesus is not really God, or that he only appeared to be a man. He really didn't come into the flesh. But John says, No, don't don't don't buy that. If you're a true child of God, you have been given This knowledge, you can know what is true. Specifically, you can know that Jesus is who he claimed to be. Why? Because God has given us an understanding. Look at verse 20. have given us an understanding. Understanding is the Greek word di noa, which means uh noya, which means uh to think. Die through to sink through, in other words, to have a complete deep understanding You see, this is the difference between a true believer and someone who just claims to be a believer. Someone who claims to be a believer knows all the facts about Jesus only, but they don't really have a true understanding of who he is. But John says to true believers, you have been given an understanding. You know the facts about his incarnation. You know that he's come in verse 20. You know that he wasn't just a phantom. He didn't just appear. No, he came. He came in the flesh. God the Father didn't live stream Jesus. He came in the flesh. He came in person. And we know he's true, verse 20. This is the spiritual understanding. And we know him that is true, genuine. God has opened our understanding to see that he truly is the Son of God. He's shown us the beauty of who Jesus Christ is. Remember when Jesus spoke in parables and his disciples came and said, Lord, why are you speaking in parables? Jesus said, well, because to you it's been revealed the things of the kingdom that you might understand, but to others it's not been revealed. It's been That's the difference between a believer and a non-believer. God has given you an understanding. He's opened your eyes to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. And sometimes I wonder if people who claim to know Christ really have that understanding of who Jesus is. And then it's experiential that we may know him in verse twenty. So we God has given us understanding that we might know him that is true, and that we are in him. uh that is true. E even Jesus Christ, um this is an experiential knowing. We know intimacy with Christ, spiritual intimacy because of our relationship with Him. There's a true knowledge of Jesus. He's not just some person out there in history to us. He's someone that we know heart to heart. He's someone that we fellowship with. That we know on an intimate spiritual way, the way Paul said that I might know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings. And so you can know that. You can know what is true. You can know him that is true. That is Jesus Christ. Now the false teachers came into these churches saying, you guys don't have any knowledge. We we we we're the elite ones. We have this knowledge. We're Gnostics. You're missing out on truth, things that you Can't know or don't know. And John's response to them is don't listen to those guys. There's a lot of things you know. God wants you to know. You can know that you have eternal life. You can know that God hears you. That's another thing that the Gnostics say, oh, you know, we have this real close association with God. He doesn't hear you, he hears us. John says, oh no. You you you you can know that he hears you. You're his child. You can know that you're born of God, that you belong to him, and you know about Jesus. You know that he came and you know him spiritually. You have that knowledge. You don't need secret knowledge. You don't need mystical experiences. You don't need spiritual elitism. You have Christ and you have his word. You have all the knowledge that you need to have as a child of God. And John wants them to have that certainty, and he wants us to have that certainty. We live in a world where truth is relative and certainty is considered to be arrogance. It's not arrogance, friend, it's just that we we know that this is true. We know that this is true. We know not because we're clever. We know not because we are some kind of spiritual elites. We know because God has spoken And we believe and we trust, and the Holy Spirit has opened our eyes to see the beauty of Jesus Christ. Do you have that knowledge? Do you know that in your own life? One time the elderly man came to H. A. Ironside, he said, I don't feel I can go on unless I know that I'm saved. I want to know something that is definite, something that is real. And A. J. Ironside said, Well, if an angel from heaven came and told you that you are a child of God, would that be enough? And he said, Well, yes, I think so He said, Well, what if later on your deathbed that angel appeared and it was Satan and said, That was me, I came as an angel of light and I told you something that's a lie. He said, We have something better than the angel coming to us. We have the recorded word of God That tells us you can know. You can know these things. And then he read to them to this man, John H. read to him this verse. These things have I written unto you. That believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know that you have eternal life, and that you might believe on his name. So, friend, do you know that and are you sure of that in your own heart? Let's go for prayer together. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to just do a little spiritual inventory in your own heart. Do you know these things, friend? Can you honestly say I know this? I know that I have eternal life. My faith is in Christ. And because of that, I know God hears my prayers. And I know that I'm born of God. I know that I can have victory over sin in my life. I'm not perfect, but my desire is to obey Christ. And I experience victory, and I know that Jesus is all that He claims to be, not just a factual understanding, but I know deep in my heart. So much so that I have repented of my sin and confessed him as Lord. And if you're not absolutely certain of that, friend, you don't have to wait. You can go to him right where you are. And you can call upon him and you can say, Lord, I believe. Give me this full assurance. In a moment we're going to stand together. We'll have some ministers here in the front. If you want to know more, if we can pray with you, if we can help you in any way, friend, you come You do what the Holy Spirit says. Let's all stand together as we sing just a few verses of our invitation hymn this morning. Come and take a minister's hand if you want to pray. Lord I be the Lord I receive Lord I confess you Lord I receive. I confess you now taking more and using let your love. Flow through me, change my heart, I pray Lord I leave. Lord I receive Lord I confess you know so much. Thank you so much. We're gonna bow in prayer. And then have our closing hymn. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, again, thank you for the assurance of your word. And I pray now for blessing on all those that are here today. Lord, as we leave, may they leave with the joy of the Lord in their heart, having this absolute certainty. that you promise us from your word. Bring us back together again tonight, Lord, to hear from your word. Thank you again for all that you're doing in hearts and lives, and we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen.