It's good to be in God's house today, isn't it? I want you to take your Bibles and uh we're gonna instead of our pledge, I want to do scripture reading, so I want you to open to Joshua chapter four, and I want us all to stand together in honor of the scripture. And I just want to read these verses and you follow along. Joshua chapter 4. Let's all stand together. I know you've been standing a lot today. Just I'll just one more time. Just remember, I gotta stand for the whole rest of the service. So look in Joshua chapter 4 and just follow along. I want to read the first seven verses. And it came to pass when all the people were clean past over Jordan that the Lord spake unto Joshua, saying Take ye twelve men out of the people, out of the tr out of every tribe, a man, and command ye them, saying, Take ye hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the priest's feet stood firm. Twelve stones and ye shall carry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place where ye shall lodge this night. Then Joshua called the twelve men. whom he had prepared of the children of Israel, out of every tribe of man. And Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of Jordan, and take ye up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder according unto the number of the tribes of the children of Israel. And this shall this may be a sign among you that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones? Then shall ye answer them that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off. And these stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. Let's pray together. Father, help me, Lord, to make your word clear today. And to give honor to whom honor is due, and most of all, Lord, to honor you. Thank you for what you've done in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. I want to speak today on this subject. What do these stones mean? What do these stones mean? In April of 1863 in Columbus, Mississippi, a mother was at the grave of her two sons that she had lost in the Civil War. She was decorating their graves as Confederate soldiers. And then she went to the corner of the seminar uh cemetery because there were other graves there and she began to decorate those graves. And someone came along and said, Why are you decorating those graves? Those are Union soldiers. And she said, because somewhere up north there is a mother or mother's weeping, there are wives that are weeping, and I remember them And that was the actual beginning of Memorial Day. From that, there was an organization to recognize those who have died in war, and that was the beginning. We commemorate the actions of those who gave their life. in the name of freedom. And it's good that we do this because you know as we as Americans and people in general, we have a tendency to forget things. We have to constantly be reminded. Now God knew that because many times in Scripture God has memorials. Did you know that? Memorials are nothing new. It wasn't our idea. This goes all the way back to the Bible. God established memorials in Scripture because he knew the nature of human nature that we forget. And so memorials are fitting tributes to heroes of the past. They are tributes to the things that God has done. And so I want us to look at a story today of some memorial stones that were set up. We just read this in Joshua chapter 4, Joshua, who is the general of Israel's army commanded that there be memorial stones erected in Joshua chapter 4 and verse number 6 and it says and when time comes that children ask about these stones and they ask the question what do these stones mean then you'll be able to tell them exactly what God had done w in in days to come. And what I want us to see here from this passage are really three lessons. I want us to look at the whole story. Why did Joshua put up these stones? What can we learn from these memorial stones? How does this apply in our own life? I want us to look at three lessons today. You're taking notes. Here's the first lesson. Number one, we should expect miracles. We should expect miracles as the people of God. Did you know that God loves to do great things for his people? Look in Joshua chapter 3. We really have to go back. To Joshua 3 to get the story. And look at verse 5. And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. I love that. God will do wonders among you Joshua expected God to do great things for Israel. Let me ask you a question. Do you expect God to do great things for you? I think sometimes the reason God doesn't is because maybe we don't expect those things. It was William Carey who said, uh, ask great things of God. Expect great things from God. This is exactly what Joshua is going to do. Now Joshua is facing basically an impossibility. To get the context of the story, the children of Israel are now ready to cross over the Jordan River and go and inherit the promised land that God had given them. But there's only one problem. They have a river in front of them. It is the Jordan River. Now normally this wouldn't be a problem because the Jordan River is really just a hundred feet wide at the place called Gilgal. That was a place where they crossed over. But on this particular day it was much wider than that because this was the spring season. The snows from Mount Hermon were melting and coming down into the tributaries of the Jordan. They were flowing into the Jordan And this was a time when the Jordan River was swelling. In fact, Job called this the swelling of the Jordan. And so a river that was normally a hundred feet wide was now about a mile wide A river that was normally slow and meandering became a rushing mighty current. If you can imagine just a mighty current of a river a mile wide How is Joshua going to get the people of Israel over that river? Humanly speaking, this was impossible. Did you know that sometimes God will bring us to a place in our life where we're facing something that is impossible for us to do? Because he wants us to learn to trust in him. This would be a test of faith for the children of Israel. Here's this insurmountable problem that is right in front of them Now probably some of the believers in Israel, if I know people, were probably saying, well, this is all wrong. We're not here. We're not at the right spot. We're not at the right time. Sometimes people do that. When you face an impossibility, you say, Oh, I must be out of God's will. This is not the right thing. No, the opposite is true. God brought them to this impossible river at this precise moment. They were not out of the will of God. They were in the will of the God. It might be that you're here today and you are facing an impossibility in your life, something that you cannot handle in and of your own self And you're thinking I must be out of the will of God. No, God sometimes will bring you to impossible rivers. He's got you there right where he wants you. What is that impossibility that you have facing you? It might be a river of doubt or weakness or besetting sin. It could be a river of physical sickness or family difficulty or financial drought or on and on we could go. What is that impossibility? And what will you do when you face this impossibility? Well, we can learn some things here from Joshua. What did he do? Well, there's a few things that we see. First of all, he faced his problem. Look in chapter 3, verse 1. And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and they removed from Shetim and came to Jordan. He and all the children of Israel and lodged there before they passed over. They came right to the river He didn't try to avoid it. He didn't try to figure a way around it. He didn't ignore it. He faced it. And may I suggest to you that's the first thing you must do if you're facing an impossibility? Don't ignore it. Don't run from it Face it, realize it. That's what Joshua does. Not only does he face the problem, but also watch God. Look at verse 3. And they commanded the people saying, When you see the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord your God and the priests of the Levites bearing it, then shall ye remove from your place and go after it. Here's the command. Listen, O Israel, when you see the Ark of the Covenant, go out there Then you follow it. Remember the Ark of the Covenant? Remember what that was? That golden box, four feet long, two and a half feet wide, two and a half feet deep, covered with gold with the cherubims outstretched on the top of it. And that represented what? The presence and the power of God. And there's a sense in which they're saying, when you see the art move on, you just follow it. You say, how do I handle my impossibility? Watch God. Be sensitive to what God is doing. Make sure that you watch the Lord, that you follow the Lord. When He's leading, you follow. Here's the third thing. Watch God, but then follow God. I already kind of mentioned that in verse 3. Then shall ye remove from your place and go after it. You watch the Lord, and then when He moves, you move. It's easy just to get into harmony with what God is doing. Don't do anything until you see the Lord and you see what he's doing and then you follow God. But then honor God. Look in verse number four. And there shall be a space between you and it about 2,000 cubits by measure. That is, let it get out there way in front of you. Make sure you keep a separation from it. That would be at least 3,000 feet. Make sure that you're behind it. Let it be out there on its own. There's a sense in which they're saying, let everyone see that God is the one leading here in this. In other words, give God his rightful place, exalt the Lord, honor the Lord. Let me just say this: when you're facing an improbability, an impossibility, make sure you always honor God in that circumstance. Treat God as holy. Look what he says in verse 5. And Joshua said unto people, Sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do wonders among you. How did they sanctify themselves? Well Joshua had already told them to let the word of God continually be with them. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth. That is, don't stop talking about it. You sanctify yourself through the scripture. Through the Word of God. Sanctify yourself. You know, sometimes the reason God doesn't move on behalf of his people is because we are not sanctifying ourselves in the Word of God. So he says, sanctify yourself. So you face your problem, watch God, follow God, honor God, but then step out in faith. Look at verse number 8. And thou shalt command the priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in the Jordan. Notice the orders that God gives them. God tells Joshua, When the priests who bear the ark step into the waters, the waters will part. Now that might sound irrational up to us. We would rather do it our way. We would rather say, God, you part the waters and then we'll go forward. God says, no, you go forward, you get your feet wet, and then I'll part the waters. Get your feet wet in faith, and then I will part the waters. God wants you to step out in faith. So the plan is you move forward, you take that step of faith And God will respond to your faith by giving you what you need. He'll park the waters in front of you. He'll move that impossibility. He'll move that improbability. Unless we step out in faith and get our feet wet, we're not likely to see much progress Are you willing to step forward? And notice that God doesn't always do the same thing in the same way. God parted the waters of the Red Sea for the children of Israel. Course that was the older generation he did that for. By the way, the nun the new generation, we have to see things God do we have to see God do things for us, I should say We have to see his miracles in our life. I've heard about the things that God did in the past generation. I want to see them in this generation. But God doesn't necessarily Do it always the same do it the same way. When God parted the Red Sea for Moses, God said to Moses, just hold up your rod. Here God's going to part the waters, but he's going to do it a different way. Get your feet wet first Now later on, Elijah and Elisha will part the Jordan River. And what they'll do is they'll take their mantle and smoke the river, the Bible says, and the river parts. So God does the same thing, but he does it in different ways, and here's the lesson. Don't trust in a method, trust in God. You know, trust in what the Lord will do. You know, you remember Jesus when he healed a blind man? The Bible says he took and he made mud and he put mud in that man's eyes and the man was healed. He healed another blind man by just taking spit and anointing his eyes. And then he healed another blind man by just touching his eyes. And someone says immediately you have three new denominations, the Muddites, the Spitites, and the Tutites. And they say, well here's how Jesus heals blind men. He uses mud. And the other one says, No, he uses spit. Another one says, no, you're both wrong. He just touches eyes. We don't put our faith in a methodology. We put our faith in the living God. Who uses his power in different ways, but he responds to our faith. And so we have to be willing to step out in faith. And once we do that, we wait for God to work because God does part the ri rivers for us. Look at verse uh fifteen. And as they that bear the ark were come unto Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped into the brim of the water. For the Jordan overflowed all his banks all the time of harvest, that the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon a heap very far from the city of Adam that is beside Zaratan, and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the Salt Sea, failed and were cut off. And the people passed over right against Jericho. So what happened? The waters rose up on a heap. Actually, there in verse 16, there are three verbs. Stood, rose up, they were cut off. It's the same, the word heat there is the same term used to describe the wall of water at the Exodus crossing crossing of the Red Sea. All the way back to a city called the city of Adam, which was sixteen miles back. The waters were cut off. And here's an incredible miracle that God does on behalf of his people. Now of course we have liberal scholars that come along and they say, oh well, this was really just a natural phenomenon. That region has been known for earthquakes. In fact later on there was an earthquake that stopped up the waters of Jordan for a few hours. It happened once in 1267. It happened again in 1927. This was just a natural phenomenon. But you always have liberals that don't believe in the miracles of God Explain this to uh to me, Mr. Liberal. Why did it happen at the exact moment that the priests put their feet in the water? And why, when the priests left the water, did the waters return automatically? And how is it that they crossed over on dry land? You see, you can't explain a miracle. It's something that God does. It goes against scientific reasoning. But here is a miracle of God. God moves on their behalf. And here's the point that we can learn from this. Friend, expect God to do things for you. He will do that for you. You know, God loves you as much as he loves the children of Israel. And when you face an impossibility in your life, he's willing to move on your behalf. But are you willing to step out in faith and trust him? So we learn, first of all, we should expect miracles. But here's the second lesson. We should erect memorials. And this was the occasion upon which Joshua gives the command in chapter 4 to erect this m this memorial there in the middle of the Jordan River or on the side of the Jordan River And look again in verse 6, that this may be a sign among you, chapter 4, verse 6, that when your children ask their fathers in time comes, saying, What meaneth ye by these stones? Ye shall answer them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan. The waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. We need memorials. We need to be reminded. They serve as a reminder. Over and over again, God said in Deuteronomy, lest you forget. Beware lest you forget. Don't forget what I do. Don't forget my works. You know, sometimes we're prone to do that. God does something great for us. We rejoice for a few days, but then we forget. We forget the great things that God has done. And God says, don't forget. We have short memories. One man said I'm at the point that I write everything down that I want to remember. That way, instead of spending a lot of time trying to remember what it is I wrote down, I spend time trying to remember where I put the paper I wrote it down on. James Boy said this, the people needed a memorial because like ourselves, they tended to forget the goodness and the mighty acts of God on their behalf. And that is true. Let's not forget. Let's not forget. When the danger is past, we often forget the God who helps us. And so therefore What we see in the Old Testament are many times where God will command, set up a memorial. Set up this stone. We see Jacob who had a dream, and after the dream where God appeared to him, he sets up a stone. He'll do it again 30 years. Later. We see the story in 1 Samuel where God helped the Israelites defeat the Philistines in battle. And as a result, Samuel set up a stone. He called it the stone of Ebenezer. We sing the hymn, Here I raise my Ebenezer It was a stone of help to remind the children of Israel that God helped them in a very difficult time. And now here, God says to Joshua, Set up these stones, and the people respond. Look at verse 8 of chapter 4, and the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded And took off twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, as the Lord spake unto Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, and carried them over with them unto the place where they lodged and laid them down there. They uh responded immediately. They had twelve men, these must have been strong men, to pick up these strong stones and they erect this memorial there. on the side on the bank of the Jordan River where this took place. But then Joshua, I want you to notice he goes a step further. We don't see just one memorial here in this story. We see two memorials Because look in verse 9. And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests which bear the ark of the covenant stood, and they are there unto this day. And so Joshua builds a memorial right there in the middle of the river, in the midst of the river. And this, by the way, becomes Gilgal. You know what Gilgal means? It means uh uh it could either mean a rolling like a wheel, or I prefer here a circle, a circle of what? A circle of stones. This was a memorial. That he had set up a circle of stones. So I can just picture in my mind they're on the bank of the Jordan, a circle of stones. They're in the midst of the Jordan River, a circle of stones, and the writer says, up until that writing it is there unto this day. And this Gilgau became a kind of a base of operation. This became the place where they would come On certain occasions, and they would remember what God had done. This was a place where they would come to see this memorial. Just like we here in America, don't we have places where there are memorials? And we go to those places. And it's right that we do that. And we remember the sacrifice of those who have gone on before us. And we remember the works of God. I don't know about you, but when I look at the history of our country, I see the providential hand of God in everything that takes place. So we remember not only the men and women who made the great sacrifices, we also remember the providential hand of God that made all of it possible. And so Gilgal became this base of operations This place where they went to see this memorial, this circle of stones, this by the way, became the place where the first king of Israel was crowned. Saul was crowned at Gilgal. David, after he ran from Absalom and he came back, he was welcomed at Gilgal. Samuel the prophet visited Gilgal often To see this memorial, Elijah and Elisha, they established a school of the prophets right there at Gilgal. And Joshua says, when you bring your children here and they see these stones, and they ask you this question, what do these stones mean? Then you should tell them exactly what God has done. You see, they were going to need this in days to come. There was going to be difficult days ahead. It would be hard. There would be times when they would be facing defeat and they needed a place to go to be reminded of what God had done in the past. I would just say this, a practical application for all of us, is you should have memorials. Not just national memorials, but even around your house. Things to remind your children and your grandchildren of the things that God has done. That you could pass on. It might be a worn-out Bible that they can look through. Or a tear-stained prayer list. Or whatever. It's things that God has done. I remember when uh I was over in England just uh a few weeks back. Uh I did some research. Some of you know I'm a I'm kind of a history buff. I love history. I love going to see things. And I did some research and I found that there was a tree over there. uh in in a town in England that was a thousand years old. An oak tree a thousand years old. And at this oak tree, John Wycliffe, a man who was called the morning star of the Reformation Who was the first one to translate the Bible into the language of the English people? John Wycliffe would preach at this certain tree. This was back when he was expelled from churches. He would go to this tree, and in that time it was on the edge of Windsor Forest. It was a big open field where people could congregate. And he would go to that tree and he would preach the word of God at that tree. And then years later John Knox, the great Scottish Reformer, following the example of John Wycliffe, went to that same tree and preached the Word of God there. And then years later, George Whitfield. the great preacher who brought the Great Awakening to America. He would go to that same tree and he would preach. And then years later Charles Spurgeon went and he did the same thing. So I thought I would go and preach there. I'm kidding. I really am preaching. I did have an audience. I had my wife and my children and my grandson. That was uh they had to endure my sermon so I could say I preach there too. No. I'm kidding, I didn't preach there, but I wanted to see this spot. This thousand-year-old oak tree. It's called the Wycliffe Tree. And so I went there. It took some doing because, you know, how do you find it? You know, you it doesn't have an address, so you can't put it in Google Maps or anything like that. It took some research to find it, but finally we found this thousand old, thousand-year-old oak tree and went there to that tree and remembered the works of God and what God had done through great men. And I actually took some bark. I didn't take it off the tree. There was some bark laying around on the ground that I collected. And I kind of keep that kind of as a little token of what God had done in the past. There's nothing magical about those things, folks. We're not Catholic, we don't believe in relics, all right? Let me just dismiss that idea. All right? You can come by and steal my uh bar the bark from the oak tree for five dollars if you'd like to after that But it to me it's a little bit of a memorial. There's nothing wrong with remembering having tokens, having memorials, things to remember. When it was done in the past, we should have those things. And these memorials should be used to express meaning. When children come and they see that and they say, What is that? And what does it mean? We should be able to express that. And say, let me tell you what this means. There's a great meaning in this. And this is how we teach spiritual lessons. These stones that Joshua set up, they would announce a presence. They would remind the children of Israel that it was God who did this. These stones that Joshua had, they would acknowledge a principle. And by the way, in this whole story, we see the gospel. We see the gospel. We say how Well, in verse number six, this story is a picture of salvation. The Jordan River is a picture of judgment and death. The ark is a picture of Christ. And when the ark went down into Jordan and then came up on the other side, it's a picture of how Jesus went down into the chilly waters of death for us and came up out the other side, he resurrected on the third day It's a beautiful picture of salvation. And by the way, if you study the geography, you know what you'll find. That later, when Jesus was baptized at the Jordan River, it was at that very spot that Jesus was baptized. John the Baptist wasn't baptizing just anywhere. This was a special spot. This was a special location on the Jordan River where the children of Israel crossed over. Some call it the place of the crossing Where Jesus was baptized, it's all a picture of how Jesus would die for our sins and be resurrected And by the way, when the ark went down into the river, it stopped the flow of the water all the way back to the city of Adam. When Jesus entered into the chilly waters of death for me, he stopped the flow of sin and judgment all the way back to my Father Adam. He was my is my savior, and he's yours as well. These stones acknowledge A principle these stones affirm a person that God was going to use Joshua. They accentuate a promise that victory comes from the Lord. And finally, they arouse a people. Look in chapter four. I'll close with this. Look down in verse number 22. Then shall your Then sh uh then ye shall let your children know, verse twenty-three of chapter four, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan for before you until you were passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up before us, Eden. Until we were gone over. Verse 24, that all the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty, that ye might fear the Lord your God forever. These stones were designed to arouse people's emotions, to worship the living and the true God. to remember his mighty works. So I say it is altogether good and fitting that on Memorial Day we recognize those who have gone on before us, we recognize memorial stones. When you think about all those white stones there in Arlington, and white stones set up all over the world where soldiers have died, graveyards all over This country all over the world, we remember that sacrifice and we thank God for it. And we also remember the God who has given us our salvation, our freedom. The greatest warrior we have is the Lord Jesus Christ, who fought for us, gave us our liberty, gave us salvation, gave us eternal life. And by the way, do you know what the Lord's Supper is? It's a memorial service. Every time we come to the Lord's table, Jesus said, This you do in remembrance of me. You remember my sacrifice. You remember what I did for you on the cross. I think of the words of Isaac Watts, when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died. My riches came, I my gain I count but loss, and pour contempt on all my pride. So we thank God for what Christ did for us. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we we do indeed come to you today with grateful hearts. We have so much to be thankful for. We are thankful as Americans because of the freedom that was given to us because of the sacrifice, the blood of Patriots, the blood of soldiers and warriors of men and women who fought to give us the freedom that we have. But we also acknowledge beyond that your providential hand, Father. That gave us this freedom. And even more, Lord, we acknowledge that the greatest gift to mankind Was when you gave your Son Jesus Christ to come and bear our sin on the cross, to absorb the mighty wrath of God for sin, that salvation might be a free gift Given to us, paid for us by the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for that. And so Lord, help us to remember all these things, to be thankful. On this weekend, especially, to acknowledge you in our life, to acknowledge others, Lord, who have gone on before us. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I don't want to leave our service before I just give an invitation. My first one is this it might be that you're here today and you have never Come to the Lord Jesus Christ and salvation. Friend, his death on the cross was so that you could have eternal life. He loves you. He came. He died for you. He shed his blood that you might be forgiven of your sins and have an eternal home in heaven. I want you to think about what Jesus did for you in front. I want you today, right now, right where you are, if you haven't already done this, turn to him and say, Lord Jesus, thank you. For dying for me. And today I come to you. I turn from my sin. I repent of my sin. I come to you. I ask you to save me. Make me your child. Friend, that's the gospel That's the greatest thing that will ever happen is when you receive Jesus, the gift of eternal life through Christ. And then you might be here and you may be a believer and you say, I am facing this impossibility in my life I need the help of God. I need to learn to step out in faith. And I'm asking God for faith to even do that. To face my impossibility, to watch God, to trust God, to step out. I need God to do a miracle in my life. And I'm going to ask him to do that for me. Let's all stand together. I'm going to ask Pastor Earl to come on one side, Pastor Aaron on the other. And if you need to use this altar, friend, we're going to sing the invitation hymn. We're here to help you if you have a spiritual need. If you want to know Jesus, I want you to come. If you have a, if you just want to come to pray as a Christian for God to move this impossibility, you do what the Holy Spirit says as we sing our invitation hymn, just as I am.