I want you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Ecclesiastes, chapter three, tonight. I spoke out of Ecclesiastes Sunday morning, but I think that what this passage here should be appropriate for the time, I believe And so I I'm gonna preach until it's uh I'm gonna preach all year all the rest of the year. Actually till we get close to twenty nineteen. And then the the idea is when we get close we'll join hands and pray in the new year So um we'll just preach until it's time or until my voice uh gives out, which I I am struggling with a cold and um it may give out before the time, so just pray for me So Ecclesiastes chapter 3, and I want you to look at verse number 1. It's a familiar passage of Scripture. To everything there is a season, a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born, a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh, a time to mourn and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away. A time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silent and a time to speak, a time to love, a time to hate, a time of war, and a time of peace. What prophet has he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. And he hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also he hath set the world in their hearts, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning. Now this passage of scripture, I'm sure, is one that's very familiar to everyone here. We've heard this used. It's often quoted in functions like weddings. uh or anniversaries. It's also uh uh perhaps popular because a song was uh based on this. It was a song written by Peter uh Seeger in the nineteen fifties and sung by the birds. Perhaps you know the song. Uh uh there is a season, turn, turn, turn. uh that that song there. And really the song that they wrote was intended to communicate the circular type of existence that we live here on earth. Just seems like we're constantly on one big circuit. Life is kind of one big merry-go-round. But when Solomon pinned these words here, that was not really the message behind the words that he pinned. Solomon's message in these Beautiful words that we just read, these words of symmetry here in Chapter 3. It's not that life is one big circle uh one big uh cyclical existence, but rather his whole point in writing these words is that life, everything in life, has meaning That's important to understand. Let me say that again. The purpose of this passage is to teach us that everything in life has meaning. And this is certainly a one eight a 180 turn from where Solomon starts out in the Book of Ecclesiastes, because when he starts out in the Book of Ecclesiastes, if you ever read chapter 1, what is the key word there? Vanity. He said everything is vanity. Solomon looked out over this world and this under the sun existence, and he said that all of life is meaningless. He had been searching for the meaning and purpose of life And if you read the first part of Ecclesiastes, it's kind of a pessimistic view of things because he's looking at things from under the sun. And in chapter one he does refer to everything kind of in a circular existence, kind of like in a vicious cycle. You know, just like the the uh the sun just kind of runs its circuits and one day goes by and generations pass off the earth, new generations come, and Solomon was saying life is like one big circle, it just seems like there is no meaning. And he begins to search for meaning. Uh he he tries out things in life. He searches for meaning and pleasure and finds out there's really no satisfaction in that. He searches for meaning and wisdom and finds out there's no pleasure in that. And so he's looking for meaning, and he can't find it But the problem is in chapters 1 and 2 is he's looking under the sun. When you get to chapter 3, he looks above the sun He doesn't just look at life from a temporal worldly existence. He begins looking at life from an eternal existence. And what he sees is that the events here on earth are inseparably linked to eternity. They're inseparably linked together. Events on Earth are not just random acts, but they with no meaning or purpose, but they're connected to A God who is exhaustively sovereign over everything we do. We could say like this: there are no random events. There are no accidents in the literal sense of the word. I like to say there are no accidents, only acts of providence. The story is told of a cowboy who goes to buy some life insurance. And the broker asked him a question. They said, Have you had any accidents in the past year? And he said, Well, no, I really haven't had any accidents. He says, I was kicked by a horse, and I was chased by a bull, and I was bit by a snake and the broker said, Well wouldn't you say that they were accidents? He said, No, because they all did it on purpose. He didn't see any accidents in his life. And the truth of the matter is every earthly event is connected to an eternal purpose and plan. So in the truest sense of the word, we really can't say that there are accidents. In the sense that where we see it, from God's eternal perspective, everything has a purpose under heaven And that's what Solomon is saying here. The key word is in verse 1, or key phrase I should say, to everything there is a season, and notice this, a time And really, this passage is nothing less than an Old Testament, Romans 8. 28, where all things work together for good. to those who love God. This was Solomon's Romans 8. 28, we could say. And what he's saying here is that all of these things here has a purpose. Now those who hold to a pessimistic view that nothing has a purpose Or nothing has meaning. These are people that do not have God in their worldview. There's no room for God in their thinking. They look at the world as some closed system with no God And so they're pessimistic, they're very cynical about everything that happens in life. But we who have God in our worldview, we can't take that view. You know, today we're living in a period of r a revival of ancient pessimism and skepticism, and we're assaulted on all sides. by the the theme of this negative existential philosophy that teaches one of two things. It says that nothing that we do here has any meaning Or they teach that the things that happen here only matter for right now. One of those two things. They don't have God in their worldview. But Solomon here says that everything r the right now, the things that happen now, the things that happened in twenty eighteen and the things that will happen in twenty nineteen All of these things count for eternity because they are connected to the eternal. That's the whole point that he's trying to make here. Right now counts forever. Those who see the world through sanctified eyes, they see a God who is sovereign, who rules over Oh. And this is the answer to the meaninglessness in life. And so what Solomon is challenging the reader to do here in chapter 3 is to learn to see things from God's perspective. He's challenging us to know what time it is. Anyone ever ask you the question what time is it? In fact, some of you are looking at your watches right now. What time is it? He's got twenty-five minutes here. To get this done. Does anyone ask you that question? We hear that question many times, and normally we answer that question again by looking at our watch. But here, Solomon is asking us the same question. He's asking us, do you know what time it is? But he's not asking us to look at our watch to answer the question. He's asking us to discern the works of God. To learn what time it is. That's his what he's trying to do. He's challenging us to look at God's clock and see if you can discern what time it is. And so it's very easy to tell you the time of day. But it's much more difficult to tell you the time according to God's clock. And so it's it's not it's difficult, it's not impossible. And so really here's the point. One of the great ways to have joy and peace in our life, to be contented and to understand that there's meaning in life, that life has a purpose, is to know God's time And to get in harmony with what that time is. Okay? You understand that? To know what time it is in God's economy, in God's clock or on God's clock and calendar and to get in harmony with what God is doing. If you don't learn to tell time God's way and get in harmony with it, you can be very frustrated in your life. So with that in mind, I just want to give you three principles here I think that can help us understand these how to tell time from God's perspective. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, there's what I call the principle of sovereignty. The principle of sovereignty. And that this principle simply states that all things serve God's eternal purpose. This was the point that I already hammered with you Everything that we do, everything that happens, serves God's purpose and plan from the heavenly perspective There is a timeliness to everything. In order to hammer home this point, what does Solomon do here in chapter 3? He gives us 14 pairs uh in this this is called uh these are polar opposites that we just read a time a purpose uh for uh And then we see the polar opposites in verse 2, a time to be born, a time to die. And then we see these 14 pairs where he gives us opposites here And this is a literary device called marism. It's a figure of speech in which two polarities make up the whole. For example, in the book of Genesis, it says that God created the heavens and the earth. We see those polarities there. That simply means that God created everything. Those polarities include everything And there's a sense in which this is what's happening here in Ecclesiastes chapter 3. These polar opposites that we see in pairs make up the whole. Weeping and laughing take in the whole range of earthly emotion. I mean how many emotions have we experienced in 2018 or will we experience in 2019? All of those emotions, weeping and laughing, include the whole range of earthly emotion. There was a time for all of those emotions. Solomon said, and none of those emotions that we had in 2018 were wasted. It's tied to eternal purpose. None of that is wasted. Birth and death is the whole range of human earthly existence, war and peace, love and hate, embracing and refraining from embracing, that's the whole range of human engagements Uh Lupold, the great Old Testament scholar, wrote this. He said that Kohaleth, or the writer, that is Solomon, uh his c covered the widest possible range and thus practically every aspect of human life. He says these pairs cover the whole range. It covers every aspect of Now listen, and reigning over all of these things, all these seasons, is God. God is sovereign over all these times, all these seasons, and whatever happens in them He reigns over all of that. It's like the Westminster Shorter Catechism that says this. His holy, wise Powerful providence governs all their actions. He is the king of time. He regulates all of these things. He regulates our minutes, our seconds. He rules over all of our moments, all of our days. Nothing happens without his superintendents. And that's what he's trying to show us here. So let's look at a few of these. A time to be born and a time to die. Birth and death. These are not mere human accidents, but they are divine appointments. No one is born by accident Maybe from a human perspective you might say that. But that's not from God's perspective. And in the sense of death, God measures out the days of every person. And and God gives us a time. And He already knows the day of our death. He's appointing the time of our birth. He's appointed the time of our death. I was born on October 22nd, 19. None of your business. And I that was my day of birth. And you know, God has already appointed the day of my death. He's ordained it. He has ordained the exact parents he wanted me to have, the exact place that he wanted me to live God is over all of that. A time to kill and a time to heal. This is not referring to murder, but there are times when it's appropriate to f uh appropriate to inflict death Is there not? Every time we put a shot into a person suffering from a disease, we're giving them an antibiotic. We're saying it's time to kill this disease. in that person that when there's chemotherapy is administered to a cancer victim, the intent is to kill that cancer. There's a time to kill there. There's a time to because we live in this cursed earth, there's times when things need killing, is what Solomon is saying. It's time to kill a snake when a poisonous snake crawls into a nursery Um now I know some animal rights advocates are going to hear that and they're going to email me. Just save your emails, folks, alright? If I see a snake in a baby nursery, I'm going to kill it, alright? Well the rest of you that don't agree, but God bless you, I'll just kidding. There's a time to break down and a time to build up. You remember in the ministry of Jeremiah, God sent Jeremiah to the nation of Judah, and God said, you know, you need to pull down, you need to destroy. Well no prophet really wants that ministry. You know, whatever's there, Jeremiah, just preach my word and it will pull it down, it will destroy. But before sometimes you can build up, you have to pull down Before you can make a new structure, before God can do something new, sometimes the old has to be pulled down. And God said to Jeremiah, you have to pull down, you have to destroy, and then there will be a time for building up. And then there's also a time to weep and a time to laugh. I know many of us have done that in 2018. I know all of many people here, we've had our share of tears, but also we've had our share of laughter, have we not? at some of the joyous things that God has given. There's a time to mourn and a time to dance. He said there's a time to cast away stones. And a time to gather stones. Now some scholars are puzzled as to what Solomon might be talking about here. The land of Palestine was filled with stones. Tour guides in Israel, and when they take you on a tour on Israel, they'll tell you that God gave an angel some stones and he told them to distribute them across the world, but when he got to the land of Palestine he tripped and he fell, and all the stones landed there. That's what they'll tell you because if you've ever been to Palestine, you know it's a land that is filled with rocks and stones. And uh in that day, if you wanted to hurt your enemy, you would Fill all his field up, the field that perhaps he plowed, you would fill his field up with stones. And stones were gathered for building walls and houses. But what's interesting here is that God says in his plan and in his purpose, there's even a time for picking up stones. There's even a time for throwing rocks. We might be tempted to think that that little menial thing of throwing a stone is outside the realm of God's sovereign control. We have the tendency to think that God is sovereign over the big things of our life And yet the little things he's not really sovereign over. But let me just say I I've made this point before. If God's not sovereign over the little things, he's not sovereign over anything. Because bigger than a swing on small Deeds, small events. And God's even sovereign over the throwing of stones. If you read your Bible, what you'll find is some of the major battles in the Bible were one by throwing a stone. In fact, the writer of Ecclesiastes, Solomon, had a father whose name was David And he came to the throne. One of the reasons why he came to the throne was because he cast a stone at a giant by the name of Goliath. And that was an event that was had a turning point in David's life. It started a chain reaction that led to him becoming the king of Israel. One day there was a little boy who was walking along the cliffs beside the Dead Sea. He was looking for one of his sheep that had strayed from his fold. And as he walked, he picked up a stone He was walking at random, and he came to the mouth of a cave, and he threw the stone inside the cave, and when he did, he heard a sound, a ping. As if shattered glass type sound. And that was a curiosity to him. And so he threw another stone into the cave and he heard the same sound of a shattering, and he went into the cave and he found many clay jars that were filled with manuscripts. And that was the greatest archaeological discovery of our time because that was the discovery of what we now call the Dead Sea Scrolls. Do you think that was any accident that that little shepherd boy threw a stone into that cave at that time and made this great discovery? Right at a time when critics were dissecting the Bible and coming against the Bible and saying you can't trust the Bible, right at that time. There's this great archaeological discovery that shows the reliability of Scripture, that God has preserved his word. There was no accident that that boy threw that stone into that cave. And so there's a time for everything God says, even the throwing of a stone. God has an eternal purpose for that. There's a time to embrace And a time to refrain from embracing. There are times when people need affirmation. There are times when people need a hug I remember one story I like to talk tell when I think about this is when I was living down in Tennessee, we had a big tornado warning out. They spotted a tornado. The the sirens were going on. All the electricity went out in our house. I was in the house by myself with my son Josiah. He had a friend over to spend the night that night It was a little boy named Caleb. He was about ten years old at the time. We were seated in a place, you know, where you're supposed to sit down like in the center, somewhere, a safe spot. We found a safe spot. We sat down. I'll never forget that Caleb, right in the middle of all that. He looked over at me with a little southern voice that he had. He said, I don't know if this is appropriate or not, but I sure could use a hug right about now. So I hugged him. There's a time to embrace. There's times when people just need a hug And and there's a time to refrain from that. There's a time to get and a time to lose. We like getting. We like that part. We don't like the losing part. I've heard coaches say this. There's nothing good about losing. Ever hear a coach say that? Nothing good about losing. Well, they're absolutely wrong. Because God said, you know what, there's a time to lose. God has ordained even loss in our life. The same God that gives to us, what did Job say? Also takes away the Lord gives. And the Lord takes away, blessed be the name of the Lord. God has ordained giving us things and taking those things away. And so there's a time for even that, there's a time to keep, and a time to cast away, a time to rent, and a time to sow. And on we could go with all of these. But suffice to say that all of these things teach us that God is sovereign over all these things. All these things have an eternal Purpose. None of these things happen without a purpose. That God is sovereign over all. Now, sometimes when you bring up this idea of the sovereignty of God, There's going to be people who will say, you know, well, what about human responsibility? Well, I would just say this is human responsibility is also equally true in Scripture. God is absolutely exhaustively sovereign over all these things, but also man is absolutely responsible For all the choices that he makes. If you notice on this list, there are some things that I can choose to do that are on this list, and there are some things that I have no control over on this list Both of those things are there. Things that I can do, things that I'm responsible for, and things that I have absolutely no control over. A person can rent their garments in a time of grief, but I don't control when grief comes. Many times. Sometimes God just brings that. And so the Bible teaches that we're responsible for our choices, for the things that we do. Every choice that you make is a real choice. It has real consequences And we will be judged for those choices, yet we also know that God sovereignly reigns over all things. The doctrine of the sovereignty of God should never cause us to be fatalistic. You should never walk into 2019 saying, well, you know, if God is sovereign over everything, that means really then it doesn't really matter what I do. And that's absolutely not true. It does matter what you do. Every choice you make, you'll be judged for. Think about the life of Jesus. Remember when he walked the earth? Do you think that his steps were ordained by the Father? Everything that happened. was sovereignly decreed in the life of Jesus. When he came into the world, how he came into the world, when he was to die, the very day he was to present himself as Messiah in Jerusalem was prophesied. In the book of Daniel and Jesus presented himself in Jerusalem on that very day. Every moment of his life Was sovereignly ordained by God. But did you think that that made Jesus fatalistic? Absolutely not. When crowds were hostile against him, he would move away from those crowds. When when Satan tempted them and said, Look, cast yourself down, you're the Son of God, the worshippers there at the temple below, when they see God protecting you, surely they will Praise God for that. Surely it's a great way to reveal yourself as the Messiah. And what did Jesus say to Satan? Jesus knew that Satan was trying to tempt him with presumption. Listen, I know that God protects me as his child, but I'm not going to go out and play in the highway. Right? I'm responsible for the things that I do. Jesus wasn't going to cast himself down off the temple just to show everyone that he was the Son of God. And so Jesus quoted scripture and said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Jesus never acted presumptuously In any way, and yet he knew that he was on a divine timetable. And so we have to follow the example of Jesus. We have to understand that God is sovereign. I believe that I have a purpose in God's plan and work to do. Nothing can harm me until I do that work. But I'm not going to go out and do crazy things or foolish things to be presumptuous against God. I'm going to be cautious and I'm going to obey everything that I know to obey and do right as I know to do right. So that's the first principle we have to learn. And I think Solomon is making this clear. It's the principle of sovereignty. This principle states that all things serve an eternal purpose. You got that? Here's number two. Not only the principle of sovereignty, but write down number two, the principle of secrecy. The principle of secrecy. Look at verse number nine. What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? I seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in him. And he hath made everything beautiful in his time. Now, no man can fully understand the sovereign purpose of God. His purposes are not always revealed or knowable to us. We know that God has a sovereign purpose But the problem is we don't always see what that purpose is. I don't know some of the sovereign purposes of God. Some of those purposes are secret. And see, this is the problem The problem is we don't know why certain seasons come. We don't know why certain things happen. There may be some people here tonight, and you say, man, I've had I had some things that happened to me in 2018, and I don't know why that happened to me. I don't know why this season of pain came upon me And and I can't give you the answer to that question. We don't always know why those things happen. And sometimes this can cause frustration in us. It's frustrating to live and work and go through seasons and not really know God's purpose in some of these seasons and some of these times. And many times we want to know why. Don't you? I do. God, I would like to know why this season came, why this certain thing happened. And God has put in the heart of man to search out his purpose. In fact, look in verse eleven, the latter part of verse eleven. It says, also he has set the world in their heart Notice where he says he set the world in the heart. The word for world there is the Hebrew word, Olam, eternity. Man's heart is linked to the eternal. It's linked to heaven, and this explains why nobody, including Solomon, can be satisfied with his or her endeavors or achievements, or is able to explain the enigmas of life God accomplishes his purposes in his time, but it will not be until we enter into eternity that we really begin to comprehend his total plan. But yet there is in the heart of man this desire to understand these eternal things, these eternal purposes, because we are linked to eternity. Do you know that? Every man, now I know there's some people out there they'll say, well, you know, after death there's nothing more. There's some people that try to convince themselves that that's true. But you know what they're doing? They're going against a divine knowledge or instinct that God has put in every man. You know what? Every man knows that there's something after this life. That's why you see even in pagan religions, you see where they bury a king, they'll bury all kind of gold and silver with them. They'll put two coins over his eyes to pay the fare to cross the Mystic River, to go into eternity, thinking he can take some of that gold and silver. Even in some c cultures and customs Kings would even make their servants commit suicide, thinking that the servant would join them there on the other side. Why is that? Because God has put in the heart of men This knowledge that this life is not all there is. After we die here, there's going to be eternity. And the question is, where will you spend eternity? That's the real question. But it's not that there is no eternity, because God has put eternity in the heart of man. And it's because man has this eternity in his heart, there's this inward longing to know some of the eternal purposes of God. We want to know why. Leland Riken wrote this: Each of us is born with a deep-seated, compulsive desire to know the character, composition, and meaning of the world, and to discern its purpose and destiny. And he's right. We long to know God's purposes. But from where we are, this is impossible. We can't always know that. In fact, look again, look at that latter part of verse 11. He says, also they set the world in their heart. Look at verse that so that no man Can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. From our limited view, we're unable to span the mind of God We just don't know why certain things happen today and how it somehow we know it's linked to eternity. We just don't know how. And we want to know how But this is where faith comes in. This is where we have to say, you know, God, I don't know why, but I know I can trust you in this. Somehow this is linked to eternity. Can't see it from my end. I want to know. I really wanted to know this. There's a desire in my heart to know. But I know I can't know. I do know this, that you know what you're doing. The psalmist said it like this, God is my high tower. You know, sometimes in the in that day when a general was fighting a war, he would get up on a high tower and he could see the whole battlefield. And he would call out commands down to his generals on the ground based on his vision from where he was, the high tower. And that's the way God is. You see, we don't see the way God sees. God is a high tower, David said. He's my high tower. I see from this perspective down here, but God sees from a totally different perspective. And I can trust the God of the High Tower. I know He sees way, way down the road. In fact, the whole word providence is from two words pro, which is before video, pro-video to see before him. The whole concept of providence is this God's actions today are what God sees tomorrow. God sees way down the line. He sees ten years into the future. And God's actions today are based on what he knows about tomorrow. I can't see like that. Only God can. And that's why I can't really know the eternal purposes of God. It's just something we can't know. But we can know this. Look at verse 11. Look at the beginning of verse 11. He hath made everything beautiful in his wife. in his time. We just by faith know that God makes everything beautiful in his time. These events that happened to me in 2018, some of them were dark providences. I really don't enjoy some of the things that happened to me. I don't know why they happened to me. I would like to know, but I can't know. But I do know this. God can make everything beautiful in his time. And the word beautiful here is the idea of something that is good, something that is right, something that is pleasing, something that is appropriate. Whatever God does, He does it on time, and He makes it all beautiful. Right now it might not look so beautiful to me. Some of the heartaches I've experienced and you've experienced doesn't look so beautiful. But you know what? In his time, he's going to make it beautiful. And so this is again, as I said, a Romans 8. 28 We sometimes have bad timing on things, but God's timing is always perfect. Speaking about bad timing, I heard about an orthopedic surgeon. He was moving to a new office across town. And he decided he was going to take his skeleton display and put it in his car and drive it across town. And he buckled it into this passenger seat And he he was driving and he didn't pay attention to the road and he ran a stop sign and a police officer pulled him over. Police officer came and had him roll down the window and he was looked at the passenger seat and saw the skeleton over there and the doctor immediately said, I I'm taking him to my new office. And the police officer said, Sir, I think you're a little bit late. But God's never late. God's always on time. And so Solomon says he makes everything beautiful. What God does, he does right. He makes it all good. And so really the question we have to ask ourselves is this: Do you believe in the timeliness of God? Do you believe that he makes it beautiful? And can we trust him for the seasons that he brings in our life? Can we trust him? Now let me give you the third principle. Let me check the watch here, speaking of time. Can you believe it my watch just went out? Talk about bad timing. Okay, so according to that clock, I have about seven minutes, so I'm going to take about three. We'll finish up. Let me give you the third principle real quickly. There's the principle of sovereignty. And this principle states that all things serve God's eternal purpose. And there's a principle of secrecy, and that is no man can fully understand this sovereign purpose, but we have the promise that he makes everything beautiful in his time. But here's the third principle, the principle of symphony. And what is that principle? We have to get into rhythm with God's seasons We have to get into rhythm with God's time. We have to discern the season and we have to get into harmony with it. We can't always know the purpose, but we can know the season that we're in. I know the season, I don't know the reason. I know what God's doing. I can't I can't know the why. I can know the when. And sometimes the what he's doing. But what I have to do is I have to get into symphony with that season that God brings into my life. And this is the word I think that we need to use is appropriate. We need to act appropriately for the season that God brings. Does that make sense? For example, you know, a farmer. A farmer doesn't uh he doesn't go out and plow in December, does he? He doesn't plant seeds in December Any farmer planting seeds in December, plowing a field, expecting to get a harvest, is going to be very frustrated, will he not? Because that's not the season for plowing. That's not the season for planting. And so that's a f it's a recipe for frustration. Because you're that's not the season. And you see, when God's doing one thing And you're trying to do another, and you're going against the season that God puts you in, you're going to be very, very frustrated. And you're going to be angry. And there's not going to be any peace in your life because you're not in harmony with the season that God has brought upon your life. Let me give you another illustration of this. You know, I I played football growing up and one time I even played quarterback. And I know and and some of you know that are football fans that there's two things that are important in a football game. Number one is the score, and number two is the time left in the game, the time on the clock. Now if you're playing and you're losing by a few touchdowns and you only have four minutes left in that game, what time is it? It's time to pass the ball. It's time to throw long bombs, right? But if you're way ahead and you've got the ball and there's only five minutes left in the game You know what they're trying to do? Hey diddle-diddle running back up the middle, right? Hand the ball off. And let the clock let the clock tick down. You see, the action needs to be appropriate for the season. And see, here's the application. You have to discern when Solomon asks the question to you, what time is it? You have to be discerning and know what season am I in in my spiritual life, in my life, what is God doing? I can't always know the reason why God does certain things. But I gotta get into harmony with it. And I've got to submit to it. And when the submission comes, you know what there comes? There comes joy. And there comes peace. And there comes contentment and faith in God and reverence. And so when God brings this season on me, I say, God, I don't always know why, but I accept this. season that you sovereignly bring into my life and I get into harmony with it and I'm going to act appropriately to it and I'm going to realize and trust you and know that you will make everything beautiful And your time. And I trust you with that. Now friend, that's not always easy to do. But it's what Solomon is telling us we need to do. That God will make everything right. He'll make everything beautiful in his time. Now speaking of time, we're out of time. So here's what we're going to do. I'm going to ask everyone to stand now.