Would you take your Bibles now? Open to 1 John chapter 3. 1 John chapter 3. And we've been looking through 1 John, as you know, on Sunday morning. We come down to chapter three, the verses that we read just a moment ago, and I want to talk today about what love is not. Heard about a woman who was surprised at church one day when another woman who had really snubbed her She wondered what initiated that She got her answer at the end of the service when the pastor instructed. He said, Your assignment for next week is the same as last week. I want you to go out there and love someone that you just can't stand. You know, if loving others were as easy as just giving them a hug, you know, we could all excel at that. But love is a bit more difficult than that, right? requires effort. It requires putting others ahead of you. Self-sacrifice on the part of others. It's always a huge battle. And this is the reason the New Testament as a whole and the Apostle John in this letter this letter Never tire of exhorting us to love one another. John saw love demonstrated in the upper room. He saw Jesus take a bowl of water and a towel and wash the disciples' feet. He heard Jesus say, A new commandment I give unto you that you love one another. And then John saw Jesus give the supreme demonstration of love when he died on the cross for And so John, the son of thunder, became known as the Apostle of Love. Now, John has already talked about love. We already looked at it in chapter two. He reminded us of that old commandment. on the beginning. And really in chapter 4, he's going to devote a major portion of this epistle to the same theme from verses 7 to 21 in chapter 4. Six times he will refer to Jesus' commandment to love one another. So he he says it a lot. And in our text here today We're going through a second cycle of tests. Remember, we said that there are three major themes that John just keeps repeating over and over again. And one of those themes is the moral test of obedience. Then there's this the doctrinal test of believing in who Jesus is. And then there is the social test of He's going to talk about that again here in chapter 3, verses 11 to 18. Now, if you get weary of hearing this over and over again, you need to remember that John, when he wrote this, he was under inspiration of the Holy Spirit. And if the Holy Spirit inspired John to write this over and over again, you know what that means? We need to hear it over and over again. We need to examine ourselves constantly because, let's be honest, our default mode as people is selfishness. We have a tendency to look upon ourselves. We have a tendency to be inwardly focused and not love. And so John once again will get out his black and white paint and he will paint broad strokes, no gray areas. You're either in God or you're not. You either love the world or you love God. You either or walk in the light or you walk in darkness, you either know God and keep his commandments, or you don't keep his commandments and you don't know God. You're either a child of the devil and your practice is sin or you're a child of God and your pattern is righteousness Now John is going to give us yet another contrast here, and I think really he's continuing the argument that we looked at last week as being a child of the devil or a child of God. Remember, a child of God is someone who will practice righteousness A child of the devil is someone who will practice sin. And now John is continuing on with the same idea here. If you're a child of God, you will practice love. And if you're a child of the devil, your default mode is hatred. So I want you to notice the contrast here. And if you're taking those right down, number one, hatred is a mark of A child of the devil. That's what he's going to show us here. Look again in verse 11. For this is the message that you've heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. Not as Cain who was of that wicked one and slew his brother. Now again, John is going to repeat this issue of love, but he's going to do it now in a different way. He's going to present the contrast. We can call this the uh uh the way of negation. When systematic theologians try to teach about the knowledge and character of God, they use a system called the via negotiation. You say, what does that mean? Via means way. Negotionis means negation, which means one way they seek to describe God, a God is who is so great So incomprehensible. One way they try to describe him is by saying what he is not. This is what he's not like. And so they use terms like infinite, which means not finite. We as human beings, we are finite, right? But God is infinite. He's not finite. He is immutable. What does mutable mean? We are changing. All of us are changing. That's part of our human nature. But God is immutable. He does not He is not changing. And you know the Bible does this often. When the Bible tries to describe to us a concept One of the ways it'll do it is if to tell us what it is not. Here's what it's not like. And this is what John is doing right here. He's saying, let me tell you what love is not. This is what it's not like. You know, one way to understand up is by understanding down. One way to understand white is by understanding black. One way to understand light is by understanding darkness. And John is as if he's saying here, one way to understand love is by understanding what hatred looks like And so John will do that here. He says, we're to love one another in verse 11. That's the commandment that God gives from the beginning, but not like Cain. It's not you want to know what know what love is like? It's not like him. What did Cain do? And Cain here then is the the the demonstration of what hatred is like in fact that would be the first sub point here if you want to know what hatred is like hatred is demonstrated in Cain What he did. What does the Bible say? Who was of that wicked one and slew his brother And so you now John uses Cain as an illustration. Why does he use Cain? I think it's because he was the first person born on this earth under the curse of sin. It's almost as if John is saying, this is what the sin nature does. This is what it's like to be born in sin, as Cain was the firstborn of Adam and Eve. And what was his heart filled with? It was filled with self-centeredness. There was an evil bent in this fallen son of Adam, an evil bent towards hatred. If you want to know what Cain is like, in fact, why don't you hold your place here and go to Genesis chapter 4 real quick? I want to take a quick look at Cain Look in Genesis chapter 4. We'll come right back to 1 John. But Genesis chapter 4 and look at verse number 1. Let's look at this story here. Verse 1 says, and Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the Lord. And she bear his brother Abel, and Abel was a keeper of the ground, but Cain was a tiller. Excuse me, Abel was a keeper of the sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. Verse 3. In the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering to the Lord. This implies that there is a definite place for worship. He brought of the fruit of the ground, brought it where? You have to bring it to someplace. This implies that God had established a place of worship. This is supported, by the way, in verse 16 of Genesis. 4, where Cain went out from the presence of the Lord. Again, it has the idea that God had established an altar, a place where man could worship God, man could meet with God. How can fallen man come into the presence of Alf holy God. He had to bring his his gift to the altar. He had to worship God. And so he brought his offering, the Bible says. And then in verse 3, it says in the process of time, really the Hebrew here is in at the end of days. So we're doing days. So we can translate it at the end of days. I think there was a certain time for worship. There was a certain place where they could worship. There was a certain time. This was at the end of days, or I think at the end of week. God had established a certain day for worship. He established a certain manner for worship. God could only be worshiped by means of sacrifice. And again, all of this implies that God had taught this. He taught it to Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve taught it to their sons. There was a certain manner in which man could approach God. And I believe that God taught them that what he expected was a blood sacrifice to be alter offered on the altar. And I've read commentaries that said, Well, you know, there was nothing wrong with Cain's offering, it was just his attitude Listen, Cain doesn't cop an attitude until after God rejects his offer. The problem was that he brought a sacrifice that was not blood It was the works of his hands. Now, if Cain would have brought a blood sacrifice to the Lord, and then after that said, Lord, I want to offer you this as a expression of my love, God would have accepted it. But here he's bringing the w the fruit of his hands, the fruit of the earth, it's not what God prescribed. Donald Gray Barnhouse said he attempted to have a religion of beauty without the recognition of the holiness. And justice of God. And so Cain was stubborn about this. It was bloodless. It was the labor of his hands, works. It was the fruit of the ground. By the way, God had cursed the ground And Genesis 3, 17. What was Abel's offering? It was his best of his flock. It was a blood sacrifice where life had to be taken. And the imagery there is that someone innocent has to die for sin. Someone innocent has to have their blood shed. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission Abel's offering was without works. And the Bible says by faith Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice. Remember, faith is responding to what? The word of God So God had to reveal, here's what I want. And Abel followed that, and Cain did not. Didn't say Abel was more excellent, but his sacrifice was more. Excellent. It wasn't personal. It wasn't that God liked Abel more than Cain. It's that God prescribed a definite means. And then there was a definite acceptance. Look in verse four. And Abel also brought of the first things of his flock and the fatherof, and the Lord had respected Respect unto Abel and his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fellow How did they know that God accepted Abel's offering and God didn't accept Cain's? I think what happened was the fire of God fell upon the offering This always happened in the Old Testament. In Leviticus, there came out a fire from the Lord. It consumed the altar and the burnt offering. When God delighted in a sacrifice, the fire fell. This happened with Elijah on Mount Carmel, remember that the fire fell upon the offering. It happened again with David. When he made an offering, it happened with Solomon. And so I think what happens is Abel comes with his lamb. He has the he The lamb with the blood shed, the throat is cut, he makes an offering unto the Lord, the fire of God falls upon that altar because God accepts blood sacrifice, the innocent being blood being shed for Sin. When Cain brings his offering, he brings, I think, the choicest of vegetables and fruits. Probably very beautiful. Took a lot of sweat to produce that. But when he brought it to the altar, God didn't accept it. You know why? God does not accept man's works. He accepts the blood. sacrifice. So there was no fire that came, nothing consumed it, because God didn't respect Cain's offering. And what happened there? Cain got angry, the Bible says Verse 6, and the Lord said unto the king, Why art thou wroth, and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, thou shalt not shalt thou not be accepted? If thou doest not well, sin lies at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. That is, you had the opportunity to do right. You were instructed on how to do it. There's still the opportunity to do the right thing. If you don't, sin is crouching like an animal, like a lion. At the door to master you. But Cain doesn't listen to that. So look in verse number eight. And Cain talked with Abel his brother. And Cain had passed when they were in the field that Cain rose up against Abel his brother. brother and slew him. Takes him out in the field, and the Bible says he slew him. By the way, the word for slew here uh is a Hebrew word to murder with the hand. But the the word that John uses in First John three twelve is a word that means to cut the throat. Cut his throat. The idea is, Cain says, You want a blood sacrifice? Here, God, let me give you one. He cuts the throat of his brother. This was the first murder started by anger, selfishness, pride Jealousy and all of that boiled into hatred. And John says, if you want to know what love is not like, just think about Cain. Go back to 1 John chapter 3. Not as Cain Who slew his brother. Hatred is demonstrated in Cain. But hatred originates with the devil. He says in verse 12, not as Cain who was of that wicked one. This is a strong word here. Who was the wicked one? That was Satan. Hatred finds its source in the devil. Whereas love originates with God, hatred originates with Satan. That's not to say that there's not hatred in man's heart, there is. But Satan inflames that hatred And to harbor hatred is to oppose God. And that's what Cain did. Hatred is demonstrated in Cain, it originates with the devil, but it might result in the taking of life Look at verse 15. Whoso hated his brother is a murderer. And you know that no murderer hath eternal life. It divides people, hatred divides people. And by the way, hatred is dividing this nation, friends divides. And it might even lead to taking of life. And that's what John says here. It starts with indifference. So look at verse 17. Whoso has this world's good and sees his brother hath needed, it shut it up his bowels of compassion from him. How dwelleth the love of God in him Yeah. You see somebody who has a need and you just shut off your heart from them, you're indifferent towards them, that's a form of hatred. At its best, it's indifference. At its worst, it's murder. And you might be thinking, well, I've never murdered anyone. Jesus said, look, if you have hatred in your heart, If you have anger in your heart. Level one is inward hatred. Level two is outward action. I was at a zoo one time and I saw a lion looking at me. And it appeared to me that the only thing keeping that line from eating me is the bars in between us. The inward inclination was there. The only thing that keeps some people from acting out of their hatred is the bars that keep them back. Maybe the shame of being arrested. Or the price they would have to pay. You know when God judges us, He's going to judge us based on the law of liberty. What would you do had you the liberty to do it? Not only what would you do, but what do you want to do? And so that's why Jesus said if you hate someone, it's like you've already committed murder. The only thing keeping you back is perhaps the opportunity. Or the bars there, their inward inclination is sinful enough. But also hatred is motivated by personal sin. Look again in verse 12. Not as he who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? John says, why did he kill him? Because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Was it because Abel was some kind of a scoundrel doing evil that he killed him? No, it was because Cain's works were evil. It was rebellion against God. And then finally, hatred is evidence of spiritual death. Look again in verse 15. Whoso hated his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. And so it's a mark of those who don't know the Lord. A person whose life is marked by selfishness, a continual hatred towards others, gives evidence that there's no life there of Christ. Christ there. And by the way, just like in chapter 3, verse 9, John uses the present tense here. Again, a person whose life is patterned by selfishness and envy and jealousy and strife And hatred, that shows spiritual death, not life. There's no life there So in contrast, point number one, hatred is a mark of the child of the devil. But here's point number two: love is a mark of the child of God. And again, this is what John is showing us here. It's very simple. Here's what love is not. Here's what love is. Love is demonstrated in Christ. Look at verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. It's demonstrated in Christ. Whereas hatred is demonstrated in Cain, love is demonstrated in who? Christ. Christ is a demonstration here. John says we perceive the Greek word gonosko. We come to know experientially this kind of love. How? And that Jesus laid down his life for us. We see it in the cross. of Christ. I love all the songs today because they all pointed toward the cross. The cross of Jesus. That's what we glory in. That's what we boast in. Not ourselves, not our flesh. We boast and glory in the cross of Christ. And it's this cross where we see God's love manifested. A 10-year-old boy was failing math. His parents did everything they could to try to help him. Finally, they sent him to a Catholic school. And right after he got home from the first day of Catholic school, he began working very hard in math. He would study every night. And he, when the report card came out, he had an A plus in math. And his parents said, What happened? Why why are you taking it so seriously now? Was it the new textbooks or what what was it? He said, Why the first day I went to school there and went to class, I saw that they had nailed somebody to a plus sign. He said, I knew they took math seriously here. Let me tell you something. The cross of Christ is God's serious display of God's love. God takes love seriously. How do you know? Look at the cross. Look at the cross of Christ. There's hardly a passage in the New Testament that speaks of God's love that does not speak of the cross The cross of Christ. But God commended his love towards us. And while we were yet sinners, Christ died. for us. Love is demonstrated in Christ. Love originates with God, whereas hatred originates with the devil, love originates with God And John implies this, but he'll say it in chapter 4, verse 7, Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. And as whereas hatred divides people and may result in murder, love unites people. And results in laying down our lives for others. Look again in verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Jesus showed his love by laying down his life. Therefore, we ought to do the same thing. Can we honestly say that we would lay down our lives for others? That's a hard saying because we default to protecting ourselves. Very easy to say, oh yes, I would lay down my life my life for another Christian. But really, it's not necessarily taking a bullet or one act of supreme sacrifice. The question is, are you doing it by the inch each day? Are you giving yourself to others? The little details, setting aside your selfishness, serving others, starts at home, and then it works Its way out. Love is demonstrated in Christ. It originates with God. Love unites people and results in laying down our lives for others. Love is motivated by God's love in Christ. Again, that's The point in verse 16. And then love is the evidence of spiritual life. Look in verse 14. And we know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. And so John goes back to giving the test of true salvation. A sure way to know that you are a Christian and that you have passed from death unto life is that you love the brethren again that's present tense you are constantly showing your love for the brethren you're putting others ahead of you you're not operating out of selfishness You're operating out of self-sacrifice. You're constantly doing things for others, putting others ahead of you. This is a habit of life. So this passage again calls upon us to examine our hearts Do you love others? Do you seek fellowship with other Christians? Do you desire to put others ahead of you? And if there's a need that you see, do you meet that need out of love for others? If you've tasted of God's love in Christ at the cross, the new direction of your life will be to grow in your love towards others all around you. That's what will happen. So hatred is a mark of the child of the devil. Love is a mark of the child of God. Whereas hatred is demonstrated in Cain Love is demonstrated in Christ. Whereas hatred originates with the devil, love originates with God. Whereas hatred divides, love unites. Whereas hatred is motivated by God's love. Or excuse me, hatred is motivated by personal sin, excuse me. Love is motivated by God's love in Christ. Hatred is the evidence of spiritual death. Love is the evidence of spiritual life. And so this is the contrast that John is giving here He's showing the opposite side. And again, he calls upon us to examine ourselves. Let me just close with this one illustration. Ray Stedman tells this story in his book on 1 John. He tells the story of a Jewish man named Art Who was raised as an atheist. And early in life he became a committed Marxist. And at the close of World War II, he was in Germany with the American Army, and he saw the gas chambers at the concentration camp. And it filled him with hatred. First he hated the Germans for their concentration camps, and then he realized that it went deeper than just nationality And he came to hate the whole human race because of what he was seeing. But he came to see that education was not the answer. Would not change anyone's heart. Finally, he resigned his position. He lost his wife because she had gone completely insane. She was committed to a mental institution. And so divorced and without ties, he went out to wander. And on one rainy day in Greece, grubby and dirty, he was hitchhiking. No one wanted to pick up this seedy-looking character No one had stopped for him until finally, after hours, a Cadillac stopped. And to Art's amazement, the driver Then he drove Art to a hotel and he rented a room and he gave him some food. And finally he said, Art Where are you going? What are you doing here? And all the pent-up heartache, all the misery, all the resentment. From a lifetime came pouring out of this young Jewish atheist. And the man just sat there and he listened. And finally, when art was through, the man said, You know what this world needs? He said it needs those who are willing to wash one another's feet. And Art said, I've never heard anything so beautiful. Why did you say that? The man said, because that's what my Lord Jesus did for me. For the first time in his life, this young atheist heard a clear presentation of the gospel. He became a Christian. Christian. He bowed his head, received the Lord Jesus Christ, and he went on to devote his life to Christian service. This unnamed man, we know we don't know who he is. This unnamed man quietly going about being a Christian. This is what being a Christian is about. And this is how we're going to win the world to Christ. This man this quiet man just went about doing what he should do as a Christian. One this person to Christ, and this man had a beneficial But he illustrates the last verse. Look in verse eighteen. He illustrates this perfectly. Truth. That's it right there. And again, that's how we win others to Christ, to show them the love of Christ. Let me tell you something. In this world that's so filled with hatred, it needs to see the people of God. Filled with love, showing the love of Christ, sharing the love of Christ. That's the great need in this hour. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we again we thank you for our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We are overwhelmed at His love for us. That he laid down his life for us at Calvary. And Lord, I pray that that demonstration of love would motivate all of us to lay down our lives for others. Each day that we live. Putting aside our selfish desires. And living for others. Seeing the needs of others and meeting those needs. Showing the love of Christ to others. Remove from our heart, Lord, hatred, selfishness. We know that, Lord, that is not of you, that is of the devil. May it not find any lodging in our hearts. May we embrace the love that you teach us and show us. And Lord, bless these words to every hearing heart here today. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to I want to again invite you to know the Lord Jesus. Maybe you're here today. You've heard songs about the cross. You've read this passage that talks about Jesus laying his life down. You know why he did it? He did it for you. So that you would have salvation, so that you would have eternal life. And if you're here today and you have never trusted Jesus as your Savior, we're inviting you right now to do that. Right where you are, would you pray? Ask Jesus to come into your heart. And save you. Would you pray? Would you say these words? Say them in your heart. Say, Lord Jesus, I know that you love me and you died for me on the cross. And today, Lord Jesus, I ask you to come into my heart and save me. Make me your child. Take the hatred out of my heart. Take the bitterness and the anger out of my heart. And replace it with your presence, your love. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if that's your prayer, He'll save you right where you are. Right there where you are. You know, this is also a word to us as believers. We need to continually examine our heart and not allow selfishness. To find its root in our heart. We need to examine our heart and ask: Am I showing the love of Christ to others? Or am I allowing the sin nature, the selfishness that comes from the sin nature to overcome my heart? Fred, examine your heart before God. And would you be willing to say, Lord, purge from my heart selfishness? That sin that keeps me from loving others the way I should Father, bless these words to hearing hearts again. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.