And I invite you to take your uh Bibles out tonight. Open to First Corinthians chapter thirteen. We are doing a series uh called Family Matters here. on Wednesday nights. And First Corinthians thirteen is where uh we're gonna be at uh at tonight. Look in verse number one of First Corinthians thirteen. Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, or we could say love, I become as a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. Pray with me tonight. Father, thank you for the opportunity we have to study the word together. Lord, thank you for these your uh saints. Um I'm so grateful, Lord, for these that are willing to come out in the middle of the week and hear the word of God and pray together. And I pray that you'll bless them tonight. Bless me, Lord, as I Give the Word of God, help me to make it clear for your honor and your glory. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now I want to talk tonight about a very important issue in the family, and that is the issue of love. Um, you know, and uh the title of the sermon tonight is What Love Looks Like. Uh look in uh look again in verse number uh one where it says, Um Though I speak with the tongue of men and angels and have not love, I am become as a sounding brass or tinkling symbol. And though I have the gift of prophecy and understand all mysteries and all knowledge And though I have all faith so that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. And that's the phrase that I want to key in on. If we don't have love, then we're we are nothing. We can't really do and be what God wants us to be without love. A little girl was invited for dinner at the home of her first grade friend, and the vegetable was buttered broccoli, and the mother asked if she liked broccoli, and the little girl said, Oh yes, I love it. But when the b bowl of broccoli was passed, she declined to take any. And the hostess said, Well, I thought you said you love broccoli. She said, Oh yes, I do love it, but not enough to eat it Do you love your family? And the qu answer to that question, of course, all of us would say, of course I love my family. That would be the only answer to give and the right answer. But the question following that we would ask is what do we mean by love? So often we love our family like that little girl loved broccoli. You know, it's it's all theoretical, it's in the abstract. But what does love look like? When we say we love someone, what does that look like? In the words of the Apostle John, he said many, he said we love in word and in but not in deed and in truth. And I think that's true sometimes for for me or for us at times where we say we love, but the question is, is it really indeed and in truth? And the question is, what does biblical love look like? Relationships and a family need to be marked by love. Because let's face it, what is a family? Well, we're all sinners trying to live together. And someone said that, you know, w you know, love is what there's going to be friction in the home, but love is that thing that keeps the friction to a a fraction. It's kind of like the oil that you put in the relationship where that we love we forbear one another, we love one another, we need love in our homes, in our families. Husbands are to love their wives. Wives are to love their husbands, parents, and children Brothers and sisters are to love one another. But again, how does that uh how does that act? What does it look like when we talk about love? Well, first Corinthians thirteen tells us. And let me give you a little bit of the context, and we're going to get into 1 Corinthians 13. Now, when Paul wrote this, uh the church church at Corinth had abused spiritual gift. There's a lot of confusion going on about this issue. And so Paul wants to straighten them out regarding the issue of spiritual gifts, and he'll spend three chapters doing that. Evidently there were some in the church at Corinth that were placing some spiritual gifts ab above others. We can divide spiritual gifts into three categories. There's speaking gifts, that would be teaching or prophesying. There's serving gifts, that would be administration, giving, and mercy, and so on. Helps. But then there's sign gifts like tongues and miracles and healings. The Corinthians felt that some gifts were more important than others. Some gifts were more showy, they thought And so they were the gifts that came to the forefront. That was the gifts that many people wanted to have. There were many in the church that really weren't content with the spiritual gift that they had. They wanted the best gifts you could say, quote unquote best gifts. And so Paul is going to correct them on this matter, and part of what he tells them is, you know, we don't get to pick our own spiritual gift. Did you know that? God is the one who gives us our gifts. We don't get a list, and God said, here, you pick out the ones that you want. God gives us our gifts. So really the argument begins in chapter 12, verse number 31, where he says this, but covet earnestly the best gifts. Now, a lot of people when they read that, they read it as an imperative. In fact, it's translated this way here, but my argument would be, Paul spent chapter 12 saying, you know, you don't get to pick your own gifts, God does that for you. And so why does this read like a command? Well, because in Greek, the ending of a word, it determines how you are to treat that verb. And in Greek, uh the uh the ending of an imperative and an indicative is the same. You say, what's an indicative? That's a statement of fact And so I think I would argue that that's the way you really uh say this. Paul was saying to the church at Corinth, you are coveting the best gifts. He was giving that as a statement of fact. But he had already said, you know, God is the one who gives the gifts, not you. You don't pick your own. So why would he command them to covet the best gifts if God is the one that does it But notice the next phrase in verse number thirty-one yet show I unto you a more excellent way. In other words, Paul is saying, look, you're coveting the best gifts But let me tell you something that's a lot better. Let me tell you something that you should be doing. In other words, you should be pursuing love. And then it he goes on and launches into chapter thirteen about the aspects of biblical love. And what are they? Let me just give you three. I want to three Things to consider here. Number one, I want to call it the priority of love because Paul says that love should be a priority for all of us as believers. And Paul calls our attention to the priority of it by imagining a hypothetical situation in which there are spiritual gifts but no love. And this is what he talks about in verse number one down to verse number three. Five times in these verses, Paul writes, though I, though I. In other words, he's using the language of imagination. Paul is basically saying, you know, let's just say I have all these incredible spiritual gifts. That I'm able to exercise the highest of gifts, and yet I do it without love. What am I? I'm nothing, Paul says. If I try to exercise a spiritual gift without love, it doesn't profit anything. And so he kind of uses a bit of hyperbole here in these hypothetical situations. First in verse 1 he says, speaking gifts without love is nothing but noise. And Paul begins by discussing the gift of tongues, which in Corinth, the Corinthians were fixated upon that gift Because of the influence of mystery religions, there are many Greco Roman religions around them where they believe that when they when they um when they basically uh were praying and they and they were speaking the words of their God and they got lost up in this lost into some kind of ecstasy and were caught up And all of that, that if they uttered gibberish, you know, words that really had no meaning, that that was the language of the divine. That was the language of the gods. And so that was what was going on there. And Paul is basically saying, you know, let's just say that I have the ability to have this gift and speak with um with the tongue of men and angels in verse number one. He's not saying that there are uh tongues of angels. He's using hyperbole here. Um there are some people that say tongues is a heavenly language. That's a whole nother discuss discussion. I don't have time to get into you that with you. Tongues always is an earthen language in the Bible, not some kind of unknown gibberish that is out there. But Paul is simply using hyperbole here. Paul said, if I had the eloquence of an angel And I could speak with all the tongues of men. Let's just say I had that gift, that I could pick up any earthly known language, and I could speak the language of angels as well, if I had that ability. By the way, I wish I had that going through seminary where I could pick up languages. It would have made it a lot easier for me in some classes. But Paul said, if I have this gift And I don't have love. It's just like sounding brass, he says, and tinkling cymbal. In New Testament times, pagan deities were were worshipped in it, including The smashing of gongs and the clanging cymbals and blaring trumpets and all those things were part of those Greco Roman religions that was there. But Paul's whole point is if I did have these supposed uh uh gifts or tongues ability that you talk about, and I didn't have love, it wouldn't mean anything. And then he says, supernatural gifts without love is nothing. Look at verse number two. And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith. So that I could remove mountains and have not love, I am nothing. Now again, Paul's using hyperbole here. He said, let's just say that I have the ability to understand all mysteries And I don't know of anyone that has that ability, by the way, where you can unlock, unfold any mystery and then have all knowledge. You know anyone that has all knowledge? No, again, obviously this is hyperbole here. If I had all I could unlock all mysteries and have all knowledge, and I could exercise all faith. Do you know anyone who has all faith? I mean, whose faith is absolutely perfect, where there's no doubt mingled in with that faith whatsoever. If you know of anybody like that, I would like to meet them. There's nobody around like that. But Paul's saying, let's just say I have all of these incredible gifts and abilities. If I had all these things and I didn't practice it with love, I didn't have love What does it amount to? It amounts to nothing. That's his whole point. Spiritual gifts without love. Doesn't profit. There's no profit in it whatsoever. But here's the second thing I want you to see. Not only the priority of love, but write down number two, the personality of love. Paul's now going to show us what love looks like, how it acts. You know, love is one of those things that's hard to define. People were asked to define love. One person said this, it's a feeling that you feel when you feel like you're going to feel a feeling that you never felt before. Another person said it's a it's an outward expression of an inner over all overishness, whatever that is. One little girl named Karen Said this, they asked her what is love. She said, When you love somebody, your eyelashes go up and down and little stars come out of you. One little five-year-old boy named Carl said, Love is when a girl puts on perfume And a boy puts on shaving cologne and they go out and smell each other. And so obviously those definitions fall just a little for uh uh short of what biblical love is. The best way that Paul's going to define love is it's action. It's not necessarily what you say, but it's what you do. We're going to look at this in verses 4 to 7. And while in English most of these words are predicate adjectives, in Greek they're verbs. So we can say it like this. Love is not talk. Love is action. It's what you do. And by the way, you can read these verses and substitute the name of Jesus for love, and we have a description of the life of Jesus Christ. Because he is the personification of love. But let's just look at this. And really this this is kind of like a checklist. So I'm going to ask you to do this. Go through this with me. We're going to go through the checklist. And I want you to see how you are doing, you know, just you take your own evaluation when we go through this list. All right, you ready for this Selfless love is patient. Look in verse number four. Charity suffers long. Ouch, that hurts on the very first one on the list. This confronts me with my own failure. Love is patient. To be impatient is to love yourself. To be patient is to love others. You know, patience is an interesting quality in that when I don't need it, I want it, but when I really do need it, I don't want it. Ever notice that? The Greek word comes from two words meaning long tempered. And that's so it has the idea that if you're patient, you're slow to anger You endure personal wrongs without retaliation. You bear one another's imperfections and faults and differences. You give them time to change. You allow them to make uh have room for making mistakes without coming down hard on that person. The question is, you know, do we do that with our family members? Do we always demand perfection all the time? Or do we give them room just to be imperfect? Or to have faults and all those things. During the late 1500s, Dr. Thomas Cooper edited a dictionary with the addition of 33,000 words and a lot of other improvements. He had been collecting materials for eight years. And his wife, a rather difficult woman, went into a study one day while he was gone, and she burned all of his notes under the pretense of thinking, you know, he's going to kill himself with study. And when he came home and found out that his wife had burned all the notes of eight years work, think about that. This man just sat down and he said, Oh, Dinah, Dinah, thou hast given me a world of trouble. And then he went right into doing eight more years of that work. That's a patient man right there. That's a patient person. Think about that next time you explode when things don't happen just exactly the way they should happen for you. Love is selfless love is patient, but also it's kind in verse number four. We see this. Charity suffers long and is kind. Someone said kindness is patience in action. And this is from the Greek word, which actually means useful. A kind person is disposed to being helpful to other people. He seeks out, looks for opportunities to meet needs without being repaid. He just wants to help, tender and forgiving when wronged. This is the kind of person that that shows kindness even in response to harsh treatment. Jesus said this, and if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same. But love your enemies, do good. Expecting nothing in return, Jesus was saying there. So are you kind? Are you kind to your family members? Are you kind to others? Here's the next one. Selfless love is not jealous in verse number four, which says, envyeth not. This is a word that means to eagerly desire. It's used in both a positive and a negative sense in the Bible. It's used here in the negative sense, meaning jealousy, and it's kind of related to greed, it's kind of related to selfishness here. And so jealousy or envy has two forms. One form says, I want what someone else has If they have a better car than I do, well I want that. And if they're praised for something they do, well we want the same for or more for ourselves. That's kind of a a jealousy, and that's bad enough. But a worse kind says this, I wish they didn't have what they had. That's even worse The second sort of jealousy is more than selfish. It's really desiring bad for somebody else or evil for someone else. Someone wrote this, jealousy is wanting what someone else has. Bragging is trying to make others jealous of what we have. Jealousy puts others down. Bragging builds us up. It is a jealousy on the deepest, most corrupt, and destructive level. If someone else's gain is your loss, but selfless love doesn't act that way But then here's the next one on the list. Selfless love does not brag and is not arrogant. Again in verse number four, it says, Vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. You'll notice that the phrase after it says, vaunteth not a self is followed by is not puffed up. Those statements may seem like parallels, but they're not. The first statement re represents the verbalizing of pride. The actual speech of pride, the actual action of pride, the second statement represents the attitude of pride, the conceit that is down inside. Puffed up really comes from a root word which means windbag. It's boastfulness. It's it's verbalizing, you know, um, you know, being conceited. And so This word is used only in these verses in all of the New Testament. So what is it saying? Love is not a wimbag Love is not al always shooting off its mouth, talking about its own accomplishments. Love doesn't speak in an arrogant, baseless chatter that is designed to make you look good or better than somebody else. Or or uh bragging sometimes in an attempt to make other people feel feel inferior. That's not how love acts. Love does not vaunt itself. Love does not brag and try to impress others and make yourself superior to others. It is humble. And so look look at the next thing on the list. Selfless love also is not rude. Look at verse 5. Does not behave itself unseemly. And that's just simply rude. It doesn't act in a way to embarrass others. It is courteous in little things. Love does not needlessly offend. Love has good manners. It is courteous. It is polite. It is sensitive to the feelings of others. And so on. It always uses tact. That's the idea there. And then look at the next one on the list. Selfless love does not seek its own in verse number five. Seeketh not her own. And that's just plain old selfishness. I told you about that before, that I think the thing that destroys relationships more than anything else is just being selfish. And we all have tons of it. We all have to deal with it in our heart. But love is not selfish. It doesn't demand its rights. Alan Redpath said this quote The secret of every discord at Christian homes communities and churches is that we seek our own way and our own glory. And again, that is so true. And so it's not selfish. But here's the next thing. Selfish love is not provoked. Look in verse number 5 where it says, is not easily provoked. And this Greek word here means to sharpen or to Arouse an anger of Phillips, I love the Philip paraphrase here. Love is not touchy Love doesn't have a hair trigger type temper. You know, that's someone who the least little thing you say, it just causes them to go ballistic. You know, they they have a personality of a double barrel shotgun with a hair trigger. And you you say the least little thing and you just they explode. And then afterwards they say, Oh, you know, I'm sorry, I got I'm glad I got all that off my chest. Meanwhile, there's all these dead people laying around. You know, you've totally devastated everybody around you and you feel better. We're glad you feel better. But love doesn't act that way. Doesn't use their temper to intimidate or to punish When it doesn't get your way when you don't get your way, you don't go kaboom, you know. Um it doesn't act in that way. It's not easily provoked. But notice the next thing on the list. Selfless love does not take into account a wrong suffered. In verse number 6, where it says, think, or excuse me, verse 5, at the end of verse 5, thinketh no evil. And literally it means doesn't take into account a wrong suffered. And that's an accounting word is used or numerical calculations. It's used by God of not imputing our guilt to us, but instead imputing the righteousness of Christ to our account. Same kind of word there. So love doesn't keep a tally of wrongs that someone has committed against you. It doesn't list every offense and hold a grudge for everything that is done against you. Love forgives. And of course you you know the old story, you've heard it told many times, that one married man said to his friend, you know, every time my wife and I get into a conflict she gets historical. He said, No, you mean hysterical? He said, No man, I st I mean historical. She she rehearses everything I've ever done wrong. In the past, she brings it up. She doesn't forget it. She keeps the list. That's keeping score. And love doesn't do that The Bible, Peter says this, uh love covers a multitude of sins. You let it go. You don't keep score. You erase it. It's gone. You don't think about it, you don't bring it up. But here's the next thing on the list. Selfless love does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices in truth. In verse number six, rejoices not in iniquity. but rejoices in truth. These qualities are the flip side of one another. Moffitt puts it like this love is never glad when others go wrong. To rejoice in the truth means to be glad about behavior in accordance with the truth of God's word. You see, if someone you don't like falls into sin, you don't gloat, you grieve. Because that's in his grieved God. And if they repent, you rejoice. That is the the fine balance of love, you see. But then here's another one. Selfless love bears all things. Look at verse number seven, describing suffering under love in verse number seven, where it says, beareth all things. And this word bear means to bear up. It has the idea of endure. It's a military term, which means you endure the assault of an enemy, the attack of an enemy. It means you hang in there. Love endures a whole lot. And it causes you to hang in there. This is not just a passive stoic attitude. It's a positive, triumphant spirit. Where that no matter what you have to endure, you endure it triumphantly. You know, there's this epidemic, I think, in our society, in our culture today, of just bailing out of things, anything that's hard. We just we just bail out. We just jump out of it. And sadly that is included even in the family when things get tough. You know, we want to jump out of it. You know, I'm done. I'm moving on. But the Bible says love doesn't do that. It doesn't act that way. To choose to love is to choose to suffer. Right? If you don't want to suffer, don't love anything or anybody. Then you can then then you can put a guard around your heart, but you know what happens when you do that, you become pretty hardened. But if you choose to love, you open yourself up to suffer. Because if I love others, when they hurt, that means I'm going to hurt. And that means I'm going to have to endure a whole lot of pain if I'm going to choose to love. That's the part of it. But love does that. Love suffers long. That's part of what it is. But then love believes all things in verse number seven. Notice that phrase, believes all things. We could say love always trusts. This does not mean to be gullible. It does mean that love is not suspicious and doubting of another person's character and motives without good reason Even if their actions have offended you. If trust has been broken and it needs to be earned again step by step, that's one thing. But love believes the other person is innocent until proven guilty. And not guilty until proven innocent. If there's a problem, love doesn't jump immediately to blame another person. Um, you know, in the family it kind of shows up like this. It shows itself by not grilling the other person about every detail of when or the story if you're trying to find out things because you're showing your suspicion there That's the idea. Here's the next thing on the list. Selfless love hopes all things in verse 7. Hopes all things. That is, it's not pessimistic. It does not expect the loved one to fail, but to succeed. And love refuses to take failure as final. It kind of exudes this godly optimism, which says, you know, I know you can do it. I believe in you. Those are the words that parents should speak to their children. I believe in you. You know, because you know you're God's child, you can do this. God will give you the strength. You know, it speaks words of encouragement. And so on. It's hopeful in the way it expresses itself. But also love endures all things again. And we see this again in verse Number seven bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. And again, that is the same word there, the idea of a military endurance. So that's that's the list there. So how'd you do? How'd you do on that list? You evaluated yourself? You as convicted as I am right now? About this, that you need help on some of these things. Thank God we have a God who's working in us, who doesn't give up on us, who loves us. You know, and so there's always hope for us to do better in all these things. But now let me give you another thing about love here that we see in this chapter. We talked about the priority of love. Paul says, you know, this is so important. You can have all these gifts, but if you don't have love, it doesn't mean anything. And the personality of love. This is how love acts. This is what it does. This is what it looks like. And this is what it should look like in your home. But let me end on a hopeful note. Notice the perpetuity of love I call this, because look at verse number nine. Paul says charity, that is, love, never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect has come, then that which in part shall be done away. Now the word fail here is an interesting word in the Greek. The common translation of the word to fail or to fall literally means to fall to the ground. And sometimes it refers to the finality of something falling into decay. For example, it's used to speak of the petals of a flower that drop to the ground from decay. This particular word here could also be translated abolished. So love will never be abolished. It'll never fall to the ground in decay. Um, you know, what it doesn't mean is this, you know, you ever hear someone say, you know, um, well, if you just love, everything's gonna turn out positive for you. That's not what that means. Oh, love never fails. So if you just love, everything's going to turn out positive for you. That's not what that means. You might love with all your heart and things might turn out positive. might turn out to not turn out the way you want it to. What this means is is that while every other virtue or every other gift Will come to nothing. Love will continue on. That's the idea there. Love will never be abolished. You know what I can take to heaven with me? My love. That's about it. The love I have for my family and my faith in Christ, I can't take anything else there with me. But I can take love. You see, love never fails. In the Greek, this has to do with time. And really what it says is love at no time will ever fail. Someday love will be the only thing that's left. That's going to be all that's left. When we get to heaven, we won't need teaching anymore. We'll know they're in heaven. We won't need preaching anymore. Somebody say, Amen. I'm not gonna have to listen to Brother Harmon. Get to heaven. We won't need we won't need wisdom granted to us. We won't need knowledge imparted to us. We won't need anybody to hold us up. We won't need anybody to encourage us, exhort us, because you know what? We'll be just like Jesus at that time. You know, one thing will remain, however, and that is love. And so Paul's point is love outlasts all the gifts. Look again in verse number eight where it says, Whether it be prophecies, they shall fail. And what he means by that is that there's going to come a time when prophecy, that's the ability to proclaim God's truth. is no longer needed. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. And this word here for cease is the idea that in and of themselves, when they're done, they'll stop. That's another part of the discussion of tongues, but we'll whether there's knowledge it shall pass away. This is really just the word of knowledge. These are part of the gifts here It's going to pass away. It's the idea here of being rendered no longer useful to be inactive now, to be abolished. You know, all these verb forms are passive, you know. When the time comes, they'll just automatically be done, is the idea there. Look at verse 9. For we know in part, we prophesy in part, but with that which is in perfect has come, that which is in part shall be done away. What's the perfect here? Now I know there's a lot of theological discussions on this, but let me just give it to you very simply for a time. We only got five minutes. But the perfect, I believe, is the eternal state. When we get into the eternal state, that's when I'm going to be perfect. I know you some of you think I'm perfect already, but it's not true. I'm not going to be perfect till I get to the eternal state. Okay? And so y you all know I'm joking when I say those things, right? I mean loosen up and laugh a little bit All right. Um we won't none of us will be perfect. By the way, you won't be perfect either. I know you might think you are. None of us will be perfect until we get to the perfect state. When we get to the eternal state, when we get to heaven, we see Jesus face right now. We see him as a glass, as in a glass. Look in verse number twelve. For now we see through a glass darkly But then face to face. For I know in part, but then shall I know even as I am known. We are now in a somewhat spiritually immature, childish state where we know in part, we see through a glass darkly, but one day when we get to heaven, we'll be absolutely perfect. We'll see Jesus face to face, and that's when all the childish things will be put away, and I will be mature, perfectly mature when I get to heaven. And that's what he's talking about here. And when that happens, look at verse 13. And now abideh faith, hope, charity, these three, but the greatest of these is what? Love. Why? Because it'll outshine the graces. It'll outlast the gifts. It'll outshine the graces. Because when I get to heaven, I won't need faith anymore. Why would I need faith in heaven? I'm there. Everything's done. I won't need hope anymore. All of my hopes are realized when I get to heaven. But you know what I'll still have? Even though I won't have faith and I won't have hope, I'll have love. Love will still be a part of it. And you know what? The good thing is, is when I get to heaven, I'll finally be able to love perfectly. What we'll share perfect love together there in heaven. That's how important love is. Now, all that we could say this, that in our home now should be a little colony of heaven where we are learning, although not perfectly. We're trying our best to love one another. We're trying, and this is what love looks like, Paul says. This is the way it acts. And when we mess up on these, and we will, and we have, and we'll continue, we'll struggle to to love the way we should, we just say, you know what, forgive me. Pray for me. I'm going to try to do better by the grace of God and the work of the Holy Spirit in me. But but that's what love looks like, and that's what we have to have in our homes, in our families. Really the climax of this is in verse 14. Follow, chapter 14, verse 1, follow after charity. Charity. Follow after charity. It's okay to have gifts and desire gifts, but follow after charity. Chapter 14, verse 1. And this has the idea of aggressively pursuing, running after. Love. Go after that. That's the thing that we want. Don't envy spiritual gifts that you don't have. Pursue with all your heart love because that's the most important thing. And that'll be around when everything else is gone. That's the idea. So may God help us in our homes. It needs to start with us, dads, husbands. We have to demonstrate by the grace of God this kind of love. And you know what? It trickles down as we learn to do this. Our family will learn to do this. And you know what? When we don't get it right, you know what we do? We humble ourselves and you say, you know what? I'm sorry I was wrong. Please forgive me. And you move on. You move on. But may God help us in this area of love and the family. Let's bow for prayer together. Would you just take a moment there? And I want you to pray quietly right there where you are. Just talk to the Lord. Tell God that you want to live out this kind of love that's demonstrated in Scripture But also recognize that we can't do this on our own. There's no way. But through the help of the Holy Spirit of God, we can do it. Someone said living the Christian life is not imitation, it's incarnation. It's allowing Jesus Christ to reign in our heart and to live it through us. Would you pray right now, Lord Jesus, have full control of me And I want you to live this kind of love through me. Help me to demonstrate this kind of love in my life by allowing you to have full control of me. In my heart, in my life. And forgive me, Lord, for the times I've failed in this. Forgive me for maybe not pursuing love, not counting it as being important, a priority Well, God helps us to have this kind of love. It's also not automatic. It's something that we have to determine. And it's the way we act, it's what we do. So Father, I pray that tonight as we're here together, praying for one another That Lord we would demonstrate this kind of love. May it be part of who we are and the way we act. In our hearts, Father, would you please Fill us with your Holy Spirit and help us to walk in love. And that should be demonstrated especially in our family and our home. Bless this word to every hearing heart here tonight, Father. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful precious name. Amen.