Would you take God's word this morning and open to First Timothy chapter number four? First Timothy chapter four. And uh would you stand for the reading of God's word? We're going to read verses six on down through the end of the chapter for today. First Timothy chapter four verse number six. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained. But refuse profane and old wise fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness. For bodily exercise profiteth little. But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. And these things command and teach. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word and conversation and charity and spirit and faith and purity. Until I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy propheting may appear to all. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt save thyself and them that hear thee. Thank you. This is God's word. You may be seated. May God help us to hear and to learn from his word today. Would you pray with me? Father, we uh come humbly again, asking your help and your grace. As we go through the scripture today, Lord, it's our desire to learn and to grow. Lord, help me to make your word clear. We know the power is in the message of it. So may the message go out with the fullness of the Spirit. for the blessing and edification of your people and for most of all the glory of your name. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm sure you're familiar with the saying that aim at nothing and you'll hit it every time. One of the reasons some people don't grow spiritually is because they're aiming, they're not aiming for spiritual growth. People say they want to grow spiritually. They want to advance in their walk with God in their Christian life, but they really don't do anything purposefully to make that happen. That is to say, they're very passive in their spiritual walk. And so they drift from day to day, month to month, and year to year, without ever really experiencing significant spiritual growth in their life So what I want to do here, I know that we're already a month and a half into the new year, but what I want to do is just kind of Give some practical guidance on this thing of spiritual growth. So for the next few weeks, I want to talk about uh spiritual disciplines. And the theme verse for this is a verse that we read here, verse 7 of 1 Timothy 4, where it says, Exercise thyself rather unto godliness, or that is to say, discipline yourself For the purpose of godliness. Now, this is the advice that Paul gave to Timothy. He was encouraging him in his spiritual life to grow And the only way he was going to accomplish that was through the exercise or the discipline of his spiritual life. Look again in verse 7 where it says, exercise thyself Rather unto godliness. That is the Greek word gymnizo. Does that sound familiar? You hear the word gym in there? It's where we get the word gymnasium from. And what Paul's doing here is he's using an athletic metaphor and applying it to the Christian life. Like our day, Paul, in their day, people were obsessed with sports. They were obsessed with athletics. In Paul's day they had uh the Olympic Games at Mount Olympus, they had the Pythian Games at Delphi, they had the Ithmian Games at Corinth. And these games were all staggered so everyone could get there. The wealthy and the elite loved to go. They had all kind of events, just like in Olympics today. They had wrestling, boxing. uh uh uh uh leaping, uh javelin throwing, uh chariot races and marathons and so on and so on. The heroes of that day were the athletes who competed and done and done well. And every city had its Colosseum. And you read through the New Testament, I get the impression that Paul is a sports fan because he uses a lot of athletic metaphors. He said that uh in Ephesians 6 we wrestle not against flesh and blood. We are wrestlers. He used the image of boxing in 1 Corinthians 9, 26. He said, I fight not as one who beats the air. I'm not shadow boxing. I'm delivering real blows. He used the idea of team sports in Philippians 1. 27. He said, We are striving together for the faith of the gospel. We're all working together on one team. The most popular sport, perhaps, in that day, was running. Runners would run in a race that would have a goal set before them. Paul used that. He said, let us fix our eyes on Jesus, looking under Jesus. Who's the author and finisher of our faith? In Philippians 3, he said, I press towards the mark of the prize of the high calling. Again, the idea of running in a race and pressing for victory. And each of us, we all have our race to run. And we have to complete that course. Paul said in 2 Timothy 4, I have finished my course. Now these athletes to prepare for their various competitions, they would have to train, right? They would have to work hard. And the place they would go to do that would be the gymnasiums. And this is where we get the word here. And the word came to mean to discipline oneself or to keep oneself. And Paul's whole point is this, that just as an athlete in competition has to discipline himself or herself to compete. In that competition, even so the believer has to discipline themselves when it comes to their spiritual life. A Christian in their spiritual life ought to be as disciplined as an Olympic athlete Now think about that. Y'all been watching the Olympics? No, I haven't either. But uh I've I've seen some on the news. These are incredible athletes. They have trained themselves for years just to compete for a few minutes. Now think about that. Physical training, all of that, it has its place. It's all good. But notice what Paul says in verse number 8. He's making a comparison, for godly exercise profiteth little. But godliness is profitable unto all things, having the promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come If you spend time, money, and energy in physical discipline, it will profit you. It'll profit. There's not saying there's no profit at all. Obviously, there's some profit for that here. But if you discipline yourself spiritually, it'll not only profit you here, it'll profit you in the next life. In fact, you won't lose anything in that. Physical exercise and discipline are good. But it gives you no eternal result. It gives you no eternal reward. I mean again, it and it's good to do that. People train themselves, they discipline themselves, get them in good shape, that's all good. It just has a temporary benefit. I mean look at Arnold Schwarzenegger now, you know. Sorry, I'm not trying to be fun make fun of him. Maybe I am, I don't know. It's not bad to discipline yourself and train yourself. That's all good. It just has a short benefit. It's just for the now. Listen to 2 Corinthians 4. 16. For which cause we faint not But though our outward man perishes, yet the inward man is renewed day by day. So Paul's saying we don't lose heart. Because even though the outward man is wasting away, and by the way, we try to fight that off. We try to do all the good things physically to do what we should do. But the bottom line is you're not going to defeat death And we're going to continue to waste the way. So though the outward man is perishing, here's the good news, our inner self is being renewed spiritually. That's why spiritual discipline is better than the physical side. Even though it's good physically, spiritually, it is so much better. And so this is why Paul is tell uh is telling Timothy, Timothy, you need to exercise yourself spiritually. You need to get the inner man where it needs to be. Your outer man is perishing, but the inner man is what needs to be renewed constantly. So I want you to see three essentials here. And today I'm going to talk about the focus of spiritual disciplines. I'm going to talk about the forms, and then I'm going to talk about the formation. First of all, the focus of spiritual disciplines. What are spiritual disciplines? Why are they necessary in the believer's life? Well, let me just quote you, Donald Whitney, on a definition. Spiritual disciplines are personal corporate disciplines that promote spiritual growth. They are the habits of devotion And experiential Christianity that have been practiced by the people of God since biblical times. That is to say, that spiritual disciplines are practices we do regularly that can help us, that can change us. With the power and the grace of the Holy Spirit. It changes our sinful habits into good habits to make us more like Christ It are these disciplines that change our habits. To simplify this, spiritual disciplines are good and godly habits that aid us in our spiritual growth. And many believers, for some reason or another, we come to phases in our life where we get out of good godly habits. And we need to get back into those good godly habits because a big part of your spiritual growth are developing godly habits. And so spiritual disciplines are tools that the Holy Spirit can use to renew our hearts and conform us more to the image of Christ. Because remember, that's the purpose, right? God's great purpose in your life and in my life is to sanctify us, to make us more godly, to make us more like Christ. Now God uses tools to do that, did you know? What are some of the tools that God uses? Well, God will use people to do that. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 17, as iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another. God will put people in your life around you that will help you in this thing of sharpening you and making you grow spiritually. It could be spiritual elders, older wise people, thank God for the older saints that are here at grace You need to be an influence on some of these younger believers. We need older saints. Then there are peers, spiritual friends who are on your level. But they are friends that help you along in your spiritual growth. Then there are new believers. I thank God that God sends new believers that remind us of the beauty of salvation. And they motivate us on to godliness. But probably the ones that God uses the most are our enemies. I know you don't like to hear that, do you? To smooth out your rough edges, God will put a few enemies around you. To humble us. Now, Paul had that. There were in the in in the church of Corinth, there were people that were criticizing Paul. They were hammering Paul. And so much so that there were some people in the church at Corinth that were no longer listening to Paul, they were losing confidence based on all the things that were being said about him by the false apostles. I think this was the thorn in the flesh. And what did Paul do? Paul Says this in 2 Corinthians 12, 8. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. God, take this out of my life. These people are blaspheming me. They are reproaching me. They are doing all these things. Take it out of my life. And God said, no. What did he say? My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. So what was Paul's response? Okay, most gladly therefore I'll glory in my infirmities. I'll glory in reproaches. I'll glory in all those things then, God, that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Three times Paul said, God, remove this messenger of Satan. God said, No, Paul, I want you to learn to trust in my grace. I want you to learn how weak you really are so that you'll cast yourself upon me and trust in me for strength and grace. And that's all part of the sanctification process. God will use people, but God will use circumstances too. The classic passage on this is Romans 8, right? Romans eight, you might want to just turn there or you can just listen. Romans eight twenty-eight. We know that all things work together for good that to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. If you're one of God's children God's going to make all this work out for your good. What is the purpose? Called according to his purpose, verse 29, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. What's the purpose? The purpose is to make you more like Christ, to conform you to the image of Christ. So, God will use circumstances to do that. And then you know at the end of chapter 8, Paul goes through a litany of all these different circumstances that a believer may go through. None of which of these things will separate you from the love of God because you're secure in Christ. But however, all these things will be used to conform you to the purpose. Gotta work all these things around for your good, that purpose. What are they? Tribulation, distress, peril, famine, nakedness, sword. He goes on to say death, life, angels, principalities, powers, all these things. None of these things will separate us from the love of Christ, but God will use these different circumstances to conform us. There's a third thing that God uses to conform us, not only people and circumstances, but he uses spiritual disciplines. Spiritual disciplines. Now the first two things we have no control over. I don't control people in my life. God just puts people around me. I don't control the circumstances of my life. Those things are controlled by the providence of God. But this third area I can control. This is spiritual disciplines. These are the things that God will use to help me be more like Christ. God uses people and circumstances to change us from the outside, these things of God will use, but spiritual disciplines will change us on the inside. And that is our job. We have to exercise ourselves unto godliness by putting in our life these spiritual disciplines. Let me show you another passage. Look at Philippians chapter 2. We looked at this a while back, but I want you to see it again. Look at Philippians chapter 2. Look down at verse number 12. Paul says this, wherefore, my beloved, as ye have obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling Paul says to the believers, you work out your salvation. You work out of you what God has put in you. God has downloaded into you salvation and all the blessings that come with it. Now you've got to work it all out. You gotta you gotta figure it out, you gotta work it out. You can't do that passively. One of the great questions that theologians debate in this matter of sanctification is how much of it is my part, how much of it is God's part? Well, some people say, Well, it's all God, I just have to depend all on God, and other people say, No, it's all on me. If you read verse 12, you might think, well, that's the idea. We have to do it. It's all on us. But look at verse 13. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and do his good pleasure. Wait a minute. That says God does it. So who's responsible for my sa sanctification? Is it me or is it God? Yes. It is you and it's God. God will do his part, you can rest assured, that he will work in you both the will and the do with his good pleasure. But that doesn't negate the fact that you have to work out your salvation. God's working, but you gotta work. It's a joint thing. It's not one one or the other. It's not one extreme where you know you burn yourself out doing all these things. No, it's and it's not getting passive where you say, okay, God, here I am. Sanctify me. It's all on you. No. It's our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability in our life. So we have to do our part. We have to work it out Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, real quick. I know I'm showing you a lot of verses, but this is good. Look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 and look in verse number 12. Well actually, yeah, let's start at verse number. Let's start at verse sixteen here. Actually, verse 15. See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. Look at verse 16. Rejoice evermore. Verse 17, pray without ceasing. Verse 18, and everything give thanks. Verse 19, disquench not the spirit. Verse 20, despise not prophesying, prove all things, hold fast to that which is good Abstain from all appearance of evil, boy, this is a lot here, Paul, you're asking of me. Yeah, these are all spiritual disciplines, things that you have to do in your life. Say, man, that makes me tired just reading that. Well, here's the good news. Look at verse 24. Faithful is he who's called you, who also will what? Yeah, he'll do it. He'll do it. I thought I had to do it, you do. But He does it too. He does it in you. He does it through you. He's working with you. It's not just you. You've got to do your part, but God will do his part. Paul said in Colossians 1. 29, Whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily. Paul said, you know, I I strive, I labor, this is the Greek word, I labor to the point of exhaustion. I'm doing all these things, I'm striving, the word agonize, I'm agonizing But I'm doing it according to his mighty power that's working in me. It's God that's doing it. It's all these things. So all that to say that we do our part, you can rest assured God's going to do his part, but we have to exercise ourselves We have to discipline ourselves. We have to be active in this role, not passive. Why? We'll go back to 1 Timothy 4. And we'll give you a few reasons here that Paul gives to Timothy in verse 7 again. Exercise thyself rather unto godliness. And here's the first reason to be Christ-like, to be more godly. Again, that's the goal. The Bible calls us to holiness. And so we have to discipline ourselves in this area. And this is an imperative, a present-tense imperative. Keep on continuing to discipline yourself for godliness. It's not a suggestion, it's a command from God. And then also to be an example, look at verse number 12. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers. Tupas, where we get the word type. You be a pattern that other people can follow. You be an example in your life. Paul said that many times. Paul said, look, be followers of me. I'm trying to be a pattern where you can follow You know, I'm praying for God to send new believers. We're praying for people to get saved, but you know what? When they get saved and they're put in the church, you know what they need? They need patterns to follow. They need godly believers they can look at and say, you know what? Just follow their example. Just be like them. But also to demonstrate spiritual progress, look in verse 15. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them. Why? That thy propheting may appear to all. And this word is a term that speaks of an advance, a military advance. People should be able to see that spiritually you are growing. You are profiting. It's obvious to people around That you're growing. And I and I tell you, this is what rejoices a pastor's heart when he sees a believer really growing in Christ. They're not stagnant, they're not apathetic. They're growing. They are profiting. They are advancing. And then here's another reason to save yourself and others. Look at verse sixteen. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in then, for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that And the word save here isn't talking about initial salvation, justification. It's talking about that second stage of salvation, sanctification. We could say it like this. You will sanctify yourself and those that hear you, Timothy. Timothy, you have to continue in these things, because if you do, it'll sanctify you and it'll sanctify those that hear you. And this is this kind of puts the weight really on me in a sense because Timothy was a pastor and Paul was saying, look, if you're sanctified, if you're being sanctified by the word, that's also going to help others. And I believe that's true of all of all believers in the church. By the way, that's why I believe in what I call expository preaching. That's where I come to a passage and I try to make it clear and I dig in and I try to With all I can just to bring out the meaning of it, because that's what's going to change you. It's not me or my personality or my dynamics. It's going to be the message of the Word of God that changes you. It's the powers in the Word itself So I labor in that. And by the way, that has its effect on me. Sometimes people leave and say, well, I was convicted by your sermon. Yeah, I know. I was convicted all week. Studying it. I hammered myself in the study all week. And it humbles me. It takes a lot of work, but that's what the word does. It sanctifies. One time my daughter Abby, and when she was in high school, she was uh she asked me, she said, Dad, what do you do all week? You know, some people think a pastor just you know sits around all week, he's does whatever he wants, and on Sunday he comes in and tells a bunch of people what to do, takes an offering and leaves. Dad, what do you do all week? She was in high school at the time. She was working on a research paper. She was stressed out over that thing. I said, You do that research paper you're doing? She said, Yeah. I said, I do three of those a week. She went, Oh. I said, by the way, I have to deliver it in front of the class three times too. Um It's just work, but it's the it's the word of God that has its sanctifying influence, not only on my life. but on the life of others. And that's what Paul said to Timothy. Timothy, if you do these things, you'll save yourself, you'll sanctify yourself, and them that hear thee Let me talk to you number two about the forms of spiritual disciplines. And I won't stay here long because I just want to mention just a few of the basic spiritual disciplines that we have to have in our life. As believers. The first is Bible study, right? We know that. We have to have a relationship with the Word of God. We have to read and study and meditate on the Word of God, ourselves. And it has to be more than just once a week in a service. You have to do it yourself. What food is to the body, God's word is to your soul. And if you want to grow, you've got to have that Intake of Scripture. 2 Timothy 2. 15, study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needs not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, Paul was talking about how bad things were going to get. In fact, um if you want to go there, 2 Timothy 3, look down in verse number 13. He says, But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse Deceiving and being deceived, Paul says things are going to get worse. And if you go back to verse 1, verse 6, he kind of gives a litany of things that are getting worse. What's our response to this to be? Verse 14, but continuing the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing whom thou hast learned them, what is that? And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. Through faith in which is in Christ Jesus, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable and so on. What's our response? People say, oh man, things are getting worse. Yeah, I know. We just need to get in the Word of God more Because you can live a godly and holy life even in the midst of a corrupt society. That's the power of the word of God. That's why we have Sunday school. That's why we have Wednesday night Bible study. That's why we have Kingsville School of the Bible. That's why we are doing this work in a seminary. Because we want to teach people the Word of God because it has sanctifying power and its message gets the job done if we get it out. And then there's prayer. Not only the discipline of the Bible, but prayer. Jesus told his disciples, when you pray, go into the closet. He didn't say if you pray, he said, when you pray Because if you're a true child of God, you're going to pray. Jesus is assuming you're going to pray regularly, so he says, here's how you do it. You enter into your closet, you shut the door, your father, which sees you in secret, he will reward you openly. But then there's church attendance. Public worship is necessary for spiritual growth. When the believers were going through severe persecution, And some of them were missing out because of it, Paul said the writer said in Hebrews 10, 25, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as a matter of sum is. But exhort one another so much more as you see the day approaching. Don't let fear keep you from assembling together the fear of persecution. You exhort one another And come together for worship. Then there's giving. We give To the work of the Lord. There's scriptural meditation, there's service and ministry. If you're saved, God has given you a gift. And you need you're to exercise that gift, not for yourself, but for the good of others. So many times we are so self-focused in church, you know, it's all about us, but it really isn't about us, it's about the people around us We are to edify others around us. We are called to be a blessing and to edify the people around us. And the only way we do that is by getting involved and using our spiritual gift. Now these are just a few, there's more, but these are the spiritual disciplines that are like channels that God uses to transform us by his grace. As we place ourselves in them, we are Placing ourselves in the place of blessing where the Spirit of God can use these things to do his great work in our life. Let me give you the last point. This leads to the last point. I talk about the focus and the forms, but now the formation. The formation of spiritual disciplines. How do we form these things in us? We can learn from these words that Paul gave to Timothy. And I think in verses 15 and 16 of 1 Timothy 4, we can uh see here some commands that Paul gave Timothy that we can apply. That will help us. And let me just go through these quickly because we just have a few minutes. But number one, 1 Timothy 4. 15, be diligent. Look in verse 15. Meditate upon these things. The word here is uh uh malateo or to practice. It really is what the word is, is practice this. Or we could say it like this, be serious in practice. This goes back to verse 7. Exercise yourself on the godliness. What does that mean? That means you need to get into practice. You need to practice hard. You know, any athlete knows that you're not going to be effective unless you practice, right? If you want to be an athlete that can compete and win, you have to practice. Practice makes perfect If you don't practice well, you're not going to win. If you don't practice well, you're not going to be able to compete. And so that means you have to go through these drugs. You have to do them over and over and over again. You've got to get it down. You got to work hard and practice Tom Landry, the coach of the Dallas Cowboys, used to be, he's in heaven now, he's a believer, but he said this. He said the job of a football coach is to make men do what they don't want to do in order to achieve what they've always wanted to be. And that's much the same way Christians are called to make themselves do something they perhaps wouldn't naturally do. That is to pursue these disciplines in order to become what they've always wanted to be, and that's to be like Christ. So we have to get serious about it. We have to get serious about prayer and Bible and scripture and worship and serving and gifts and confession and all these things. Here's the second thing. Not only be diligent, but be devoted. Look again in verse number 15. He says, give thyself wholly to them. Literally in the Greek, be in these. And that is to say, be absorbed in this. Be immersed in this Throw yourself into this. Again, you can't do this passively. You have to apply yourself, like Solomon said in Proverbs 23:12, apply thine heart to discipline. Apply yourself. But then here's the third thing. Be disciplined. Take heed to yourself. And verse 16, take heed unto thyself. Literally here, keep a close watch on yourself. Or we can say it like this: don't let yourself go spiritually. This goes back to being an example. Timothy, you need to be an example, and you can't be an example if you just let yourself go spiritually and you get out of the flow of spiritual disciplines and exercise. You know, I can't control other people, but I can control myself. And I need to make sure that I'm taking heed unto myself. Don't get to the place spiritually where you think you have arrived and you don't need to continue in these spiritual disciplines. You can't let up You never get to the place in your spiritual life where you can coast. And a lot of people just coast spiritually. They get to a certain place where they say, Yeah, you know what? I don't gotta do those things anymore. I don't have to be as diligent as I used to be. You know, I can coast now. You get to that point, you're in spiritual dangerous territory. You don't let yourself go. This is the very thing that Paul was warning the Corinthians about because that's the very attitude the Corinthians had. And Paul warned them about this. You know what he said to them? Listen to what he said, 1 Corinthians 9. Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but only one receives a prize? Don't you understand you're in a race? Only one's going to get the prize. So run, that you may obtain. Every man that strives for the mastery is temperate in all things. And I run not as uncertainly, I run as not as one who beats the air. I keep under my body, I bring it into subjection, lest by any means, if I preach to others, I myself will become a castaway. That is to say, I'm no longer useful, I'm adokimas Unable to compete. You think I let myself go, Paul says? If anyone has the right to get to the place spiritually in a l a certain level where I don't have to practice the disciplines, it should be me, but you think I let myself go? No, I don't. I know I'm running in a race. I'm in a boxing match. I'm not delivering false blows. I'm making real uh a real I'm in a real battle here and I discipline myself because I don't want to be a castaway And then later on he warns. He said, Hey, don't you remember the Jews in the wilderness? Don't you learn from their example? Remember how they got careless? They let themselves go. And you know what happened? They were destroyed. And then Paul says this following up. Now all these things happened to them as examples for us. And then he says this let a man who thinks he stands take heed lest he what? You never get to the point to where you can coast So be disciplined, take heed unto yourself. And here's the final thing: be determined, continue in them. Look at verse 16 again. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine, continue in them. The word continue is the Greek word meno. Let me tell you where this is used, where Jesus said, In my father's house are many mansions, meno. Same exact word here. Places to dwell, places to stay. You know, one of the things that I love thinking about in heaven is that when I get there, I won't ever have to move again. I hate moving. There's no starter homes in heaven. When you get to heaven and you get moved in, that's going to be your final place. How many say amen to that? Not worried about it anymore after that. And that's the idea behind the word mennow. You get there, you stay there. You continue in there, that place. You abide there. And this is the word Paul's using here. Timothy, all these things, I've been telling you, all these things, you know what? You need to stay there. You need to abide there. You need to continue there. And in fact what he does is he puts a prefix in front of the word which intensifies it. Epi meno, where we get the word epic, something that's huge, something that's big Epimeno. Timothy, you continue in these things. You be determined. You don't let anything get you out of this way of living, this pattern of life Don't be hit and miss. Don't stop doing these things because every once in a while things can come along and throw us out of spiritual profit and discipline in our life. And so it's time to get back into good spiritual practice. It's time to get back into these disciplines. And over the next few weeks we're gonna we're gonna look at these things. But let me just close with this illustration. And in this time I'm done. There's there's two stories in the Bible that kind of illustrate really what this does for us. You know, you remember in Luke 18, there's a story of the blind beggar named Bartimaeus? And Jesus is uh on his way to uh Jerusalem. He's passing through Jericho. There's a crowd of people around him. Barnamaus is blind. He asks, what's going on? Oh, this is Jesus, the son of David. He's passing by When Barnamaus hears this, this social outcast, this blind man, he cries out, Son of David, have mercy on me. And the people said, Be quiet, be quiet. But what does he do? He cries out all the more. Son of David, have mercy on me. And then you know what Jesus does? He stops. And he says, who is that? Turns around, and there's Bartimaeus, and Jesus heals him, and he has his sight. What an incredible blessing. And then right after that, he keeps on. And there's this guy, Zacchaeus, and he's a short little guy. And he can't see over the crowd. And he wants to see Jesus. So he runs ahead and he gets up into a sycamore tree. And Jesus passes by and he sees him up there. And to his amazement, he calls his name. Hey Zacchaeus, what are you doing up there? Come down. I'm going to go to your house. And Jesus goes to his house, and Zacchaeus gets saved, forgives all of his debtors, pays back all his debts, makes restitution, he's blessed. You say, what has all that got to do with spiritual disciplines? You know what spiritual disciplines are? It's putting ourselves in the path of Jesus. It's putting ourselves in the place where Jesus says, hey, I want to bless you. That's what they do. Put yourself in the place where God can bless you the way He wants to bless you. And let me just say the first thing you need to do, if you haven't received Jesus, you know what you need to do. You need to cry out like blind bar to mass. You need to say, Lord Jesus. Have mercy on me. Just cry out to him right where you are. Cry out, Lord Jesus, pray the prayer of Bartimaeus, son of David, have mercy on me. And you know what? He will. Because he turns no one away He'll receive you under himself. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we want blessing in our life. We want to see your hand upon us. In fact, nothing matters unless we have your blessing. And your work in our life, this is what we crave, this is what we want. Lord, forgive us for getting out of good practice. It happens to all of us from time to time, Lord. We get so consumed with the things around us, trying to live this life, and sometimes we forget that the greatest priority you have for us. Is godliness, is Christ-likeness. That's your ultimate purpose, and that all these other things will happen. If we seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness, all these other things will happen. But Lord, we forget that, and we get lazy, and we get into a bad pattern And we allow bad habits to come into our life. And the next thing we know, Lord, we're out of the place of blessing. Of things that you want to do. So Lord, help us to do what Paul said to Timothy, to exercise ourselves unto godliness. To get back into the flow, to get back into the place where we need to be in our spiritual walk, so that we can have your blessing, your full blessing in our life. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, I pray that today they would be able to say, like Jesus said to Zacchaeus, today salvation has come to your household. If they would return to Christ and cry out, Son of David, have mercy on me and save me. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, beloved, if you're here today and that's your honest, heartfelt prayer to come to Christ and say, Lord Jesus, save me, have mercy on me. Could I just pray for you? Would you lift your hands? I just want to pray for you. Anyone here? Yes, that's me. I want to just cry out to Christ in prayer. And a friend, you have prayed that and you want to talk to us. We're here afterwards always. We want to Be here always to encourage you in your Christian walk. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.