Matthew chapter 19, if you would please. The book of Matthew chapter 19. And tonight the Lord has laid this message We've been talking about mastering your emotions. I'm going to move away from that. And tonight I want to look at this passage in Matthew 19, verses 16 down to verse 26. If you find that, let me just read this and you can follow along, verse 16. And behold, one came unto him, and came and said unto him, Good master, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. They saith unto him, which? And Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder. Thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother, and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself And young men said unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up. What lack I yet? And Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor. And thou shalt have treasure in heaven. Come and follow me. So I want to talk about what do I lack? Now, I'm not much of a fisherman. My idea of fishing is going to Captain D's and ordering one of the value meals. Uh my father, however, is a fisherman. He owns a boat, and my brothers are all fishermen and they love to fish, uh although it's been a while since we've been out on that boat. There was a time when we went out And on occasions they would persuade me to go with them on the boat, although I really didn't get a lot out of that. I normally would bring a theology book along with me and read while they would fish. That's terrible to say, isn't it But then on one occasion I remember we were out there on the on the Chesapeake Bay in my father's boat and I I had a line in the water and uh we were catching rockfish. I know if some of you know what rockfish are a huge uh saltwater bass, they're just big fish. I mean you fillet one of them it can see the whole family. They're that big. And and uh it happens that while my fish was uh f fishing uh rod, my line was in the water, my fishing rod, you know, was there and I I just looked up and it was bending. I mean it was just bending almost in half. I had hooked a rock fish And obviously this was not just any rockfish. This was a monster. Judging by my father's reaction and the reaction of my brothers, they all dropped their rods. They came over to help poor Jerry. with this fish. They knew that I was not much of a fisherman. And they were coaching me, trying to tell me how to reel in this monster. And um And so I was listening, trying to listen to all of them, and trying to reel in this fish, and was doing the best I could when suddenly the fishing rod just snapped straight. I had lost this fish Well, they were just livid. They chided me. They said, how could you let this one get away? Uh you should have let me reel them in for you, one of them said. Uh, you know, you you'll never be a fisherman, all that kind of stuff. And I I can't tell you the empty feeling that you have when you lose a monster fish or you lose a big fish. I mean this was probably a trophy fish. I was picturing myself on the front of sporting magazines really missing in. But I lost this big fish. And again, it's so very disappointing. Well, when you read the account here in Matthew chapter 19, you might scratch your head and you might be tempted to think that here in this account, Jesus loses a big fish. It seems like he had a trophy fish on the gospel line and he lost him. But is that really what happened here in this story of this rich young ruler? Was Jesus a poor fisherman? Did he miss bringing this man in? Let's kind of look it a little bit closer at this story. We're in Matthew chapter 19. Let me give you a little context and background about what's going on. Jesus is making his final pilgrimage to Jerusalem. He was on his way there to go to the Passover. There he would suffer and die for sin. But as he's going to Jerusalem, he comes to Judea, and he's met with questions about marriage and divorce, and he deals with that issue in Matthew 19. And then little children are brought to him and he blesses them here in the same chapter. And suddenly a young man approaches Jesus to ask him a question. And he asks him the question in verse number sixteen, What must I do to have eternal life? Well, this is every soul winner's dream. Someone coming in and asking that question. Can you imagine someone coming to you this week and saying, hey, let me ask you a question. What must I do to have eternal life? Well, if you're a Christian and you know the gospel, uh I mean something like that is is a blessing, man. I would love for someone to come and ask me that question. This is what we call in church a hot prospect This guy was a hot prospect. And you would think that winning him to the Lord would be a piece of cake. I mean in the average church today, this man would walk down the aisle, he would ask this question, he would be told to pray, immediately ask Jesus to forgive you for your sins. He would be led in the center's prayer. At least that's what we're trained to do and that's what we're taught to do. It wouldn't be hard to get a decision from this guy because as you read this on the surface, it seems like he's ready He was ready to sign the card. He was ready to raise his hand. He was ready to walk the aisle. He was ready to do all those things that are necessary. There was no need to explain to him that the Bible is the Word of God. He already knew that No need to explain to him about the existence of God. He already believed that. He already knew all these things. Much of the work of evangelism is getting people to feel their need. To let them know there is a God, a holy God, that they must give an account to. But all that work was already done. He was a hot prospect. But also, think about this, he was a choice prospect. He was a choice in that the Bible says in Luke 18, 18, that he was a ruler And the term points to a position of authority. So he was probably a religious leader, a ruler in a synagogue, some kind of a religious lay leader, or perhaps even a Pharisee. He was among some of the religiously elite people of the land. Some of these people were very well off. They had a lot of influence. In fact, right on your margin, Luke 18. 23, because it says there that he was extremely rich. This guy was rich. He had money. One man wrote this with just a tithe, he could have bankrolled Jesus' mission for years to come. This guy had money. What a catch for the kingdom he would have been. What a key person. Not only that, he was from a good background. He didn't have any serious problems to overcome. He was a guy who tried to obey the commandments, and so he was a choice prospect. He was also, however, a sorrowful prospect, because as we read this story here, the Bible says he went away. Look at verse 22. But the young man heard that saying, and he went away sorrowful, for he had great. Possessions. Jesus doesn't win him. In the end, this man walks away. And when you read this story, you kind of scratch your head and you kind of say, Why didn't Jesus pull in the net? Why didn't he bring him in? I mean, when the man responded, what must I do to have eternal life? Jesus in a sense, and Eureka said, well, you have to obey all the commandments. Well, we're trained in evangelism not to say that, right? I mean, because salvation is not by obeying commandments, it's not by works. Eternal life is completely free. And so why would Jesus point to the commandments to this man? We know that no one can obey all of the commandments. I mean, you know, as you read this, Jesus probably could have used some lessons in how we do evangelism, right? I mean he we we should teach him some of our method of training, uh of of Romans Road or Evangelism Explosion. I mean if Jesus were in a seminary course and he wrote this down, he wouldn't pass the test And so it kind of leaves you scratching your head. How did he let this big fish get away? But perhaps there's another possibility. Maybe, just maybe, Jesus didn't blow it. Maybe he is a skilled fisherman. He is, after all, perfect, right? Maybe Jesus is teaching us about evangelism, about the gospel. Maybe we should examine our method for sharing the gospel next to what Christ does instead of judging Christ by our methods of evangelism. Maybe we can learn something by looking at what Jesus does here. And perhaps the problem then is not with Jesus, perhaps the problem here is in the prospect. Maybe he's not truly ready for the kingdom of God like we think. On the surface, he looks like he's ready. But again, the key question is found in verse number 20, where the young man said unto him, All these things have I kept for my youth. What What do I lack? What is the thing that's keeping me from eternal life? What is missing? So with all that in mind, I want you to see three things from this story tonight. Three things. Number one, look at the eager prospect. I want us to take a little bit closer look at this man, because again, on the surface, it seems like everything's right Look in again verse sixteen, and behold, one came unto him saying, Good master, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? Now he had the right attitude. He came to Jesus. Look at the word behold there. That points to a very dramatic event. This is an expression of wonder and amazement. Matthew is amazed. He's astonished that here this young man comes to Jesus right out of the blue. And the gospel account in Mark, the parallel account in Mark, in Mark 10, 17, it says that he ran to Jesus. He didn't just walk. He ran. Man, he showed a lot of passion to get to Jesus. He showed a lot of eagerness. I don't see that kind of eagerness today. I don't see people running into church, maybe running out to get to the restaurant. But here this man is running to Jesus. He's eager to get there. And also we see some respect. Again, in Mark 10, 17, it says he knelt before Jesus. That shows his respect for Jesus as a good teacher. He calls him good master. And so he shows the proper respect. I mean we have to take our hat off to him for this Again, I think it is proper and right when you come to church to show the right reverence and the right respect. Isn't that true? And this man does that. And in fact, the Bible says in other accounts that there's crowds around Jesus, and he doesn't care about that. He comes right through the crowd It's daylight. He comes and he kneels down. Here's this ruler. He's rich. He doesn't care what people think. He comes before Jesus and says, What can I do to have eternal life? Now you remember Nicodemus when he came to Jesus, the Bible says he came at nighttime. He didn't want to be seen by too many people coming and talking to Jesus. But here this rich young ruler, he doesn't care. He just comes and he kneels before Jesus. So we see his running, his respect, but also there was a restlessness in this man. There was turmoil in his soul. All his religion and all his wealth has not given him any peace He still did not know about his eternal destiny. There was a restlessness. There was an absence of assurance in his heart. There are some people to today, and you may even be here tonight, and you're religious, you got your religion, but there's no peace in your heart. There's still a restlessness in your soul, and you can't seem to get rid of it Something was not right. He knew that his eternal salvation was not guaranteed. And so he's wondering about this. And so he wants to get assurance. He wants something for the anxiety in his heart. So he had the right attitude, but also he came at the right time. Look again in verse number 22, it says that he was a young man. But when the young man heard That is, the word here can mean somewhere between the age of 20 and 21, Mystios. It is a a young man, he had his youth. And that's a good time to come to Jesus. By the way, any time is a good time. But especially when you're young, the Bible says, Remember now thy creator, in the days of thy youth there are some young people here listening to me tonight. Listen, don't uh wait, give your life to Christ right now All those years you can give in service to the Lord. Don't give the flower of your life to the devil and then give the decapitated stems to Jesus. Don't burn the candle of your life for the devil and then blow the smoke of a wasted life in the face of God. Give your life when when you're young. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. He came with the right attitude He came at the right time and he came to the right person because he comes to Jesus. I mean you have to give this young man credit for that. I mean he knew where salvation could be found, at least it seemed that way. He knew that Jesus had the answers. So he comes to the right person. You know, there are many people today, and they are looking all over for eternal life, but they're looking to the wrong people. They're looking to the wrong thing. I want to tell you that Jesus is the way to eternal life. The Bible says in 1 John 5. 11, and this is the record that God has given to us eternal life, and this life is in his 1 John 5. 20, and we know that the Son of God has come, and that He has given us an understanding that we may know Him that is true, and we are in Him that is true, even in His Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. There's only one true way to have eternal life. It is through God's Son, Jesus. The Bible makes that very clear. There's not salvation in Allah. There's not salvation in Buddha. There's not salvation in Confucius. There's only one way, and that's Christ. The Bible says in Acts 4. 19, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You say, man, you're awful narrow-minded. That's right. I mean it's either right or it's wrong. Either Jesus is the way or he's not. Either he's Lord and He's all who he says he is, or it's wrong. There's no in-between. There's no middle road We live in a time today where there's this idea of inclusivism where that as long as you're sincere and as long as you're seeking God, any of those roads that you may be on, that'll be fine as long as God knows your heart and he knows you're sincere. and then you'll be fine. I want you to know that that is a devil's lie from hell. There's only salvation in one. On June 20, 2005, Joe Osteen had an interview with Larry King. He said he's not sure what happens to people who reject Jesus Christ. He said this. Larry King followed up with a question about Jews, Muslims, other non-Christians. He Larry King said, They're wrong, aren't they? And Olstey replied, Well I don't know if they're wrong. I know they love God. I've seen their sincerity. And then when he was pushed farther, Osteen said this, well, God's got to look at your heart. Refuse to say that Jesus is exclusively the only way of salvation. Now beloved, Jesus is either the only way or he's not. But we live in this age of inclusivism and George Barna uh uh a census reported that 51% of Americans believe that if a person was generally good or did enough good things for others during their life, that would earn them a place to heaven. But Jesus again said in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes under the Father except by me. So this man, we have to hand it to him. He came with the right attitude. He came at the right time. He came to the right person. Jesus is the source of eternal life But then he asked the right question. Look in verse 16 again. What good things shall I do that I might have eternal life? This is the question, this is the most important question of all. It's the most important issue for you. It's the most important issue for your children. It's the most important issue for your grandchildren. Not only do you have to know the way of eternal life, you have to point that way to your children and to your grandchildren and to others around. There's a lot of people who are religious who think they know, but they they don't. And they think that they don't lack anything. And so We see then this eager prospect. On the surface, everything looks good. It all looks right. But I want you to see the second part. Not only the eager prospect, but notice secondly, the evangelistic proposal. Because what happens here, Jesus, he sees deeper than just the surface. He sees the heart. And he looks into the heart of this man. And here's where the story kind of takes a surprising turn. Because look at verse 17. And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, that is God. But if thou wilt enter in the eternal, I keep the commandments. In answering to the young man's question, you would have thought that Jesus said, Well believe on me and repent. But that's not what happens. Jesus didn't take the man at face value. He went deeper to reveal this man's heart. And what we see here in this dialogue with Jesus was there are certain things that this man just didn't get. He just couldn't grasp it. And because he couldn't grasp these things, he was not ready for the kingdom. He was not ready for eternal life. What's the first thing he couldn't grasp? First of all, he couldn't grasp that his goodness was not going to get him to heaven. He believed in works. And so he comes to Jesus in verse 17 and he calls him good master. In verse 16. And Jesus answered, he said, Why do you call me good? There is none good but God. Jesus answers his question with another more powerful question. You see, this man was centered on his own good works. Rather than being centered on God, who alone can grant eternal life. Salvation is not the result of goodness in man, it's the result of the gift of God. The goodness of God Now you know what Jesus was doing? He was kind of playing along with this guy. You know why? Because this guy didn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah. He didn't believe that Jesus was God. He called him good master. That is, you're good teacher. He thought that Jesus was just a moral teacher. And that Jesus could give him what was lacking. You know, he already thought that he had this thing pretty much figured out He just lacked one little thing, one little nuance to add to his religious resume, and that Jesus was a good moral teacher, and so therefore Jesus could help him just finish out this resume. Jesus could give him the right advice. After all, if anybody could do that it was him, this this good teacher, this this good man. And so Jesus doesn't correct them. He just kind of plays along with them. In order to reveal his heart. You ever do that? I mean he's just playing along. I remember I was out witnessing, I think I might have told you this before I was Going door to door and this guy saw me coming, I was wearing a tie and all, and and uh he looked at me and he he kind of had a suspicious look and he said, Are you an insurance salesman? I didn't want to get rejected again, so I went I I played along with him. I said, Absolutely I'm an insurance. He said, What kind of insurance do you sell? I said, well, fire insurance, life insurance, home insurance. He said, Really? He said, How much of the premium? I said, absolutely free. Absolutely free. How can that be? Well, you know, our owner, he's pretty rich and he has a son and his son paid all the premiums for us. So the insurance is free? All you have to do is receive it. He said, What's the name of your company? He said, Is your company big? I said, We got offices all over the world. What's the name of your company? Well, it's called the Church of Jesus Christ. I knew that you were not just an insurance helpman. I was just playing along. That's exactly what Jesus is doing here. This man thinks Jesus is a good moral teacher. And so Jesus is well, well, I'll play this game with you. Let's find out what you really believe, or let's show you what you really believe. And so he plays along. You know, sometimes cultists and critics jump on this statement when Jesus says, Why do you call me good? There's no one good but God. Sometimes people jump on that and say, aha there Jesus was denying that he was God. No, he's not denying his deity. And by the way, there's plenty of other places all through the New Testament where Jesus claims to be God No, they'd miss the point. Jesus' answer is not designed to reveal to this man that he's God. He's not making any statements about himself, but he's going to teach this man a lesson about goodness. Because this man was thinking in his mind that in man there's enough goodness to please God. And Jesus' first statement is this: listen, why do you call me good? There's nobody good except God. Jesus was already establishing that the goodness of man is nowhere near what it takes to gain eternal life. What he reveals is this man doesn't really understand real goodness. Only God is good. This man was placing his faith in his own good works or the goodness of man. And I want to tell you there are religions out there and they will tell you if you do these things or you follow these rituals that this will be enough. But I want to tell you there is no goodness. that will make you acceptable to God with reference to your salvation. None. I was reading in the Reader's Digest. uh about a sports figure who recently died. He was uh celebrated. He had a big funeral, it was all on TV. They interviewed him before he died. And this is what he said. He said, quote, one day we're all going to die and God's going to going to judge us. For our good deeds and bad deeds, and if the good deed the bad outweighs the good, you'll go to hell. But if the good outweighs the bad, you'll go to heaven. And then he went on to say this, he said, with everything I do, I ask myself, will God accept this? One day you will you'll wake up and it'll be judgment day, so you need to do good deeds. I go to hospitals, I love the sick people, I don't worry about the disease, I just go to them, I just want God to accept my good works, end quote. And that was his whole philosophy And he died recently with that. And by the way, that's the way a lot of people still think today. And now don't get me wrong, there are a lot of people that do a lot of good deeds in the world today with uh uh uh concerning the goodness of man. Uh I don't I don't take that away. I know that there are people that that do deeds to help people who are sick. And and people who who need, have physical needs. And there are many people in the world that do a lot of good deeds to help people like that. But friend, I want to tell you, none of those things register with God. To b to make you good enough to go to heaven. None of them. It's like monopoly money. I've told you this before. The things that man does to try to be accepted by God, although in this world they are good things And I appreciate those things when I hear them. But friend, if you think that's going to buy you salvation, you are wrong. Because you don't understand God's goodness. You don't understand his standard. It's like monopoly money. You know, you ever play Monopoly? You ever try to take the Monopoly money and go deposit it in Wells Fargo? Try that, I dare you. Take your monopoly money, go to Wells Fargo Bank, write out a deposit slip, give it to the teller, and see what she tells you. Uh Mr. Harmon, um we can't accept this. What do you mean you can't accept it? I worked pretty hard for this money. I I had to I you know how long I played Monopoly to get this? You take the, well, I'm sorry, Mr. Harmony, this money here is no good in this bank. You see, friend, all of the works of men will not register in God's bank. The Bible says our righteousness is no good. It's like filthy rags. And so this man didn't understand this concept of goodness. He thought that his goodness was good enough. But then here's the second thing. He didn't understand his sin. Look again in verse number 17. And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There's none good but one, and that is God. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. And he said unto him, Which? And Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother, and thou shalt ha uh and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thy self. And so Jesus, this next proposal again is startling. Jesus says, look, you have to obey the commandments. Now again remember Jesus is role-playing here. Okay, I'll be the good moral teacher. I will go this route. To show you your heart. Okay, you think goodness is enough? Alright. Well then you have to obey all the commandments. And he says, which ones? And Jesus names five of the ten just to let them know what he's referring to, just the ten commandments. He doesn't invite this man to believe. He doesn't give him the facts of the gospel. He says, obey the commandments. Why? Well Well, by the way, strictly speaking, Jesus was right. If it were possible for a person to obey perfectly all of the law of God, technically you could go to heaven. But who can do that? Who can do that? No one can do that except the Savior Jesus Himself. We are born in Sin. You say, well, so why did Jesus tell him to keep the commandments? Because this man did not understand his own sinfulness. And I want to tell you something, unless you realize what a sinner you really are, you're not ready for the kingdom of God. You're not ready for salvation at that point. Until you understand that you can do nothing, you deserve nothing except God's wrath for your sin, until you get to that point You're not ready. Now, why do people get puffed up about their works? Why do they get puffed up about their religious rituals and things like that? You know why? Because they measure themselves with the wrong standards They measure themselves with the wrong ruler. One time a little boy came into the house one day and he said to his mother, I'm nine feet tall. She said, you're not nine feet tall. He said, yes, I am. She said, how do you know you're nine feet? He said, I used a ruler, and the ruler said, I'm nine feet tall. But what happened was this little boy made his own ruler. He took a foot, he took one of his own little shoes and he laid them out and he counted out nine and that's how tall he was. Nine his own little feet. He said, I'm nine feet tall. But he was measuring according to the wrong ruler. Sure, you can live up to a high religious standard if you use your own ruler. If you're measuring yourself to your own ruler, and that's what people do today, but I want to tell you something, God's standard is a whole lot higher than man's. He's got a whole whole different ruler And you know what Jesus does? This rich young ruler, when he came to Jesus, he felt himself good. He didn't think himself a sinner, and you know why? Because he was measuring himself to pharisaic traditions and religious rituals, and according to that ruler, he was doing really good. But the problem is Wrong ruler. And so what does Jesus do here? Jesus breaks his ruler. And Jesus slams him down next to the commandments. And it says here, obey these. Now, notice his response. The young man saith unto him, all these things I have kept from my youth and upward. Any doubt that this man didn't understand his own sinfulness is removed by that response right there. Oh, I've done all these things. From my youth all the way up, I've done all of it This man lacked utterly any sense of his own sinfulness. J. C. Rao writes this about this young man's response. He says, an answer more full of darkness and self-ignorance is impossible to conceive. He who made it could have known nothing rightly, either about himself or God or God's law. And that's true. He knew nothing about any of those things. He was filled with religious pride. He didn't understand that he was a sinner in desperate need of God's goodness and God's mercy for eternal life. You know what I think that we do, we fail to do a lot of times in evangelism today? We fail to tell people and confront people with their sin before a holy God. And before God's holy standard, I think it was one of the greatest strokes of the devil to get public schools to take the Ten Commandments off their walls. You say, why is that? Because the Ten Commandments, you can't get saved by obeying the Ten Commandments, but the Ten Commandments are a pre-salvation work You say how so? Because when we see God's holy law and suddenly we realize that we are unable to keep God's holy law, how does that make us feel? It makes us feel guilty. It lets us know what a sinner we are We begin to see ourselves the law of God's commandments are like a mirror. It shows us what we are really on the inside. But something about a mirror, a mirror can reveal what you're like, or it shows you who you are, but a mirror can't cleanse you. God's law can show us for what we really are. And I think we fail today to lay out God's law, so that it would break up the hardness of a sinner's heart, it would break that that the fallow ground of a person's heart, and it makes the soil of the heart ready for the seed of the gospel to be planted there. A lot of times parents will come to me and they'll say, you know, I want to win my child to Christ. What's the first thing that I should do? And I always say the same thing. Begin teaching them the Ten Commandments. You say, why? Because the Ten Commandments, they will see that God is holy. And by the way, that's where the gospel message starts. It starts with a holy God. A holy God who cannot tolerate sin and who must judge every sin And also a God who is a God of love who doesn't want to judge the sinner. And showing us what we really are makes a person ready to receive the mercy of God. You see The law of God should break a person down to where they say, I need mercy. I need the mercy of God in my life. But this man, he hit none of that happened with him. He thought he was good. By the way, that's why Paul wrote in Galatians 3. 24 that the law is a tutor to bring us to Christ. And Martin Luther said it like this, the law is a rod, before I'm saved, what does a rod do? A rod beats you down. But then it's a stick, a walking stick, after I get saved. It helps me walk in the right way. Before salvation, the law of God beats me down, it humbles me, it shows me what a sinner I am. Another analogy we could use is this Let's just say you had a disease and you went to a doctor and the doctor, you say, doc, and the doctor diagnoses you and say, this is your illness. Oh, listen, you got a really bad heart. And you say, well, doctor, can you fix me? The doctor says, no, that's not my job. I just diagnose the illness. I can't heal you. You ever see that commercial? Well you're a credit monitor. I can't, you know, someone comes into a bank, they start robbing it, the guard their sa this this bank's being robbed, and they say, well do something. So well I'm not a I'm not I can't actually do anything. I'm just a security monitor. I monitor the problem and then I point you to the solution. There's a sense in which that's what the law does. The law, Dr. Law, will diagnose that you have a bad heart. But Dr. Law can't heal you. What he does is he refers you to Dr. Grace. He says, you need to go see Dr. Grace. And what will happen is Dr. Grace. We'll give you a heart transplant. Dr. Law can only diagnose the illness. But here this man He didn't get a sense of his own sinfulness. And here's the third thing. He thought he could work. He thought he could work his way. He thought his own goodness was good enough. He didn't really understand his sin, but also he refused to turn from his idols. Look at verse 21. And Jesus said unto him, If thou will be perfect, Go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. So here Jesus does another thing. By the way, at this point in the story in Mark, it says that Jesus looked at him, Jesus felt love for him, Jesus knew this man was sincere, but he also knew that he was self-righteously deceived. So he has compassion for them. And so Jesus says, okay, you've obeyed all these? Okay, well then here's the clincher. If you've done all that, then this should be easy for you to do. Sell everything you have, give it to the poor, and then follow me. Now in a way, Jesus was saying this, you know, if if you've obeyed all the law, this should be easy. You know why? Because all of the law is fulfilled in one word. What is it? Love. It is loving God with all your heart, loving your neighbor as yourself. First four commandments are all about loving God. Next six are all about loving your neighbor. But it's all fulfilled in this one thing, loving God and loving your neighbor. And so Jesus is saying, listen, if you fulfilled all the law, then sell everything you have, and then follow me. Because that'll show you love your neighbor. That'll certainly show that you love God. What Jesus is pointing out here is that this man really, his real problem was that he was filled with self-righteousness. He thought he was a good man. He thought he was on the right track. And yet he was not. And he needed to understand that. And he also had an idol. And what was that idol? It was money. It was money. It says in verse 22, but the young man, when the young man heard that, saying, He went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Jesus knew this man's heart. He knew that his his his real God was money and material things. He was an idolater beneath the surface of all of his religious works and all of his good deeds. This man's real God was money, was his possessions. And Jesus, knowing his heart, was basically saying, unless you get rid of that idol, you'll never be able to follow me. I want to tell you something. You can't follow Christ holding on with one foot in the world, holding on to the things of the world. You know, this man, he just wanted to pile Jesus onto all of his stuff. Just add Jesus to his collection. No, if you want to follow Christ, Christ has to be Lord. You have to turn from all idols, you have to let all those things go, you have to turn from your sin and follow the Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Bible says this young man went away sorrowful, the Greek word here, deep sorrow, deep grief, because he had great possessions, and the real problem was that his possessions had him He didn't just have them. Money was his master. Now notice the last thing quickly. We see the eager prospect We see the evangelistic proposal, but number three, write down the emphatic pronouncement. Look at verse 23. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, that a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Literally, this reads in verse 23: A rich man will enter the kingdom of God with great difficulty. It'll be harder. It's not saying a rich person couldn't get saved, it's just it's going to be harder. Why? Because there just seems to be within the human heart the tendency for riches to make the heart harder and more secure. A rich person has more power, more control over his life, and they see very little need for spiritual things. Paul told Timothy, command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, because that seems to go with it. There seems to be a pride. And that's when you get right down to it, it is pride that keeps people out of the kingdom. Because let me tell you something, no one can strut into the kingdom of God. If you come, you come humbled You come poor in spirit. You mourn over your sin. I don't think it's an accident that Matthew is making a contrast in verses 13 and 14. He points to the little children, and Jesus said, suffer the little children and forbid them not to come unto me, for such is the kingdom of heaven. In other words, Jesus was saying, you have to humble yourself like a child If you want to come to the kingdom and not be proud, not be lifted up, you must be willing to turn from your idols and turn from sin. Realize you're a sinner. And beg mercy of God. And so Jesus makes this pronouncement. It's hard for a rich man. I mean it's it's it's easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle. than for a rich man to get to heaven. And there are some scholars who come along and they want to kind of downplay this. They say, oh, the eye of the needle, that was a gate there back in that time and the camels had to nail down. No baloney It was an eye of a needle. It's exactly what you think about when you say eye of a needle. How many of you think a camel can get through the eye of a needle? And that's why the response, look at verse 25, when his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, who then can be saved? Look at verse 26. But Jesus beheld them and said unto them, With men this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. And so what was Jesus saying here? Salvation is a work of God in the heart. And without God doing that work in the heart, it is impossible. Because there's something about the hardness of man's heart that they will not see their need. They will not humble themselves. There has to be a supernatural work of the Holy Spirit on the heart. to where a person's eyes are open, where they see their sinfulness before a holy God. They see that they have a great spiritual need. They're humbled. By their sin, and they come to God poor in spirit, repented of their sin, realizing that there's only one way of salvation, that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. So to answer this man's question, what did he lack? He didn't understand that salvation was by the goodness of God, not by the goodness of man. He didn't understand his own sinfulness before a holy God. He was unwilling to submit to the Lordship of Christ and turn from his idols. And so, friend, what about you? Let me close with this quote here from Spurgeon. He wrote a great word here about This very thing, and I think it fits our times very well. Let me quote this to you as we close. He said, a very great portion of modern revivalism has been more a curse than a blessing Because it has led thousands to a kind of peace before they have known their misery. Restoring the prodigal to the Father's house and never making him say, Father, I have sinned. How can he be healed who is not sick? How can he be satisfied with the bread of life who is not hungry? The old-fashioned sense of sin is despised. Everything in this age is shallow. The consequence is that men leap into religion and then leap out again. Unhumbled they come to the church. Unhumbled they remain in it. And unhumbled they go from it. And I think that's so very true. There has to be that breaking. You must see the awfulness of your sin before a holy God before you're ready to come into the kingdom of God. God. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so Lord, help us to learn from this story, the the true gospel. Help it to remind us again of our desperate need of a Savior. I pray, Lord, that it will it will cause people to forsake any religious pride that they might have left. It may awaken those who may be in secretly in their heart dependent upon their own works as a means of salvation. May they come totally broken before you, kneeling at the foot of the cross, repentant crying out for mercy, just as the publican in the temple who prayed, God be merciful to me A sinner. Help us not to fall into the same religious pitfall that this ri rich young ruler fell into and be self-deceived about his standing before God. Father, speak to hearts and use your word to bring conviction as only you can. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask. Tonight. Maybe I don't know. I don't know your hearts. God does. And whenever we're preaching to a group of people, always there's some. in a crowd, especially if I have this size, where there maybe are some that are holding on to a wrong idea about the gospel. And what it is to truly repent and turn to Christ Again, friend, I don't know your heart, but I would say this. If the Holy Spirit is speaking to your heart right now, don't procrastinate. Don't push it aside. And don't say I'll take care of this later. Right now. The Bible says, now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. So I want to ask you, do You know that you're going to heaven. Do you have eternal life? Not based upon your religious works, but based on the finished work of what Christ has already done. Not man's goodness, but the goodness of God and giving salvation through his son, Jesus Christ. And it's free. He paid for it. You turn from your sin, you turn to Christ, you say, Yes, Jesus. I'm a sinner. Save me. Friend, if that's your prayer, would you would you lift your hand and say, pray for me? That's what I want tonight. That's my desire. And would you pray this prayer in your heart? Would you just say this? God bless you, friend. Would you just say this prayer in your heart Just pray like the publicing, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me for Christ's sake. Forgive me for my sin. I come Lord humble with no holding on to no idol, with no pride of my own works. I come empty-handed, kneeling at the cross, asking you for your mercy in my life. And friend, if you'll pray that and ask Jesus to come into your heart, He'll save you right where you are And if you've made that decision, let me know after church. Let Pastor Earl know. Let Pastor John or Pastor Aaron or Dr. Peterkin, one of these men around here, let them know. That you've made a decision for Christ. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.