Well it's good to see you here tonight. This this is the uh good group of folks considering the the temperature. It's very cold out there, and uh I'm just glad that you're here. It's always warm in God's house, isn't it? And I look forward to being in God's house with you. So take your Bibles tonight. I want you to open to Jeremiah chapter thirty-six. We are going to look at this chapter here tonight in the this uh great old testament. Book and tonight I want to just speak on this topic. What are you doing with your Bible? Uh what are you doing with your Bible? Jeremiah thirty six And when I was in college uh I heard my Bible professor say something that really I never forgot. You ever you ever been in a meeting where someone a a preacher or a teacher said something and it kinda uh found its lodging in you and you never forgot that expression. And that happened to me when I was a student in Bible college. And I I remember this was at a particular Now I had always believed in my heart that the Bible is God's inspired and inerrant word. I was taught that. And so I always believed that in my mind, but it seemed like the Lord was dealing with me on a deeper level. And I remember during that particular period of time we had a speaker come through chapel and he had a whole a display of ancient Bibles. Many of those Bibles were the Bibles of Christians in the earlier centuries, some of them were blood stained because Christians had actually uh sacrificed their lives uh so that we could have the scripture as we have it today. I just remember being Very, very moved by that chapel service. And then on the heels of that, I had a professor say something, and this is what he said. He said, What you do with the Bible determines what God does I never forgot that. And I think that is if you think about it, if you look in the scripture, that is a biblical principle. What you do with the Bible will determine what God God does with you. I found that to be true. If you remember the life of Samuel, what did God say through the prophet uh to Saul? God said through the prophet Samuel, he said to Saul, he said, uh because thou hast God said in Proverbs 1, uh to anyone who rejects his word, his wisdom, I will laugh at your collection I will mock when your fear comes. God was saying, you mock at my word, you laugh at my word. I'm going to laugh at you when your calamity comes. And so uh our relationship to the Scripture it directly impacts our relationship to the Lord. What you do with the Bible will determine what God does with you. Now nowhere in the Bible, I think, is this principle illustrated Now what we're going to read about here in this chapter is a king who tries to destroy God's word and ends up himself Now, one of the major themes that we see in the book of Jeremiah is the hostility of the leaders against God's prophet and against God's word. And we see this kind of climax here in Jeremiah. Chapter 36. Jehoiakim is the king in this chapter, and what we're going to see is uh kind of a poetic justice that happens here. Uh he burns uh you know page by page the scripture he takes a pin knife begins to cut it and then throw it into the fire and what will happen however is that it's not going to destroy God's word But what God says is that actually what will burn will be Jerusalem than the city, and God emphasizes that many times. But what I want us to see here in this chapter, from this narrative Really five things we should do with God's Word. That's what I see when I come to Jeremiah chapter 35. Five things that we can do and learn from this story with record Now here's the first one if you're taking notes. Write down number one, accept its inspiration. Accept its inspiration. Look in chapter 36 and look down at verse number one. And it came to pass Words that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations from the day I spake unto thee, from the days of Josiah even unto this day, and it may It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I have purpose to do unto them, and that they may return every man from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. Sin. Now the wicked King Jehoiakim has been on the throne for four years. Jeremiah has been ministering now for twenty-three years. And now God comes to Jeremiah and says, Jeremiah Jeremiah, I want you to take the prophecies that you have been preaching orally, you've been speaking my word, but now I want you to write it down in a scroll And a scroll back then that would be normally uh vellum, which would be animal skin or papyrus. This was probably vellum that was used here, kind of a leather perhaps. Uh and But anyway, with whatever it was, God said, I want you to write it down in this book on this scroll. All that you all that you've been preaching now for all these years And notice in verse two, uh specifically, what is he to write down? The things I said against Israel and Judah and the nations from the days of Josiah unto this day. And really when you think about all of that, that's really the first forty-five chapters of Jeremiah have to do with what God spoke against Israel and Judah. And then the other nations really are from chapter 45 to 51. So you're talking about a large portion of the book of Jeremiah. We could say 51 chapters. This is a large percentage of the book. God says, write all of this down. Now up until this point, Jeremiah's ministry had been just preaching, but now Jeremiah was expelled from the temple. And so God says, write down all of these And really if you look look in verse 17 and verse 18, we kind of get a uh a view of how this was done. Verse 17 says, and they ask Barak, saying Tell us now, how didest thou write all these words at his mouth? And then Barak answered and said, He pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book. And so we see how this was done. God spoke to the prophet Jeremiah. Jeremiah spoke those words to his scribe. Could say they were called amanuensis or a secretary, we could say. So Jeremiah spoke the words and he wrote them down in the book, and this was God's revelation to men and women. This was God's word. The truths that Jeremiah gave was the revelation of God. This was not human origin. Some of the truths that he wrote could not be discovered by the human mind. This was the very Word of God. And this is what we call inspiration. What theologians call the inspiration of scripture. This is the miraculous working of the Holy Spirit through a human writer that would write down the divine word, the scripture. And of course we know the passage later Paul would write in 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by what? Inspiration of God. And is profitable for doctrine and reproof. And remember that in that verse verse sixteen I I've told you about it before. Really, there are three words that are so very important. Of course, all of them are important, but the word all, you know what the word all means? All. Every word, the word for word is graph Graphite is where we get the word graphite, uh, the writing instrument. And we could say, like this, all the written words. There are some views of inspiration that say, well, God inspired the thoughts of the Writers and then they wrote it down in their own words. That's an incorrect view of inspiration. Because the Bible says the inspiration lies in the very written words themselves Not in the thoughts of the writer. In fact, if you look at the book of Jeremiah chapter thirty six, one of the key words in this chapter is the word words. In fact, look at verse Verse two take the a roll of a book write therein all the words. Look at verse number four. Again it says in the middle part of the verse and Barak wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah, all the words of the Lord. Look at verse number six. Thou go there thou and read in the role which the Lord has written from my mouth the words. Now we can continue on through the whole chapter, verse 8, verse 10, verse 11, verse 13, 16, 17. Every verse there mentions words. The actual Words. And so the key word in this chapter is words. Inspiration lies in the very words of Scripture. In fact, I would even argue this. It lies in the very letters of Scripture. You say, why that? Well, because Jesus, what did Jesus say? Not one jot or one tittle will pass away from this law, from the Word of God. And what's a yada? It's the smallest letter in the Hebrew alphabet. A tittle And that could distinguish some letters from others, like the race Which is the Hebrew R from the um uh from the letter for D, uh our English D, which is Dalit, which is the Hebrew letter. It has just a little horn. That's the only difference between the And Jesus is saying that God oversees even the letters. You know why? Because the spelling of one word can change with one letter and can change the whole meaning. Meaning of the word, which changes the meaning of the verse. So, friend, I believe not just in verbal word inspiration, I believe in letter inspiration. I believe the very letters Are preserved. And so the word inspiration in that verse simply means God breathed. It came from God's mouth. He was kind of a poet prophet. But yet the words that Jeremiah chose were the words that God had already chosen from eternity past. You see, that's what inspiration is. Inspiration is God So intric intricately involved, I could say uh uh incredibly involved in to the details of a person's life, sovereignly involved in their So that their circumstances, their background, their education, all of that is involved in the words that they choose, and God is So involved in the circumstances of their life, so it that the words that they chose were the words that God had already chosen from eternity past. God had already given them that word So we see the human element in the writing of Scripture, but we also know that every word comes from the mouth of God. That's the doctrine of inspiration. And since the Bible is inspired, uh friend, it has all the authority of God behind it. I can't imagine a Christian saying that they're a believer, but they don't believe in inspiration. I can't imagine that. Irrational to me. If you don't have the Word of God, if we don't if this is not the Word of God, we have nothing to stand on. This is one of the pillars. I could say the pillar Of our faith. Because what do we know about Jesus? What do we know about God outside of the Scripture? There's, of course, natural revelation. We can learn some things about God that way. But the only way we can learn salvation is through the written word, through the inspiration of Scripture. And so this is so very important. And this is why we make the preaching of the The word central because our faith is based on the inspired scripture, the doctrine that comes from the Word of God. But here's the second thing I want you to see. We have to unleash its power. Unleash its power. Look in verse number five. And Jermi commanded Barak saying, I am shut up. I cannot go into the house of the Lord. Therefore go thou and read in the role which thou hast written from my mouth out the words of the Lord in the ears of the people of the the Lord's house upon the fasting day, and also thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of their Now what's Jeremiah telling his uh his scribe? He's saying now look I'm I'm I'm bound up. I can't leave, I can't go to the temple. I don't think he was in prison at this time, but I think he was forbidden to preach in the temple or in the even even the precincts of the temple. You say, why? Well because they didn't like his temple sermons. They like what Jeremiah was saying. So he was forbidden to ever go back to the temple. And so Jeremiah says, you can just picture this in your mind. He hands the scroll to Baric that he just had written. And by the way, I think it took him over a year to write that. I don't have time to look at all the chronology, but you can line it up. I think it took over a year to write out all of What Jeremiah had been preaching, and when he's all done, Jeremiah says, Okay, good, here I want you to take this, and I want you to go to the temple, and I want you to read this there in the temple. I can't go there I'm forbidden to go. In fact, even if I went, they probably wouldn't listen to me. They mock at me. They call me terror all around. That's my nickname down there at the temple. So you have to Take my place, you have to go and you proclaim and read these words to the people that are there. Now the question is who was Baric? Well he was from a noble family. Towards him because he begins to befriend him and begins to serve and partner with Jeremiah to help in the ministry that Jeremiah is doing. 1978, some archaeologists discovered some seals there in Jerusalem on one of those seals. It says belonging to Barak the son of Nariah the scribe And there is no doubt, according to archaeologists, that this is the same man that's mentioned here in Jeremiah chapter thirty-six. And what this find substantiates is that he was a man who had a very promising governmental position and yet he left all of that to become a scribe, a helper for Jeremiah the prophet. Now here's Jeremiah saying, I want you to go now and repeat these words, read these words to the people in the temple. Now, I've told you before that the book of Jeremiah is kind of hard To find its chronological order sometimes. But between verses 7 and 8 belongs Jeremiah chapter 45. So what I want you to do is hold your place here and I want you to go to Jeremiah chapter forty five and this is important because in Jeremiah chapter forty five we see the response of Barak to uh Um Jeremiah's request. And chapter 45 is not very long. It's just five verses. Spake unto Barak the son of Nariah when he had written these words in a book at the mouth of Jeremiah. Look down in verse number two. Thus saith the Lord the God of Israel unto the Thee, O Barak, thou didst say, Woe is me now. By the way, his name actually means happy. That's kind of ironic because What was his response when Jeremiah said, I want you to take and read this book in the temple? You know what his response was according to verse 3? Woe is me now And the reason he said that it was because he knew what happened to Jeremiah when Jeremiah preached those messages. And now here's Jeremiah saying, I want you to go uh uh uh and and And take this to the temple. But here's the Lord, and it says, Thou this saith, Woe is me now, for the Lord had added grief to my sorrow. I fainted in my sighing, and I find no Rest. So here's God speaking to him. Mr. Happiness, and saying, You know, look, uh, you need to realize I'm bringing judgment on this place. What I've built up, I'm going to break down. What I've planted, I'm going to pull up. Look at verse number five. And seeketh thou great things for thyself Seek them not What was his problem? Well his problem was that uh he was still seeking things for himself and And he was probably concerned about his reputation. Here he is coming from a noble family, from a high governmental position, and now all of a sudden he's gotta go and he's gotta proclaim this message, and he's probably thinking, Man, what What's my family going to think? What's my friends going to think? I'm going to pay a big price to do this when I go to the temple and read these words of Jeremiah And uh, you know, the thing that hinders people from serving God is maybe just personal ambition or being just a little selfish for their own reputation, for their own uh Love of self, we could say, or love of their own namesake. And so here's h his problem. God says, You're seeking great things for yourself. Seek them not. What? In eighteen oh one there was a uh there in England the at the prestigious Cambridge University, they would test their math students to kind of rank them properly And uh, And uh he happened to go to church and he heard a preacher preach here on Jeremiah 45, 5. Seeketh out great things Things for thyself, seek them not. And he was convicted by that. And he repented for his own personal selfish ambitions. And as a result, he went And took the test, not caring what any anyone thought about how he did. He just wanted to do his best for God. And as a result, he got ranked first in the whole class But he didn't use his rank to further himself or his future. That student was named Henry Martin. He became one of the great missionaries of the church. He was a pioneer mission. And when he was remarked later about winning the top award at Cambridge, this is what he said. He said, I obtained my highest wish wishes, but was surprised to find I had grasped at a shadow. There are a lot of people out there doing a lot of things for their self-advancement, seeking great things for them for their self, but Not really doing much at all. They're grasping at shadows. And God says here to this man: stop seeking great things for yourself. And do what Well this this worked because go back to chapter 36 and look out at verse number eight. So Barak does what he's commanded And Barak the son of Nariah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the Lord in the Lord's house He overcame his fear. He began to embrace what the Lord told him to do, and he read the scroll there in the house of the Lord. And you know what happens? When, listen, and here's the point. You don't have to be called as a preacher to be used of God, to share God's word with others. You don't have to have a divine call in your life in that sense. And here's this man, and he's not a prophet. He's not a Creature, and yet here he is sharing the word of God. And you know what? When anyone shares the word of God, you know what happens? You unleash the power of God. Because God's Word Is the power of God. It is effective. It will accomplish the purpose of God. It doesn't matter who you are. If you're obeying the Lord and sharing His word. Go back to chapter 36. Look in verse 3. This is why God had it written down. Look at verse 3. It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do unto them that they may return every man from his evil way, that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin. Notice it may be again in verse 7, it may be That they will present their supplication before the Lord and return everyone from his evil way. You see, here's the point: the Word of God has power to convict. The Word of God has power to convict Now, don't get me wrong, the messenger should be clean and yielded to the Lord. But friend, the power is not really in the messenger. The power Is in the message itself. It's in the word itself. And so God says, write all this down. Because it might be that when they hear my warning, My judgments that they will be convicted, they will repent. And let me just say this, friend, when you allow yourself to be used of God to share the word Word of God with others, you are unleashing the power of God's word. And you know what? We need more people to do that. We need more people out there witnessing. We need more people that learn can learn and should learn How to teach the scripture correctly and accurately. You know what the church should be? The church should be an army of people that are going out and sharing the Word of God with the lost word. That's what the church should be. And friend, if you've been saved for any length of time, you should learn how to correctly handle the scripture and share the scripture with others. Because again the power is in the message itself. I think I told you when I was in Africa a few years ago in Ghana, I went to twenty-three villages and preached in three days it twenty three villages and some of those villages I preached several times in that one village. So you can add all that up. That's a lot of preaching. And I had a translator uh who would just I would say a sentence and then he would repeat and And I would preach the same sermon every time. So it got to be, and this translator's name was Elijah. That's the name that he took. That wasn't his real name. But he said, you can just call me Elijah. And he was a And it got to the point to where he already knew what I was going to say before I was going to say it. I preached the same sermon. And finally, after about ten times preaching that sermon, I said Elijah, just go preach it yourself. You don't need me to do it. And you know what? He did. He he finished out that preaching tour preaching the same word. The Word of God, and you know what? People were saved. He led so many people to Christ by preaching the Word. You see, again, the power is in the Word. Of God itself. And here's Jeremiah. Jeremiah says, I can't go to the temple of Barak. You're gonna have to do it. You're gonna have to share the Word of God. But when he did Now notice the third thing. Not only accept its inspiration, unleash its power. That's another thing we should do with God's Word, but here's the third thing. Receive its message. Look in verse number eleven. It's funny how we how different people respond differently to the Word of God. Look at verse eleven. And when Micaiah, the son of Jemariah The son of Shaythan had heard out of the book all the words of the Lord. Now, by the way, when Barak went to the temple, he actually went into an apartment that was close there to the temple court And I think what he did was he went to a window where he would be safe inside this apartment, went to a kind of an upper window, and just read the scripture. And this was a An apartment of a friend of his who wasn't home, but his son was home. His son was named Micaiah. And when he heard what was being said, you know what he did? He He received, he hung on every word. He received everything that Jeremiah said. Look at verse twelve. Then he went down to the king's house and to the scribes Chamber. Why did he go there? Because there were princes that were meeting there, and his father was one of them. And uh he went down there after he heard what Barak was reading He was so stirred that he went to the princes and he said, Look, you have to hear this. You have to hear what's being read. Look at verse 13. And then Micaiah declared unto them all All the words that he had heard when Barak read the book in the ears of the people, and therefore all the princes sent sent uh Jeho Jehudi The son of uh Nathaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushai, unto Barak, saying, Take in thy hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ear And so Barak the son of Nariah took the row in his hand and came to them and they said unto him, Sit down now and read it in our ears. So Barak read it in their ears. What we're going to see here is there is actually three readings of it. Once at the temple corp in front of all the people, Micaiah hears it, runs down to the princess. They send for uh Barak and they say, read it to us. And now here he is reading it before the princes, the leaders of Israel. And look in verse number 16. Now it came to pass when they had heard all the words, they were what? Afraid. They were afraid. You see, they they were listening. They believed it was God's word, and you know what the response it had? It struck fear in their heart. So here's Micaiah, and he's receiving it, and he's hanging on every word. And now here are these princes, they hear it, and they're afraid and they're trembling at the word of God. You know the problem I think in our country today is that there are people that have lost respect And people don't tremble at the warnings and the judgments of the Word of God anymore. And I think that's partly due because there have been people who have undermined the authority of Scripture And friend, when you do that, people begin to lose their fear of God and their fear of the word of God. But here are these men, and they hear this Word and they receive it as being from God, and they tremble at it. I don't know about you, but when I come to God's house and I hear the word of God preached, sometimes it causes me to tremble When I hear the judgments and the wrath of God, I tremble. And I tremble not only for myself, but for others who don't know the Lord. And the Bible says that's one of the responses we should Let me tell you something, it's a serious thing to be exposed to the truth of God because God when He when when He gives us the privilege of sitting under the Word of God that is a heavy responsibility that we will have to get Did you I had a person ask me this week. They said um does does does God see all sins equally? questions. Does God are there some sins worse than others in the sight of God? Uh are there some sins more abominable to God than others? And of course my response Was you know, God is holy and God hates all sin. But there are some sins that God looks upon with greater wrath than others. Some sins are more abominable Than others. You say, how do we know that? Because Jesus made it very clear in Matthew chapter 11 that there are degrees of punishment. And if there are degrees of punishment, what does that imply There are degrees of sin. There are some sins that a person might commit that are worse than others. And you remember there in Matthew chapter 11 when Jesus was pronounced These are the cities where he had preached and he had proclaimed the Word of God, and they saw many of his miracles. And you remember what Jesus said? It's going to be more tolerable For Sodom and Gomorrah than for you. It's going to be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon than for you. Now we already know how wicked Sodom and Gomorrah was. And here are these cities, and Jesus says, you know what? These are wicked cities, but you know what? In the day of judgment, it's going to be more tolerable for them than it is for you talking to these Jews Jewish towns and villages. Now, what did these Jewish towns do that was so much worse than Sodom and Gomorrah? And tired and sighted? What did they do? Here's what they did They did not receive the word of God. They did not receive the revelation that God had given them. That was their sin. They just simply refused to believe what Jesus was saying was of God. They rejected the revelation of God. And I want to say something. When people reject God's word, he Takes it personal. And here God says about these cities. It's going to be more tolerable for these other wicked cities than for you because you've had the revelation, you've had the truth Right here in front of you, and you've rejected it. You know what? Here in America, we are so privileged. We have the Word of God all around us. We have several mediums in which we can Receive the Word of God, but you know what? There's a great accountability that comes with that. And if you come and you're under the ministry of the Word, God holds you accountable for the light and the revelation that you have We need to make sure that we are receiving the word of God. Now let me give you number four. We're to accept its inspiration, we're to unleash its power. We're to receive its message, and this brings us to the fourth thing. We're to fear its warnings. Now here's the next reading. Look down in verse number 19 of chapter 36. Then Now and when they heard what was being read, these princes knew that the king was And so their their first advice was to go hide. Because they already knew that That the king had killed another prophet back in chapter twenty-six in the book of Jeremiah, and had thrown this prophet's body to the valley of Hennan to rot there. And they knew that the king wouldn't Hesitate to do the same thing to Jeremiah and Barak. And so he says, Go and hide. And sure enough later on the king does ask where they are. That the Lord hid them. And let me tell you something. When God hides you, nobody's going to find you. And so they were hidden. Now it was late in the winter, December And look at verse 21, back up to verse 21. So the king sent Jehudai to fetch the roll, and he took it out of Eli Shamah, the scribe. Chamber. And Jehudai read it in the ears of the king, and the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king. Now this is the third reading. The princes now recommended the king hear These words. And so picture it, the king's in his winter palace. He's sitting before a fire keeping himself warm. And now there's a there's a man there reading it, a scribe that's reading. Reading the word of God to him. But look at verse number twenty-three. And it came to pass that when Jehudai had read three or four leaves, he cut it So what's happening here Jehoiakim the king, as the word of God is being read, takes a little knife, probably a knife used by the scribe. And as soon as the scribe, Jehudai, would unroll a section and read it, the king would cut that column out, and then he would just throw it into the fire. And he would do it leaf by leaf, methodically. He used the scribe's pin knife to cut the holy scripture into pieces and then throw those pieces into the fire And I like what Kidner wrote here. He said the king's slow methodical destruction of the scroll, keeping pace with the steady progress of the reading, made his rejection a far more emphatic gesture than a swift reaction in hot blood. That's very true. This wasn't just a momentary anger where he took the whole scroll and threw it in the fire. This was one piece at a time Very slowly, very methodically, you could think probably over a period of hours as this is being read, he just cuts one piece at a time Throws it into the fire, and this shows the ungodliness, the stubbornness, the rejection of the king, slowly burning one part at a time Now think about this. This was not the first time in Jeremiah's lifetime that the Word of God had been read before a king. Because years earlier, during Jeremiah's ministry. There was another king who had the word of God read to him. And you might remember this story in 2 Kings 22, when the Word of God was discovered in the temple. And And they gave it to Shaphan the scribe who read it before the king. Remember his name? His name was Josiah. And you remember when the scribe read the word of God before Josiah? What happened? What was his response? The Bible says he rent his clothes and he trembled before the word. He was afraid. He repented in his own heart. And then he began to To lead the nation in revival. Now, here is Josiah's son, years later. And now the word of God is being read to him. And his reaction Is completely the opposite. He has no fear of God, no fear of the Lord. In fact, look down in verse number 24. Yet they were not afraid nor rent their garments, neither the king nor any of his servants that heard all these words. There was no fear of God in them. They weren't Afraid of what was happening there, neither the king or some of those princes, the handful of princes that were there, mocking at the word, burning, cutting and burning the word of God. There was no fear whatsoever in their heart. How things had changed there in Judah. By the way, let me just say to you know there are people still cutting up the Bible today, maybe not literally with a penknife You know, you've read of Reader's Digest Condensed Version of the Bible, where they decided to take out all the parts of the Bible that was unnecessary and really just cut it down. There are some people that do that today We have a tendency to say in the church in America to form a God of our own thinking, and we only read the parts of the Bible that we like that It's our our predetermined idea of what God should be, and then we forget the rest of it. We try to define God instead of allowing the scripture to define who he is, and in a sense, people are still Cutting up the Bible. Some want to cut the biblical authors, some want to cut books out of the Bible, and so on. And so now here's God's word with this king being cut up And the Bible says they were not afraid. But let me just say this it is a dangerous thing to tamper with the word of God. It's dangerous. Will judge this man. Go back to chapter 36. Look down at verse number 29. Here's what God says to uh the king, and thou shalt say unto Jehoiakim, king of Judah Thus saith the Lord, thou hast burned this role, saying, Why hast thou written therein, saying the king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast Therefore, thus saith the Lord of Jehoiakim, King of Judah, he shall have none to sit upon the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat in the night. And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity, and I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I I had pronounced against them, but they hearkened not. And so, what does God do here? First, God says you'll have no descendants to follow you on the throne. This is a good judgment from God. Second, he says your corpse will be discarded. There will be no royal burial. You will have the burial actually of a of an animal, which is none at all. And all the calamity that I have declared would certainly come upon you and your family family and all the men of Judah. So in essence here's a king who tried to hinder God's work from happening by destroying the word of God, and actually he was the one who was destroyed. Friend, we need to fear the warnings of Scripture. But this man did not have a fear of the Word of God. Now let me give you the last thing. We should accept its inspiration. We should unleash its power. We should receive its message. We should fear its warning. But notice the last thing. We should consider its preservation. Because look what God says to Jeremiah Jeremiah. Look at verse 27. Then the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the roll, and the words which Barak wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah saying, Take thee another scroll roll and write in it all the former words that were in the first row, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah hath burned. And so Jeremiah does that. Look at verse 32. Then took Jeremiah King of Judah had burned in the fire, and there were added besides unto them many like words. So what happened? Here's this king trying to destroy God's word. You can't destroy God's word. Jeremiah Just wrote another scroll, actually, Baric. And in fact, more was added. That's that's the word of God. You can't get rid of it, you can't destroy it. You might You know, throw the pages of it into the fire, but you're not going to destroy God's words. And you know what? Here's the thing. One of the reasons that I know the Bible is the Word of God. You know men this is kind of a foreshadowing of what men would do. They would try men ha through the years have tried To destroy and stamp out the Word of God, but guess what? He man can't do that. You can't get rid of the scripture. Uh we have many, many illustrations I could give In history about this very thing. But one is the emperor, the Roman Emperor Diocletian, who decided he wanted to stamp out Christianity. And whenever there was an ash pile, he would erect a pillar over that pile that said the name of Christianity is ex is extinct. All over his empire he would burn Bibles. That he had burned every Bible, and finally Christianity was gone. But you know what? What he didn't realize is that it was still growing under him, his his reign as emperor. By suicide, and the very next emperor began to print Bibles paid for by the government. All those Bibles that he thought were gone were not gone. They people came out of the woodworks With the scripture. You can't destroy the word of God. And so, friend, God's word is preserved. And again, that's one of the reasons why I believe it's the Word of God. We cannot destroy it. And so my question then, and I more I could say, but we're out of time. What are you doing with your Bible? What you Are you reading the scripture? Are you in God's Word? Do you appreciate the gift that God has given to you? Us his precious word. The word of God should be our daily guide, our daily companion. What are you doing with the Word of God? Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we thank you for the scripture. We thank you that indeed it is the inspired Word of God. Thank you, Lord, that you have preserved it for us. Even though Satan has tried to take it, men have tried to stamp it out. Storms of hate have swirled about it, but yet here it stands. Here it is before us. We thank you, Lord, for your word, and I pray for you Father, that you'll help us, Lord, to realize that our relationship with you is really linked to our Love for the scripture, our desire to learn it, to know it, to share it. Lord, I pray that you would speak to hearts tonight, that there would be people here that would be willing to be used This is the hope for all mankind that they might know you through your word. And so Lord, speak to our hearts tonight. Use this word to challenge us to be people of the book to unleash its power. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.