If you take your Bibles tonight, I want you to open to uh the Gospel of Luke chapter 13 tonight, the Gospel of Luke chapter 13, and tonight I want to preach on this topic. What would Jesus say about 9-11? I think all of us have probably heard a lot of things being said about this day because it's being remembered and rightfully so. I think there are a few events that take place in history that have such a dramatic impact on us that we never forget them. And in fact we may remember where we were when we heard about what was going on on 9-11 18 years ago. uh on that beautiful morning. Uh that morning I was actually in seminary, I was in class. I had to get to class 6. 30 that morning. So I was in class all day long and didn't hear anything until I got out of class went to chapel and the chapel bulletin actually had the uh had the report of what was going on. Of course we know the story how that the uh religious fanatics had had uh hijacked some planes and uh they had a meticulously planned operation where they would fly these planes into the twin towers in New York and then of course that was just a a a terrible tragedy that we all remember One report says this at 8. 45 on that beautiful September morning, American Airlines flight 11 with 92 people on board tore into the North Tower It's 20,000 guns, uh, excuse me, gallons of aviation fuel igniting a blaze that reached an estimated temperature of 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit. About 20 minutes later, United Airlines Flight 175, carrying 65 people, buried itself in the South Tower with the same catastrophic results. And then it just goes on to talk about some of the terrible things that we all remember seeing that took place on that day. And we don't uh forget as well. that in Washington, the Pentagon was attacked with a an airline uh airplane, I should say, flew in there into the uh Pentagon, killing two hundred people, and of course the airplane that lost 45 lives that crashed in Pennsylvania. In Britain, the Times called it a tragedy that stretched human powers of understanding to the breaking point. Another newspaper said this, history will never be the same again. I think we could say it hasn't been the same, has it? Things changed after that. So much changed, and it changed forever. So the question is, uh I know there's a lot of questions that people pose about this when they remember it. Some say, you know, where was God on September 11? Well, God was the same place he's always been for every tragedy He was on the throne. He didn't neglect being sovereign at that moment in time. But another question more importantly is how are we to respond to tragedy? What does Jesus tell us? And I think the Lord gives us some answers to this uh uh in this passage that we're going to look at in Luke chapter 13 verses 1 down to verse number 9. Let me give you the context of what's going on here. Actually Jesus had just rebuked the multitudes because they were able to discern the weather, but they were oblivious to the signs of the time. And that's in chapter 12 of Verses just preceding. Look in chapter twelve, verse fifty-seven, yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? Verse fifty-eight of chapter twelve, when thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate As thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him, lest he hail thee to judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison. Verse 59 I tell thee Thou shalt not depart thence till thou hast paid the very last money. And so Jesus uses illustration of a man who's going to be dragged into a court. With a losing case, a losing lawsuit against him. If he's smart, Jesus says he'll settle out of court. If he's smart, he'll settle quickly. Before he is brought in before what? The judgment. You don't want to go to the judge if you have a losing case, right? So you want to settle out of court. And then right into that, look in chapter 13, verse 1. And there were present at that season some that told him of the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices And verse 2, and Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galileans were sinners above all the Galileans, because they suffered such things? Now we don't know anything about this event that's reported. It's just said right here in the book of Luke that there were some Galileans that went to the temple, they were there, they worshiped. Somewhere along the line it got a little bit out of hand. We don't know what exactly what happened, but Pilate sent some troops to break up the gathering of Jews because he deemed that they were dangerous there as they were worshiping the temple for some reason The Roman soldiers that went there, that were dispatched to the temple, did not respect the fact that the Jews were worshiping God by offering their sacrifices, and the soldiers slaughtered them right in the middle of their worship. And their blood flowed together, the Bible says in verse 1, whose blood Pilate mingled with their sacrifices. And so, again, we don't know much about this. We do know that from historical accounts, Pilate could be very cruel, and this was a cruel act that he did. Can you imagine A killing taking place during a worship service? Well, I guess we can imagine that because we've heard of that, haven't we? We've heard of people coming into services with guns and killing people. Well, this happens here in Scripture This is a terrible thing. You talk about police brutality. You talk about the abuse of power And Jesus uses this current event to make a spiritual point. He asks the question in verse 2 Do you think these Galileans that were slaughtered, do you think there were worse sinners than you or all the rest of the Galileans? Do you think they were worse? In other words, was this dreadful suffering an indication that these particular Galileans were really wicked? They were worse off than anyone else Because there were many in the ancient world and even today that believe a person's suffering is in direct proportion to their sin. And Jesus responds in verse 3. Look at verse 3. I tell you, nay. There was nothing worse about these Galileans than anyone else. They were not worse sinners. Jesus debunks this type of thinking, this erroneous theology. And then Jesus brings up another tragedy. Look down in verse number four. Or those eighteen upon whom the tower in Siloam fell and slew them. Think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? Again, Jesus says, do you think that these people, and again this is an event that we know very little about, that there was a tower there in Siloam, it fell, people were killed. And Jesus asked the question, do you think the people that were in that tower that when it fell and killed them, do you think they were worse sinners than anyone else? Than those that were spared that. We could put this question in our contemporary setting. Do you think the people that were killed in the recent shootings that we heard about in the media. Do you think that they were worse sinners than anyone else, those that were killed? Do you think That the people, the thousands that were in the Twin Towers on 911, that morning when those towers fell, do you think that those people were worse sinners than those who escaped? Again, what's the answer to that question that Jesus would give? No. Look at verse 5. I tell you, nay. No, absolutely not. Now, keep in mind here that Jesus was speaking to a crowd of people who did not apply spiritual truth to themselves These people were smug. They thought that those people that suffered these kind of tragedies, they were really bad sinners. And the reason they didn't suffer those kind of tragedies is because God found something good in them The fact that you're suffering and I'm not means you're a worse sinner than I am. And that was the way that these people thought. Their theology was like that of Job's comforters who thought that Job was suffering because he had sinned. And Jesus again corrects this mistaken view by showing what? We are all sinners. We are all worthy of the judgment of God. There's no one any better than anyone else in God's sight with respect to this. Two times Jesus says, no. They weren't any worse. Look at verse 3. Again, I tell you, nay. But except you repent, you'll all likewise what? Perish. Look in verse 5. I tell you, nay. But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. And then Jesus underscores this point by teaching a parable in verses 6 to 9. But Jesus is teaching us that many times we ask the wrong question when tragedy strikes. When tragedy strikes, what's the question that we ask? We say, why? Why? Why did this happen? Why me? Why them? When really the question that we should ask is what? Not why did this happen to them or me, but what does this tragedy teach me? And our Lord's answer is this tragedy should teach us That since death and judgment are imminent, we need to be ready through true repentance. Since we don't know what's going to come, we don't know what's going to happen to us. Let me tell you something. You better make sure that you've repented. You better make sure that you're ready, that you all of your sins have been repented of, that you have been saved, that you've come to the Lord and you know it. You better make sure that's how you're ready for tragedy. And that's why it says you better repent. But let before we examine these verses a little closer. And then look at the parable. Let me just make a a passing comment on the Lord's method here. Now Jesus, he could have, when this tragedy came, he could have taken the opportunity to uh the opportunity to launch into a critique. of Pilate and his cruelty. He could have questioned Pilate's political agenda and go on a campaign to have him removed from office, but that's not what he did. He could have lobbied for sword control. But he didn't. If he did that, he would have missed a valuable spiritual opportunity. He could have plunged into a deep philosophical discussion about the problem of evil. But if he did that, his hearers would have walked away totally unchanged. Jesus didn't do any of that. When tragedy struck, Jesus didn't get political and he didn't get philosophical. Jesus got personal. He emphasized to them that you, what when tragedy strikes, you don't need to go out on a political march and try to change things, and I'm not saying that's always wrong He's not saying you need to get into a political, uh philosophical rather discussion about where evil came from. And again, that can be productive at times. But he said the real thing that you need to do is you need to make sure that you're ready for tragedy when it because it might happen to you. It might come upon you. Do you think you escape this because you're better than anyone else? No. No. And since you don't know when death is going to come, since you don't know when tragedy is going to strike, you better make sure that you have repented it. So what is Jesus telling us? Tragedies should force us to examine our own standing before a holy God. What if you were in that tower? Would you be ready to face the Lord? And so he says we need to be ready for that. when it comes. And so there are really two kinds of tragedies in the text that we see here. Those caused by evil people, and certainly we see people victim of that, victim of what other evil people do to them and those caused by accidents or we could say natural disasters. But you know the worst tragedy? Can I tell you a tragedy that's worse than any natural evil or any moral evil that might come upon a person. You know the worst tragedy there is is for a person to die without Christ. That's the worst tragedy. That is the tragedy of tragedies. That's the worst thing. Go back to chapter 12, look down at verse number 5, notice Luke 12, 5, and notice what Jesus says here. Actually, start in verse 4. But I say unto you, friends, my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body. And after that, have no more that they can do. Look at verse 5. But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear. Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell. Yea, I say unto you, fear him. What you need to be afraid of is what will happen to a person after death. Man can kill the body, but he can't do anything with his soul. You better fear the one that's able not only to take your physical life, he can take your life and he can take your soul and cast it into hell. That's the worst tragedy of all. That's the greatest tragedy. And so we need to learn that these earthly tragedies should cause us to stop and think about our own life. To make sure that we can avoid the worst tragedy that could ever happen to any man, which is that a person die without Christ and go to hell. You better make sure that you're not a part of that tragedy. Every earthly tragedy should cause us to stop. It should cause us to focus and reflect on our own life. What's our standing before God? So with that in mind, let's just let me give you three lessons we learned from tragedy. I'll just I already said some of it, but I'm just gonna go over these points here with you. Number one, tragedies come from the curse of sin. Tragedies come from the curse of sin. Jesus here affirms what Genesis teaches about a man being a sinner. All men are sinners, and all are deserving of God's judgment. Do you understand that? All are worthy and deserving of it, as the book of Job shows, even the most righteous man on earth, Job. Has no case against God. God has a perfect right to afflict that man with terrible suffering without answering to anyone for what he does. When we talk about good people or innocent children, we're talking in relative terms. And I know what you mean by that. We all know what you mean by that. Some people are better in relation to others, but no one is good in relation to God. No one. Every child is born with an evil heart Even the most righteous man on earth is a sinner who deserves God's righteous judgment. The Bible says that all of us were created Uh we were Adam was created in innocence, but man's sin came and because of man's sin, we were born into sin, and because of that sin a curse came upon the earth. All natural disasters. And by the way, it was man's sin, and then God cursed the earth for it. All natural disasters, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes, droughts. Epidemics, diseases, they stem from a man's rebellion against God. And by the way, God will remove evil and suffering from the earth. One day, finally, it'll all be put down. The Bible tells us that in Revelation 21, there will be a new heavens and a new earth, and God shall wipe away what? All tears, all evil, all suffering, all death. will be removed. All tragedy will be gone. But we know that it's here now as a result of man's sin. But here, number two, Tragedies come from the curse of sin, but number two, tragedies show us that life is fragile and we must get ready for death. Again, when tragedy hits someone else Whether that tragedy is caused by evil people or some natural disaster, we like to talk about it. We're glued to the television when it takes place. We watch the details over and over when they're reported But after it's over, you know what we pretty much do is we just continue on in our life pretty much unchanged. We we we we focus on it for a little while and then we forget about it. And Jesus shows us that we should take it to heart. We should think about it. Again, what if that had been me? Would I be ready to stand before God? Have I truly repented? Because the fact of the matter is, sooner or later it will be me. Death will come to me and you as well. None of the Galileans who were slaughtered by Pilate knew beforehand That when they went to that worship service that day in the temple, that that would be the last service that they would ever attend. They didn't know that. None of the people that went to the tower At Silo on that day when that tower fell on them, they had no idea that that would be the last day of their life. And again, we could apply this to a contemporary setting. People that were victims of An evil person sh shooting. They had no idea that that morning when they left ha the house, that that would be the last time that they would see their loved one. That it was over. Uh you know, just up here on Route 40, I don't know if you all saw this, but about I think it was t was it two Fridays ago, there was a bed accident and it kind of jammed up things on 40. And uh we finally passed by and saw where there was a car accident there, and I later read that two people died in that accident. Two people died. Think about that. These were two people probably on their way home for the afternoon, going going home on Friday afternoon, got close to their house, had an accident, had no idea That that was going to happen. And their life was taken. The point is, life is very fragile. You say, well, I'm I'm young and healthy. Do you think death is a respecter of young and healthy people Absolutely not. We because all of us are sinners, we have one pressing need, and that is to get right with God before we perish. Look in look in verse two, where Jesus uses the word sinners. The word sinners in verse two is the normal word for sinners, Amartia. But then you get down to verse number four. He uses the word sinners, but that's a totally different Greek word. The Greek word for sinners in verse four is ophilata. Which is actually a debtor's debtors. And I think he's going back to the illustration in chapter twelve, verse fifty-eight and fifty-nine, that we're all debtors Against God, we're either going to pay for our sin by our eternal separation from God in hell, or we can trust the death of Jesus Christ as our substitute. But here's the bottom line: we all have an account that we have to settle We all have a case before the judge. You better get it settled out of court. You better get it settled before you die. Before you face him. But then here's the third thing. Tragedies come from the curse of sin. Tragedy show us that life is fragile, we must get ready for death. But here's the third lesson. Tragedy should drive us to repentance, which will spare us from perishing. And again, two times Jesus says in verse three, repent, and then in verse five, repent, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise We know what repentance means. It means to turn. Meta means to uh uh to uh after or noya is to understand, so literally it's an afterthought. Or we could say a change of mind, a change of attitude, where we change our mind, our attitude towards God, towards sin, towards righteousness. Where we realize that we're sinners and we turn from it. A person first comes to themselves. Think about the prodigal son. The Bible says that he came to himself, he saw himself as a sinner, and nothing More than that, nothing but that a sinner. And and that was the beginning of his repentance, his change of mind where he turned to the Lord with all his heart. And that's what repentance is. And it involves all of us. A change of our mind which leads to change of affections. There's a genuine sorrow over our sin, and then a commitment to turn from it and to turn to the Lord with all our heart. That's real repentance. It's not remorse, it's not regret, but repentance, where there is a commitment of the life, where not only do you grieve over sins past, but you change your direction for the future. You turn to the Lord. You say, how do I know that my repentance is real? Well, this is where Jesus gives the parable. Look in verse number 6. And he spake also this parable. And so he's going to answer this question, how do I know if my repentance is real? And so notice first of all what I said called a fig tree in verse six. He spake also this parable, a certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and he sought fruit thereon, and he found none. Now Israel at this time was a agricultural society, and so therefore Jesus taught parables with agricultural metaphors and analogies. Fig trees were very common in Israel. If you go there today, you'll see a lot of them. It was not only the land of milk and honey, it was the land of vineyards and fig trees. And fig trees could grow grow to a height of twenty-five feet They could also be as wide as twenty feet wide. The fruit on the fig tree is kind of like a little plum, or maybe a a a large cherry in size. And they produced figs every year. Normally a fig tree in Israel was pretty fruitful. If they were well taken care of, they could provide shade. You remember the story of Nathaniel where Jesus saw him sitting under his fig tree? Because that was the sign of prosperity. You had a big fig tree. It was a great place for shade. You could eat the fruit from the figs, and they were dotted all along the landscape of Israel. But a fig tree that was planted in a vineyard, that was especially fruitful. Because the vineyards were the ground that was most prepared by landowners They would protect it, they would put a fence around it, they would fertilize it, they would water it, they would do all these things. It was just the perfect place to plant a fig tree. And notice that in this parable, that's where he plants his fig tree, verse six. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his what, his vineyard. So here's this owner. He prepares the vineyard. He carefully plants the tree there. The owner doesn't plant it for show. This obviously isn't going to be an ornamental tree. He doesn't plant it there for wood, for fire. What's he expecting off this tree? He wants fruit Planted on ground that's been prepared. Shall we see the fig tree? Then notice the frustrated owner. Look again at verse 6. It says that he came and he sought fruit thereon and he found what? He found none. The owner kept looking for fruit, and what? Nothing. It would come, look for a fig, nothing. It'll come back a little later, perhaps weeks later, checking this tree, nothing And then year after year he would check the tree. In verse seven, how long was it? For three years, he says. He's been checking this tree for fruit, and still there is no fruit. Look at verse 7. Then he said unto the dresser of his vindant, behold, look at the word behold there. That's kind of a surprise. He's he's shocked. That expresses shock. Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this tree and find none. That's why it's shocking. For three years? Are you serious? I put this tree here in this vineyard with this well-kept ground. It's well guarded, well watered. And for three years I have nothing, no fruit. It enjoyed this tree, enjoyed the confines of that vineyard, it enjoyed his protection, his nurture, his care. It drank up water from his supply. It drank it ate up nutrients from the soil. But it was useless For the purpose for which he planted it. And so what does he say in verse number seven at the last phrase? Cut it down. Just cut it down. Why does it cover the ground? This is an expression of frustration. This is an expression of disgust. I've been looking for fruit, fruit all these years. Nothing. Just cut it down. Get rid of it. Look at the end of verse 7. Why cumber it the ground? It's just taking up space. Why should I even allow this tree to continue to occupy this space? Just get rid of it. It's just soaking in water and taking up nutrients and producing nothing. Get rid of it. But then notice what I call the final cause. Look at verse 8. And he answering, who's the he there? This is the this is the vine dresser, this is the worker of the vineyard. This isn't the owner, this is the keeper of the vineyard. And he answered, said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also Till I shall dig about it and dung it. And verse 9, and if it bear fruit, well, and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. So this is the final chance here. The keeper of the vineyard says to the owner, I tell you what, let's just give it one more chance. Let's not cut it down just yet. Now the decree has already been gone out. Cut it down. Get rid of it Do you realize for lost people that don't know Jesus, the decree has already gone out? He that believeth not is condemned already. The decree has already been made. But you know what? God still has mercy. And so the fine keeper says, or the keeper of the vineyard says, you know, just give it one more year. I'll dig it. I'll fertilize it, the word dig here, skepto, uh to loosen the soil, aerate the ground, allow the water to get in, let me fertilize it, let me put some fertilizer in the right place There was a certain way they did that to loosen up the soil, keep the water flowing whenever it was appropriate. He said, you know, let me do that, Lord, and in verse 9, and and uh and let's just see what happens And if it bear fruit, well. And if not, then cut it down. And that's where the sermon ends, right there. Kind of ends abruptly. And the idea is you make the application. And I think the crowd that Jesus was speaking to, there were Jewish people, they they understood it, they got it. They made the application, but the the question you tonight did you get it? You understand what he's getting at? Let's let's talk about it. Who's the owner of the vineyard? Who does that represent? That's God the Father, right? Who's the keeper of the vineyard? That's Jesus, right? He's the one laboring in the owner's vineyard. He's the one who is seeking to nurture and care for the owner's tree. The great Puritan John Bunyan, when he was preaching this parable, this is what he said: Barren fig tree, see how the Lord Jesus, by these very words, suggesteth the cause of thy fruitless soul. The things of this world lie too close to thy heart. The earth with all its things bound up by roots. He's kind of making application there. But the fig tree, who does the fig tree represent? And I think it has a two-fold application. There's kind of a near and far and the near immediate application of this, this no doubt represents who? It represents Israel. Because Jesus is speaking to the nation. He's speaking to the Jews of his day. The three years might refer to the three-year ministry of Jesus for three years Jesus has been ministering in the vineyard, which is the nation of Israel. He looks at the fruit tree, which is the people of Israel, and what does he see? He doesn't see any fruit. He's been laboring. What fruit is he looking for? The fruit of repentance. He hasn't seen any. There's been a small handful. of people that have come to know him, but for the most part, they have rejected him. And so he's been working for three years. The owner, God the Father, says, just cut the fig tree down. Just let me bring judgment. And Jesus, the keeper, says, let's just give it a little more time. Just a little more time. Jesus was still in his earthly ministry. In just a short time, he would be going to Jerusalem. He would be going to the cross. There was still a little time left for the people to repent. And so Jesus says, give them just a little more time. Remember what John the Baptist said in Luke 3. 9, you better bring forth fruits, meat for what? Repentance. Because the axe head is laid at the root. This tree is getting ready to come down. You better make sure That you show the fruits of repentance. And so the keeper says, just hold that act, hold it just a little longer. Let's give people time to repent. Let's see what happens. And notice again verse 9. Notice the word if is used twice. And verse nine. And if it bear fruit, well. And then the next says, and if not, then okay. You know when the Let me give you a little Greek lesson here. You guys okay with that? What is there are two times whenever you're studying and you see the word if there uh you you automatically go back to the Greek. This is a conditional clause, kind of the if then. If you do this, then this will happen. In Greek there are three Three class of conditions. There's first class condition, second and third. First class condition is if, and this that means it's probably going to happen. First class condition is, yeah, this is going to happen. Third class condition if is it's probably not going to happen. Possible, probably not. So whenever you see the if there though the thing that you want to look at is what what class condition is this? If is the if here Going to happen in verse 9, the first if, where it says, and if it bear fruit, that is third class conditional. If it bears fruit, fruit, and that is unlikely. So he says to the to the owner, if it bears free, it's probably not going to at this point. Probably won't. There's a possibility that it might If it does, however, well, kind of elliptical, well, you know, okay, good. If it does. But the second if is first class, that is, it's a surety. Because if If it doesn't bear fruit, then the next if is sure. If not, then after that thou shalt cut it down. You can be sure that if a person doesn't bring the fruits of true repentance They'll get cut down. That is sure. And so this tree was living on borrowed time. You ever hear someone say that? You're living on borrowed time The tree's living on borrowed time. You got just a little time here. You can show the fruits of real repentance. You got a little time to do that. And if not, then you can rest assured that you will get judged. You will be cut down. Now the second application, we know it uh its immediate application to Israel, but the next application is to you and me. It's to us. The tree represents me. The tree represents you. You see, just like the owner planted the fig tree in his vineyard, even so God the Father planted you And me in this world, every person who has ever lived on this planet was created by a good and merciful God. And the purpose you were put here is to bring him glory. That's why you're here. Every person who breathes God's air, who drinks God's water, who eats God's food, who partakes of the life that God has granted him here in this beautiful creation You were put here, it wasn't an accident, it was on purpose, but you were put here to produce fruit for God. To give something back to God. But how many people live only unto themselves? There's no real fruit of repentance, there's no real desire to live for God or live for his glory. And although through creation and conscience, if not through the word, everyone knows that God is a holy God, they suppress that truth about God. They push that truth away. And they disregard God's merciful warnings. Did it ever occur to anyone in our country that these tragedies that come is a warning from God that you better wake up? You better wake up. This life is not God didn't promise you so many years. You're not promised tomorrow. When a tragedy comes, it's a wake-up call for everyone. And so this tree was planted, given all these privileges, and yet it bore nothing. And if people don't respond to God's goodness, to his love, to his nurture, to his blessing. And they don't repent. Really the two lessons of this parable, and we have to close here, but it's the urgency of repentance. You better repent. Now you are on borrowed time. God puts you here in this vineyard. He's been good to you. You better bring the fruit of repentance. You got a little time to do that. If not, the order is already gone out. It's already gone out. Cut it down. God's patiently waiting for those to repent and come to come to him. And the second lesson is this, that the the authenticity of repentance, how do we know our repentance is real? It produces fruit. Not foliage, but fruit. Fig leaves have uh or fig trees have big leaves. They look good on the outside, but this tree had zero fruit. And the fruit that God is looking for is the fruit of genuine repentance. True turning to the Lord with brokenness with all your heart. Coming to Him. And the Bible says God's waiting. 2 Peter 3:9. The Lord is not willing that any should what? But that all should come to repentance. And so what is this? What is Jesus, what would he say? If Jesus were here today and someone stuck a microphone in his face and said, Can you give us a comment on nine eleven? You know what Jesus would say, same thing he said here. You think you think you were any better than those people in that tower? You better repent, or you're also going to perish. That's what he would say. Let's let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, may we take these words to heart. This is the word that our country desperately needs to hear Lord, I pray for our country. I pray for our nation that you would bring true revival to us. We know that the answer is in the gospel. Lord, may the gospel run swiftly through our land. May people truly see that they are living on borrowed time. That they better be ready because we know death is going to come to us all. May every person that ever hears this sermon prepare themselves to avoid the greatest tragedy of all, to die without Christ. To face an eternity without God, an eternal punishment. Lord, may there be true repentance that comes to every heart that hears your word. May there be a true turning to the Lord. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give you a moment there, right where you are, just to examine your own heart. I know this is a Wednesday night crowd, but I think the Lord calls upon us to examine our heart To make sure that we know Christ. And I want you to do that, friend. I want you to examine your own heart to make sure that you know the Lord, that your repentance is. Take a moment to remember again those who have Suffered because of this tragedy that we remember. Pray for them. Pray for family. Pray for our country. Lord bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.