Now, I want to uh you know I'm gonna be doing a series here. Uh I actually I was doing this in my couples class, so I'm just gonna take what I was doing over there and just bring it over here into this class, and I want to talk to you about the subject of apologetics Let me back up and say, you know, this is going to be like a Bible class. Some of you might know that I teach uh as an adjunct for Faye Theological, and also I do some adjunct work for uh Crown Seminary in Tennessee. Every once in a while they'll call me down there to do an intensive where I'll teach Master of Divinity students on different topics and different subjects And that and a week intensive is when you take a whole semester's worth of work and you cram it into one week. You know, you just teach all day and uh they have to listen to me all day for the whole week and then they have all kind of assignments they gotta pass in and this, that, and the other. So I do some of these intensives. I do uh class here f at Faith throughout the you know here in Baltimore. Um I do teach on Thursday to them. So I'm just going to treat you like my seminary class. Is that okay? All right, so you are now in the Harmon Baptist Theological Seminary. So you're going to be you're going to be taking a class here and some of the stuff I'm going to I share with them, I'm going to share with you. And uh what I want to do in this class is kind of also make it a bit uh informal in the sense that I want some feedback from you. I might ask you a question, I might say if you have a comment, something that you want to um you know ask about or talk about. So we're going to treat it more like a classroom, is that okay? And um and so I have two mics down here, wireless mics, and I might ask Maybe one of you gentlemen, if you could uh maybe take a mic to somebody who has a question or has a comment, and uh maybe uh you know Brother Brian or Brother Pennington, you know, you could just grab that mic and then just hand it to someone if they have a question. about anything. So the topic that I'm going to be dealing with here today is the topic of apologetics. That's what we want to talk about. And the question is then what is apologetics? When we talk about apologetics, what do we mean? What are we talking about? And uh oh, by the way, we didn't pray, did we? Let me let me pray. Well we actually prayed two times, but let me pray. Let me pray. Father, thank you for this opportunity to be here and to teach your word, and I pray that you'll bless the word as it goes out. Help me, Lord, as a teacher of your word to be clear. And I pray that they'll that that as a result of this that they'll be built up in the knowledge of you. not only just in their mind academically, but more important spiritually as we live out your truth in this world today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So the question is, what is apologetics? Now what I'd like you to do is take your Bible and open to 1 Peter 3, verse number 15. If you'll open to that passage this morning, 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 15. And uh I want you to look at this verse here. Scholars like to use a technical term for particular texts of Scripture, and they call this the Locus Classicus. You say, well, what is that? Locus classicus. That's just a uh a Latin term that simply means classical location. And this term uh you know is uh used When a scholar or a teacher wants to say that this is a particular text that supports a certain discipline and a certain doctrine. Um it's just really s a fancy way of calling attention to what is used to support a discipline. In other words, they'll say this is the uh if they're teaching on a topic, they'll say this is the classical verse that teaches this discipline, this topic that we're going to talk about. And they call it the Locus Classicus. And so the Locus Classicus The typical verse that we defer to when we talk about this subject, this term of apologetics, is 1 Peter 3 and verse number 15. And uh we know that verse, you've probably heard it many times, but look what it says there. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asks you of the reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And so uh apologetics then comes from this verse here where it talks about to give an answer. Look at that phrase there where it talks about to give an answer. And really this is the Greek word apologia. Apologia. Okay? Answer. Apologia. Peter says we always have to be ready to give an apologia. By the way, this is where we get our word from, our English word. What does it sound like? Somebody tell me A apology? Did somebody say that apology? To apologize? And so you're saying, well, are you saying then, Pastor Harmon, that we have to apologize for being Christians? Going all over the place saying, you know, please excuse me for being a Christian. I'm sorry I'm a Christian. You know, obviously that's not what that word means there, but of course we do get our word apologize from that. But the word actually means a defense. Now some of you might have been here when uh James Walker was here. We had him here back, I think it was in February, who works for or serves under Watchman Fellowship, and he referred to this verse And he referred to this very word here. I don't know if you remember it, but one of the things that he said, which is so very true, is that this word is a technical word that was used basically in the Greek and Roman law courts And it's a word that means defend or defense. It was used by an attorney who was going to defend his client. And so uh it refers then to a speech given in defense of someone or something. In fact, this word is used nine times in the New Testament. Let me give you a few verses. Acts twenty-two, one. Here's Paul and he says, This brethren and fathers, hear my defense which I now offer to you. This was Paul standing before a group of angry Jews when he went into Jerusalem. And uh they were ready to really um you know kill him And Paul said, hold on, let me give you a defense. Let me give you my position. Let me tell you about my life and why I'm a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's also used in Acts 25, verse 16, where it says, where Paul had an opportunity to make his defense against charges that were rendered against him. In 1 Corinthians 9 3, Paul uses this word again where he says, my defense. To those who examine me is this. Now Paul is being criticized by the Corinthian church. Can you imagine a church criticizing Paul, the Apostle Paul? But they were making criticisms against them. And Paul says, okay, let me give you my apologia. Let me give you my defense to the church. Why do I do what I do? It's also used another place is in Philippians chapter 1 verse 17, where Paul says, but the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense of the gospel. Now, you might remember the context of that, where the Apostle Paul is in Rome. He's in a Roman prison. He's under house arrest. He can entertain visitors, people that come and could come and see him, but he always had a Roman soldier chained to him. And Paul was there for two years. He was waiting. to appear before Caesar in a court case. Well we think our courts are all jammed up. Paul had to wait two years there in a Roman prison. And he was going to give a defense for the gospel before Caesar himself. And again, this is the word that he uses here. Uh in in uh Philippians chapter 1, verse number 7, the Philippians were writing to Paul. They were concerned about his situation, and Paul says, look, when I go and I stand before Caesar, I'm gonna have you in my heart, you're gonna be there with me And uh and when I make this defense, you know, I could live if I live as Christ. I could die if I die it's gain, but I uh you know, to depart is far better, but I had this confidence that I'm gonna still remain here with you And so this was the word that he used in that context. It's a word for defense there, apologium. And so Peter is using this same word in 1 Peter 3, verse 15, and he's using it not just for himself. He's using it for every Christian. Again, look read the verse again, 1 Peter 3. 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer. Now who is he talking to here? He's talking to all believers. All believers. And so apologetics is something that all of us have a responsibility to engage in. How many would say amen to that? We all have to give a defense. A defense of what? A defense and and we're going to look at this context in this verse closer, but a defense for Christianity. How many of you know that we're living in hostile times? We're living in a times when when the world is not very friendly to the gospel, it's not very friendly to the church, especially if you stand firm on the scripture. The world does not believe what we believe about the Bible, that the Bible is the inspired word of God, therefore it is our authority, and we stand on this without apology. But we have to be able to give a defense in this world today. And so I would just say this, and I say this to my theology class, my Friday morning theologians. I said it to them. I said it to my other classes. Did you know that everyone is a theologian? Everybody here has a theology. Did you know that? You're either a good theologian or you're a bad one. Because everyone believes something about God. Everyone has some set of ideas about God. The question is, do they harmonize with the scripture So you are a theologian. You're either a good one or you're a bad one. And I would use the same phrase with reference to apologetics. Every person in here, you are an apologist You're either a good apologist or you're not a good apologist or you're not so good. But God has called all of us to be able to stand up and the face of a hostile world and to give an answer for what we believe and why we believe it. And so the question I would like to ask you is that, you know, are you able to do that? Again, Peter is insisting that the believers must understand what he believes and why one is a Christian, and then be able to articulate one's beliefs humbly, thoughtfully, reasonably, and biblically. So we have to be able to do that as Christians. Now, our example in this, of course, is the Apostle Paul himself. Paul was an apologist. It was Paul's custom into every village that he went to go first to the synagogue and be involved in dialogue or to reason there with people. And when Paul was presenting the gospel, the very first place he would go into a town as he would go into a synagogue. That was uh uh the logical place to go because there was already a gathering of a of a group of people there and normally the way he would identify a synagogue was they were normally set on the highest elevation in a town. That was generally true. They had a pole that went straight up. Just like, you know, here in America, you could look for steeples and though there are churches, right? Back then you go into a town and look for a pole and you could find the synagogue and Paul would go in there and he would reason with them. In fact, Acts chapter 17 verse 2 says this and Paul as his manner was This was what he would do. Went in unto them, and three Sabbath days reasoned with them out of the scriptures, opening and alleging that ge that Christ must needs have suffered and risen again from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preach unto you is Christ. So Paul would open, and the word there has the idea of he would he would open the scriptures to them. Uh they're in the synagogue And he the Bible says and um also if you back up there, he reasoned with them out of the scriptures. Opening has the idea of laying one verse next to another. He would go verse by verse one verse after another, and he would just basically take the topic of the Messiah, go from one verse to another, and he would reason with them. He would, in a sense, defend what he believed about the Lord Jesus Christ to a group of people that didn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah. And then also the word alleging is where is from where get we're where we get our word dialogue, dialogue dialogomos is the word there, where we get our word dialogue, and what is a dialogue? That involves how many people? Two people, right? It's talking back and forth. That's what you're supposed to do when I ask you a question. You're supposed to talk back to me. This is a dialogue here, alright? I ask you a question, you say yes or no. Everybody understand that? All right. No, someone said no. So anyway, thank you for that contrary view. That helps. Just kidding. Anyway, um so and actually I I want to do that with you. I want you to ask me a question if you have a question, give me a thought or a comment on this But and so all of us then are called to be apologists like Paul where we dialogue with people and we're able to give an answer for the things that we believe. And again, this is very important in the world in which we live today. You know, there was a time when I I would go soul winning and uh knock on doors and you can start sharing the gospel with a person And when you did that, you had a presupposition that you carried with you, and that presupposition was this, that this person believes in God. We assume that they just believe that there is a God. You can't make that assumption anymore. Because we live in such a postmodern world where even the existence of God is under question. And as Christians, we have to be able to even give answers about that. And then that that why we believe that the Bible is the Word of God. And so we have to follow the pattern of the Apostle Paul, and that is to meet people where they are. And then bring them along. Whenever Paul talked to the Jews, you know what he did? He would start into the Old Testament scripture and he would compare scripture after scripture because he knew that they believed that there was a God And they believe the same God that he believed in, it's that they didn't embrace the Messiah. So Paul started with the Hebrew scriptures. But when Paul spoke to Some of the Greeks, he didn't necessarily start there in the um Old Testament. In fact, if you look at the occasion where Paul spoke at Mars Hill, That was back in Athens. That was the place where Greek philosophers would go to compare their ideas. Paul would Paul would go. Um and you know again here's the pattern. He would go to the synagogue. If they didn't believe it's a synagogue, he would kind of shake the dust off, and then he would go to the agora, which is called the marketplace. And in this case of Athens, where he went after the synagogue, as he went to the Acropolis, there was the Parthenon that was there. And uh there's that was the p the location of Mars Hill, which is recorded in the book of Acts. And uh and Paul engaged the Greek philosophers there, and he met them on their own ground of philosophy, and Paul is able to then point to the fact that there is a creator, a God. So he started where they were. And I think that's the thing that we have to understand that in apologetics we have to start where people are and bring them along and we have to be able to give an answer to people about our our beliefs in the world today. That's why apologetics is so very important. So let's talk about apologia at the end of an apostolic age. Because we know that during the time of the early church, the apostles and the believers, they were apologists, they defended the faith, but at the end of the apostolic age There rose other men that we could say were apologists. For example, there was Justin Martyr, Justin Martyr in the second century. uh wrote his famous apologia and it was addressed to the Emperor Antonius Pius. And uh the reason he uh wrote that is because there were all kind of lies that were being spread about Christianity and Christians. And Justin Martyr. By the way, we call him Justin Martyr because he ended up dying for his faith. That's the part of apologetics I didn't really tell you about. You might die for the faith. Faith, just kidding. Um but you know we might be called upon to suffer. But Justin Martyr, um who was formerly an agnostic uh began to read the scripture, came under conviction, got saved, became such a strong believer, became a great apologist in the uh apostolic at the end of the apostolic age And uh basically he wrote this work to the emperor because of all these lies that were being circulated about Christianity. We could say it like this, pagan scholars rose up to challenge the church. And early apologists like Justin Martyr met the challenge head-on using reason and evidence. And so in each period since Christian apologetics have met Christianity's detractors, with respectable with respectful and well-formed arguments. And so this is what we're being uh called to do in the scripture. We have to be able to answer questions. And we'll talk about this as we go on, but what was the task of the apologists was to clarify what was really being proclaimed by the Christian church. And this is what Justin Martyr wanted to do. He wanted to clarify. He desired to clear up false conceptions that were rumored and spread abroad. For example, did you know that it was commonly said in the beginning of the second century that Christians were a seditious group, that they were trying to overthrow the Roman Empire? That was one of the lies that was put out there against them. They were also called atheists. Do you know why they were called atheists? They were called atheists because they didn't believe in the Roman gods. They believed only in Jesus Christ. Now in Rome, you know, it was okay to believe in Jesus Christ as long as you believe that he was one among many of the other gods. But if you believe that Jesus was the only God, that was a problem there. And that's why they were called atheists. They were called atheists because they refused to affirm that there was any other God other than Jesus Christ. And so they were accused of that. They were also accused of basically being cannibals. You say, why would they be uh be accused of that? Well because They didn't understand what the Lord's Supper was when they said they they when they said that uh you know this is my body and this is my blood and when they were doing the Lord's Supper, people would overhear that and think these people are cannibals And so these lies and more were just in Martyr had to rise up and he would defend the Christian faith. And he would say to the emperor in his book, Apologia, he said, look, we're not atheists. We believe in the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, the one true God. And secondly, he said, you know, we're not out to overthrow the political structures of the day. In fact, part of our religion is to pray for kings. And to pray for those who are in authority, and to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar and unto God the things that are God's. And he would say if you look at our life you're gonna find out that we're we're model cit citizens of civil obedience. We obey all the laws. We drive our chariots within the speed limit. I'm not sure that was exactly an article. argument. We don't break any of the laws. We we do what we're supposed to do. We are good civil servants. And so Justin Martyr was used then to defend Christianity. Let me ask you a question. Are there lies and mistruths being spread about Christianity today? Are there attacks going against Christianity? Of course there are. And we have to stand up and we have to say, hey, hold on, wait a minute. That is just simply not true. And we have to be able in a very gracious way and in a very reasonable way give an answer to those who rise up in opposition against us. You know, some of you, some of you know that you know we've had a little trial with our older son Jeremiah. We love him dearly, but he's taken an errant path, and of course we're praying over him. And uh as a as his father, I've tried to, of course, love him unconditionally, but yet at the same time, not compromise the word of God, not compromise truth. Um and you know, I've I've gotten attacked from both sides. I've gotten attacked from Christians who say you're compromising because I love him unconditionally. And I get attacked from non-Christians who say you're a monster because you don't accept him just the way he is. You know, he's we were to accept each other just the way we are. And friend, if we were all right just the way we are, God wouldn't need to have sent his son Jesus to die for us on the cross. If God accepted us for just the way we are, we wouldn't need salvation. We wouldn't need the gospel. We wouldn't need a Savior. And so what I tried to do is to graciously stand on the truth, but one of the lies that I was concerned about, that's being pushed by the world is this in this whole ordeal that I've been through is this one lie, and that is that Christian parents, this is what the world wants us to believe, that Christian parents Throw aside their erring children. They cast them aside. And they don't love their erring children. And friend, I want you to know that was a big concern because that's what the lie that was being put out there by the world. Oh, oh, this here's this pastor who doesn't love his son because of this path that he's chosen in life. And he's kind of thrown thrown them to the side. And friend, from the very beginning, that's the one lie that I wanted to make sure it was not true. That we made sure that we showed that that is just simply not true. But unconditional love the way we believe it, unconditional love the way the world believes it is two different things. Unconditional I can you know what I can still love my children and disagree with them. How many know that's okay? How many of you agree with your children in everything? Anybody here? You agree with your children? Everything that they do? Okay, nobody. How many of you still love your children even though you may disagree with them? Unconditionally But see, that's the thing. The world wants to say, oh, you know, these these these bigoted Christians, they throw their children aside. No, we don't. We love them. And we love them so much that we're willing to tell them the truth and not compromise the gospel. Um and so, but that's a lie. And I wanted to make sure that you know we need to expose that as it is, as a lie. And not do it in a mean way or in a you know angry way, but in a gracious way, simply reveal that, look, here's the truth Here's what the scripture says, and here's where we stand. And that was the job of the apologists from the very beginning of the church. And we still need them today. And so what I want to talk to you about then in the time that we have here is how to be a good apologist. How to be a good apologist. Because that's really what we're talking about. Remember, I said every person in here, you're called to be an apologist. You have to learn this. You have to give a defense for Christianity. And so then there are a few key pr principles I think that Peter gives us And with the word that we can practice these things and become good apologists in the church. And so let me just go over these things with you here. And I would just say, number one, be zealous for what is good. Look in look in chapter 3, look at verse 13. Now here's Peter. Now let me back up a little bit. Give you the context of what's going on here. Peter is writing to a group of believers that are under severe persecution. I want you to keep that in mind. This was a time when, who was on the throne when Peter wrote this letter? Anybody know? Which Caesar was it? Do we know? Nero. Nero was on the throne. Okay? Now Nero was a nice guy, right? No. He was one of the most vicious, ungodly, merciless emperors there ever was. He was a he was psychotic. He was crazy. I mean he he had his own mother killed. I mean he was just just really crazy and vicious. He did all kind of evil things. And he was kind of a tyrant. He wanted his own way. And uh as history has it, now I realize there's different versions of this in history. Um but let me just give you the version I think is the correct one using primary sources that s that Nero Wanted to build a bigger palace for himself. He wanted a certain area of Rome that was uh kind of a kind of a slum-like area And that meant that these people were going to have to move out and leave and he was going to use that area to build his palace. And basically he was voted down by the Senate. Well Nero didn't like that. So he sent out some henchmen to start a fire. And the fire got out of control. And it just completely burned this whole section of Rome and many people died. And when everything went wrong on him, people got angry at him. Caesar, Nero, needed a scapegoat. And so what did he do? He started to blame this new sect of people that were called Christians He said, they are the ones that did this. They're the ones that are always talking about a baptism of fire. It's this group. And so it was for a time, open season on Christians. And this is the background on which Peter writes here, this letter in 1 Peter. This is why he says to them, you know, there's all these questions now in Rome, in this city of Rome circulating about Christianity And Christians, you talk about lies being spread about Christians and Christianity? They're being spread. They came all the way from Ne Nero himself. And by the way, you're going to find people in high powerful positions spreading lies about Christianity. That's what happened here in this situation. Nero himself spreading these lies about Christians And Peter writes against this backdrop, and he tells the believers how to respond. Now he says a whole lot here about how to respond. But we're going to zero in on this one specific area here because we're talking about being a good apologist. And so Peter's giving some advice. on how to answer some of these things. Not only just answer with your mouth, but how to live in this hostile environment. How are we to live in an environment today that's so hostile against Christianity and against the church? Well, so he's going to give us some keys here. And here's the first thing he says: be zealous for what is good. Look at verse 13. And who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? And uh again, there I'm I'm sure many people were concerned about this dangerous climate. And and Peter is simply stating a rhetorical question here in verse 13. Is anyone Going to harm those who are eager to do good? And the implied answer to this is no, and generally no. In other words, it's generally true that those who are passionate about doing good, it is normally true that those people don't suffer harm. Look at the word followers there in verse 13. This is where we get our, it's the Greek word, where we get our word mimic from, to mimic. If you mimic Um someone. It has the idea of being an imitator. And remember, Christ is the example. He's the one who we follow. We are passionate and zealous of doing good. And so Peter is saying, look, if you live like that, who's going to harm you? So here's the first thing that in this climate, this hostile climate in which we live, as we are representing Christ in Christianity, here's the first thing that people need to see in us. They need to see that we are zealous to do what is good and what is right. They need to see that. That needs to be completely obvious to everyone who's watching They're zealous for what is good. And Peter is basically saying, you know, no one's going to harm you in general if that's true. Now you're probably thinking, now wait a minute. What about the martyrs? What about Christians who were who did good and they were persecuted? This kind of seems like a paradox. Again, but what I think Peter's saying here is that Those who follow, it's generally true that those who follow a path of righteousness are not harmed. But are there exceptions to this general rule? Of course there are. Of course there are. Okay? In other words, we could say another way we could say it is a policy of non-resistance disarms the opposition. Again, there may be exceptions. Let me read you what one commentator said. He said that it is unusual for most people, even those hostile to Christianity, to harm believers who prove zealous for what is Good. But here's the second thing that we can take from this. The worst that a foe can do to a Christian does not give eternal harm. The enemy can injure his body, but he cannot damage the soul. That's the other idea you have to keep in mind. So it is possible for someone that damaged my body, but they can't damage my soul. And in fact, Jesus he told his disciples in Matthew chapter 10, fear not them which can kill the body. but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him which is able to destroy both body and soul in hell And so we are to be bold and doing good, knowing that it's possible that we might suffer some harm, but not eternal harm. And so, write down also Psalm 56, verse 4. In God I will praise his word. In God I put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. And so this should give us a boldness for Christ. But in general, Peter's saying, look, if you're zealous for what is good, and it's generally true that you're not going to be harmed. Be zealous for good. But now here's the second thing he says. He's very careful to also balance it out by saying this: be willing to suffer for righteousness. Because look at the next verse. But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye, and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled Again, Peter is very careful to add, it is still possible that you suffer even when you do good. Okay? So, but and if you suffer for righteousness' sake. Now the if there, look at the if. This introduces uh what Greek scholars call a condition of fourth class. Uh it's it's uh in other words, it's a it's a possibility, is what he's saying. Um there's no certainty that suffering will happen, but it might, it might Again, Peter's saying, in general, you you'll probably be fine, but you might suffer for righteous sake. But if you do, if it does happen. What does he say? What is our attitude should be? Should we get angry about that? Look what it says. But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Happy are ye. You should be happy about that. Now I know that sounds like a contradiction to us. Why would I want to be happy when I'm getting hammered? When I'm people, you know, again I was talking about this thing that I've been going through with my my son, um trying to balance out loving unconditionally but also not compromising truth. And I'm kind of getting hit from both sides. And there was a point in this whole thing where um I was wondering if maybe it people were getting the idea that I was compromising the what the Word of God. Because I was trying to, you know, I'm still trying to affirm and love my son and let him know that I'll never stop loving you. But some people again were taking that for me being c compromising. you know, my beliefs about what the Bible says, which I just want you to know, ladies and gentlemen, if you ever hear that, I just want you to know that's not true. Because I will never compromise the word of God. Not gonna do that. Not gonna back up on what scripture says. But I was real I was worried because I thought there were some people that you know that idea was getting out there and then One morning I read an article online that that someone wrote about me in a in a on a blog, I think it was called Metro Weekly, a newspaper, and the and the and the article was very much an attack against me And the article basically said Jeremiah Lloyd Tarman's father preaches anti-gay sermon, you know, and then it went over and then it went on to uh talk about the whole sermon. And you know what? The guy must have listened to it because he got it all right in the article. I mean he he he understood it. And it was a blistering attack, but you know what? It really made me happy. And you say, why? Because I was relieved. You know why I was relieved? Because at least they know exactly where I stand. At least they know I'm not compromising the truth. So in a crazy sort of way, that that article really made me happy Yeah and by the way, all of us uh my sermons online shot up the thousands. All these people started logging on and uh all due to this edit this uh man who wrote this article against me, I need to write him a letter and thank him. for that. Thank him for you know attacking me and then thank him for the fact that all my sermons have shot up as far as downloads online. And uh I I I don't want to be known as someone who compromises truth Again, I don't mind offending people because of my position. I don't want to offend people because of my disposition. Okay? And yet I don't want to compromise. And so Peter here is saying, look, it might be, and by the way, that's a very small price to pay. You know there are Christians in other countries that are that are dying for their faith. That are literally they take their life in their hands when they meet in certain places. Um there are certain churches that are being burned down and Christians that are being persecuted. What we suffer here is nothing compared to what others But Peter here is basically saying, look, it's very possible that you might suffer for righteousness' sake, and if that happens Happy are you. You should be happy about that. And the word happy here, makarias, it's used to describe the benefits bestowed by someone to another, including good fortune and happiness. And it's like Peter saying, you know, you're going to be blessed. You're headed for a blessed state. God is going to open up and bless you. Because you have suffered for this. Because you stood for truth. So Peter said, really, you ought to be, there's a lot of reasons for you to be happy. And then he said this. Remember to be brave. Recognize, first of all, he's saying, look, recognize the blessing. Recognize that if you do suffer for standing for truth and for doing what's right, there's a blessing coming to you for that. But also this, remember to be brave. Look at verse 14 again. Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled. Afraid. Phobia, where we get the word phobia. trouble Tarrasso to stir up to cause trouble. The idea of agitating. Don't be don't fear their threat their threats or their intimidations. Don't be afraid. Be bold as a Christian. And so we're to be zealous for what is good. We're to be willing to suffer for righteousness. If if so called upon to do that, it may be that God might call upon you in some way to do that. But then here's the third thing. Be completely devoted to Christ. I already had that up there, didn't I? Okay. You guys need to correct me when I mess up up here, all right? Just kidding. Number three, be completely devoted to Christ. Alright? Look again in verse 15 what it says. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Look at that word sanctify there. That is not a suggestion. In the Greek, this is an imperative. How many remember what I said about Greek verbs? They kind of carry the weight in every verse. So normally when you study a verse you're looking for the Greek verb and you're looking for what mood is that verb? Is it indicative? That's the mood of fact. Is it subjunctive? That's the mood of a possibility. If it's an imperative, that's a mood of command. Here's God commanding us to do something. He's not stating a fact. He's not giving a suggestion. He's giving a command. Here's a command from God. Sanctify the Lord God in your heart. And the word sanctify here Hegiazo, where we get the word holy from, we could say it like this, to count as holy. Count God as holy, to set God apart. And this is the same word used in the Lord's Prayer. Remember Jesus when the disciples asked, Lord, teach us to pray? And Jesus said, okay, then pray after this manner. He didn't say these same words. He said, here's the basic way, here's a manner to pray, here's the outline of prayer. When you pray, say this, our Father which art in heaven, what's the next phrase? Hallowed be thy name. Now, saying it like that, it might sound like it's a petition. But again, that word there in the Greek, it is an imperative. It's got it's a command. And what is Jesus saying? When you pray, remember this. Hollow God's name. Again, he's commanding you. Hollow God's name. Or we can say it like this, Father, may your name be hollowed. May I always recognize that I must treat you as holy. And listen, I think this is one of the biggest points in being, we're talking about being a good apologist. If you want to answer the world, if you want to give an answer for what we believe in the face of a hostile world, and Peter's giving us some some Some suggestions here, but I think this is the most important. He said, Be zealous for what's good, be willing to suffer for righteousness, be completely devoted to Christ. You better make sure that you hollow the name of God. You better treat his name as holy. And I think this is than the way in which we live our life. How many of you know it doesn't it doesn't matter if you're able to answer with great intellect, with great ability to argue and philosophy and philosophize about things. If you're brilliant in your answers for Christianity, and yet when people look at your life, they see that you're not living a life that hollows the name of God. What what kind of apologists does that make us? We're not very good because you know what the world will say about us? Well they they talk well, but look at their life. Look at the way they live. We hollow the name of God in the way that we live. We treat him holy and everything we do every day. Do we hollow God's name? And by the way, I think this is what it means when it says, don't take the name of the Lord God in vain. What is taking the name of the Lord God in vain? It is calling yourself a Christian and yet living like you're not one. You've taken his name in vain. So if you're going to be a good apologist, you better learn how to sanctify the Lord God in your heart. And when a person looks at your life, they better see that there's someone that is living up to what they really profess. They see that you are devoted, you're absolutely devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. They They see that you treat God with absolute reverence and respect and holiness, even in the way that you live your life, even in the way that you You uh go to work, the way you drive your car, the way you treat debts. That you owe others. All those things are reflection on how we hallow the name of God. And here's the thing: as Christians, we need to portray a high view of God. in everything that we do. And I think that in the church to some extent today we've we've we've forgotten this. We've lost this. Do we portray a high view of God? Sometimes people say, you know Pastor, how come how come we don't do this? You know, this other church down here, they do this, and boy, it really works. And how come we don't do this? And I'll sometimes my answer will be, well, because that doesn't really portray a high view of God Doesn't portray a high view of God. What is what are we saying to the world about God when we do that? You know. I I I've I at a time see some some of these guys standing on the street corner with a bucket with a cross on it, asking for donations for their church. And I always want to stop, I don't do this, but I always want to stop and say, hey man, don't do that, please. What are you portraying about God? You know, that God has to go to the world to support his ministry, that doesn't portray a high view of God. You know what? God takes care of his work. He doesn't need the world's help to take care of his ministries. That doesn't portray the view of God that we want to portray. And this is what Peter is saying here that look, you better make sure as an apologist that your life It treats God as holy. That you sanctify the Lord God in your heart. That when they see you, not only must it must it be the answer of your lips that you give for Christianity, they need to see a person completely devoted. to Christ, sanctifying the Lord God in your heart. Have you done that? Now I I I said that I wanted to make this kind of like a class where you can give me some input. So are any questions or comments so far? Anybody? You want to have a question or a comment? Anyone here? We have a microphone up here. You can contribute. We have a gentleman over here. Someone want to grab that microphone and run it over to this gentleman over here. So this is uh this is good that we do this. How many remember Pastor Johnson used to do this a lot in his class? I used to love this part of his his Bible class where people were able to ask a question. We we had two people, one gentleman and this dear lady here. That's okay, either one, that's fine. Ladies first. Yes ma'am? Is it on? It's on. Hold it up nice and close talking to her. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. Well, I'm gonna be blunt. What about the Christians who beat up other people across the head with the Bible? And you know they they come off fire brimstone Everything you do is wrong, da da da da. You know, they have a really they come at you in a negative way, you know, uh um judging you and all. Right, right. I mean And and really those are the ones who turn people off away from God and Christ because of but but but I have have I have an extended family. I've got distant cousins And I said, you know, you may want to tone it down because you're turning people away from the Lord and you're coming off like this And you know, and also what about the the things you have done that people don't know about? Yeah, it's a good question because uh we see that a lot, right? Where we can become become so zealous for truth that we become angry almost in the way that we we do it. And again, I would go back to what I said. I don't mind people being uh uh disagreeing with me because of my position But I don't want them disagreeing me because of my disposition, the way I speak truth. And that's there should be a gentleness and a respectful tone to the way that we answer. And I'll tell you, I'll be honest with you, sometimes Uh one of the things that I've had to be careful of in my own life is anger. Because honestly Error does make me angry. How many are like that in here? Error makes you angry. And lies make me angry, but we need to be very, very careful. That we don't come across in the way that you just spoke, because it doesn't help the cause of Christ. What does the Bible say in James, the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God? You don't get anywhere with being angry. And I think to a certain extent, angry fundamentalism has really hurt the cause of Christ And so we need to speak the truth in love and gentleness and um and be careful about our spirit. Go ahead. We had another gentleman over here. Yeah, I just had a question about the Yeah. Does that also mean respect, that word? Um i it can it can mean that and uh uh the thing about Greek words like our English words, that the same word can have a different nuance of meaning depending on the context in which it's used. And so this word phobio, where we get our word phob phobos or phobia is a word that generally means uh to be afraid of, but it can have the nuance of reverence to it, depending on the context of the of the passage. And and again that's true with a lot of Greek words. We have to look at the context of it and how it's used there. So yes, it can mean respect and reverence there. Yes. Good question. We have another gentleman back here. Go ahead, sir. Yeah, I just wanted to add a scripture um to what's being taught. Um if you look at 1 Peter uh chapter 4 verse 1, it lets us know that Christ suffered here on earth. Now you must be ready. to suffer as he did. Because suffering shows that you have stopped sinning. It means that you have turned from your own desires and want to obey God for the rest of your life. Now that's how minds is reading. I just wanted to add that to um when you were talking about suffering for doing good, that we need to have a ready mind and know that in this earth, as he suffered, we could face suffering also Right, exactly. Very good point. That's all. Very good point. It's good. Anyone else? Okay, so uh as we we push on here, be completely devoted to Christ. Let me give you the next thing here. Be prepared to give an intelligent argument Look again at what it says in verse 15. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer. to everyone that asks you of the reason of the hope that is in you. And so we have to be ready. And the word be ready here literally prepared. And again, this is taken in the imperative sense, because so Peter's giving us a list of commands here. He says, number one, you treat God as holy, and also you be prepared. Be prepared to give an answer. Now, what does that require on our part? That means you have to study, doesn't it? Doesn't that imply that? You have to you have to study. This means you have to know more than just a little, excuse me, just a little about the Bible. You have to dig into the scripture. Someone wrote this, they said the tragedy of the hour is that there are so many folk who say they are Christians. But the skeptic is able to tie them up into 14 different knots. And I think I'm afraid that sometimes that's true. And why is that true? Is because we we don't know the scripture the way we need to And so, you know that the the Christian life is a call to study. Did you know that? The Christian life is a call to study. What time is it, by the way? Good night. Got two more two more minutes here. Um you guys are not listening fast enough in this class. You're gonna have to do better. I'm just kidding. Um and so um the Christian life is a call to study. The word disciple itself is from the Greek word uh mathetis. It's where we get the word math. I hated math in school, I'll be honest with you. But the word math has the idea of, you know, learning. And so the Christian life is all about being a learner. And we're to be students. What does the Bible say? Study to show thyself what? Approved unto God. And if you're going to be a good apologist, you're going to have to study the scripture. Because you have to be prepared to give an answer. And again, this is a command from God to us. And I'll close this. I remember I was a teenager. I just I first got saved. I we went out in our in our church van and we were being dropped off to go visit and go soul winning. I'd learned how to share the gospel. We were dropped off in a certain neighborhood. I can still picture it in my mind. I know the very street Where I uh it was years ago when I was a teenager. Knocked on the door, it was right around dinner time, I'd say probably around 645 or so, knocked on the door, man that man answered the door, they were eating. But the man said, you know, come on in my living room, sit down, invite him in. His family continued to eat at the table, and we had a discussion. And he was a very intelligent gentleman. And as I began to share the gospel, he came up with things, questions that I couldn't answer. And I remember I tried to answer, and it was very obvious that his whole point was he wanted to win arguments, and I was ill-prepared to answer those arguments or to even address some of the questions that he had. And I remember after that was over, I felt like a total failure. I felt like, man, I wasn't able to help this guy. And so I just was discouraged and I determined right then that's never going to happen to me again. I'm going to study. I'm going to get myself ready. A year later. This is the truth. I know it sounds like I'm making the story up, but I'm not making it up. We went to the same neighborhood. I got dropped off on the same street. Knocked on the same door. At the same time, he answered the door. They were eating dinner. He invited me into the living room. And we went through this same discussion, deja vu all over again, as Yogi Bara says. And we went through the same discussion. This time, however, I was able to give him an answer to all the questions that he had. And I I and I remember when even when I was leaving there, I remember him saying, you know what, you're not the same guy that was here a year ago, are you? And I wasn't trying to win an argument. Folks, it's not about winning arguments, it's about winning people to Christ And you know what? All we can do is we can lay out the evidence. We lay out the evidences of Christianity. And once we've done that, our job is over. I can give the proof, but I can't give the persuasion. That's up to the Holy Spirit of God, right? But we have to be ready to give an answer, a compelling answer Just lay out the truth. They might not agree with it. They may even argue against it, but once you've laid it the truth out, we back away because then that's when the Holy Spirit takes the truth, and He's the one that does the work of persuading that person of the truth. We don't have the power to do that. So we have to, however, be ready to give an intelligent answer. And then here's the last thing I'll just say this. Be careful to maintain a good conscience. Peter says in this. Be careful to maintain a good conscience. And this theme runs throughout his whole letter, but again, it's the idea of don't be a bad witness. Make sure that you never go against your conscience. in the way in which you live. All right, we're done. Let's have a word of prayer and then we have to go to our service. Let's bow for prayer together. And so Father, thank you for this time that we've had in your word this morning. I pray that Lord you'll bless us as we Continue on this subject next week. Lord, make us good apologists of your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. God bless you.