Would you take God's word tonight and would you open to the book of Revelation, chapter 13? We are continuing our study in Revelation, and this is a very interesting chapter we began last week. Talking about the beast out of the sea. And tonight we're going to pick up in verse 11 down to verse 18 and talk about the beast of the earth. And answer this one question: what is the mark of the beast? You know, we live in amazing times. In our lifetimes, we've seen the atoms split and space exploration and the world link through satellite communication. You know, just this afternoon I was uh talking on my iPad um to my daughter in London, and at the same time my daughter in Tennessee, they actually called me. Um it was a joint call. You know, you push the button and there are two faces of my daughters, one several times zones away, you know. Another one not so far away. But you think about that. There I am sitting down at the table and there's Abby and there's Annie and they're holding up their children there and talking to Paul Paul on the phone and or not the phone, but it was the uh the iPad And it's just an amazing thing when you think about that, isn't it? I mean that you can just talk to people that are on the other side of the world We have watched the advent of the computer age and we've seen electronic banking and we're coming to a point where it's a cashless society. We're not there yet, but it seems like everything is going that way. We have this tremendous explosion of knowledge. Daniel the prophet predicted this when he said, even to the time of the of the end, many shall run to and fro. And knowledge shall increase. And Daniel says one of the ways we can know that we're living in the end days is that people are frantically crossing the globe searching for information. And we're seeing that. Uh years ago our forefathers used to travel on horseback and take all day to get from one town to another. Now we can jump on airplanes. Some airplanes go two thousand miles an hour and can get us to a destination on the other side of the earth It's just amazing. Science tells us that our information doubles every few years. Did you know this? 70% of the medicines that we use today have been developed since World War II. Ninety percent of all scientists who have ever lived are alive right now. Knowledge is increasing. at a incredible rate, at a fantastic rate, and all this increase in knowledge I think is taking us someplace. I think that there's a sense in which our world is being prepared for things that are yet to come. And that's part of the theme of the book of Revelation. John talks about things that must come to pass. Now Satan is an imitator. We talked about this last week. Satan always is trying to imitate God, God's works and God's ways. In the first part of Revelation 13 here, we saw the Antichrist, who is the counterpart to the real Christ. As a matter of fact, uh some have noted that here in Revelation, just as there's a holy trinity Some have pointed out that there is an unholy trinity. It's mentioned in Revelation 16, 13. All three are mentioned. The dragon, the beast, and the false prophet, the dragon being the anti-God, the beast being the Antichrist. and the false prophet being the anti-spirit. And so the false prophet will be Satan's minister of propaganda. And this false prophet will be to the Antichrist what the Holy Spirit has been to the real Christ. Now the Holy Spirit is the one who prompts us and causes us to worship the Lord Jesus Christ. He's always lifting up Christ. And he's always bringing uh to the mind of men Christ. The false prophet will cause all men to worship the beast. And so what we see here is a second beast here in Revelation 13. So we have two. We saw last week the beast that came up out of the sea, and now another beast that will come out of the earth. The beast out of the sea had seven heads and ten horns. And we're going to see here the beast out of the earth had one head and two horns. The beast out of the sea we have identified is the Antichrist. The beast out of the earth is the false prophet. The beast out of the sea is a political leader. The beast out of the earth will be a religious leader. And so I want you to see just three characteristics about this second beast. If you're taking notes, just write down number one, the person of What I call the false prophet. He will be a servant of Satan. Look at verse eleven. And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth, and he had two horns like a lamb. And he spake as a dragon. Now notice what I call first his association. He is another beast. The word another is the Greek word alos. Alice means another of the same sort. This beast is cut from the same mold as the first beast. The first beast was a servant of Satan. He got his position, his power, and his authority from Satan as a political leader. This second beast will have power from Satan as a prophet, not as a politician. And notice his attraction in verse 11. It says that he had two horns like a lamb. I believe this refers to his appearance as a gentle religious man, as a lamb. You know, lambs don't have horns, yet this lamb has two horns, which I think could be symbolically speak about where he gets his authority. Just write down Second Corinthians eleven, for such as are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ, and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light. Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. So when the false prophet appears, he will not appear as something that is hideous to look upon, but as someone who is kind, who is righteous, who is good, and he will convince people to worship the beasts. And this is the next thing we want to see is his not only his attraction, not only his association and his attraction, but also his articulation, because look what it says again in verse eleven. And he spake as a what? As a dragon. Now we don't have to wonder who the dragon is. We already saw that in Revelation chapter 12. The dragon is the deceiver. The dragon is the devil. And I believe he'll speak words of deception, and all the world will believe him. Just remember this: the devil's not against religion. The devil uses religion for his own ends, for his own purpose. I mean religion has sent many people to hell, and religion to seize many people, and the devil will use this This inward desire of man to be religious, you know, man has this innate desire to worship. He just doesn't worship the right God. And if he doesn't worship the true God, he'll worship whatever comes along. He'll open himself up. Men will worship something. Every man has a desire to worship something. The question is, what will he worship? And when men refuse to worship the God who became man, they will worship the man who claims to be God. And so not only the person of the false prophet, but I want you to write down number two, here's a second thought, the purpose of the false prophet. This false prophet will have power from the devil as he preaches. Notice his powerful source. Where will he get this power from. Well go back to verse four of chapter 13 and notice this and they worship the dragon, which gave power unto the beast. And they worship the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with him? His power will come from the dragon, who is the devil himself. Now beloved, when I preach, I recognize that there's nothing that I can do over myself. I have to be dependent absolutely upon the Holy Spirit of God. to help me. And if you ever get blessed from a sermon that comes from me, I guarantee you it would be the Holy Spirit of God that does that. Because every preacher needs to be dependent upon the Holy Spirit. That's the only way we could ever be effective. Well this false prophet, even so, will be dependent upon the power that he will receive from the dragon as he preaches. Not only do we see his powerful source, but his persuasive speech again in verse number twelve, and he exercises all the power of the first beast before him. and causes the earth and them that dwell therein to worship the first beast whose deadly wound was healed. People will cause uh he will cause people to worship the beast. And you know what Satan's greatest desire is? His greatest desire is to be worshipped. That's what it always has been. And this false prophet will be his unholy spirit that will provoke worship to him. Just uh I I've referred to this passage, but why don't you look at it? Look in Isaiah chapter fourteen and look down at verse number twelve. This is a well-known passage that speaks about Lucifer, but look at it, because I think it's good to look at it. In verse 12 of Isaiah chapter 14, and notice what it says there, verse 12. How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which the weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. What clouds are they? I think those are the clouds of glory. I will be like the Most High. Notice his desire. His desire is to be exalted above all. He wants to go and exalt himself to the throne of God. And yet what'll happen to him? Look at verse fifteen. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit. They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms. That's the heart of Satan. He wants to be exalted. He wants to be recognized. He wants to be exalted above the glory clouds there of heaven And then go to Ezekiel chapter twenty-eight. And look at this real quick while you're in the Old Testament. Ezekiel chapter twenty-eight is uh God speaking to the devil through a prince. And uh Ezekiel 28 and verse 2, Son of Man, say unto the prince of Tyrus, thus says the Lord God, Because thine heart is lifted up, Thou said, I am a God. I sit in the seat of God in the midst of the seas. Here's an arrogant, proud king who calls himself God. But then drop down to verse eleven because now the Prophet is not speaking to the man on the throne. Now he's speaking to the power behind the throne And look at verse eleven. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me saying, Son of man, take up a lamentation unto the king of Tyrus. This is not the prince of Tyrus now. This is the king. And saying thus says the Lord God Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was thy covering, the Sardis, Topaz, and the diamond, the burl, the onyx, the jasper The sapphire, the emerald, the carbuncle, and the gold, the workmanship for thy tablets and thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. Thou art the anointed Cherub that covereth, I set thee. So thou was upon the holy mountain of God. Thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. Thou was perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created till iniquity was found in thee. And this uncovers a lot about the origin and character of Satan. Notice it says that he was in the gar he was in Eden, the garden of God. And then all these stones that are mentioned here are stones that are on the breastplate of the high priest. Which may indicate to us that Satan was a priest in heaven, but also the workmanship of thy tablets and thy pipes, those are musical instruments It might be that Satan's one of his giftings was to uh write and leave music that would give honor and praise and glory to God. The Bible calls him the anointed cherub that covereth. He walked upon the mountain of God. That's the government of God. And by just reading all this, the idea that I get from this is that he was the highest of the angels. He had privileges that other angels did not have. The Bible says that he walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. What is that? Stones of fire, fire of what? That's glory. And normally when you think of stones, you think of a wall. I think that there is a wall of glory there, and that Lucifer, the archangel of heaven, the you could say the prime minister of heaven, the The high priest of heaven had the privilege of walking in places where other angels feared to tread. He walked behind the glory, and he saw the manifest glory of God. And the Bible says he was perfect in all of his ways until iniquity was found in him. And he was lifted up with And when that happened, God cast him down. But we see it, look at verse 17, thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty. Thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness. I will cast thee to the ground. I will lay thee before kings. And now Lucifer became Satan, and all the wonderful gifts that God gave him now were corrupted, and now he uses it for himself and to corrupt humanity. And to bring worship unto himself and not unto God. I think a lot of the music that's out there in our world today is inspired by the devil. I I know you call me old fashioned, but I I think a lot of the music out there is designed to point to the devil. And I and I do believe it it captures the minds and the hearts of our young people. I I I remember Uh when I was in seventh grade in a public school, the music teacher there made us memorize a song. I don't know if I ever told you this. I still remember that. I wish I didn't. But she made us memorize words from a Barry Manilo song. Yeah, I know, Barry Manilo, of all people. I wish it could have been someone, you know, what anyway, but more cool. But anyway, I was seventh grade. But I remember the song that the the the words that we had to memorize were from a song that he wrote And the name of the song was I Write the Songs. You ever hear that? You sinners, you need to repent. And uh You want to know the words to the song? Listen, listen, I I still have them. I'm going to quote them to you. I probably shouldn't. But listen to the words of that song written by Mary Barry Manilo. Quote, I've been alive forever. Think about that. I wrote the very first song. I put the words and the melodies together. I am music. I write the songs. Who do you think that is talking there? Listen to the other verse of it. My whole world lies deep within you. I have my own place in your soul. And when I look out through your eyes, I'm young again, even though I'm very old. Who do you think wrote that? I think it was more than just Barry Manilo. I think that Satan in the original uh uh form as Lucifer the Archangel of Heaven, one of his one of his gifts was to write music that would give praise to God, and I think that when he fell, that became a corrupted And now I think a lot of music out there is inspired to pull people away from God and to bring worship unto himself. And I think we're going to see more and more of this as the days continue to get long. But I think that Satan wanted to be worshipped as God. He got tired of being the song leader, the priest, the prime minister of heaven. He wanted more than that. And there's going to come a time in the future when he's going to have his way for a time, and worship will be directed unto him. by his minister of propaganda, the false prophet. And so I went to see not only then this false prophet, his powerful source, his persuasive speech, but notice his prophetic signs Drop down in verse number go back to Revelation uh chapter thirteen and look down at verse number thirteen what it says this, And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast, saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast. Which which had the wound by a sword and did live. We see that he's able to do wonders. The word for wonders here is Simeon, mega wonders, great wonders This means the miracles he will perform will act as a sign that will cause people to wonder. Now, some miracles are signs of authority. And we see this in the life of our Lord Jesus. Just as Jesus' miracles proved his authority was from God, the false prophets' miracles will prove that he has a supernatural source. It's not of God, it is from the devil. And notice in verse thirteen it says that he will make fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men. Fire will fall from heaven like Elijah in the Old Testament. And we saw the two witnesses in the book of Revelation, chapter 11. And he will imitate those miracles of the two witnesses. The devil, beloved, can do signs. He can do wonders. He can do paranormal things. If you don't know that and understand that, you can be easily deceived. Just write down in your Bible or in your notes, Matthew 24, 24, for there shall rise false Christ. and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible They shall deceive the very elect. The Bible predicts that at the end times false prophets with signs will come. And that God's people can be deceived And that means if you trust in your own natural wisdom, you can be deceived. Don't ever get to the point to think that that can't happen to you. The Holy Spirit and the Word of God is what we have to constantly depend upon to help us see what is true and what is not. The devil is an imitator. He's able to imitate miracles. We saw this in the Exodus narrative in the story you might remember. When God turned Moses' rod into a serpent, the Egyptian magicians turned their rods also into serpents. Don't underestimate the power of the devil, that darkish power to deceive. One of the books I read um a few years ago, a fascinating book, was a book by the title of uh Remarkable Providences, written by Cotton Mather. Cotton Mather was one of the early Puritan ministers here and the early days of America when when uh America was being colonized by people from England. And these Puritan ministers were godly men leading the people into worship during that time. And this book was written by Cotton Mather to talk about some of the things they came across while they were seeking to colonize America. and spread the gospel even among uh the the Native Americans that were here. And what the book basically talks about is the is the demonic forces they had to deal with. I mean America before the Puritans came over, it was uh pretty much inhabited by the Native Americans who worship false gods And who worshipped demonic spirits. And when the Puritans got here and they began to settle and spread the gospel, there was a sense in which there was a powerful evil force. that was working against them. And what the book does is it gives all these stories of paranormal things that took place in the homes of some of these Puritans. During that time, and I tell you if you read the book, uh it could cause the hair on your neck to stand up. Some of the things that they had to endure. And mind you that the Puritans Especially the ministers were not given to exaggeration when they write down these kind of reports. Um just incredible things. Friend, don't underestimate the dark power of the devil And the things that he can do. A missionary told a story of a pastor, told a story to a pastor, excuse me, of a witch doctor that he led to Christ. And later he went to disciple this witch doctor. And when he went there, the witch doctor was doing something very good. He was taking all of his idols. and things that he had previously used and he was throwing them into the fire and burning all of those idols and those charms. And the missionary was intrigued and he said, Can I take a few of those with me just to take them back to the US and show some of my friends And the witch doctor, na former witch doctor, now believer, said, no, don't do that. These things are are are are bad. They they have power. And the missionary said, Oh, I don't believe in any of that. And so he took them with him. And the and basically the missionary went to bed that night. He put them beside his bed. And on two different occasions he was awakened in the night with those things quivering and shaking And on the second time, he finally took them out and burned them in the fire. Now let me just say beloved, it wouldn't take the second time for me to do that. I think that there's power that we need to be aware of on the dark side. A darkish, devilish, unholy power. Can you tell if a man is a man of God by his miracles? And the answer to that is no. No. Look at Deuteronomy 13. Or just write these verses down, Deuteronomy 13, verse number 1 through 3. Listen to what God said. If there arise among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams, and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, And the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods which thou hast not known, and let us serve them. Thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet or the dreamer of dreams, for the Lord your God proveth you. You see that He's testing you. God might allow these things to test his own people, prove with you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart. and with all your soul. This passage explains why the Lord allows Satan sometimes to do some of these dark things. These things that are like signs and wonders. And so we need to be very, very careful. Look in Revelation 16, look down in verse number 13. Notice what it says. It says, And I saw coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits like frogs, for they are demonic spirits performing signs. who go abroad to the kings of the whole world to assemble them for battle on the great day of God the Almighty. And so God will allow the Satan's prophets to do miracles to test his people. A sign might be, on one hand, a witness of God, but on the other hand, it might be a warning of Satan. A miracle is an attestation of power coming either from God or from the devil. And it's a great test to see whether that's from God or not. Now, how do we know that? How do we know whether it's from God or not? And it's very easy, it's not hard. What is the message that the man is preaching? What is the theology behind that message? I know there, you know, we uh We hear about in the charismatic movement all these things that are happening, supposed signs and wonders. Look at some of the theology coming out of them. Look at some of the message being preached. Some of the error that's going on. Would God give approval to that kind of error? I think there's a true work of God. Don't get me wrong. Beloved, we need the power of the Holy Spirit more than ever. We need to be dependent upon the Holy Spirit, but I want the real thing, not the false stuff. The real work of God. But you make a tragic mistake if you build your faith on signs and wonders. Your faith needs to be built upon the word of God. Let me show you a story. Look in John chapter 4. Look in John chapter 4. And look at this story here. And look at verse number 46. This is the story where Jesus healed a nobleman's son. John 4, verse 46. So Jesus came again into Canaan of Galilee, where he made what the water wine, and there was a certain nobleman whose son was sick at Capernaum. And he besought him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. Then verse number 48. Of John 4. Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. Now when this nobleman heard that Jesus was come out of Judea into Galilee, he went to him and he besought him. Asking him to come down and heal his son, because his son was at the point of death. And Jesus said, look, you won't believe unless you see signs or wonders That was a startling rebuke from our Lord to this man who was asking for his son's life. But Jesus knew the evil proclivity of the heart of man. So after being rebuked, the nobleman then spake to Jesus with a different spirit. Look down at verse number 49. And the nobleman said unto them, Sir, come down ere my child die. There's now a humility here. There's kind of a brokenness here. I don't need to see signs and wonders. I just need for you to come and do something for me. And verse 15, Jesus said to them, Go thy way, thy son liveth And watch this, notice the next thing, and the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. That's a better way, right there He believed in the Word of Christ. He didn't need signs or wonders. He believed in the Word And so there was a contrast to his earlier appeal. He's no longer asking for a sign or a wonder. He just needs to hear the word of Christ saying he's healed. That's all he needs. And notice that the nobleman, he didn't rush home. Look at verse 51. And as he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was recovering. And so in verse number 52, he begins to ask him, hey, when when was it? When was it? Look in verse 53. So the fa they said it was at the seventh hour, verse 52, verse 53. So the father knew that it was at the same hour. in which Jesus had said unto him, Thy son liveth, and himself believes, and his whole house. This man was near enough to get there In a few hours, but he waited the next day to go. Why? Because he was transformed by the words of Christ. He believed in the word of Jesus. He didn't need a sign. He didn't have to go home to check to see if Jesus had miraculously healed that boy. He simply trusted in the word of Christ. And that's the example, beloved, that we should follow. We need to believe in the Word. Don't let your spiritual life focus on signs. Let it focus on the Word of God. Jesus said, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. We just need the Word of God. Now let me give you the third thing here. We saw the person of the false prophet, and we see the purpose of the false prophet, but then write down number three, write down the program of the false prophet. And looked in verse number 16. And he causes all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand. and in their foreheads, and that no man might buy or sell save he that had the mark or the name of the beast. Or the number of his name. And here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beasts, for it is the number of a man, and his number is six hundred, three score, and six. And so this speaks about the mark of the beast. Again, this is kind of a counter work, an imitation work of God. Mark means seal. You know, normally when we're saved, God puts his seal of ownership upon us. You're either sealed by the Spirit as a true believer, or one day those will be branded by the beast. And so this mark here is the mark of the beast. It is the number 666. We don't know how Satan will use this number. Although people all over have different ideas, different guesses as to what this number means and uh they're everyone's trying to apply this number to different people. I think I told you last week, you know, there's all types of uh of uh different ideas about uh how you apply this number. Um g uh Gomatria and all these other kind of mystic type things going on with this. Um I think I even told you when Ronald Reagan was president, they said he was the Antichrist because Ronald has six letters, Wilson is six letters, and Reagan is six letters. So six six six, he he must be the beast. Um and again th this is this is uh all over about different speculation about this. There are some who think that the numbers used with reference to Nero. We talked about that last week, but there are problems with that. Preterus kind of what they do is they take the Greek um let the Greek name Nero Caesar Nero Caesar they transfer uh port those or translate, excuse me, I should say transliterate the letters from Greek to Hebrew, and each Hebrew letter has a numerical value and they add up the numbers and it comes to 666. And so they say this is talking about Nero and all this is in the history. This happened uh during 70 AD, all the the fulfillment of all this took place in seventy AD. Again, there's problems with that. Nero had numerous names. What evidence is there that the title would be Nero Caesar? That's just one out of many titles. And also the predator's calculations are built upon a defective spelling of the name Caesar. And there are actually three possible Hebrew equivalents to one of the Greek letters in question. And so I think all of this is confusing to me. Again, there's also the use of number mysticism to arrive at Nero as the Antichrist, and this was never really seen in the history of the church until the middle of the 19th century. There are other systems of trying to figure out who this is, this number here. Let me give you another one. Here's something to think about, okay? If you were to take just our English alphabet and let the first letter equal six, so that A represents six, and then add six more. So that's and by the way, this is not original with me, so don't think I sat around thinking all this up, all right. I'm not that clever. I'm not that smart So A represents six, and then just add six more. So the next letter, B, represents 12, C represents 18, and so forth all the way through. And you number all the letters in our alphabet in increments of six, and then you sp you know what you do? You spell out the word, ready for this, computer. Yeah, computer. C would be eighteen, O would be ninety, M would be seventy-eight, P would be ninety-six, U would be one twenty-six. T would be 120, E would be 30, R would be 108, and if you add up all those numbers, guess what you come up with? 6, 6, 6. That computer you have at home, it's the beast. Get rid of it. I don't know who comes up with this. Um The exact meaning of this we really don't know yet. Um I think it will be revealed in time as to what this is will obviously be a number and a mark. that will be associated with the Antichrist sometime in the future. But we don't know that for sure right now. Now, let me just give you one other thing to consider. I know again there's a lot of resurrection in this idea of this referring to Nero. You have to keep Revelation chapter 13 in its context. And Revelation 13 and 14 has to be uh Held together. And it's almost like they these are parallel in one sense. Revelation 13 gives us the earthly viewpoint of what will take place with the beast and this mark. Revelation 14 gives it to us from the heavenly viewpoint. So 13 is from the earthly view, 14 is from the heavenly view. And this is a problem for those who see Nero in Revelation 13. You say, why so? Well, because in Revelation 14, there's a warning of the third angel, which relates directly to the activities of the beast in Revelation 13. So notice Revelation 14, look down at verse number 9. And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast in his image, and receive his mark in his forehead or in his hand? The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation, and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb And so we see here that this is a warning to anyone that would receive this mark. And then also, it shows how the beast will ultimately be defeated. How will they be able to overcome the beast and his mark? Well, drop down to verse 14 of Revelation 14. And I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of Man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. And another angel came out with the temple crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle and reap, for the time has come for thee to reap, and for the harvest of the earth is right. You see how in this Revelation 14 the idea is that what is going to actually put an end to the mark of the beast and all of his activities, it'll be what? The second coming of Christ. Now, if this refers to Nero in that time, back in s uh 70 A. D. or 65 A. D. into 70 A. D. , that means there would be a 2,000-year gap between the proclamation between what happened in Revelation 13 and the second coming of Christ in Revelation chapter 14. And so it really has nothing to say to believers after the reign of Nero. This would only be designed to help those that were dealing with the pagan Roman Empire. It then becomes a work to bolster the courage of the first century Christians holding out until the return of Christ. In other words, they held out a false hope. If they were waiting for the return of Christ to come and deliver them from the beast and his mark and all that goes with it. Then that was a false hope because the Western Empire crumbled more than 1,500 years ago, quite apart from the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I I just don't see how that ever could ever fit in with that. Now I know that there are some predators who say, oh, the Christ did return in seventy AD. Beloved, there's absolutely no way that you could see the return of Christ in Matthew twenty-four's all the things that said it had to happen when that uh that Christ would come, that did not happen at seventy-eight day. Look at Mark chapter thirteen real quick. Let me just show this to you. Now, admittedly, some of the things that Jesus talked about in the Mount Olive Discourse did happen. There's a near and far Approach here to this passage, certainly some of those things uh was applied to the people in 70 AD. We know that But look in verse number 26, when it says what's going to happen when Christ returns. Actually, verse 24 of Mark 13, but in those days after the tribulation shall the sun be darkened. Oh, they say, oh, that's symbolic. Okay, we'll back up a few verses. For false Christ and false prophets shall rise. Is that symbolic or did that really happen? It really happened, right? Okay. And shall sign and show signs and wonders to seduce or possible, even the elect. That's not symbolic, that's literal. And then in verse 24, but in those days after that tribulation the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light. All of a sudden we're supposed to believe that's symbolic now. We're supposed to jump from literal to symbolic. Those things did not happen in 70 AD. Look at verse 26. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory. They didn't see that in 70 AD, beloved. Josephus can doesn't describe that at all. It has not yet happened. And so that to me has forced hermeneutics to try to fit everything into 70 AD there. It just does not work. And so again, this is future. This is yet to happen. Look in again Revelation chapter 13, and we'll finish this up. And again, it says that in the future when this mark is given, this will be a mark that will control people in the way that they buy and sell as to uh according to a world economic system And again, beloved, it's very easy to see how the world stage is being set up for this. That this can happen. I mean, soon you're not going to have to write another check or keep cash in your bill folder or buy a stamp The world is being set for the masses to be controlled, even by a single individual They can control your buying and your selling. And again, I I I'm not sure exactly what it is. It's meaningless to meaningless to me to speculate. All we know is what the Bible says that this there will be a time when buying and selling and all of these things will be under control of the Antichrist and the mark of the beast. And I've read all kind of things about what this could be You know, they now have microchips that can be inserted in your right hand or on your forehead and all of that. I read all of that. I understand all of that. But again, I'm not sure what it is. And I think it's meaningless to speculate on what it could be. We know, however, that it will come. So let me just wrap all of this up. I believe, beloved, we're living in the last days. I believe the stage is being set. So how do we are we to respond? Listen to 2 Timothy chapter 3. Listen to what Paul said. This know also That in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy. Without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinence, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. Paul says it's going to get worse in these last days. Perilous times are going to come. And then in 2 Timothy 3 verse 13, he says this, but evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse to seeing and being deceived. Sounds like today, doesn't it? What's the response? Listen to verse 14. How are we to respond to this? But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. And has been assured of. None of whom thou hast learned them. From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which were able to make thee wise into salvation. What does Paul say? Just stay in the Word. Stay in Scripture. Continue in those things. And then he says in 2 Timothy 4 to Timothy, preach the word Just keep preaching the word. We're to continue to minister the word of God and share the gospel to everyone that we can at every available time Listen to Titus chapter 2, verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation has appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Listen to this. Looking for that blessed hope. And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. The grace of God that saves us is the grace of God that teaches us to deny ungodliness and worldly lust. We are to continue in the Word of God. We are to depend upon the grace of God to help us live righteous lives in these latter days, waiting for the appearing of Jesus Christ. Stay in the Word, share the gospel. Look for the coming of Jesus Christ. That's what the Bible calls us to do. And may God help us to be faithful in that. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we come before you and we humbly ask that you help us in this. Because, Lord, we're weak. And Lord, we battle our own sinfulness, our own flesh. And we are in desperate need of you. We thank you for the grace that saved us. But we are also dependent upon that same grace to sanctify us, to teach us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts. And in these last days to live soberly and righteously, looking for the return of our Savior, the coming of our Savior, that blessed hope. And so, Father, help us in this. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here tonight that's never fully embraced Jesus Christ. We know that those that are lost are under condemnation already. And they're already part of the kingdom of darkness. And they need to be delivered. Satan is. He's on his prowl. He's got many people that he's brought down and Lord who need deliverance from the kingdom of darkness. And I pray for that. And again, if there's someone here tonight, Lord, do that work of salvation in that heart. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, will you take a moment, just and examine your own heart? Is there a sin that you're struggling with? Is there an area where it just seems like Satan has got a hold of? Well friend, you can get deliverance from that And that deliverance comes through Jesus Christ. And all you need to do is reach out to Him, call unto Him. Turn to him, turn from the world, turn from sin, turn to Christ. Just say to Jesus, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need you. Please save me. And you know what? He will. If you come to him in faith, the Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. And so, Father, use your word to strengthen believers and save souls here tonight. And we pray all of this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen