Gospel of Mark, chapter number 10. And uh today we're going to be dealing with a passage that uh would be considered by some a controversial topic. It's going to be on the issue of marriage and divorce. What our Lord has to say about this issue. We're going through the Gospel of Mark, and this is where we come here in chapter number 10. And let me just say, as a preliminary thought, that Jesus, in teaching this, is not trying to put people on a guilt trip about divorce whenever we uh address a topic like this it has the tendency to cause some to be uncomfortable because all of us I'm sure in our lives have been touched by divorce in some way whether directly or indirectly. I have no desire to heap guilt or condemnation on anyone who has already had to suffer through the the trauma of a divorce in their life. I would want you to know that there is life after divorce And the grace of God can overcome all things. You might be the victim of a divorce. A spouse may have left you crushed and broken. It was not your desire. It was not your what you wanted. But it was really no choice. Things were out of your control. It could be that you uh you became a uh a Christian earlier in your life, before you were saved, a divorce took place in your life. I would remind you that the scripture says if any man be in Christ Old things are passed away, and behold, all things are become new. Or it may be that uh you made a mistake in the past. Maybe you were a Christian, but you didn't you were a young Christian, you were immature, you didn't really know. what the scripture said. Perhaps you've got some advice that was not biblical advice. And uh but here's the thing. We can't undo the past, but we can learn from our mistakes and we can move forward by the grace of God. Who among us has not made mistakes in the past? Who among us has not made s uh committed sins in the past? And we need the grace of God to overcome, and the grace of God indeed does overcome. So just remember that there is forgiveness. And there's life afterwards. You can't unscramble an egg. You can go forward by putting putting God for first in your life. And God is able to make up the years that the locusts have eaten. What Jesus is doing here in this passage is he is upholding the standard that God has for marriage. That's really what he's doing. There seems to be a lot of confusion on this topic, and in my opinion, it doesn't really need to be because I think the scripture is pretty clear on this topic of marriage and divorce. But what does Jesus have to say? That's the question here Now remember the context of this is uh Jesus is headed to Jerusalem at this part in his life in the gospel story. He is in the instructive period of his disciples' life, he's preparing them for when he's going to be gone. Thirty days from this point Jesus will be in Jerusalem and he will go to the cross and suffer for man's sins. So this at this point in Mark chapter 10 is only 30 days away from the cross. And Jesus was in Galilee, but he left Galilee and he went south, and now he's into Judea. We see this in verse number one. Look at verse one. And he arose from thence and coming to the coast of Judea by the far side of Jordan, and the people resort unto him again as he was once, and he taught them again. So Jesus is traveling south. He comes to The Jordan River, really around the area where John the Baptist was baptizing when he was alive. At this point he had already been beheaded by Herod And the Bible says the crowds gathered around him. That was something normal. Wherever Jesus was, they heard he was there, the crowds would come. And the Bible says in verse 1 that he taught them, in Matthew's account of this, Matthew says that Jesus healed them. So again, he's just demonstrating his power and compassion as the Messiah. But here's where the controversy comes. Look at verse 2. And the Pharisees came to him and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? And notice that what they were tempting him. The Pharisees were always looking for a way to get at Jesus. They were always trying to find a way to pull down his reputation. He Jesus was riding a wave of public public popularity at that time, and the Pharisees were wanting to discredit Jesus. And so they asked him a question that was kind of like a gotcha question. They were asking him about this issue of marriage and divorce. Now this was a very well thought out, carefully calculated question designed to place him at odds with the multitude of the people and also perhaps the law of Moses itself in their mind. But the issue was over divorce. It was a very hot topic in Jesus' day. And the question is verse 2, is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? Now in Matthew's parallel account, it adds another phrase. In Matthew's account it says, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? You see, because there was a lot of s controversy controversy swirling over this, and the idea was what was the What was the basis? What was the the the right foundation or reason for a man to get a divorce? And there were two different schools of thought in Jesus' day that were debating this topic. First of all, there was uh the school of the we could say these were the conservative uh school led by a rabbi named Shemaiah and Rabbi Shemaiah who was very popular back then taught that divorce was never permissible. If anyone got one, he was wrong. He kind of held to the letter of the law. And this narrow, hardline view about divorce was not very popular among the people But then there was also the liberal side, the other extreme view was led by Rabbi Hillel. He had the total opposite view of divorce. And he said that a man can divorce for just about anything. Any reason he could divorce his wife. He said, quote, he may divorce her even if she spoiled a dish for him. Burning the bread or putting too much salt on the food. He said that a man could divorce his wife for things such as letting her hair down in public, talking to other men, speaking ill of her mother-in-law If she could not bear children. All of those were reasons in his mind for a man to get a divorce. And then there was another esteemed rabbi, Akbah, who along with the Hillel school of the thought said that, quote, even if he found another fairer than she, end quote. Under this one rabbi, if a man saw a woman that he thought was prettier than his wife, he could divorce his wife and go after her That was how liberal the view was. Now, needless to say, this was the popular view, and one that was embraced by the men in Jesus' day. This was the view that was held by the Pharisees Now the Pharisees knew that Jesus didn't hold this view. And so this question was designed again to put him in a bad light with the people. They heard what Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount about marriage and divorce, and they expected him to say the same thing. They wanted him to line up with the Shemiah view, the unpopular view. That's what they were hoping would happen. And also remember that in where Jesus was teaching at this point, in this region of Judea, it was governed by a man by the name of Herod Antipas. And if you remember right, Herod Antipas had himself had a divorce. If you remember the story when we were talking about John the Baptist. He's the one who put John the Baptist in prison. You know why? Because John the Baptist pointed to Herod Antipas and said, Your marriage and your divorce is not legal. You see, Herod seduced his brother's wife. His brother Philip was married to a beautiful woman. He seduced his brother's wife. She divorced Philip and she married Herod Antipas and John the Baptist was there, the prophet, and he pointed the finger at Herod and said, You have sinned, you have done wrong. And Herod didn't like that, and so you know the story with John the Baptist He was put in prison, and later he was beheaded. Now Jesus is in the same region of Herod Antiphus. And so perhaps the Pharisees were hoping that if Jesus gave his view of divorce, that Herod would hear of it, and the same thing would happen to Jesus that would happen to John the Baptist. But Jesus doesn't line up with Rabbi Hillel. He doesn't line up with Rabbi Shemaiah or Akba Jesus goes all the way back to the Old Testament and he gives the original teaching of God on marriage And in so doing, what I want to call your attention to in this passage are what I call three laws of marriage and divorce. The first law is called the original law of marriage. Look in chapter 10. Look down in verse number 3. And he answered and said unto them, Why did Moses command you? And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement to put her away. And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. Verse 6, but from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. And for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh, so that they are no more twain, but one flesh, and what God has joined together, let not man put asunder And what Jesus is doing here in verses 6 and on is he's quoting from Genesis 1. 27, he goes straight to the Old Testament teaching about marriage Because in order to really understand the view of divorce, you have to understand the biblical view of marriage, the correct view of marriage And Jesus, first of all, talks about the participants of marriage. In verses 5 and 6, from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female. We see three participants in marriage in this verse. It is God, it is man and woman. God is the originator and man and woman the objects. That's the way God made it from the beginning. In the Hebrew, where it says He made them male and female, the He is emphatic. In other words, it was God's idea. God is the one who designed marriage. God is the one who defines it. And how does God define it? He defines it between a man and a woman. It doesn't matter that certain states recognize marriage between same-sex. That's an oxymoron. There's no such thing as same-sex marriage. Because God is the one who designed it. And God tells us what it is. The state, or any other man for that meter that matter, doesn't ha have the right to come along. and redefine marriage. If marriage were of human origin, then humans would have a right to define it as they want. But it's not of human origin, it's of divine origin. And then he talks about the partnership of marriage. In verse 6, he made them male and female. God's plan was for man to have a partner. God wanted man to have a helpmeet. God said it's not good that man be alone, and woman is a gift of God to man. One of the greatest gifts ever given to mankind is womanhood A gift from the Lord. But then we see the pattern of marriage in this, where he says, again, for this cause shall a man leave his father and his mother and cling to his wife. And I want you to notice here that this is in from the very beginning it was one man and one woman. Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. There was no provision made for an alternate choice for Adam. He not really liked Eve. It was just Adam. It was just Eve. That's it. And that's the point that Jesus is making. God didn't give several women and say, take your choice out of them, and if A doesn't work out, there's B and so on. From the very beginning, this was the pattern, man and woman, uh, for life. And then we see the priority of marriage in verse Uh chapter seven verse one for this cause shall a man leave his father and mother. The word leave here doesn't mean that you forget about your parents and dishonor them. It doesn't mean that you shut them out of your life. We always honor our parents But what he means by this is that now, of all human relationships, your marriage relationship is the highest of all human relationships. Your relationship to one another as husband and wife. As a pastor, I've counseled many marriage couples that are having trouble because sometimes the parents can't seem to understand that this human relationship is now the highest priority Young man, the the highest priority in your life now is that woman that God gave you, your wife, not your mom. You can still love your mom, but you better listen to your wife over your mom. Because if you don't, you're gonna have trouble. And so this is the highest of priorities. And then there is the product of marriage. Again, cleave. We see leave, and then we see the word cleave, which means to cling to, to hold fast. And this is a very strong word. It's a covenant word talking about an intense love that will not let go, cleaving to one another. Ruth clay to Naomi The men of Judah clay to David. And so we see this strong language of cleaving together because the two become one. Look at verse number eight. And they twain shall be one flesh. So they are no more twain, but one. And it is this total togetherness. And by the way, who is it that makes one? Of two people one? It's not the state that does it. It's not the preacher or the judge that does it. It is God who makes the two one. God joins them together. And they are declared one legally, and in God's sight they're one legally, and now the rest of their life they live out that oneness. They learn to become one in every way. Mentally, spiritually, physically, intellectually, in every way, they grow together in this absolute oneness. That God declared and made them when they were married together. And so we see the permanence of marriage in verse 9. What therefore God has joined together, let not man put asunder. What God has made one, don't let any man tear apart or divide or divide. God's design was that it be permanent You don't want to let anything mess with that oneness in marriage. You live it out. Now this is the whole point that he's making here And what here's here's the overall point that Jesus is making by quoting this Old Testament passage is that divorce was never part of God's original plan. That was never part of his plan. But having said that, look at law number two. I call this, we saw number one, the original marriage law, but number two, there is the optional Mosaic Law Because again, look back in verse 3 of chapter 10. And he answered. He said unto them, Why did Moses command you? And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement and to put her away. The men in Jesus' day sought to justify divorce by using a passage in the Old Testament. It is Deuteronomy 24, verses 1 to 4. And they taught that in that passage in the Old Testament Moses commanded a divorce. That's the key word there. And Jesus is questioning them. Did Moses command divorce? Because that was the way they interpreted it. But if you look at the passage in Deuteronomy 24 very closely, you'll find that there was not a command there about divorce. What was the command about? If you look at the passage closely, we don't have time to do it this morning. But basically the command is not with respect to divorce, the command is with respect to remarriage. You see, everything there's only one command in the verse. All the rest of them are kind of if pauses. If a man takes a wife, and if she finds no favor in his eyes, and if he writes her a bill of divorce, and if she goes out of his house If she marries another, and if that other lets her go, and if the husband dies, here's the command at the end of verse 4 of Deuteronomy 24. He He cannot take her again to be his wife. In other words, the command in Deuteronomy 24 was not about divorce. The command was about remarriage. And Moses was simply saying one thing. Look, if you divorce your wife, just know this, you're not going to get her back. Once you divorce her, it's over. It's done. And what was Moses doing back then? Moses was not commanding a divorce. Moses was regulating something that was already going on. Moses didn't create divorce. You say, where does divorce come from? How did it begin? No one knows. It's been around a long time before Moses wrote this. J. Adams said this. Its origins lie somewhere back in the dusty past of human history. But the one thing I want you to realize is this, unlike marriage, divorce is a human institution. It wasn't instituted by God. It was rather done by man. It was a human innovation. You find no place in Scripture where God institutes divorce. And Jesus' comment on it we saw in verse 5 where he said, for the hardness of your heart, he wrote you this precept. In other words, to allow for a practice is not the same as originating it or establishing it or commanding it or instituting it So Moses is seeking to regulate something that was already happening that quite frankly was getting out of control And he by this one law he was basically saying, look, if you get a divorce, you can't remarry her again. It's over. And the second thing he was saying is That if you get a divorce, you're basically you're causing her to commit a sin against God, and God holds you accountable for that sin And so this was Moses' way of regulating something that was going on. So the bottom line is the Pharisees in Jesus Day were misinterpreting Deuteronomy 24, and they were using it as an excuse to get a divorce for any reason that they wanted. And Jesus said, that's not right. They use the word uncleanness, which means something shameful. And again, it could mean a broad array of things. Anything that a w that a wife does that the man does not like. Well then he could divorce her for it. And in the Old Testament, the one reason God would give an allowance for divorce was sexual sin. That was the only reason why God would allow it. Because in the Old Testament, when a person committed adultery under the Mosaic Law, what would happen? If the letter of the law were followed in the Old Testament And a person committed adultery, what would happen in the Old Testament? They would get stoned, right? And the innocent party would be free to marry again. But in the Old Testament, you have to realize they didn't always follow the letter of the law. In fact, God didn't always follow the letter of the law. Sometimes people would commit adultery in the Old Testament where God would not have them put to death. We think of David. David committed adultery with Bathsheba, and Nathan the prophet said to him, You will not die. So God didn't always exact capital punishment. And in the Old Testament Israel, they didn't always exact capital punishment. So what would happen to the innocent party in that case where a spouse was unfaithful? In this case, Moses allowed, reluctantly allowed, a divorce, and he did this for the benefit of the innocent party, so that the innocent party was free to go And this goes back to the third law that I would give you, what I call the official master's law, because if you go to the New Testament, Jesus upholds that In Matthew 19, verse 9, he said, this I say unto you, whosoever shall put away his wife, that is, divorce his wife, except it be for fornication And shall marry another committed adultery. In other words, this is what it is called the exception clause. And in the New Testament, in this passage And Mark, Mark doesn't give this passage in his account, but Matthew in the same account does give his view. And he says, except it be for the cause of fornication. In other words, Jesus clearly states that divorce is permitted for this one cause, and that's the cause of s of Fornication, the Greek word there fornication, perneo, is a is a word that means sexual immorality, generally a sexual sin. And if someone if there's a marriage partner that is c continues to commit this sin Then the Bible Jesus says there is an allowance there for a divorce in that case. Now God is not even there saying the best thing to do is to get a divorce because we know that if there can be healing in a relationship That's always the best thing. If there can be forgiveness in a relationship and trust can be rebuilt, that's always the best thing. However, if there is a partner that continues to commit this sin, Jesus gives an allowance. He says, Except for the cause of Fornication, their sexual sin. I know that there are many people that have suffered the pain of a divorce because they had a marriage partner that was unfaithful. And they had their hearts shattered by this this hard hearted betrayal. And no matter how much you may have pleaded with them to stop and to turn back. They would not. And you conceded finally and gave in to a divorce. And I want to tell you, if that's your situation here, God knows exactly how you feel. He knows where you are. Now there are no there may be some people saying now that w I don't agree with that, that's not right, there's never right to get a divorce. Well Jesus gave this allowance. What right do we have to put our hand our standards higher than God's? And by the way, I don't mean to shock you, but did you know that God got a divorce? You don't believe me. Look in Jeremiah chapter 2 Look at Jeremiah chapter 2. I want you to see how God portrays himself here. In Jeremiah chapter 2 in the Old Testament, God is portraying his relationship with Israel. Israel was God's bride. God married Israel. They entered into a covenant relationship together. When did that happen? That happened at Mount Sinai when God and Israel made a covenant together. In fact, in Ezekiel 16, 8, it says this, I swear unto thee. And entered into a covenant with thee, saith the Lord, and thou became as mine. God said at Mount Sinai, we took one another, you became mine, we entered into this covenant relationship And Jeremiah chapter 2, God is describing himself as the innocent partner of a relationship where the other partner has gone out and committed adultery. Look at verse number 5. Thus saith the Lord. What iniquities have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me, and have walked after vanity and are become vain? In other words, God is saying, Look, what did I do? What sin did I do that has caused you to walk away from me? And then when you get to chapter 3, look down at verse number 7, or actually chapter 3, verse number 6. Where it says this the Lord said unto me in the days of Josiah the king, Hast thou seen that which backsliding Israel has done? She has gone up upon every high mountain and under every green tree, and there hath played the harlot God's marriage partner Israel was committing spiritual adultery by committing idolatry. They went to the high places and worshipped foreign gods. And God is comparing this to adultery. It's spiritual adultery to commit idolatry. And God here is the hurt, crushed marriage partner because his partner, Israel, is now out committing adultery on him. In idolatry. And he pleads for them to come back. Look at verse 7. And I said after she had done all these things, turn thou unto me. God pleads with his bride Israel. Please turn back to me. Please come back to me. But she did not. Look down at verse number eight. Finally, and I saw when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a bill of divorce. God pleaded for her to come back, Israel. She would not. She continued. And God said, Finally, I gave her a bill of divorcement. Finally, I divorced her. Again, now there are some people who say, well, the Bible teaches no divorce for no reason. Well, I would say to people who hold this view, did God do the wrong thing here by divorcing Israel? Because God wrote a bill of divorcement. And people say, well, this is a metaphor, this is an analogy. God didn't actually literally divorce Israel. Well, would God portray himself as doing something that is a sin? Or something that is wrong? Remember Joseph and Mary in the Bible, when Mary was with child and Joseph knew it wasn't his child? And he had several things he could do. They were espoused. They had not yet come together to consummate the marriage. And Joseph was just going to divorce her. And the Bible says this Joseph, her husband, being a just man, was not willing to make a public example, was minded there to divorce her privately, put her away privately Joseph, he knew that Mary was pregnant. He knew it wasn't his child. And naturally he concluded that she had committed adultery The Bible says he was a just man and that he was going to put her away. What I'm trying to show you is that this was an allowance that we see it several places in Scripture. There's one allowance that Jesus gives, and that is for this one sin of unfaithfulness. Again, I would say that always the best thing is reconciliation, always the best thing is forgiveness, but unfortunately that's not always possible. And in that case, Jesus says there's that one allowance, and the innocent party is free. Free to what? Free to marry again, free to move on with their life, free to go forward with no guilt, no condemnation. Let me just again emphasize to you, again, this sermon is not designed to make anyone feel guilty. There are no second-class citizens in the kingdom of God. There are not. And where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. We are all recipients of the superabounding grace of God in our life. We all need that grace I'm just simply telling you what Jesus teaches us here in this. And again, this was hard for them to receive back in that day because Divorce was so prevalent. Even the disciples later on pulled Jesus aside and said, Can you clarify? Did you really mean what you said here? And of course Jesus was very clear. That he there's that one concession. Now later on in 1 Corinthians 7, Paul gives another concession, and that is in the case of abandonment, in 1 Corinthians 7, 15. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother and sister is not under bondage in such cases God has called us to peace. If you're married to someone and they just up and leave you I I I know of many Christians who before they were s uh they were saved, they were married, and once they got saved, they fell in love with Jesus, and the marriage partner said, You have to choose between Jesus and me I don't want that religion, that church in my life. And no matter what praying they did for their unsaved spouse, no matter how much they witnessed, the unsave spouse said, I'm done, I'm outta here, I'm leaving and they leave that person, they abandon that person. Let me ask you a question, what sin did that Christian commit. There was no sin on their part. What they did was they fell in love with Christ. They got saved. And an unbeliever says, I'm out of here. I don't want any of that. Well, Paul says in that case, if an unbeliever departs, let him depart. You're not under bondage. In such cases, God has not called you to war. God has called you to peace. He's called you to peace. And so, now by this time, let me get back to Mark, after Jesus gave his statement, you don't read to the Pharisees anymore. They left. Their plot had failed. Jesus confirms what he teaches there to his disciples. And let me just leave you with one principle. We're really done out of time here. Whatever your situation is, you can't, again, you can't unscramble an egg. You can't go to the past and change it. What you can do from here on out is to live for the Lord, is to obey God's word. Write down 1 Corinthians 7. 24, and I'll leave you with this. Paul said, this brethren, let every man wherein he is called therein abide with God. In other words, what's the principle there? He's talking in the context of marriage and divorce, because many of the Corinthians had questions about this. What should I do? This has happened to me in the past. What should I do? And Paul said, look, just remember this Wherever salvation finds you right now, you just stay where you are. You don't try to change things. You just live for God from here on out. You just live for Jesus from here on out. And you remember that the grace of God has covered our past mistakes, has covered our sins. And God is able to make up the years that the locusts have eaten. God is able to give you a great home and a relationship. He's able to do all of that with his abundant grace in your life. And that we should take advantage of that at grace. And Paul says, therein abide with God. They're in abide with God. Let's bow for prayer together today. I hope that uh this has helped clarify this issue in some hearts and minds. But the main thing again I want to leave with you is to thank God for his abounding grace in our life. And to follow the biblical pattern of marriage that God has instituted for us. To cleave to one another, to love one another. It doesn't matter what your past is, right now, you cleave to that husband or wife that God has given you. You love them The way Christ calls us to love them. And you put Christ in the center of that home and in that relationship. And let God take care of other things in your life. That's the call. And if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, the first way to bring healing in your life and in fast relationships is to bring Christ into your life. is to make him your Lord and your Savior. If you haven't done this, would you be right now, would you pray and ask Jesus to save you? To cleanse you, to forgive you for all of your sin, to turn from that sin and turn to Christ. Again, the Bible says if any man is in Christ, he's a new creature Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. God is not a God who wants to condemn us. He's a God who wants to free us. He's a God who wants to bless us and bless our future together. And it all starts when you come to the cross. Turn to Christ. Would you pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me? Lord Jesus, make me your child. Forgive me for my sin. The Bible says, God says, Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. God wants to wash you white as snow and he will Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. I pray, Lord, that if there's someone here that is feeling guilt or Condemnation over past sins, that they would run to the cross, find a freedom of forgiveness in Christ, and realize that they are made brand new in Christ. Thank you for the mercy and forgiveness of Calvary. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.