I uh ask you to take your Bibles open to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 this morning. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. And in honor of the Word of God, would you please stand as we read just the first four verses of this? 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verses 1 through 4. First Corinthians fifteen, verse number one. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel. which I preach unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I have preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain For I deliver unto you, first of all, that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, and that he was buried. And that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Let's bow for a prayer. Father, thank you for your inspired and errant word. And I pray, Lord, that you'll help me, your servant, to make your word clear. In this, I'm fully dependent upon you and the power of your Holy Spirit And Lord, for those who may be here today that have never trusted Christ as their Savior, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. You may be seated. I want to preach today on the topic what Christ's resurrection means to you. What does Christ's resurrection mean to you? A scientist some time ago wrote a book. It was a book about destiny. It was a book about life. It was a book about philosophy. And in that book he asked two very important questions. One, the one question he asked was this, has anyone ever defeated death? And the second question he asked is this, did he make a way for me to do it also to defeat death? Now, of course, the scientists found the answer to his question, and that answer is found in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Jesus did defeat death. And because of that, he has made a way for you and for me to defeat death as well. Now, this is the major theme that the Apostle Paul talks about here in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Of all the chapters of the Bible, this is perhaps one of the most important chapters. If you'll notice this has 58 verses, I'm going to preach on the whole chapter this morning. I know that makes you nervous. How are you going to get 58 verses in, you know, an hour? I'm just kidding, a half hour. Well, I'm not. I'm actually going to just give you a survey, kind of a bird's eye view. of this chapter and what it means because this is the great resurrection chapter of the Bible. And one thing the Apostle Paul makes very clear here is that the resurrection is the foundation of our faith. If you take the resurrection out of Christianity, we have nothing. Christianity crumbles like a house of cards. So this is one of the pillars of our faith. It is one of the things that we believe that is really foundational. that Jesus Christ our Lord and Savior came out of that grave. And I want to tell you, beloved, that the doctrine of the resurrection, the reason it's being attacked is because it's so foundational. It's so very important. But attacks on the resurrection are nothing new. This was taking place all the way back when Paul wrote this letter to the Corinthians. There was an idea that was floating around, and this idea was simply that there is no such thing as a physical bodily resurrection And that was a part of Greek philosophy. The Greeks taught back in that time that the body was weak, the body was wicked, and when a person died, a person was actually freed from the prison of the body. They could not fathom in their mind the there being a physical bodily resurrection. In fact, when the Apostle Paul and the book of Acts preached on at Athens on Mars Hill That's the place where the philosophers would come and they would present their ideas and they would debate their ideas. The Apostle Paul took that opportunity to go to Mars Hill and he preached the resurrection of Christ And when he did that, the Bible says that some mocked, and others said, We will hear thee again on this matter Because the Greeks in their mind could not fathom how there would be a physical bodily resurrection. And this idea, this errant idea, began to seep into the church at Corinth. And then there were some believers that held on to this, people who actually called themselves Christians, who began to deny the idea of a physical bodily resurrection. Now, when Paul hears about this, he addresses this issue in this letter to 1 Corinthians here in chapter 15, and the reason it has 58 verses in it, one of the longest chapters in the Bible, is because this is such an important issue And clarity needs to be brought to it. And so Paul is going to argue for the truth of the resurrection. And he's going to tell them basically what the truth of the resurrection means to them, what it means to you And he gives us really I'm going to speak today under three headings: the importance of the resurrection, the illustrations of the resurrection, and then the implications. of the resurrection. And really that's what is summarized here in these verses. So number one, the importance of the resurrection. Paul begins to argue that you can't take the resurrection out of Christianity. It's too important. In fact, it is the basis of the gospel. And so, first of all, he argues, and by the way, you're going to see that he argues like a lawyer. He gives one argument after another, talking about the importance of it. And so, first of all, he'll give a historical argument. Look again in verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you Which also you have received and wherein you stand, by which also you're saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. And Paul reminds them that the resurrection is the very foundation of the gospel message. How can you believe that, how can you say there's no resurrection and call yourself a Christian? This is the very gospel that I've preached unto you. It's the gospel in which you have received, and I want to tell you, beloved, if you're here today and you're saved. and you have responded to the gospel and you have received the gospel, what in essence you're saying is, I do believe that Jesus came out of that grave. Because that's the foundation of the gospel message. Paul said to the Corinthians, I preached this to you. You received it. Not only that, it's the thing by which you are saved in verse number two, the word saved, present tense You're being saved. You're actually being saved because of this truth of the resurrection. And then he says this, unless you believed in vain Unless when you made that profession of faith in Christ, you really didn't comprehend the resurrection, and now you deny it. And I would say this: I wouldn't give half a hallelujah for any person's salvation who denies the resurrection. Friend, if you deny the resurrection, there's no salvation for you. Because the gospel is founded on that very thing. And then Paul says this. He says, I'm not making this up. He says in verse 3, I delivered unto you what I have received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, was buried, and rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Paul's saying, look, this is not a message I invented. This was in the scriptures talking about the Old Testament. All through the Old Testament, the resurrection was prophesied. It was pictured. It was pictured in Noah's Ark. Remember the ark after the flood? Was there on Mount Arrat? It landed there on the dead on the day that Jesus came out of the grave. It was a picture of Christ high and lifted up. Abraham and Isaac in Genesis 22, when Abraham took his son Isaac to Mount Moriah, and then after three days they came down together out. out of that mount. That's a picture of the resurrection. And we can go on. I don't have time to go all the way through the Old Testament and give you all the pictures, but trust me folks, it's there. And the Apostle Paul says that very thing. And then there were witnesses about it. Look in verse 5. He says, and then he was seen of Cephas. Then of the twelve, verse six, and after that he was seen above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep. And after that he was seen of James, and then of all the apostles. Uh and then he says, and last of all he was seen of me as one also born out of due time. You want witnesses to the resurrection? Paul says there's a lot of them. You know in the court of law it only takes really two witnesses to establish a fact But how many witnesses were there of the resurrection? There was Peter, then the twelve together, then five hundred, then James And then all the twelve again, with Thomas present, and then Paul himself. And Paul says, by the way, there's when at the writing of this letter, he said, there's still some people alive that saw him after the resurrection. Go and talk to them yourself. There were eyewitnesses all around. Even skeptical historians have to admit that of the historical evidence of the resurrection. And so there's a historical argument. But then Paul gives a personal argument in verse number 12. Look what he says. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? And if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain? Your faith is also vain. Paul basically points to the Corinthians' own personal experience. And he says to them, has not your life been transformed by the gospel? By the fact that that gospel based on the resurrection, hasn't your life been transformed by that? Later on in chap uh earlier on in chapter 6 He talked about them, how that they were saved, and he talked about all the sins that they were delivered from. And he says, now you're washed, you're justified, you've been transformed. You know one of the greatest evidences of the resurrection is a transformed life. People who have been saved from their sins, they have been cleansed, they have been totally turned around. There was a man by the name of Robert Ingersoll, he was an atheist. He used to travel around publicly arguing against the existence of God. He was a famous anti-Christian propagandist and orator. And one time he was in London and there was a crowd there. And this is what he said. He said, There is no God, and if there is a God, I invite him to strike me dead in five minutes. And then Ingersoll pulled out his pocket watch and gave God five minutes. He said, This strike me dead or be disproved, he said. After all, didn't the Bible record where God struck men dead for blasphemy? He said, then let him do it now. And holding his watch, he blasphemed God. And then he said, God, you have five minutes. And then he began to count down four minutes. People around were watching. Men began to sweat. People were getting nervous. Counted down to two minutes. And then one minute. And then 30 seconds. And then 10 seconds. And then he counted down five, four, three, two, one And nothing happened. And then he snapped his watch closed. And then he said this, there you see, there is no God or I would be dead. Well, a preacher, a British preacher named Joseph Parker, heard about this, and this is what he said. He said, And did the American gentleman think he could exhaust the patience of God in only five minutes? And then when Ingersoll heard the comments of Joseph Parker, he challenged Joseph Parker to a debate. He challenged that preacher to a debate. And Joseph Parker accepted the invitation on certain conditions. He said, I will debate you, but here are the conditions. I'm going to bring with me ten men who were former alcoholics who have been transformed by The living Christ, who've been transformed by the power of Jesus Christ. I want you to bring with you one person who has been transformed by the power of atheism. He said, and then I'm going to bring with me ten couples, ten married couples, whose marriages have been saved And families have been made strong by the power of the risen Christ. He said, I'm going to ask you to bring just one couple whose marriage has been saved by the power of atheism. And you know what? Ingersoll declined the debate. You know why? Because you can't argue against the transforming power. Of the resurrection. You can't argue against a changed life. And this is what Paul is saying right here. He's saying to the Corinthians Isn't the fact that your life is now transformed, you're saved, you're cleansed, you're a new person, doesn't that itself tell you that there is A resurrection? The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ? Because if there's not, then all of our faith is useless. Look what Paul says then in verse number 14. And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching in vain, your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up And if so be that the dead rise not, for if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. And then he says this, then they which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. So he's naming here the monstrous, disastrous consequences if Christ did not come out of that grave. Friend, if Christ didn't come out of that grave, then all the preaching that you heard is vain, Paul says. If Christ didn't come out of that grave, then we're still in our sins. And our loved ones who have died in Jesus will not see them again if Christ didn't come out of that grave. You see, because the resurrection of Jesus Christ is inseparably linked to our resurrection. You know how I know that I'm going to have life after death? Because Jesus came out of that grave. That's how you can know that you'll have life after death, that after this life, that's not all there is. If you put your faith in the risen Christ, He will save you, He will cleanse you, He will give you eternal life, and you will have a new resurrection one day. And you'll have eternal life. That's the argument here Paul's using. He uses an historical argument, a personal argument. He'll use a doctrinal argument. In verses 20 down to verse 28, he'll talk about the two atoms, the original Adam, and in Adam the Bible says all die You know, we bear the fallenness of Adam and his sin, but when you come to Jesus Christ, God takes you out of the old Adam and He puts you into new Adam, Jesus. And that means now you'll have victory over death. That's the whole point that he's making there. Look at verse 25. For he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. And so through the last Adam, Christ, death has been conquered. Christ is God's last Adam, and he conquered that last enemy. Because you see, friend, when Christ was taken in death, death, the monarch of terrors, waved his black banner in victory, and a sigh ran through the tombs of the patriarchs. And it looked as if death were victorious. But when Jesus died, he allowed himself to be taken in death, that he might undermine the very foundations of death. And rekindle the star of hope in the grave. When Jesus rose, death died. The last enemy was to destroyed, the Bible says. And now because Jesus came out of that grave, that guarantees us who put our faith in the risen Christ that we also will one day have a resurrection day? That's why he uses this analogy. Look at verse 22 where he says, But every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterwards they that are Christ that is coming. What's he saying there? That when Christ came out of that grave, he is the first fruits of the rest who are going to come out of the grave. He's using the analogy in the Old Testament of reaping in a harvest. Whenever you would reap in a harvest Always you would bring in the first fruits first. What's the first fruits? That was the fruits that got ripe before the main harvest You know? You ever have a uh we had a grapevine in our yard and always there was one cluster of grapes that got ripe early before the rest? That's the first fruits. And what does the first fruit say to the owner? There's more like us coming. Just be patient. The main harvest is coming. And when Christ came out of the grave, he was the first fruits. And Christ said to death, there's more like me coming. Who is he talking about? That's you and me. Because one day when the Lord Jesus Christ returns, the trumpet will sound, and the Bible says the dead in Christ shall rise. We will have a resurrection day because of the Lord Jesus. And so he gives these arguments, a historical argument, a personal argument. a doctrinal argument and even a practical argument because look what he says in verse 30. He says, why stand we jeopardy in every hour? In other words, his point is this: if there is no resurrection, why am I putting my life on the line for the gospel? And in Paul's day, for him to go around and preach the gospel, it meant persecution. It meant that his life was in jeopardy. And Paul said, if there's no resurrection, why would I be willing to put my life on the line? And live in jeopardy every hour if there was no resurrection. Of course there's a resurrection. And he gives this practical argument And by the way, friend, if people don't believe in life after death, you know what? The Bible says bad theology causes bad behavior. If people believe in no life after death, they just live a corrupt life saying, this is all there is, eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. That's what Paul says. Look down in verse number 32. And if after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantage it me? If the dead rise not, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die. Be not deceived. Evil communication corrupts good manners. Paul said, you know, if if if there's no resurrection, then you know it's going to corrupt our behavior. There's no incentive for sanctification. But I love what Paul says. Look at verse 20. Back up to verse 20. But now is Christ risen. Friend, I got news for you, he did come out of that grave. He has conquered death. So there's the investigation, but let me give you number two quickly the illustrations of resurrection truth, because people say, okay, well, if there is a resurrection, how's God going to do it? It seems to be a problem in some people's minds. How's God going to raise the dead? The people in Corinth were wondering this, and people still have questions about it today. What about someone whose body was cremated? How's God going to resurrect them? What about someone if they were dumped into the sea and the fish ate their body? How is God going to resurrect them? What if they were dissolved in acid? The story I like to tell is that of Roger Williams. He was the founder of Rhode Island. And uh he after he died, he was buried outside the city of Providence because the people didn't like him very much And pretty soon later on uh travelers would come and they'd want to see the grave of Roger Williams and the city got together and said, you know what, let's all these tourists are coming and they're not coming into our town. Let's dig up the body of Roger Williams. Let's move them in town so we can gather in some of that tourist trade So they went to the grave site of Roger Williams, they uh dug up the body, they noticed that he was in a wooden coffin and a nearby apple tree seeking to s spread out its roots and get nourishment broke into the wooden coffin of Roger Williams and used his decaying body to make apples. You ever hear the song I Wish I Were an Apple just hanging on a tree? Well that literally happened to Roger Williams. Someone come along and eat an apple. And then the question is asked, how is God going to resurrect him? How is God going to reclaim the various elements? And there were questions like this circulating around the city of Corinth. Notice Paul's response. Look at verse 35. But some men will say, How are the dead raised up? With what body do they come? Look at verse 36, thou fool. That which thou sowest is not quickened except it die. And what Paul does is he gives us just some quick illustrations to help us understand the resurrection. And he uses the illustration, first of all, an agricultural illustration, and he talks about seeds. Any farmer that has planted a seed into the ground has seen the resurrection. Jesus said, except the corn of weed fall into the ground and die, it abides alone. And when that seed is put into the ground, the outer shell of that seed decays. And there's a continuing life principle in that seed, and out of that seed comes this little genetic code that God put inside that seed, and new life and new matter is organized around that genetic code, and when you put a seed into the ground, you don't get the same seed back, do you? You get something back that is much more beautiful, much more glorious. The thing that God put inside that seed and designed in that seed to bring to give back, that is what is released. New life, greater life, a greater body than the first body. And Paul's saying that's what the resurrection is like You know that that's true of all of us. If you're saved, you know inside of us there's a continuing life principle. Jesus said, whoever believes in me is never really going to die. This outer cell might die, but inside of us there's a continuing life principle. And at the resurrection time, God's going to give us a new body. So if I die, it's not me that's dead, it's just my outer shell. Right? There was a man by the name of Mr. Pease who died, and somebody wrote on his tombstone, this ain't peas, it's just the pod. P shout out and went to God So when I'm resurrected, friend, and when you're resurrected, it's not the same body that we get back. We get something back that's totally new. And then Paul gives another illustration. He gives a biological illustration, and he talks about skin. Look at verse 39. All flesh is not the same flesh. But there's one kind of flesh of man, another of beasts, another of fishes, another of birds. There are bodies celestial and bodies terrestrial, but the glory of the celestial is one. And the glory of the terrestrial is another. And the point that Paul makes here is that God, our wise Creator, creates different bodies and skin suitable for different purposes. If you want to understand the resurrection, look at a bird and see how that God created that bird's body to fly. Look at a fish and see how God created that body to live under the water. Look at an animal in the field and see how God created that body and skin to live in the field. And notice the different bodies designed for different purposes. And Paul's saying, listen, the body that we have now, this is a terrestrial body But one day, when we get our new body, it'll be a celestial body designed to live in the heavens And that's the point that he's making here. And the glory of the terrestrial is one, the glory of the celestial is another. If you think the earthly body is a beautiful thing, wait till you see the celestial body That God has the day of the resurrection. And then he gives an astrological illustration and he talks about stars. Look at verse 41. There's one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory of the stars. For one star differ from another in glory, so also is the resurrection of the dead, it is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. Paul said, look, if you want to understand the resurrection, not only look at a seed or look at the body of animals, but look up into the sky at night and look at the stars on a dark night when the stars are out Look and see how there are some stars that are brighter than others. Paul said that's the way it's going to be in the resurrection. Our new glorified body will be clothed with glory. Some will shine brighter than others. You say, what determines that? Your faithfulness to the Lord Jesus Christ here on earth. You will shine with the glory of God. I believe that when God created Adam and Eve in the garden, he clothed them with glory, and when they sinned, that glory was taken, and they knew that they were naked. I think that when God gives us this new body, it will shine with glory. the glory of God. That's what Paul's saying here. That celestial body. And then he also uses an illustration, a scriptural illustration, and he talks about sons. Look at verse 45. And so it is written the first Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a quickening spirit. In other words, we bear the image of the first Adam right now in this body. But one day we're going to bear the image of the last Adam, the Lord Jesus Christ, in that glorified body. You say, I want to know everything about what my glorified body is going to be like. Well, reading the Bible about Jesus after his resurrection, what he could do? He could eat. He was physically present with the disciples. He could walk through walls. He could ascend to heaven. If you want to know what the main harvest is going to look like, look at the first fruits. And look at what Jesus is like. And the Bible doesn't answer all our questions about that. It just says this, beloved, it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that when he shall appear, we shall be like him. We'll be made just like the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me give you the last point today and we'll be done. We talked about the importance of the resurrection. Paul said, this is foundational. We talked about the illustrations of the resurrection. This is what it's going to be like for you. At the resurrection. But here's the third thing, the implications. Since all of this is true, what do we have to look forward to? Look in chapter 15, look at verse number 50. Just jump there with me. Notice what it says. Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither does corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I show you a mystery, we shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in a twinkle of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. And so Paul says, look, the very thing that I've already told you, we, our resurrection is directly linked to the resurrection of Christ. When he returns one day, the Bible says we are going to be changed in a moment, in an instant. We're going to be completely changed. We'll get that brand new body. And Paul says this is kind of a mystery, but this is what's going to happen. Reminds me of an illustration that Chuck Swindoll likes to tell about a man who lived in the country all his life. He was uneducated, couldn't read or write. He never had been to a big city. And one day he took his wife and his son to visit a big city. He had never seen a skyscraper before He saw a skyscraper. He went in the lobby. Never saw an elevator before. He saw the doors of this elevator open. He saw this precious dear old lady. Probably in her 90s, all bent over, hobbled onto that elevator. He saw the doors close. He saw the dial go all the way up this way and all the way back that way. Then he saw the doors open up and he saw this beautiful young woman get off He couldn't figure that out. He said, son, you wait here, I'm gonna go get your maw and run her through that thing But you know what, friend? There will be a transformation. It's not gonna happen on the elevator. But there will be an incredible transformation. And this is what Paul says. At the last trump. In a moment when the Lord comes, the Bible says, this corruption corruptible shall put on in corruption. You know what that means? All of our loved ones, I know we have many people here today And you have been to the grave of your loved one, that person, that loved one who is in Christ, who trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, I want to tell you something, dear friend. There will be a reunion day. You will see them again. The Bible promises us that. Because Christ came out of that grave. We have the hope of the resurrection ourselves. And that's what Paul wants these believers to know and understand. So look at verse number 55 as we close. He says, This, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? And then he says, look at verse 57, but thanks be to God, which gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. You see, friend, we have victory. Through the Lord Jesus Christ. Because he came out of that grave. We have victory over death. And that's what he wants us to believe he wants us to know. You know, this week we I did the funeral of a precious saint, Miss B. Scott, who's a part of our church for so many years. Has so many family members still a part of our church. And I told this story, and I want to close with this story here today. The great preacher R. G. Lee once time asked his mother He said to her, Mom, what's the happiest day of your life? And she said to him, she said, you know, you've asked a hard question, but let me tell you the happiest day of my life. She said, when I was a little girl, my father, your grandfather Bennett, went off to fight in the war between the states. And one day my mom got news that my father was killed in the war. She said I watched her to see her reaction. She didn't cry in front of me, but at nighttime my bedroom was next to hers And I could hear her cry her eyes out every night. But the next morning she would be fine. And she said it was very, very hard at that time. She said one day my mother and I, we were sitting on the front porch, we were Stringing beans. We each had a bowl in our lap, and we were strick breaking those beans and stringing those beans. And she said, We were looking off out over the field, down by the old river road, and here come a man walking down along that road And she said, my mother said to me, Elizabeth, that man sure does walk like your father used to walk. And she said, I said to my mother, Mom, now don't torture yourself like this. Dad's gone. And she said, that man kept walking. My mother kept staring. And she said, in a moment, my mother jumped up and the bowl flew and beans went everywhere. And she ran down through the field, down to that road, and I followed her as fast as my my little legs could carry me. And my mother was there and she fell into the arm, not arms, but arm Because my father lost his arm during the war. Fell into the arm of my father. And I hugged together there with them. And together we laughed and we wept and we rejoiced. And she said, son, that was the happiest moment of my life when we were reunited. That day. And then R. G. Lee says this my mother's happiest day is nothing compared to the reunion that we will have one day. in heaven with our loved ones. And you know why? Because we know Jesus and we have the hope of the resurrection. And friend, I just but let me ask you this, friend, do you have that hope? Have you put your faith in the risen Christ? And if you haven't, would you do that today? Let's bow together for prayer. Let's bow for prayer. And so, Lord, we thank you for the truth of the resurrection. We thank you that we have hope because Christ came out of that grave. Our whole faith rests on that. The gospel is the gospel of the resurrection of Christ. And Father, I pray that if there's someone here today that has never trusted Christ As their Savior, that today they would do that. This very moment, they would reach out in faith and say, I believe that Jesus died for my sins. That he was buried, that he rose again the third day, and I'm putting my faith today in the risen Christ For my salvation. Friend, is that your prayer? Could I pray for you? I don't want to embarrass you, but I do want to pray for you. Is that your prayer? Are you willing this very moment, if you haven't done this already Would you put your faith in the risen Christ? Say, I'm trusting him today. Anyone here, would you be willing to pray that prayer and say, yes, that's me. I'm putting my faith in the risen Christ. Just say these words. Father, be merciful to me a sinner. Save me. Those of you that said, yes, I want to do that, would you just pray that prayer? Father, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it in your heart, he'll save you. He'll make you his child today. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts, we pray. In Jesus' precious name, amen.