Would you take God's word this morning and open, please, to the book of Second Corinthians, chapter ten, as we continue our study through this letter. Second Corinthians chapter ten and We're going to read a few verses here. If we stand for the reading of God's Word, we're going to read 2 Corinthians 10. We'll start at verse number 12. For we dare not make ourselves of a number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves, but they measure themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God has distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you. For we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reach not unto you, for we are come as far as to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ, not boasting of things without our measure that is, of other men's labors, but having hope, when your faith is increased, that we shall be enlarged by you according to our abund our rule abundantly. To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things made ready to our hand. But he that gloryeth, let him glory in the Lord. For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth. Thank you. You may be seated. May God help us to understand his word Today and here. Let's pray. Father, as we come before you today, we ask you now to please teach us, Lord, may the Spirit of God open our eyes, the eyes of our heart. so that we can understand this passage and apply it to our own life. And Lord, may we uh be more sanctified in the truth. May you continue to do your deep work of making us more like our Savior, Jesus Christ. Use your word to do that. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In 2015, a Florida teenager, a boy by the name of Malachi Robinson, he opened his own medical practice complete with paid staff. He performed physical exams on patients. Now the only problem with this is that he had just graduated from high school. He took advantage of a legal loophole. It seems that for the bargain price of $29. 95, you can buy a degree from the University Life Church Seminary that entitles you to place the title doctor in front of your name. Now, of course, later he was found out to be a quack. We know what a quack is, someone who is a supposedly has all this knowledge in a medical field, but they do not. You know, pretending to be qualified as a medical professional is illegal, it's dangerous, but even more dangerous is someone who claims to be sent from God but is not. A quack, a unqualified doctor, can damage your body, but those that are not of God, those who claim to be of God but are not, they can damage your soul. And so the question we need to ask ourselves is this, how do you know if a minister is a true man of God? How do you know if a person is really sent by God? Or if they are self-appointed. Pat Kelly, some of you remember Pat Kelly, who used to play for the Orioles and preach here several times, he had an expression that I can't forget. He said, Some are sent and others just went. So how can you tell the difference? How do you know if a person is sent by God or self-appointed? Now this is an important issue because Those that are not really of God have caused great damage to the body of Christ. And the Bible gives warnings about being discerning about those that are truly of God and those that are not. All the way back in the book of Deuteronomy, chapter 13, it says this of a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives a sign or a wonder, and the sign or wonder tell that he tells you comes to pass And if he says, Let us go after other gods which you have not known, and let us serve them, you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God is testing you to know whether you love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. Sometimes God will allow a spiritual quack. to come among people to test us, to see if we really are going to follow God with all our heart. Jesus said this, beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. But inwardly they are ravenous wolves. In Matthew 24, Jesus said, See that no one lead you astray, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray. And on we can go throughout the New Testament. Paul warned Timothy, he said, impostors will go from bad to worse. Deceiving and being deceived. John wrote in 1 John, Beloved, believe not every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are of God Now no church is exempt from the enemy, and the church at Corinth was certainly no exception. False apostles had come into the church. And they had caused a world of problems for the people that were there. They were seeking to lead people away from the simplicity of the gospel of Jesus Christ, simplicity and purity of devotion to Jesus Christ. And they knew that in order to do that they had to destroy the credibility of Paul. They had to take away his his his character, his credibility in the minds of the people. And that's what they did. They attacked him. They attacked him in every way you could imagine. And in response, Paul had no choice but to defend himself. Paul hated to defend himself. No minister likes to get on the defensive and have to defend their credentials. Paul hated it because it came across like boasting. At one point he called it foolishness. I have to stand for myself, I have to boast for myself. Because many in the church at Corinth that should have defended Paul, they were silent. And Paul had no choice but to defend himself. On one occasion he visited the church of Cardiff personally and it didn't go well. He called it the painful visit. Evidently the ringleader of these false apostles insulted Paul. No one stood with him, and so he left. And then later he wrote the severe letter, hoping to bring repentance, and it did. He rejoiced to hear the news from Titus, but at the same time he knew that the false seekers there were still present in the church, and he had to deal with them. He had to root them out. And so for the last four chapters here in 2 Corinthians, he's going to do that. And then he's going to follow it up, this letter to the Corinthians, he's going to follow up with a personal visit. Paul a few months later visited the church at Corinth and confronted these false teachers face to face. That's how Paul was going to deal with them. And so this is a very real issue. It happened in the church at Corinth. There are still false teachers rising up in churches today. This week I re got a letter from our missionaries, the kings, the missionaries to Italy. They were probably the first missionaries this church ever took on, I believe. They're a faithful, godly couple, serving the Lord there in Italy for 40 years. I received a letter from them, and they're in a battle. False teachers have risen up in the church there. They swayed many people away from the true gospel. I want to read you an excerpt of the letter written by Frank's wife, Kathy. She says, as we are shocked. to find so many people believing in this false prosperity gospel and the false teachings related to it. These false teachings have seemingly infiltrated the vast majority in the church, even some who are older in the Lord. And in leadership and teaching positions. They claim to have special sign gifts, and even though they didn't happen as they have prophesied or prayed to be healed from It seems nearly every day there is some bad news about somebody or some things related to this problem. She goes on to say, one of their tactics, it seems, is to go after our character. Especially Frank's, and to find something to accuse us of. The ungodly way in which they go about it has helped at least a few to see how wrong they are. Sounds familiar, right? It's exactly what Paul went through here, as we've been talking about. She goes on to say they want to take possession of this church, this this building, this body. They want to change its doctrine. She says it's so hard to minister in this toxic environment. Well, this is exactly what Paul's talking about here in 2 Corinthians. This is what he's going through. Paul doesn't mention the specific heresy that was drawing people away from him and causing them to listen to these false apostles, but really it doesn't matter. Satan doesn't care what you believe as long as it's not the truth. As long as it draws you away from Christ. So in this section here, what we can learn are guidelines on how to evaluate a minister. Are they truly of God? Or not. Look at verse 7. Paul, this is a key phrase here. Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? Again, a key statement here. This sentence may be translated in the indicative mood. That's the mood of fact. You know, sometimes in these Greek um uh sentences the endings kind of let you know how you translate this whether it's imperative, a command, indicative, or is it is it a fact? Or is it in in an interrogative? Is this a question? And this is one of the places where it's difficult to talk to tell for sure. It could be done any of these ways. It could be that Paul's just making a fact. You are you're you're looking just on the outward appearance You need to look a little bit deeper. Or it could be a command where Paul's saying, look, I want you to use discernment and look below the surface. I want you to study them, evaluate them. in a more solemn way. Or it could be a question mark, do you look only on the outward appearance? But I think really the idea is the same, that when you evaluate a minister or a man of God, someone who claims to be a man of God or a servant, you have to look beneath the surface. You have to really use discernment. And that's the whole idea here. So in this passage of scripture, Paul is going to give us just five things. guidelines to look for. What do you look at? Well here's number one. Look to see if they're foc if they focus more on inward character rather than outward appearance. If they're a true man of God, they're going to focus on their inward character. Look at verse 7. Do ye look on things after the outward appearance? If any man trusts to himself that he is Christ, let him of himself think this again. That as he is Christ, even so are we. Where it says he is Christ literally to be of Christ. And I think what Paul is saying here is that there are many of these false teachers there in the church that were claiming, I am of Christ. God sent me, I'm of Christ. They claim to have superior knowledge. They claim to be superior to Paul, that they were commissioned by God to have a greater authority. Then Paul. And that's why Paul says, if any man, and that is singular there, and I think he's referring to the ringleader there in the church at Corinth that was leading others astray. If this man says that he is of Christ, this is not a hypothetical situation. This is something that is real. The the Greek text indicates this. Here's a man standing up, making a claim that I am of Christ. I've been commissioned by Christ. I've been sent by Christ. I have a greater devotion to Christ than the Apostle Paul. He's boasting about himself at one hand and he's criticizing Paul on the other. He made a big splash outwardly. Probably a a good looking guy, you know, very well built. That's what they valued back in Greek society Some of the teachers of wisdom that went through Corinth, they would gather disciples around them, and parents encouraged their children to act like them. Especially if they had a good physique and they were handsome and they carried themselves in a good way and they had great oratorical ability. That's what that culture prized. And these false seekers came in with all that, and they compared themselves to Paul. Look what they said in verse 10. For his letters say they are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech contemptible. Contemptible means worthless of no value. Boy, he's not much to look at, and he's not very interesting to listen to He doesn't really do much for me when I hear him. He's a bit boring, he's a bit tedious. He doesn't have that bombastic roar, you know. Uh he doesn't have the dynamics of eloquence that we love And a preacher, you know, he's pretty weak. He's pretty pathetic. These false teachers valued an outward show of flesh. That's how they were judging Paul. It was all based on the outward It was all based on what they could see on the outside. But you know what? Paul, he may not have been much to look at, but I'll tell you what he had. He had real substance. He was really sent by God. Look in look in chapter eleven. Look down in verse number six. Here's what Paul says in chapter eleven, verse six. But though I be rude in speech, I might not be cultured in speech, I might not have the Greek rhetorical skills that you all prize, though I be rude in speech, yet not in knowledge. But we have been thoroughly made manifest among you in all things. Look I might not be powerful in my oratory, but you have learned the gospel through me. You have learned about God through me. I have given you the word of God. One thing Paul did not lack was knowledge, the knowledge of God. He knew how to feed people the word of God And that's what he did. And with Paul, they grew spiritually. You know why? Because Paul had a depth of character He had a substance about him in every way. He was a godly man. He was not a showman. He was a servant of the Lord. Look again in chapter ten, verse seven, the second part of it where it says, Let him think this again, that as he is Christ, even so are we. And what Paul is saying there is, anyone can make the claim subjectively that they are Christ, that Christ sent me. Anyone can make that claim. That's a subjective claim. But what you have to do, you have to evaluate them objectively. Paul saying, look, I make the same claim. I'm telling you that they say they are of Christ, but I'm of Christ. He sent me And how do you know which one is true? Well, you decide that on objective evidence, not subjective What does their life produce? What is the character of their life? And Paul was the one who basically brought those people to Christ. He's the one that taught them the gospel. He's the one that helped them to grow. You know, false teachers and apostates and liberals, they can't start anything. They can't build anything. All they can do do is go in and take over something. And it doesn't grow under them, and the people's character doesn't grow under them. You have to evaluate them objectively. But here's the second thing. Look to see if they use their authority to build up rather than tear down. Look at verse 8. For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, which the Lord has given us for edification and not for your destruction, I should not be ashamed. Paul didn't like to boast about his authority Again, you see that here in verse 8. You know, I I have to I have to boast, I have to engage in this game, I don't like to do it, but I can boast about my authority, and when I do it, I don't have to be ashamed because what I'm telling you is real, it's from God. This is because he didn't make empty boasts like these false apostles. He didn't say things that were not true. Unlike the false apostles, his authority was real. And he used his authority to build up Not to tear down. Those false apostles and false teachers were tearing the church apart. They were tearing it down. They weren't building it up. Paul said, I use my authority to build up. Again, people were saved under Paul. People were strengthened under him. They were edified. That's how a true Christian leader uses whatever authority God gives them. And let me just say this: I have no authority except what is given right here in the scripture, the Word of God. And as long as I stay inside the bounds of what God's Word says, and by the way, I am accountable to the same Word of God as everyone else I have to stay within the bounds of what Scripture teaches. As long as I do that, I'm speaking with the authority of God. And that's not authority that is abused. That's authority that needs to be dealt with in a very wise way. You know, when Pastor Johnson was here, an impeccable man of God, you all loved him and you respected him, and to a great extent you've passed some of that respect along to me. And I need to be careful how I use that as a pastor. to continue to earn your respect and trust and to continue to preach the word of God just like Pastor Johnson did. How a person uses their authority is a mark of whether they're from God or not. But here's number three. Look to see if they lead by integrity rather than intimidation. Look at verse number nine. That I may not seem as if I would terrify you by letters, for his letters say they are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak and his speech contemptible. Lest such one think this, that such as we are in word by letters, when we are absent, but we will be also indeed when we are present. Now here in verses nine to eleven. You know, again, this is a little bit obscure in the Greek. You know, Paul could be saying it like this, you know, I never intended to frighten or intimidate you by my letters. One of the crit criticisms leveled against Paul was, Oh, look look at this letter. Look how he tries to intimidate you in this letter. Look how he tries to terrify you. I'm sure they're referring to the severe letter that he wrote to them. Oh, he's trying to intimidate you, he's trying to terrify you. Oh, he's abusive. Look at him. But Paul responds by saying, look, that was never my intention. That's not what I desired. I don't desire to intimidate you in any way or to terrify you. Paul simply wanted them to repent. He simply wanted them to do what was right before the Lord. But the false teachers took this occasion again to criticize Paul and say that he was an abusive leader. Paul was not an abusive leader. He could use discipline if necessary. He wrote to the Corinthians in 1 Corinthians and said, Look, I can come with a rod if you want me to. Or I can come in love and gentleness. You know. If I need to use the rod I will, but I would much rather instruct you with compassion and gentleness and love. And so here's a mark of a true man of God. They're marked by compassion. They care for the people of God. They have no desire to be abusive in any way. Pastors are not dictators. Ruling with a heavy hand, they are shepherds who love the sheep, you know. They're not cowboys who drive cattle. They're shepherds who lead sheep. And they do it with a gentle way. And they do it with a loving way, loving leadership, being an example to God's people. And then notice what Paul says in verse 11. I love this. He said, Let such one think this That such as we are in word by letter when we are pres absent, such will be also indeed when we are present. Paul saying, look, those who say that I'm You know, one thing when I'm absent, another thing when I'm present, what they're about to find out is that I am going to I'm going to come there and I'm going to confront them and they're going to find out that I'm the same person. And I'm not afraid to confront or to be bold. Paul was a man of integrity. He was not one thing when he was not with them the church and then another thing when he was with the church. Paul was the same person. He led by integrity. There was no hypocrisy in him. His integrity was unimpeachable. His life and ministry bore the stamp of God's approval. He didn't lead by intimidation. He led by his integrity as a man of God that he was. And here's number four. Look to see if they measure themselves by God's word rather than human wisdom. Look at verse 12. For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves. But they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. But we will not boast of things without our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God has distributed to us, a measure to reach even unto you. Now, evidently, these false teachers love to compare themselves to one another. They thought a lot of themselves. They kind of had this elitist mentality. They were spiritual primadonnas. And Paul's actually being sarcastic in verse number 12 when he says, you know, I dare not try to compare myself with you. Well, if I try to compare myself to you, I'm not going to measure up. You guys are too high for me. You're too smart for me. You're too intelligent for me. I can't hang with you. But then he says this next state statement again shows his sarcasm. But they measuring themselves By themselves in verse 12, and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. That is to say, they evaluate their importance in church by their own human standards By their own measuring. In modern terms, they are legends in their own mind, is what he's saying there. It's like the little boy, five-year-old boy came to his mother and said, Mom, I'm nine feet tall. She said, Son, you're not nine feet tall. He said, Yes, I am. This ruler shows, I I made this ruler by the way, and it shows I'm nine feet tall. Well yeah, if you use your own ruler, you can be that big. And that's exactly what these false teachers were doing. They were using their own ruler And they were measuring themselves among themselves and they were saying, Man, we're really something. We're really special. And Paul's point is, you know I'm not going to use that standard. I'm not going to play that game. And by the way, many professing Christians do this. They measure themselves among others and say, you know, I'm not doing so bad Well, who are you measuring yourself to? Sometimes I'll say to people, make sure you know Jesus. Make sure you're saved. And they'll say, Oh, I'm alright. I mean, so-and-so said I'm all right. And I'm looking at this person. They say they're a Christian. I know I'm better than them, so I'm all right. Friend, you're using the wrong standard. Don't measure yourself among yourselves. Measure yourself to the standard of the Word of God. And that's what Paul is saying right here. I use a different rule. Look at verse 13. Paul said, we will measure ourselves by The rule in verse 13, which God has distributed. I'm using God's ruler. The word rule there in verse 13 literally is the word canon, measuring stick or measuring reed. It doesn't matter about what men say. Man's judgment doesn't matter. It only matters what God's word says. And you need to measure yourself according to the God's rule, God's word. And so Paul says, I'm not going to boast about things that I have not done, or boast because I'm comparing myself with the wrong ruler. Verse 14, for we stretch not ourselves beyond our measure, as though we reach not unto you, for we are come as far to you also in preaching the gospel of Christ. Paul said, Look, when I judge myself When I have to boast about myself, I'm only going to talk about the things that God, through his grace, allowed me to do. And God in his grace allowed me to come to you He brought me to you and he allowed me to preach the gospel to you. I can boast in that and yet it wasn't me, it was all God who did it. I could say that. If he had boasted in anything else, it would have been boasting that's gone too far. Paul's trying to have a legitimate boasting in the Lord and saying, God allowed me to come to you And I'm not, in verse 15, not boasting on things without our measure. I'm not going to boast in things that I haven't done, or I'm not going to boast in what other men have done, other men's labors. That's what the false apostles were doing. They didn't do anything to build that church in Corinth. It was all Paul, but they were boasting as if they had done that. And Paul's desire was to go beyond and go and preach the gospel, but through the grace of God to go to regions beyond. Look at verse 16. To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you and not boast that another man's line of things made ready to our hand. Paul said, that's what I want to do. I only want to boast about what God has done by his grace through me. I'm going to measure myself not by man's standard, I'm going to measure myself by the word of God. Look to see if they measure themselves by God's word rather than human wisdom. Here's the last thing. Look to see if they glory in the Lord rather than self. Look at verse 17. But he that glory, let him glory in the Lord. You gotta boast? You just need to boast. Just post in the Lord. Look at verse 18. For not he that commendeth himself is approved, but whom the Lord commendeth You're not approved by God just because you can boast about your own successes and your own achievements. I can imagine these false teachers coming in and they gave a long list of their credentials. They gave their resume. They gave a list of their achievements. They engaged in name-dropping, oh I know so-and-so back in Jerusalem. They did all those things. They showed their degrees, their trophy tastes. of all those things. And Paul says, look, it's not the person who commends himself that's really approved by God. Anybody can come out You know, I I've read some resumes that are really impressive, man. I mean really, really impressive. You would have thought this was the second coming of Charles Furgeon and D. L. Moody and John Wesley and all those guys all rolled up into one in the resumes But it's not you boasting in yourself that makes you approved of God. Only God can approve You. Only God can commend you. The only ones that are really approved, documented, tested, and found to be real are the ones that God commends. Those are the only ones. And if you have to boast in anything Then just boast in the Lord. Boast in the Lord. In verse 17, Paul is quoting from Jeremiah chapter 9. Verse twenty three verse twenty four. Thus saith the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might Let not the rich man glory in his riches, verse twenty-four, but let him that glory, glory in this, that he understands and knows me that I am the Lord. That's the only boasting you should ever do. Paul's quoting here from Jeremiah 9. And by the way, in that passage of Scripture, the context of Jeremiah 9 is he's talking about death. Death is coming. And he uses the word Jeremiah 9:21, for death is come up in into our windows and is entered into our palaces to cut off the children from without and the young men from the streets. The word here for death in Jeremiah 9. 21 is the Hebrew word mabet or mat And that was the Canaanite myth of of death. Death was personified. It was a person. It was a scary monster. You know, we we say today death is the grim reaper, you know. We kind of personify death. Well that in Canaanite mythology, death was this guy called Mot. And Jeremiah's using this legend, this story. to talk about death and what he's saying is God's going to bring judgment. People are going to die. In fact, death is going to come up into our windows. Kind of like a horror story here. Death is coming. You can't close yourself inside your house, close the doors in the windows, and keep death out. Death is coming. He'll come through the windows. And death is no respecter of persons. Death can come to a child Death can come to a mother, death can come to young men, death can come to anyone. And all of us are going to face it. You understand that? Everyone here is going to face death. There's a new statistic out. One out of every one died. When death comes, what are you going to do? What are you going to do when Mot comes knocking at your door? And Jeremiah's response, at that time when death comes, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. You know when death comes, man's wisdom is not going to help you. Philosophy is not going to help you. None of those things are going to help you. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. You're not stronger than death. You're not going to be able to outfight death when it comes. You're not going to be able to glory in your own strength when death comes. Your strength is not enough to deal with death Let not the rich man glory in his riches. You know what? You're not going to be able to pay death off and say, Here, here's a sum of money. Give me some more time. Riches is not going to be able to help you in the time of death. But let him that glory glories in this. You know the only thing that can deal with death is you know the Lord. That's what you glory in. You glory in the fact when death comes, I'm not afraid of you because I know the Lord, and I know him through his son, Jesus Christ, who took my sins on the cross. Who took my sin dead and paid my penalty, and now I have eternal life in heaven. You do not scare me, death. Because I know the Lord. That's all I want to boast in. Paul said, that's the only thing you need to boast in. If you want to glory, glory in the Lord. And Paul would later write in Galatians 6:14: God forbid that I should glory. Except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the only thing I want to boast in. That's the only thing I want to glory about, is that I know Jesus Christ. And so I want to ask you: do you know? Christ. I want all of my boasting to be in that one thing that I know Jesus Christ. That's it. I glory in the cross. Martin Luther, the great reformer, after he died, a friend found a scrap of paper in his pocket. And written on that piece of paper by Martin Luther put in his pocket, it was very simple. He just said this. We are all beggars. We're all beggars. You know what I am? I'm a beggar telling other beggars where you can find bread. And it's in Jesus Christ. That's it. That's all. Men of God are humble men who boast only in the Lord Jesus Christ. They cry out like the psalmists who said, Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto your name give glory. Let's bow for prayer together. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to I just want to ask you, can you face death if it were to come to you today? I hope you live a long life. I hope that you Have many, many years. But the truth of the matter is we don't know when death's gonna come. We just don't know If it came today, if Mott came through the windows to capture your soul, would you be ready at that moment? The only way you can stand is to know Jesus Christ. Your money's not going to help you. Your strength is not going to help you. The wisdom of men It's not going to help you. Only Christ. Only Christ. Are you sure that you know him? Can you boast to say, I Glory in the fact that I know Jesus Christ. That's it. I've put my faith in him. I've turned from my sin. I've turned to Christ My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. If you can't say that, would you right now put your faith in Christ? The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Reach out in prayer To the Lord right there where you are. He can hear you if you just pray in your own heart and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. I know that. I know that I'm a sinner, and I repent of my sin today, and I put all of my faith In what you have done for me and your finished work. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, you can glory in the cross of Jesus Christ. Father, save souls and strengthen the body of Christ. We pray in Jesus' precious name.