Amen. Thank you, Miss Bernadine. She's always a blessing when she sings for us. Thank you so much. Take your Bibles tonight. I know we uh normally are in the book of Revelation and we'll probably look a little bit into that tonight, but I've kind of changed sermons a little bit under the circumstances. I know you all know that my father went into heaven this afternoon about three forty five and uh surrounded by his family and uh we um you know after church went over and it was pretty obvious that he was uh you know, close. So we uh gathered together as a family and I we all prayed together and my honestly my prayer was, Lord, just just take them on through. Just just pull them on through, take them into eternity. And God, who was so gracious, answered that because it wasn't long after that that the Lord took them into eternity, and we're so thankful. For that. Can you imagine what he's experiencing now? Wow. What a Sunday. What a way to worship the Lord there in heaven with a with with uh the Lord Jesus. It's just hard hard to even contemplate or even imagine. But we rejoice. Now we of course we sorrow, but what does the Bible say? We don't sorrow like others who have no hope. Because we have great hope. We have great hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. And my my dad knew the Lord. There was no question about that. He was a believer. I as a teenager saw the transforming gospel in his life change him. And um and so we have so much to be thankful for. Um you know when I think about my father, I think about the incredible grace of God in his life. You know, God was so good to my dad. And I'm so thankful to the Lord for that. So I thought, you know, I uh this is on my heart, it might be on your heart, and there's some of you are wondering how we're doing we're we're You know, it's the grace of God that brings you through these things, isn't it? I mean it's Him that gives you the strength to go through that. But it's just the promises of God's Word. We know the the Bible is real. We know heaven is real We know what the scripture says about it. And so that's what carries us through times like this. This we know what the scripture says. So look in Luke chapter 16 tonight. And I want to just deal with the issue of what happens when a when death comes, what what takes place, you know, because that's a lot of questions that people have and ask about death. And what happens for a believer, you know, the Bible says that God has planted in the heart of man two things that we know that everyone knows. One of them is that there the knowledge that there is a God. Every man knows that there is a God. How do we know that? Because God has put that knowledge in every man's heart. An atheist is just simply someone who tries to push that knowledge away. Romans 1 tells us that this is the reason for God's wrath being revealed from heaven because of those who hold the truth, and the word for hold there is to push back. Men are constantly pushing away the truth that of a God. They know that truth because it's innate. It's put in them. But there's another knowledge that God has placed in the heart of all people And that is the knowledge that there is an eternity. We know innately that there's life after death. There's an eternity where you're going to go. The question is, where will you go? when eternity comes. All of mankind has this innate knowledge. I was watching a a debate uh I think it was on Saturday where it wasn't really a debate, it was really just everyone giving their opinion on things and the the question was what happens at death and there were different people from different religions talking about what they think happens at death. And on the panel was an atheist and they said to the atheist, What do you think happens at death? And the atheist says, you know, we're willing to embrace the fact that there's nothing. After death there's nothing. Well, that's again an illustration of how an atheist simply suppresses knowledge that God has put within his heart Because every man knows that there is a God, and every man knows that there is an eternity. Why? Because the Bible says God has put eternity, he has set the world in their heart. That's Ecclesiastes 3. 11. God has put eternity in the heart of everyone. Every man innately knows that there is an eternity. You look at the cultures of the world. And you see that every culture has some sort of funeral ritual where they believe in the afterlife. The Greeks believe that you cross the river sticks Uh they put two coins in the eye sockets to pay the fare to cross the river. The Egyptian heaven was the field of Reeve where you had to go after your heart was weighed, and if your heart was heavy, then you wouldn't make it there if your heart was light then um you supposedly would make it into the Egyptian version of heaven, which is a work salvation. The ancient Celtics believed in a life after death. They they buried food, weapons, and ornaments for the dead. Archaeology is filled with these facts because when they dig into some of these burial chambers, they see some of these relics that these cultures would bury with people. Why? Because they believed and knew that there was a life after death. And did you know that the best-selling books today are books about near-death experiences? You know why? Because people want to know what happens at death. They they want some kind of knowledge about that. Are these books about people whose who may have died for a few minutes and then their heart stopped and then It was restarted and they come back and they report what they saw when they died and so on. Again, it's human nature to try to know what is beyond. We want some clue about that. And people are anxious about that. And and and the best Hollywood shows and movies are these things, these these feel-good movies about heaven, you know uh the bliss of life beyond and dozens of these movies that portray some kind of enchantment of life beyond. But you know, and these are feel-good movies. You know, the problem with all those movies is that all of their theology is wrong And they give you a wrong way of salvation. And besides that, let me just give you a little insight here. Don't get your theology from Hollywood, all right? They're not a good source of theology. They're not a good source of doctrine. And then these people that write about these near-death experiences, there's one book written by a lady named Betty Edy in her book, Embraced by the Light. She gives a fantastic account of her visit to the other side. And she claims to have seen Christ and thus even dedicated her book to him. She says, To the light, my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to whom I owe all that I have, he is the staff that I lean on. Without him, I would Sale. Yet it becomes very obvious that the price that she's talking about in her book has nothing to do with the price of the Bible. Nothing Edith's Jesus is a benevolent being of light that surrounded her in such a way, she says, that she could not tell where the light stopped and it began, where her light stopped and his began. Jesus, she says, is separate from the Father and would do nothing to offend her. There was no reason to regret her past deeds, she says, for we as humans are not sinful creatures, she says. Indeed, human spirits assisted the Heavenly Father at creation. And she said, Thankfully, the world is not filled with tragedy as we suppose, and in the presence of Christ. Uh E. D. concluded, I knew that I was worthy to embrace him. Really. Worthy to embrace him. Well, there's some bizarre theology for you. We're all sinners, and none of us are worthy to embrace Jesus Christ. The only reason we're even able to go there is because of the precious blood of Christ. That was shed for our sins on the cross. Ladies and gentlemen, there's only one book that can tell you what happens at death There's only one, and that is the Bible. And the Bible is the only book that can draw back the curtains and help us to look into eternity and tell us what eternity is like. It is the final authority to distinguish between truth and error and whether a person's experience is right or wrong. We have to judge everything according to what the Scripture says. All experience must be submitted. to scripture's test for authenticity regarding matters of eternity and spiritual matters. You know, Jesus during his earthly ministry If there was anyone who had the right to speak of experience or to speak based on experience, it was the Lord Jesus. Nobody never did that. He said this in John 8 26, I have many things to say and to judge of you, but he that sends me is true, and I speak to the world those things which I heard of him. Jesus said, I only speak the things that the Father says He was absolutely committed to the word of God. Jesus said in John 7, 16, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself. He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory. That is to say, if you speak based on your own experiences then you are seeking your own glory. So human experience is subjective and unreliable. God's word is objective Human experience constantly changes, scripture never does. Human experience glorifies man, scripture glorifies God. Human experience has absolutely no authority. God's word has absolute authority. Now, having said all of that, what happens when a person dies? What happens? Well, we don't have to wonder because the Bible tells us. And I'm going to look at a few verses, and this will be nothing new to you, but we need to be reminded of these things. Look in Luke chapter 16. And look in verse number 22. This is the story of the rich man and the beggar. The rich man died, and so did the beggar. They both went out into eternity, and the Bible says in verse 22, it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. That is synonymous with eternity with heaven. That's just a Hebrew term that speaks of heaven. The rich man also died and was buried in hell. He lifted up his eyes. We see what each of them experienced right after they died. And I want to spend time to speak about those who are saved, those who have placed their faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Because I want to tell you, beloved, I, you know, the joy that I have is in knowing that my father absolutely did that. He he knew Jesus. He absolutely did. And he was ready. I mean many times, you know, he had been hospice for a while and and we would, you know, talk and you know, he said, I'm ready. I know, I I'm ready to go. You know, um there was a sense, you know, kind of a faraway look in his eyes at times where, you know, he he knew that that that he was saved and he knew that God had a place for him in heaven. And again, at times like this, that means everything, beloved. It means everything, as you know. But what happens when a believer dies? You're ushered into heaven by the angels. That's what happens here in Luke chapter 16. This is the story that Jesus gives, carried by the angels. I believe angels usher the soul of the believer into heaven. And why not? Don't you know that angels are the servants, God's servants? And they're servants of God's people. The Bible tells us that in Hebrews 1:14. Are they not ministering spirits? sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation. God created the angels to be ministers for his people. That's us. That's you. That's me. I mean, isn't that wonderful to know that those angels are there to serve the people of God? And when death comes, the angels are there to usher that soul into the heavenly realm. I I love when I think about this, I think about the story of Jacob in Genesis 28. He was forced to leave home for the first time. If you read that story there, forced to travel 500 miles to go to his uncle's home. This was a dangerous territory that he he he had to journey to. And the Bible says there in Genesis 28 that he stopped at a certain place. And if you read that verse, verse 10 of Genesis 28. Or verse eleven, it's it it kind of focuses on that place, that place. Three times the author says the place, the place, the place. Why does he focus on that place there? Well, I think the place had special significance. This was the very place that Abraham stayed when he first entered into the promised land. That was the spot where Abraham built an altar to the Lord. And I think it was providential that Jacob comes to that very spot because what the author is seeing there is that Something happens with Jacob to where the God of his father Abraham will become his God. At that spot there. And so they talk about that place. Jacob doesn't know that his grandfather stopped there, but the author of this knows. It's no accident that he's there. And he took out one of those stone the a stone, the Bible says, and he used it as a pillow. That always seemed kind of uncomfortable to me. to use a pillow for a a rock for a pillow. Um but he took a stone out of that place and he rests. And one one commentator I like the way he said, he said that maybe it was one of the stones from the altar that is Grandfa uh his grandfather Abraham built, who knows? Nice to imagine. But the point is he the Bible says he dreamed a dream Yeah, he was out there in the open, it was a dangerous spot. It was too late for him to get inside the city that was close by. So he's out in the open. There's dangers all around. He was no doubt exhausted from his journey, perhaps a little bit anxious and concerned about the danger all around him, but he he goes off into a sleep, and while he sleeps, The Bible says that God appeared to him. Listen to Genesis 28, verse 12. And he dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven. And behold, the angels of God ascending and descending on him. I love what happens here. There are three key images, and they're all set off by the word, behold. He dreamed, and behold, a ladder. And at the top of the ladder, um behold there was God. And behold, the angels coming up and down on that ladder. Really the word ladder here uh is a Hebrew word settlement which really we can we can uh translate staircase. There's a staircase that went all the way to heaven. And there here's Jacob in his dream and he looks up that staircase and You know, right up there, there is the throne of God. And he sees on that staircase the angels ascending and descending. And and all of that is a beautiful picture of The fact that angels are God's spirits sent forth to minister to those who are heirs of salvation. It's just another realm of spiritual realm. It's right there. Right at the top of the stairs. That spiritual realm And Jacob sees God there, God the Father at the top of the staircase. It says in Genesis 28, 13, and behold, the Lord stood above it. And said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac, and the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed. And so the image here that he sees is God as a sovereign God reigning over all This is an awesome vision that Jacob has there as he looks up and he sees God the Father there in heaven. He looks from the physical realm into the spiritual realm. That's what's so amazing. Again, beloved, heaven is not that far away. And I believe that when a believer Dies that they're ushered by the angels up that golden staircase into the presence of the Lord. While we sorrow on earth Over our relatives that pass away, they find themselves in this beautiful new surroundings, which are just it's beyond our imagination. It's beyond what we can imagine. Can you imagine? Just a moment right after death of what a person who believes in Jesus Christ sees. The Bible says I has not seen. Neither is the ear heard, neither is entered to the heart of man the things that God has prepared for those that love him. And so you're ushered into the presence of the Lord. One of the stories that I heard as a younger believer was about the five young missionaries. You might remember this story that in in January of 1956 they were speared to death in the jungles of Ecuador Later on, the offenders, those who killed these Christians, they themselves became believers. And they told one of the sons of one of the missionaries that was martyred, Stephen St. They said to him that they the day that this happened, when these young men died, that they heard and saw what they now to believe to be angels while the killings were taking place. They said a woman hiding in a distance also saw these beings above the trees and didn't know what kind of music it was until she heard a Christian choir one time on one of their records. And you know, these kind of revelations, they don't come along a lot. But I think every once in a while God will maybe reveal some of these things to remind us of the reality of what the Bible says. That there is a real heaven and angels are there and they usher your soul into the presence of the Lord. But here's the second thing. Angels will usher your soul to heaven, but then number two, you immediately enter into God's presence. Now go to go to 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and what I want to be careful to do here is to not preach you next Sunday morning sermon right now. Because we've been looking at 2 Corinthians, and 2 Corinthians is such a wonderful book. I hope that you're enjoying listening to it as much as I am studying it. And that I'm doing it somewhat justice. But this is such a tremendous passage that Paul gives. In Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 6. Paul says this therefore we are always confident Why? Knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. While we are living here in this body, the only thing about that is that we're absent from God. You know, you know, as as uh it's natural humanly speaking that we want to keep our loved ones around as long as we can. You know, there's kind of a little bit of selfishness in that, right? I mean while we were watching over dad, you know, these last few weeks while he was kind of struggling sometimes in and out There's kind of that that selfishness, that pull where we say, you know, we want you to stay here with us. The only problem with that is as long as he is at home in the body, he's absent from the Lord. But then he says this in verse 8, we are confident, I say, willing rather, to be absent from the body and to be what? Present with the Lord. So much better. Paul said we're confident and we're willing. Rather, this is the better thing. This is the better to be absent from the body, to be present with the Lord. Go back to chapter 5 5, verse 1 in 2 Corinthians, for we know, I love the confidence of what Paul says here in verse 1, for we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were were dissolved, we have a building of God. A house not made with hands, and that would know. Eternal in the heavens, for in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house which is from heaven This this body, this tent, the word here, the Greek word, uh skenu, tent, tabernacle, it's going to be dissolved, it's going to be folded, it's not permanent God never intended us for this body right here, right now to be permanent. We will get one of those permanent new glorified bodies one day. The Bible says that this this this house, this tabernacle or tent, it's going to come to nothing. It's going to come to ruin. Ecclesiastes 3. 20 says, all go into one place. All are of the dust. All return to the dust. Out of the dust we were made, and we will return back into dust. That's what will happen with the outer men. Our earthly bodies were made of that stuff and it will return to that. But the good news is we move into a building. A permanent home. And what's the permanent home that Paul's talking about here? He's talking about our glorified body into a house not made which is from with the ends. which is from heaven, this permanent new body. It will be eternal. And Paul talks about that glorified body. We don't have time to get into everything about it. In 1 Corinthians 15, but Paul uses all kinds of illustrations to help us understand that new resurrected, glorified body that we will have one day. as believers. It's a house not made with hands. And so now and and you have to remember that when Paul wrote this, Paul he himself, his body was wasting away. I mean he had served the Lord for many years and he had been beaten. Uh I mean, you know, his body had been the scars all over it. For serving the Lord. His eyesight was failing. He was facing death all the time. We saw that in 2 Corinthians on s on Sunday morning where Paul says, you know, we're always facing death. It seems like he was always right at the very edge of death. And uh and and as we saw Sunday uh this morning that Paul calls it a light affliction. compared to that eternal weight of glory that will await. There's no comparison for that. That's why Paul says we groan. Look at chapter 5, verse 2, for in this we groan. Earnestly desiring to be clothed upon from our house which is from heaven. And this is in light of what we already saw, where that, you know, since this eternal glory so far outweighs the earthly groans, that in itself causes us to groan. And what does it cause us to groan for? Longing for that body, that glorified body. This is the groan of anticipation that we see here. In chapter 5, verse 2. It's going to be so wonderful. It's going to be so great. Paul can't wait to be clothed with that new eternal glorified body. And so the groan there is the groan of anticipation, like a child who can barely wait to open his presence on Christmas Day You know, Paul is anticipating that new body. Look at verse three. If so that being clothed, we shall not be found what? naked. And when he says naked there, what he means is we're not in heaven, we're not going to be some disembodied spirit just floating around. God has a a home for us there. You see some Greeks in that day believed the physical bodies were evil. And a there was kind of this philosophical dualism that existed in that time where all matter was evil, all spirit was good, and Greeks and some of the Romans were thinking that the highest existence was without a body And Paul corrects that erroneous thinking. Paul's saying, no, we're not going to spend all eternity as disembodied spirits. We're not going to be naked in that sense without a body. No, we will have a body. It will be a body not made with hands, an eternal body given to us by all men almighty God. It's going to be so wonderful that Paul is already groaning to have that new body You see, what is mortal will be swallowed up in all the perfections of eternal life. So in verse 5 he says, Now he that hath wrought us for the selfsame thing is God, who has also given us the earnest of the Spirit. How can we be sure that this is going to happen, that we have uh an eternal home? Well, because God has already made the down payment. He's already given us the earnest. And what is the earnest? The earnest is the Holy Spirit. He calls it the earnest of the Spirit in verse number five. Verse 6, look at this. Therefore, we are always confident Knowing that while we are at home in the body, we're absent from the Lord. But again in verse number eight, to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And so that's that's just a wonderful state for someone to be in, to be there. And that's why Paul gives kind of a this this kind of triumphant declaration in verse number eight. That's what that really is. A triumphant declaration in the face of death. What does death bring for a believer? Well, you'll be in the presence of Christ. Wow. That's joy. That's why we don't have to be afraid of death. That's why we can, even in the midst of sorrow, we can smile at death. In fact, excuse me, Paul said that's preferable. We would rather be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Now there are some people out there that teach soul sleep. Beloved, there is no such thing as soul sleep. That's a ridiculous notion. How could Paul say it's this is preferable? How could Paul say in Philippians chapter one, to live is price, to die is gain? Paul said, you know, I I uh it's good for me to stay here to be with you, but to depart is far, far better. How can that be true if soul sleep is what he's talking about? No, Paul, it would be better just to stay there and keep working, if that's true. But no. Paul knew that death for a believer brought them instantly into the presence of the Lord. You're instantly in the presence of Jesus Christ. That's incredible for a believer. You know, I I I uh I think I've said before about this book that came out years ago about you know 90 minutes in heaven. I'd like to beat up on the guy that wrote this book Because uh he he gives an experience about going to heaven, but if you read the book you'll find out that it's a two hundred five-page book. There's only fifteen pages where he actually talks about being in heaven, and he never really goes to heaven, he's on the outskirts of heaven. And he never really sees Jesus at all in the book. Let me tell you something, friend. I don't know where he went to, but it wasn't heaven. Because the moment you leave the body, what does the Bible say? You're in the presence of the Lord. You're in the presence of the Lord That's why you can't trust a lot of these ex books out there designed to sell and talk about experiences that doesn't line up with what the scripture says. With regard to that, what happens when a believer dies? Angels usher your soul to heaven. You are immediately in the presence of Almighty God. And you know what else? You participate in magnificent worship with other believers. And the angels. Because the Bible tells us that, you know, uh we've been looking at Revelation on Sunday night. Look at Revelation chapter four. We'll just Look at a few verses. We have reason to believe that that's what will happen there because of verses like this here in Revelation chapter 4, verse number 1, tells us. Here's John, he sees a vision. In verse 1, after this I looked, and behold a door was opened in heaven, and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me and said, Come up hither, and I will show you these things which must be here after John. He sees a vision. His first vision in chapter 1 was of the resurrected, glorified Christ. Here he sees another vision where a door was opened in heaven and John was brought up into heaven. Again, that's what will happen when you at death were a believer. A door will open. You'll go up there into the presence of the Lord. You'll be there in heaven. With the Lord. And what does John see there in heaven? We, again, I we you know, we've already looked at this, so we'll just touch on this. The Bible says in verse To and immediately I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne. Where did John go to immediately? Well, he stayed on the outskirts of heaven for a while, right? No. He went immediately right there at the throne room. And John sees God seated on the throne. And God is so indescribably beautiful that John, he's kind of fishing for adjectives and words to try to describe what he sees. How would you like to be in his position? Try to describe this great God on his throne. In verse three, and he said he was to look upon like a jasper, which was a a crystal kind of stone back then, and a jasper stone. and sardinstone. And there is a rainbow round about the throne, and a sight like unto emerald. And so John is there, right in the presence of God. He sees There the glory of God there in heaven. There are saints there. He sees this indescribable presence. Psalm 89, verse 6 says, For who in heaven can be compared unto the Lord? There's none as great as him. And there's no words really that John can can really find that can really describe what he sees. But he sees worship that goes on there. And again we don't have time to get into all the detail, but if you go into chapter uh five, you'll see singing and worship And heaven and and all of that that will take place, I'm going to tell you something, friend, the worship in heaven is going to be radical Radical worship there in heaven. And by the way, we see that all through the book of Revelation. It's filled with hymns of praise. We've we've seen that all throughout the book of revelation of how much singing and worship there will be in heaven for the people that go there. You will participate in magnificent worship. But then let me give you another thing. You'll recognize in fellowship with believers who preceded you there. And this is one of the big questions that people ask me about heaven. Well I know my relatives there. Well I know the people that are there. Almost, you know, there's there's this really crazy teaching out there. I've heard it a time or two where you know you get to heaven you got a totally new identity everyone there has a new identity you kind of get reacquainted and you really don't know anybody from the past and every everybody's new and and I say where in the world do you get that Where do you get that kind of stuff? Because the Bible indicates the exact opposite of all of that. Look in Luke chapter 22 real quick. Let me just show you this. Look in Luke chapter 22. And look at verse number 17, where it says this, this is the Lord's Supper. I love this, where Jesus sits down with his disciples. They've been together for three years. They love Christ immensely. The thought of him leaving and Not being with them any more is just devastating to them. And they're having this last supper together in verse seventeen. And and he took the cup and he gave thanks and he said Take this and divide it among yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks and he broke it and he gave it unto saying, This is my body which is given for you, this too in remembrance of me. But I want you to see that phrase there. Jesus was in verse 18 where he says, I'm not going to drink of the fruit of the vine again until we're all together in the kingdom. Jesus was making a promise to his disciples right there. He's saying, we're not going to do this again, guys, until we are once again all together. Now how can he make that promise if everybody's going to have new identities and they don't know each other? How are they going to do that? That makes no sense. And and and Jesus in Matthew gave a similar or even more definite Promise regarding this. In Matthew 8, verse 11, he said, And I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west, and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. We're gonna have fellowship with people that we know, people that we've never met before, but we'll know them. We're gonna have fellowship with Enoch and Noah and Moses, Abraham, Joshua, all those Old Testament saints. We're just going to know them. We're going to know our loved ones there. And we're going to know people that we've never seen before. We're just going to know who they are. You say, how do you know that? I don't know. We're just going to know. Remember at the Mount of Transfiguration, Peter, James, and John? And there at that Mount Transfiguration, there was Jesus. They already knew him. But they never met Moses and Elijah. How did they know it was Moses and Elijah? I don't know, they just knew. I can just imagine the conversation. Peter, look, that's mo that's Moses. How do you know that? That's just look at him. It's Moses. What's that kind of that's Elijah right next to him? Man, wow. I think that's kind of what it'll be like in heaven. We're going to be able to recognize saints there. We will be reunited with our family and friends that know the Lord Jesus that are waiting for us there. in heaven. I love that expression in Genesis 49, verse 33. And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed and yielded up the ghost and was gathered unto his people He went to heaven, but he was gathered to his people that were already there, waiting for him there in heaven. This means he was reunited with family members. How is that possible if we have a new identity? How is that possible? And then remember what Paul wrote to the Thessalonians who were grieving? Because they had lost loved ones who had died, and they thought their loved ones were going to miss the second coming. And remember what Paul said? He said, Oh no When Christ comes, those who are asleep, referring to the body, will be raised. And there will be a wonderful reunion. You'll get you'll know one another, you'll be a r a wonderful reunion together. And he said, comfort one another with these words. How's it going to be comfort comfort if we don't know? Who our loved ones are going to be up there or if there's some totally new identity when they get there to heaven. No, that's just not true. Um we're gonna we're gonna know our loved ones. They're still gonna be our loved ones. In fact, we're gonna know them better in heaven than we than we knew them on earth. And you know what? Our love in heaven will be perfect. There will be a perfect love in heaven. Remember when Moses was at the mountain, was at the excuse me, the burning bush, and he said, I'm the God of your father Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. God didn't say to Moses, I am the God of the people that used to be Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. But they're no longer Abraham and Isaac and Jacob because now they're in heaven, they have no identity. No, he said, I am present tense, the God of your father. Guess what? He's still your father. He's up here with me in heaven. He's alive. And I'm the f the God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. My father is in heaven. He's in a new location. He's still my father, and he'll be my father all through eternity. And one day I'm gonna get to heaven. I'm gonna I'm gonna get to see him again. And we'll know each other well there, better. He's in a wonderful place. And it won't be long until after all of our labors are done here when we'll all be together there in heaven. And then there's one last thing that I would say, you know, what happens when a believer dies where your the angels usher your soul to heaven? You immediately enter into God's presence. You participate in magnificent worship there. You will recognize and fellowship with other believers who went on before you. And another thing is you'll be aware, I think, to some degree of activities that take place on earth. You'll be aware of that. So what makes you say that? Well, Revelation. We've been looking at Revelation on Sunday night. But in Revelation chapter 6 through 10, you remember they the martyr saints came to Jesus and said, Lord, how long until you then take vengeance on those that martyred your people. How would they know to ask that question if they didn't know what was going on on earth? They had to know what was going on down there on earth. There's normally when you entertain this question, do the saints in heaven know what happens on earth? I think that one extreme is to say the saints in heaven are not concerned about what happens on earth. I've heard that view talked about a lot You know, they're too busy caught up with worshiping Christ in heaven. They are consumed with the glory of Christ. And by the way, those in heaven will be consumed with the glory of Christ. No question about that. The other extreme view is that believers in heaven are watching everything we do here on earth. They're like spectators and bleachers watching every little detail, carrying us on. I think that there's a balance here. I think, yes, saints in heaven will behold the glory of God and the glory of Christ there in heaven. But part of that glory Is to watch the unfolding of redemption on earth and to watch God accomplish his purposes and his plans on earth And that means more people coming to know Jesus. Remember what the parable said? There's joy in the presence of the angels when a sinner repents. That's all part of God's unfolding purposes on earth. That's all part of his redemptive plan, you know. And I think when we worship and glorify God in heaven, it's going to be because we see his incredible wisdom being meted out on earth and the things that he does. Again, this is what we see in the book of Revelation. Saints in heaven. In fact, go to Revelation, we'll close with this. Revelation chapter 18. We were here not too long ago. But when Babylon fell. What took place in heaven is that all of heaven rejoices over the fall of Babylon, right? They're all rejoicing there in heaven. Because Babylon has been judged. The saints are filled with joy and with praise. How would they know to do that in heaven if they didn't know what was taking place on earth? And so, yeah, they'll know. They'll have that knowledge, and they'll rejoice when they see Loved ones on earth coming to Christ, coming to know Jesus. My great-grandmother, when she was over a hundred when she died, Her pastor found in her home a well-worn Bible with a prayer list. And she'd been praying for the salvation of all her children and grandchildren and family. And she was in heaven. And I think that every time a new family member gets saved, you y you mean to tell me that she doesn't know that? Well, it says there's joy in the presence of the angels. The angels know. I can't imagine a saint in heaven watching an angel rejoicing says, Hey, what are you rejoicing about? I can't tell you. You're not supposed to know this. You can't know this, I'm sorry, but it's good. No. Saints are our servants You think the angels know stuff that the saints don't know in heaven? Of course they know. And every time someone comes to know Christ, she rejoices. Along with the other saints in heaven that rejoice, that are there in heaven. And I think part of the joy of heaven will see or are experiencing these things. Is seeing these things take place. Jonathan Edwards, one of the greatest theologians of American history, wrote a lot about heaven. And this is what he said, quote, their joy is continually increased As they see the purposes of God's grace unfolded in his wondrous providences towards his church. And I think that's absolutely right. Those saints, as they watch God work, they see all the things that God does, it just simply increases their joy in heaven. You know what? They get to see things now from a different perspective. From a different angle. They get to see it from God's perspective. And so therefore, it's let me just tell you the the greatest day of a believer's life is when they they step over into glory. When they step over, make no mistake about it, the greatest day of my father's life was today, at 345, when he stepped over into glory. The Bible says this in Revelation 14, 13. And I heard a voice from heaven. I shouldn't have read this verse. This one's too hard to read, you know. Blessed are the dead, which die in the Lord. And the rest of it's even better. Because they rest from their labors. Let's let's pray together. Lord, we are just so incredibly grateful that we don't have to listen to human experience and we don't have to listen to Hollywood or people's opinions or speculations about what happens when a a a person dies Because Lord, we have your word. We're so grateful that, Lord, you didn't leave us without knowledge on this. You gave us your authoritative word. We know. This is what gives us such joy. This is what gives us such hope. And we thank you for these promises. Because Lord, they are real. I mean, we believe the gospel, Lord. We believe with all our heart. Just like the Apostle Paul says, we believe, and therefore we speak. And we have confidence, Lord, in the face of death. And Lord, my tears are not so much that I'm grieving over the loss of my father, because in a way I've gained him in a new way. A lot of my tears are, Lord, of gratitude for your goodness, how you have blessed us. Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord. Lord, we are so blessed. And we're so grateful for your amazing grace to save us, to give us eternal life To have this hope, there's nothing like it. And Lord, I don't understand how people face these things without you. And Lord, my my heart's desire is that we as a people share this glorious gospel with everyone that we can, so that they can have this wonderful hope. There's nothing greater. And Lord, we thank you for this with all of our heart, with all of our soul. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.