It's good to s see you in God's house tonight. And I want you to take your Bibles tonight, open to um the book of Revelation twenty-one. I'm gonna I know we've been preaching on the life of David on Wednesday night, but I feel led to do something different tonight. I want you to go to Revelation chapter 21 and look down at verse number 27. I know we all know now that we lost a wonderful saint of God. Actually we didn't lose Miss Helen. We know where she's at. She's in heaven. She's rejoicing there with the Lord in heaven. And uh I thought it, you know, when things like this happen to our church and our church body, it's good for us to stop and pause. and think about heaven. I think sometimes we don't talk about that enough. I know for me personally I had a funeral last week. My aunt, my mother's youngest sister, um, died and went to heaven. And now we here at the church we mourn. We mourn because we lost a godly, godly woman and we mourn together. But you know, we need to remind one another of the joy and the glory of heaven. I think it's such a good thing that we do this. And I want you to just think with me about heaven tonight. Let's do that. Can we do that? Let's just turn our minds, our hearts towards heaven. And I want us to look at Revelation 21, verse 27. I heard about a pastor who interviewed children in his church about heaven. He was asking them what did they think heaven was like. These were first and second graders, and I want to read to you their Um understanding of heaven. One little boy named Eric said this. He said it's a place where there's a lot of money lying around You just pick it up and play with it and buy things. I think I'm gonna buy a basketball and I'm gonna play basketball with my great great great grandmother. and heaven. That sounds like a plan there. And then Scott. I got a little boy named Scott. Scott said, Heaven is up in the sky and you can look down at circuses for free if you want to. Except you have to ask God for permission first. Another little boy named David said, Heaven is kind of a big it's kind of big and they sit around playing harps. I don't know how to play a harp, but I suppose I should learn how to play that dumb thing pretty soon. And and then one little boy named Tommy said this. He said, I know what heaven is, but I don't want to go there. I want to go to North Carolina instead. Well, what is what is heaven light? What does the Bible say about that? That's again a subject I think we don't think about. often enough. C. S. Lewis said that you you if you read through history, you'll find the Christians that have done the most for the kingdom of God on earth were those who were Christians who thought most about heaven, most about the next world. He also said, Aim in heaven and you will get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you'll get neither. I think that's true. There was a uh preacher named Richard Baxter, a great Puritan, and he was very frail of body, and at age thirty-five he o Just about totally collapsed and he thought that he was going to die soon. And so he began to muse about heaven and write things down about heaven And uh everything that he wrote down was eventually turned into a book called The Saints Everlasting Rest. It's a classic book, and really all it's about is his meditations based on scripture. of the joys that God has in store for for his people there in heaven. This is what he has suggested to the readers of the book. He said he suggested that we should take about a half hour every day to think about heaven. He said that he said this is the best advice that he could give. And then he wrote this, he said, for one of recourse to heaven, he wrote, thy soul is a lamp not lighted What he meant is, you know, we don't think about it enough, and if we don't, it's kind of like a l uh a light goes out in our soul. If you want a lamp to be lit inside of you, think about the glory and the joy of heaven. I think that's good advice. So, you know, there's so much about heaven that the Bible says there's no way that we can really get it all in one sermon. We understand that. But if I was to give you one word to really summarize heaven, it would be the word perfection. It's a place of perfection. Look at Revelation chapter twenty-one and look down at verse number twenty-seven. The Bible says, and there shall in no wise enter into it anything that defileth Neither whatsoever worketh abomination or maketh a lie, but that which are written or excuse me, they which are written in the Lamb's book of life. There's nothing that's going to enter in there that defileth. Or anything that is corrupt. It is a place of total perfection. Now, we understand the concept of perfection, but the truth is we've never really seen anything perfect. You know why? Because we live in a sinful universe. And everything around us suffers from the decay and the corruption of sin. All of our earthly existence is flawed It's imperfect because of man's sin. Paul said in Romans 8. 22, for we know that the whole creation groans and travails in pain until now all of creation agonizes under the cruel effect of Sin. All of creation is groaning and longing for our redemption. You know why? Because the redemption of creation is tied in with our redemption Creation, when we fell, creation fell. And when we're fully redeemed, then creation will be fully redeemed. And so there's an inseparable link between our salvation and creation getting a brand new uh body. When we get our brand new body, creation will get their its brand new body. But until that time, everything around us is touched with the slimy fingers of corruption and the kiss of sin. However Heaven is a place of complete and total perfection. Again, that's hard for us to conceive of in our mind. But that's what it's going to be like. So what I want to talk to you about tonight are just a few of the perfections of heaven. I want you to think about that with me. Some of the perfections of heaven. If you're taking those right down, number one, heaven will be a place of perfect redemption. Perfect redemption. Our salvation will be totally complete once we get to heaven. The day that God saved you, the day that God saved me, he began working towards making us perfect. That's what he's doing in our life right now. He's working in our sanctification to make us perfect. That was a part of the purpose of salvation. God wants to conform us to the image of his dear Son. And so positionally, we're already perfect in Christ. Did you know that positionally you're perfect in Jesus? I'm perfect in Jesus That's my position. When God the Father looks at me, he looks at you. He looks at us through his Son, Jesus Christ. And he sees us positionally perfect. We're clothed with a perfect righteousness, the Bible says. That's our position. That's a spiritual privilege that we have. That's what Paul meant when he said we he has blessed us with all spiritual blessing blessings in heavenly places in Christ. However, although God has invested in us everything necessary for life and godliness and to live up to that, we still have this nagging sin nature that pulls us all down. Positionally we are perfect, but practically we're not perfect. We're far from From it. Although we have the first fruits of the spirits, we still groan. That's what Paul said. In Romans chapter 8 Uh write down Romans 8 23. And not only they, but ourselves also, we have the first fruits of the Spirit eat and we ourselves groan within ourselves. Waiting for the adoption, waiting to wit the redemption of our body. We groan because we are keenly aware of our sin and our corruption. And we will groan this way all of the rest of our earthly life. Did you know that salvation is a call to war against our sin? And really the Christian is a kind of a bundle of of uh mixed emotions, aren't we? Because when God saves us, what do we desire? We desire we long for holiness, right? Isn't that what the psalmist says? Uh He longs to walk with the Lord and be holy. He he With his whole heart he seeks the Lord, the psalmist said in Psalm 119. He has a passion to learn the word. Open thou my eyes that I might behold wonderful things out of thy word. But in the same Psalm, if you read Psalm one nineteen, you're going to find out that he's constantly struggling. He has these holy desires, but also he also says in verse 25, My soul cleaves to the dust. He's still wrestling with sin in his life. You ever experience that? You ever get tired of wrestling with your sin nature? And you fail and you want to do better? And it just seems like you're trying to throw off the shackles of the flesh, and it's a constant, constant struggle. And sometimes we get tired of it. I know I get tired of it. I get tired of failing I get tired of succumbing sometimes to sins of the flesh. The Apostle Paul, and by the way, if you feel that way, take courage. The Apostle Paul also had this struggle. He talked about it in Romans chapter seven. I'm I'm sure very aware of that passage where he says, For that which I do, I allow not. But what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I That's that struggle constantly that all of us have with this sin nature that's constantly pulling us down. There are some denominations that teach that you can get to the place where your sin nature is finally eradicated and gone. Let me just tell you, I wish that were true. But unfortunately, dear friend, that's not true. Because Paul said, when I would do good, evil is present within me. He said, I find the law, or that is, I find a principle. Paul said, I notice this one principle constantly. Whenever I want to do good, this principle of evil is still In me, I still have this sin nature that's pulling me down, that's keeping me from doing the thing that I want to do. And so every day we have to war against this in nature. Every day, to use an Old Testament analogy, we have a King Agag that's left alive, and we have to take the sword like Samuel did and cut them to pieces Every day. We have to take the sword of the Word of God and put to death this the sin nature that seems to resurrect every day and pull us down and so we have this constant constant battle against sin. You say, when will this battle be over? When we get to heaven. That's when it's over. Heaven will be a place of perfect redemption. That's when our redemption is totally complete. It's hard to even imagine living without this sin nature, but I want to tell you when we get to heaven, no more struggle with sin. It's all gone in heaven. We finally lose all. traces of human fallenness. And the work that God began in us in the beginning when He saved us will ultimately be complete. in that glorified state there in heaven. And this is symbolized, I think, in Scripture in the book of Revelation by the white robes that we will wear in heaven. Those white robes are a symbol of the perfect righteousness of Christ that we are clothed in and all human fallenness will be gone. Won't that be wonderful? That'll be wonderful. One author wrote this. He said, what will the perfect soul be like? The most obvious truth is that it will finally be perfectly free from evil forever. We will never again have a selfish desire or utter useless words. We will never again perform another unkind deed or think any sinful thought. We will be perfectly liberated from our captivity to sin and finally able to do that which is absolutely righteous, holy, and perfect before God. That'll be wonderful. Someone says, what about the stains of our past sins? That's all gone. Revelation 22, 14 and 15 says, Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they might have the right to the tree of life. Perfect righteousness. Perfect holiness. Another perfection. Number two. Heaven will be a place not only of perfect righteousness, but also write this down. Heaven will be a place of perfect rest. Perfect rest. Now, because our sins are forgiven and we're washed, we're able to enter into the perfect city. And that's what it tells us here in Revelation 21:27. It talks about entering into that city. Where we will dwell forever, because our sins are forgiven, we finally will go to that celestial city. And it's there in that city that we will find rest Do you know man is looking for that today? He is striving. I'm talking about mankind, humanity, and in general. They are so restless. They're longing for some kind of a rest. You know, the only time mankind was really at rest was in the Garden of Eden. That was a place of rest, perfect rest. But what happened? Sin came in, and Adam and Eve were expelled from the presence of God And what came there was a restlessness that came to the soul of man after that, the unrest of the human heart has been seen from Eden even till this day. You know why? Because From the the time that man was expelled from Eden, mankind has had no real permanent place in which to dwell. Eden is supposed to be a permanent place, but he's been expelled from that place. And now we're we're looking for a city, those who know the Lord Jesus. You know, I think the greatest metaphor, one of the greatest, I mean there's so many great metaphors in the Bible. about the Christian life. But I think one of the greatest is the metaphor or the motif of the pilgrim. You know what? We're pilgrims. This world is not our home. Sometimes I wonder if we forget that often. This was never intended to be our home. We are traveling. We're looking for that celestial city. The Bible says about Abraham, when God called Abraham out of his home, he was a man that began looking for a city. The Bible says in Hebrews 11, 8 and 10, he was looking for a city whose builder and make maker is God. And all of his children died as strangers and pilgrims on this earth. Why? Because they were seeking a better homeland. That's what all of us are doing. We're seeking a better homeland. Hebrews 11, 16 says this, but now they desire a better country, that is a heavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God. For he has prepared for them a what? A city. That's what God's doing. He's preparing a city. That's going to be our place of rest, finally. But until then, we are pilgrims in this world. And we're traveling through. And it's not easy sometimes. But you know what God has promised us? He's going to help us through this pilgrim journey. Doesn't he help us? He gives us drink for our thirsty soul. He fills us. The Bible says this in Isaiah 41, 17, when the poor and needy seek water and there is none with their tongue failing for thirst, I the Lord will hear them. And I will not forsake them. God said, you're traveling through this barren world as a pilgrim, and when you're thirsty, God says, I'll hear you. And I'll be there for you. He says in Isaiah 41, 18, I will open rivers and high places and fountains in the midst of the valleys, and I will make the wilderness a pool of water. And the dry land, springs of water. He's talking in that context of travelers traveling through a barren place. I want to tell you, this world is a barren place for us. But as we travel through, God promised to make a highway in this wilderness. He promised to give us a time of refreshing, seasons of refreshing along the way. But mankind has been looking for us a permanent dwelling place since evening. You know what? You're not going to find it here. You're not going to find it here. You know the difference between a believer and a non-believer? A non-believer seeks to make this world his home. His heaven. And that's what some people do. They they they they make everything as if it's their little paradise, but I want to tell you something, friend, that's not going to last. This whole world's going to burn up. This isn't a permanent place. A believer is someone who understands that this is not our home. We're just passing through here. Heaven is our home. We're foreigners. We're strangers. It's like the song says, this world is not, what, our home. We're just passing through. Our treasures are already laid up. Salvation is a call from God, a call out of this world We're called out of this world. Jesus said in John 17, 16, they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. The Apostle Paul reminded the Philippians, he said, Look, our conversation is in heaven. The word conversation means citizenship. Our citizenship is in heaven. We're not, you know, we live on this earth, but we're not citizens here. You know, our citizenship is in heaven. And that's what Paul said, from whence we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. One time Jonathan Edwards, one of my favorites in history, preached a sermon called the Christian Pilgrim. And it was based on Hebrews eleven, and a few points he made in there I thought were very insightful. He said, pilgrims are not diverted from their aim. Don't let don't get diverted in this world from your aim. What is our aim? That heavenly city. Keep your eyes on that heavenly city. He says a traveller is not enticed by fine appearances to put off the thought of process of proceeding. No by but his journey ends His journey's end is in his mind. We're not allowing the things of this world to divert us from what we're looking forward to. And that's our heavenly home. We keep our mind on that. Pilgrims hold loosely to the things of this world because we know that When God calls us away, these things are no longer ours. And so we're pilgrims and we're traveling through this world. And you know what something about pilgrims? They travel in small groups. You know, I'm glad to come to God's house with the rest of you pilgrims. We're just we're we're together. And by the way, this is an oasis in a desert. You know that? God's people coming together. The word of God Those are the things that God gives us in this pilgrim journey. The psalmist said, I'm a stranger in the earth. Hide not thy commandments from me. Lord, I need your word. I'm just a pilgrim traveling through here. Lord, let your word be my oasis. As I'm traveling through. And then the church, this is an oasis as we're pilgrims traveling through. We're traveling in a small group. We're a colony of the citizens of heaven. And we're all making our way to that destination. And that's when we're going to have perfect rest. Perfect rest. Our rest isn't here, our rest is there when we get to our heavenly city. So heaven will be a place of perfect righteousness Heaven will be a place of perfect rest. But also write down number three, heaven will be a place of perfect rejoicing. Perfect rejoicing. Go back to Revelation 21. Look at this verse here with me. Revelation 21. It says, And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for their first heaven and the first earth were passed away. There was no more sea. And I, John, saw the holy city. The New Jerusalem coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her her husband. And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them And they will be his people, and God shall be with them, and will be their God, and he shall wipe away all tears from their eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain, for the former things are passed away. Perfect rejoicing. You know, we're in this world, we're pilgrims, we're traveling through. And by the way, it's a happy journey, isn't it? It's not all bad. Aren't you glad that you're a Christian? I I couldn't imagine being anything else. Being in Christ. And you know what? It's it's such a joyous journey. I mean God just gives blessings, doesn't he? I mean he just gives blessing after blessing. And we're so privileged to be his children. But I want to tell you, this pilgrim journey, along with the blessings, I mean let's be honest, we also go through some of the valleys, right? The psalmist said in Psalm 84, verse 6, who passing through the valley of Bacchah, and that's Psalm 84, it's really the motif there is of a pilgrim. And they're happy on their journey. They're joyous about it. And it says, happy are those whose hearts are though. The highways of Zion. We're on the highway. We're headed to Zion. Our hearts are happy. But you know what happens sometimes? We pass through the valley of Baka. What's the valley of Bakah? The word Baka in the Hebrews means weeping or tears. Sometimes in this pilgrim journey we pass through this valley, this valley of tears. And so we have to be honest and say God mingles our tears with tears. We have blessing, we have burdens. We have valleys that bring us joy, we have valleys that bring us tears. And so God mingles together our joys and our sorrows. I call this the principle of symmetry. And we see this often in the scripture. Remember in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 where it says there's a time for everything And then you have 14 positive things that are blessings. You have 14 negative things, at least as we would view it negative. And God mingles those things together. Because the reality of this pilgrim journey is that we have both. I mean life here on this earth is not forty miles a good road and then forty miles a bad road. It's more like A rail uh uh um a railroad track where one rail is blessing and the other is burden, and they're both running parallel at the same time I mean, we could testify tonight. We could all talk about some of the blessings we have, but also we could also share some of the burdens that we carry at the same time. God mingles those things together. On this journey that we were on, but I want to tell you, you know what heaven's going to be like? God's going to remove the one rail of burdens. You know what heaven is like? Perfect rejoicing. No more burdens. No more sorrow. When we finally get to heaven, all the sorrows, the tears, all of those things are gone, forever gone. When we're there, listen to what the Bible says in Isaiah. It says, Therefore the redeemed of the Lord shall return and come with singing unto Zion. As we get to Zion, we're coming with singing. And then it says, an everlasting Joy shall be upon their heads, and they shall obtain gladness and joy and sorrow and mourning shall what? Flee away. It's going to be gone. Everything that makes us sorrowful now, it's going to be gone. God says it's going to flee away. That's why heaven is called the joy of the Lord. Because it will be a place of perfect rejoicing, perfect righteousness, perfect rest Perfect rejoicing. But also write down number four. Heaven will be a place of perfect revelation. Perfect revelation. And keeping with this image of the pilgrim on a journey, you know what the scripture tells us that one day we're going to travel to Mount Zion. Listen to this, we're going to hear the Lord Himself teach us the Word of God. Someone says there won't be any preaching in heaven. Well you won't hear from me up there or anyone else, but you'll hear from Jesus. He will preach there. Won't that be wonderful? Listen to what Isaiah says, Isaiah 2 2. And it shall come to pass in the last days that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow in unto it And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go to the mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob. Listen, and he will teach us his ways. Isn't that going to be wonderful? We're going to go there to Zion and we're going to hear the Lord expound scripture. He's going to teach us his ways. And you know what? He's going to be able to answer every question. And all the mysteries that we had down here, all the why questions, we're going to know. God's going to be able to tell us these things. You know, you have questions, I have questions. You know, sometimes when I'm studying theology, I can't wrap my mind around all of it And to me, I've always said theology is not a problem-solving venture, it's a mystery-discerning venture. I go as far as my reason will take me, but Revelation just keeps going. I get to an end, but Revelation just keeps going on. I can't go any further, but you know one day in heaven I'm going to be able to go further, and so will you. And he's going to teach us his ways. He's going to remove all the mystery, all the questions that we have in our mind now, all the things that we can't seem to figure out. We're going to know there. He'll be able to harmonize it all. You know, right now there's certain things that doesn't harmonize. But you know, one day the great musician, he's going to harmonize all the notes. And it's going to be so beautiful in that time when we hear all that, when we see all of that, we'll know. It's like the man who stayed up all night wondering what happened to the sun. Finally it dawned on him This way it's going to be in heaven. He's going to be teaching us. One day the day star Jesus will arise with healing in his wings. And he's going to give us light, and it will dawn us, and we will know all things. Paul says this in 1 Corinthians 13, 12. Now we see through a glass darkly, but then face to face Now I know in part, but then I shall know even as I am known. Perfect revelation Perfect righteousness, perfect rest, perfect rejoicing, perfect revelation. Let me give you another one. Heaven will be a place of perfect relationships. Perfect relationships. You know, we don't hear sometimes too much preaching on relationships in heaven. But you know that's one of the major issues that I get asked a lot about heaven. Will we recognize our loved ones? Will we remember our earthly relationships? What kind of relationship will we have? Will we have family love and fellowship in heaven? Will our relationships in heaven be anything like our relationships on earth? And these are some of the questions that we hear there, or that I hear about heaven there. Just let me just give you a, you know, we can go into this a l uh in great detail, but I wouldn't have time for that, so let me just give you the quick answer to this. You know, Paul said in 1 Corinthians 7 That the fashion of this world is going to pass away. It's not going to be exactly like this world here. The fashion of this world is going to pass away. So therefore, we hold to things loosely Because of that, however, our relationships in heaven will be like here on earth, except for we'll be able to love with a perfect love in heaven. You know, we we love one another here, but you know, um our love here is not a perfect love. You know, I my love to my wife has its own baggage with it. I ha it's mingled with my own selfishness and and some of my own issues and it's not a perfect love. And even though Carolyn won't be my wife in heaven, because the Bible says there's no marriage in heaven, I'm going to be able to love her perfectly in heaven, and she won't have to take care of me out there. She won't have to pick up after me, finally. That's why some of you women say, Well, praise the Lord. But you know what? Guess what? Some people say, Well, you know, is that going to be different? Well, a little bit, but we're going to love each other with a perfect Love. And we're going to have identities. We're going to the same identity we have here on earth will be the same identity that we have in heaven. We will have family circles there in heaven just like we had here on earth. We'll have family fellowship. There in heaven, just like we had have here on earth. You know, one day my son Jeremiah walked into my office and he said, Dad, will you still be my dad when we get to heaven? Because someone had taught him that when he goes to heaven, all those relationships are over. Someone taught him that. Someone taught him that we have a brand new identity in heaven, that we lose our earthly identity And he was asking me about that. He said, Dad, is that true? And I said, Son, that is hogwash. That is not what the Bible says. You know what the Bible says in the Old Testament when a person died? He says, He was gathered unto his people. Gathered unto his people. If they have new identity and new relationships, how will they be able to recognize their people in heaven? If you have a new identity. In Exodus 3:6, when God spoke to Moses at the burning bush, he said this: He said, I am the God of your father, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Question, where was Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob at that time when God spoke? They were in heaven. Now God didn't say to Moses, I am the God of the God who used to be your father, Abraham. He's not anymore, but he used to be. No, he said, I am present tense, the God of your father. He was your father here on earth. He's still your father in heaven. Still the same. Jesus used this passage to rebuke the Sadducees who did not believe in life after death. And so Jesus was identifying that very thing that we will have those same relationships there in heaven. In 2 Samuel 12, when David's infantest son died, David said, I shall go to him. He won't come to me. David expected to go to heaven and see that very child, not some nameless, faceless soul, but that very child. He was expecting to see. And in the New Testament, it's even clearer. Listen to what Jesus said. In Luke 22, Jesus is sharing the Passover mirror with his disciples at the Last Supper. He said this. Luke 22, 18. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. What was he telling his disciples? He's saying, look, I'm not going to drink uh grape juice again until we're together in the kingdom in heaven. Now let me ask you a question. How could he promise that if they were going to have new identities and relationships in heaven? How could he make that promise He goes even further in Matthew. He said, I say unto you that many shall come from the east and the west and shall sit down with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Again I ask, how is that possible if we have new identities? It's not possible. So that's ridiculous, that whole notion. No, we're going to have Saints from all the ages, and we're gonna recognize them. We're gonna know them. Enoch and Noah and Isaac and Jacob and Samuel and all the rest. Remember on Mount Transfiguration when Moses and Elijah appeared? And Peter and John and uh they knew it was Moses and Elijah. How did they know that? They just knew. When we get to heaven, you know what? We're going to know all of our family. We're going to know all of our friends. And I'm going to know family I've never seen before. That's a harmon over there, I'll tell you that. And there goes Abraham. There goes Paul. I want to talk to him. There goes Matthew. You say, how do you know? I don't know. I just know. We're going to know them in heaven. Remember what Paul said to the Thessalonians? They were sorrowing because they thought their loved ones missed The second coming, and Paul promised that when Jesus returned, they would all be together in the air, and he said, comfort one another with these words. How could that be a comfort if we're not going to know each other? That's not a comfort if we're not going to know each other. And so we will know each other. We will have The same circle of family and loved ones and friends that we had down here will be the circle that we have up there when we get there to heaven. Because the Bible says we will be gathered unto our people And you know what else? Our love, again, will be a perfect love. Perfect love for each other. We're going to love each other more. And we're all going to be living in the same house. I know that doesn't sound good right now. Listen, the Bible says, in my father's house, singular. Are many men know abiding places? Heaven is one big house. It's the Father's house. And we're all going to have a place there in heaven. And we're all going to know each other. And it's going to be perfect love there. That's why the Bible says, now abide in faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is charity. The greatest of these is love. Why? Why is love the greatest? Because hope will end. All of my hopes will be realized when I get to heaven. I won't have any more hope. They'll all be realized. And my faith will end in sight. I won't need any more faith. Everything that I've had faith in, I'll see. So I I won't have hope and I won't have faith, but I tell you what I will have, I'll have love. That's what I carry with me to heaven. And the people that I love here will be the people I love there. The only difference is it'll be a perfect love there in heaven. A perfect family love. And so heaven is a place of perfect redemption, perfect rest, perfect rejoicing, perfect revelation, perfect relationships. It's going to be wonderful. And friend, that's not even scratching the surface. But it's going to be wonderful. And I'll close with this. Fanny Crosby, she went to a midweek prayer service. And her pastor, Dr. Howard Cosby, preached from the 23rd Psalm. He's got her thinking about heaven, but he died that very week. And it had an impression on her. And she began to think, what will my first impression of heaven be? But then she answered her own question. And she said, Why my eyes will be open and I will see my savior. Fanny Crosby was blind. She had been blind from a little girl. And she said, My eyes will open and I will see my savior face to face. And then she wrote one of her best hymns and we sing it sometimes and it's those beautiful words someday the silver cord will break And I no more as now shall sing, but all the joy when I shall wake within the palace of the king, and I shall see him face to face, and tell the story, saved by grace. Aren't those beautiful words? And that is what we will see. We will see him face to face. And we will be together there in that place of total perfection. And you know what? It's not going to be long until we're all there It won't be that long. Let's bow for prayer together. So Lord, we thank you for the just the wonderful truth about heaven. We don't think about it enough. Sometimes as pilgrims, our attention gets diverted, Lord, on this pilgrim path that we're on. The world glitters so much. And sometimes we get our mind and our hearts off of our eternal home. And we need to be reminded again that this world isn't our home. Our home is with you. And this is a temporary place. And as we're traveling through this barren world, Lord, you give us blessing after blessing, but also you remind us. You're faithful to remind us not to allow our attention to get diverted. And sometimes you'll remind us, Lord, by taking one of our most precious saints with you there. And it's you providentially telling us, remember now, this is not our home. Your home is with me. And we know, Lord, that there in heaven are loved ones and saints that are already waiting for that time when we will be together. And Lord, we will know one another. Even better. And we'll love each other with a perfect love. So we're thankful for all these promises. We have a lot to look forward to. And so, Lord, remind us of these things that one day we will see you face to face. And we will tell the story of being saved by your grace. And we thank you for that. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give one quick invitation here today. I just want to ask you, do you know for sure if you're going to heaven? Do you know that? Absolutely certain of that. If there's any doubt in your heart Would you be willing to reach out and pray right there where you are? Make where you sit an altar to the Lord and just reach out and faith and say, Lord Jesus, save me. I want to have eternal life. I want to dwell there in heaven forever. Would you be willing to pray that? Say, Lord, save me. Just pray those words. Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Please save me. Make me your child. And friend, if you pray that prayer, can I pray for you? Would you lift your hand up? Let me pray for you tonight. Anyone here? If you pray that and you want to talk to us afterwards, we're going to be here. We want to help you So Father, use these words to strengthen the hearts of your people, Lord. Let it be a source of comfort to us all as we grieve. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.