It's good to see you here in God's house, and I invite you to take your Bibles. Open to the book of Romans, chapter twelve. We begin a new chapter in our study of Romans as we're going through this wonderful book of uh in the New Testament that's so very important for us to understand. And we come now to a section of Romans that is more practical, that's real really more about duty than doctrine. And this is the pattern of the Apostle Paul in his letters, in case you haven't noticed it, that normally the first part of the letter, Paul, deals with doctrine and theology, and then the second part is very practical about what what do you do about what you have just learned about the Lord Jesus. And so we could say it's doctrine, then duty, and also doxology, which means praise to the Lord. And so Paul has been uh dealing in the first eleven chapters with some heavy duty theology. I know some of you know that because you say, yeah, I've been listening to it for the last year in the study of Romans But now we come to chapter 12, which is, as I said, it it how do we apply all this? How do we uh deal with the theology that we've learned? Because theology is not just for a person who lives in the Ivory Tower that's not really uh in the in the trenches, we could say, of life. All theology should have a practical application to it, right? Because it doesn't really do us any good if it doesn't help us in our life Remember that the New Testament was written not by Ivory Tower theologians. It was written by people who lived real life. And it was directed to people in the church like you. Just ordinary people. That's why I don't think anything in the New Testament is too hard for the church to study because it was written to the church. And so Paul now is going to deal with the issue, a practical issue of applying everything that he has been talking about in the first 11 chapters. And really the question tonight is what is real worship? This is what I think these two verses are about. Look in Romans chapter 12. Verses one and two, very familiar verses. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. So the question I want you to think about, what is real worship? I think there's a lot of confusion in the church today about real worship. When you mention the word worship or you ask a question like that, what's the first thing that normally comes to a person's mind? I think it's music. I think in the in the in the contemporary church today, most people view Worship and music as synonymous, as if they're just one thing in the church. And if I said I want you to worship with me, people would automatically assume that we're going to sing. We're going to sing a hymn or or sing a song. People also believe that if you're going to really worship, it's critical now what style of music you use. Uh I've had people say, Well you know I went to church and we sang some old hymns, but then I went to another church and man we really worshiped. And what they meant by that was they were they were more contemporary songs and it made them feel a little bit different to sing those Song. And so if you don't use the right style, you somehow in some people's mind you limit worship One pastor said it this way. He said the battle rages so fiercely over styles of music in the church as the means of worship that churches actually fragment into groups of people on all sides of the issue And very often churches actually split over music because the basic underlying idea that some people have in their mind is that music produces worship Or music induces worship. And if you don't have the right style of music, worship won't happen He goes on to write, if the tune isn't contemporary, if the tune isn't familiar, if the arrangement isn't what it should be to interest a given group of people, they won't be able to worship. And so in many churches today, music is the dominant thing. People choose a church nowadays, not based on doctrine. or whether or not God's word is central in the church, or if the preacher is preaching the word clearly, accurately, which to me, you know me, it's the most important thing. But they they they choose a church based on what kind of music do they have. Now beloved music is important. I love music. Don't get me wrong, music does play a part in worship. But in today's pop church culture, music has been elevated, I think, way too high. I think there's an unhealthy preoccupation with it. To the point to where it's being placed above the Word of God. And that's not good. Write down Psalm 138, verse 2: I will worship towards thy holy temple. And praise thy name for thy loving kindness and for thy truth. For thou hast magnified thy word, listen, above thy name. God has magnified his word above his name. And that's how high God keeps a priority on his word. And if you elevate music above the word, you're elevating it way higher than God ever intended. In fact, it can become an idol Not a very popular thing to say that you go to church and you make music your idol. That's not going to get me on any conference platforms as this gets out. In fact, why don't you just delete that out of this tape, will you please, or the recording? To say that you can actually go to a church and commit idolatry? Because you really are obsessed with the music rather than really worshiping God. But I think that that's happening. Music can induce worship, but it can't produce worship. Another way to say this would be: music is not the beginning of worship, it's the end of it. It's the end of it. Music is not the cause of worship. Music is the result of it. I love music. I know you probably look at me and you know what's what's your problem tonight? Why are you saying this? Listen, I love music. I love the beauty of it. I love the sound of it. I love all types and styles of music. I come from a musical family. My wife is musical. My children all sing and play instruments. And sometimes they'll even let me sing with them. I was thinking the other day, um, you know, my father, uh some of you know my dad who comes to church here, did you know he could play the piano and the guitar? And he could sing. He he did that when I was growing up. His mother uh could play the piano. Uh uh my his grandmother My great-grandmother taught music down at Peabody School of Music here in Baltimore. My sons and my daughters all have music in them. I don't know what happened to me. God just skipped over me. But nevertheless, I love music. I love it. I love uh some of the depth that we sing in some of our hymns. And then quite frankly, some of our hymns are very shallow because they don't have a lot of depth to them. But I don't need music to worship. I don't have to have music to worship. There is some music that doesn't really help me in worship. In fact, it distracts me It gets in the way, especially when a singer is more performance-driven than being worshipful in their singing. That's distracting. I think there are wonderful servants who sing and do a wonderful job, don't get me wrong. I think that there are wonderful songs in our hymn book. I love so many of the songs in our hymn book I think that there are also wonderful new songs that are being written out there. There's nothing wrong with new songs and incorporating those new songs in our worship. Every generation has a contribution to make with songs and music and singing without us looking down and saying, oh surely this next generation can offer us nothing in the area of music. That's just arrogant to assume that There's some beautiful new songs that are being written out there, beautiful choruses and praise hymns and even hymns. We have great talented young people. God has gifted us and we need to use them. Well let me just say this about music. Um we sing songs, they should be uh doctrinally correct. Would you agree with me on that You wouldn't permit me to stand up here and preach error, would you? I hope not. Neither should we allow music to sing error. It's just another medium to get the message out. I think songs should have theological depth, not superficial. As one preacher called them seven eleven songs, seven words eleven times over And I I I've told uh some of our folks around here with the music, I said, look, if you can if you can take this song out of church and you can put it in any other setting, and it could be fine in any other setting outside of church, I don't want it in church. If it doesn't mention the name of Jesus, if it doesn't exalt and glorify the Lord Jesus, I don't want it here I want it to be distinct. I want there to be some depth to it. I think they should be God-centered, not performance-centered. I think the music should match the words. I think we have some music today that is so overpowering we don't even really get what the message is. The music is so overpowering that the message is beside the point. It just sounds good. It makes you feel good. And so the message is lost in the medium. Let me show you a passage of scripture. Since I'm on my soapbox, I'm going to go ahead and do this. Look in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 real quick. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Let me just show you something. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, look at verse 17. You show you something here, a principle I want to just bring out. First Corinthians 1:17. For Christ sent me not to baptize But to preach the gospel not with wisdom of words, watch this next phrase, lest the cross of Christ should be made of what? None effect. That's amazing. It's amazing that you can preach the cross in a way that robs it of its power. That's what the word non-effect means. It means you can make it void of power. You can make it void of effect. Can you imagine preaching the cross and robbing the cross of its power? But people, but preachers do that. You say, how do they do that? We remember the context in which this was written. Paul was writing to the Corinthians, who were in love with oratory and Greek rhetoric, and they used to love to hear these Teachers of wisdom get up and use that oratorical ability and hold hold people spellbound. And uh they loved it. It was kind of a form of entertainment back then. Just like we like entertainment today. We like to be spellbound. We like to be entertained. And sometimes orators in that Greek world could actually do that. They could take any subject. They could hold people spellbound. They could just really bring you in. And Paul says, I don't want, I know that that's what you want from me. I know you want me to entertain you. I know you want me to hold you spellbound. I know you want me to be a pulpiteer and a great orator and use great rhetoric because that's what you love. But I do not want to preach the cross in a way that robs the cross of its power. I don't want to do that. You know, and I see this, uh sometimes I'll turn the television on to uh a certain Christian station. I won't mention it, um, because there's several of them out there. And they uh they have these guys on there and they're running all around on the pulpit, and they're they're up there and they're just having a big time and the crowd really loves it. And they're just, you know, they're they're all over the place. And it's very entertaining. And people get their hankies out and just start, you know, waving them. And the preacher's up there, and I'll tell you what, brother You want me to do that? That was pretty ugly, wasn't it? And they'll just run all over the place and they'll, you know, just make a big, big splash. And you know what's lost in all that? The actual message? What is he talking about? What is the actual message? And then people walk away, you know what they say? They say, Well boy, wasn't he a great preacher? Wasn't he a great preacher Wow. And you don't they think automatically in their mind they make the mental leap that what gets the job done in the church is that kind of theatrics And you know what's lost? The message of the cross, the power of the cross. It's all lost. And people put their faith in oratory. Or the ability of a preacher. I'm not saying it's wrong to have gifts of speaking and that sort of thing. God knows we have to have a little bit of that. But if that overpowers the actual message, you're robbing the cross of its power. God never called me to be an orator. He didn't call me to be a pulpiteer. He didn't call me to wow audiences with my intellect, even though I do. He didn't call me to do any of that. He called me to simply give the message that he gave And to give it clearly. And to trust in the power of that message. And so what I'm after is just simply clarity. That's what Paul was after. Paul Paul he didn't want them to put their faith in man's wisdom. Look in uh chapter one Look down in in verse number or actually actually chapter two, verse one. I And I, brethren, when I came to you, I came not with excellency of speech, you're of wisdom Declaring unto you the testimony of God, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified, and I was with you in weakness I was with you in fear and in much trembling. And verse 4, my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. But in demonstrations of the spirit and of power. Paul said, when I came I didn't I didn't bring the normal uh oratory that you all love so much. In fact when I came I was I was with you in weakness. I I I was fearful when I was preaching. I I did it in much trembling when I gave you the Word of God. Because I didn't want your faith to rest in the wisdom of man, but in the power of God. Now that's a general principle in preaching. But I want to tell you the same principle applies to music. You can so use the music that it can overpower the actual message. Instead of just presenting the message and exalting the message, it overpowers it. It obliterates it. And you leave not even really understanding what the message was. But it sure did sound good. And it sure did make me feel good. But you never really got the message of it That can happen in preaching, that can happen in music. And so I say that I think that the music should exalt the message, not overpower it. Again, music is good. It's a tremendous blessing. But it's not the origin of real worship. It enriches worship. But it's not the origin of it. Music is an expression of worship. I don't come to get worship, I bring it with me. When I come to church. My singing doesn't result in worship. My worship results in singing. Understand that? So the question is where does worship originate then? Alright, let me get off my soapbox and get into the text here. Look in chapter 12, look in verse 1. Here's where it originates, verses 1 and 2. I think that this is the clearest passage. in the New Testament on real worship right here. If you want to know what worship is, if you want to know where it originates, it originates right here. And I want you to notice with me three elements of real worship. Number one The origin of real worship, it's bodily dedication, or we could say total dedication. Look again in verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies a living sacrifice holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Notice first of all the plea, I beseech you, pericoleo. to come alongside and to help. It can come to mean to exhort someone, to encourage someone. It can also be translated beg or plead In this verse, Paul is presenting himself as a human counselor or a helper to the Christians at Rome to whom he's writing, and he is exhorting or begging them to follow his counsel. This is a loving plea from a man who loves these believers. He's saying, I beg you to listen to this. I exhort you. I plead with you. Notice the people. I beseech you, therefore, what? Brethren. He's speaking to believers. What is Paul going to ask? What he's going to ask here doesn't apply to those who don't know Christ. Real worship comes from believers. It comes from God's people. But notice the purpose. We see Paul's plea. We see the people. We see the what's the purpose? I beseech you, therefore, by the mercies of God. And here's the whole basis of our worship. This is what motivates us to really worship God. Notice in the word in verse 1, therefore, what does therefore do? It points back. And Paul's pointing back to everything that we have because of God's mercy. This is everything that Paul is talking about in the first eleven chapters when he was unfolding to us the wonderful doctrine of salvation. All of those are the mercies of God. They're spiritual realities that Paul gave us in these previous chapters leading up to this point. The mercies of God are eternal love, eternal grace, the Holy Spirit, everlasting peace, joy, saving faith, comfort, strength, wisdom, hope, patience, kindness. Reconciliation to God, justification, sanctification, glorification, future glory, eternal life. Future resurrection, and on and on we could go. All those things that Paul talked about, all of those things in the first 11 chapters, all of that is the mercies of God. Let me ask you a question. What is your response to God's mercy in your life? That is worship there. What is your response to the mercy of God in your life? Write down Psalm 112 or 116, verse 12. What shall I render unto the Lord for his benefits towards me? In Ephesians 2, the Bible says, But God was rich in his mercy for his great love in which he loved us, even when we were dead. The Bible says, have he quickened us together with Christ. We're dead in sins. And he quickened us together in Christ. In verse number six, and he raised us. The Bible says he raised us up together. And it caused us to sit in heavenly places in Christ Jesus verse 7, so that in the ages to come he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace And it's kindness towards us in Christ Jesus, for by grace are you saved through faith. And that is not of yourselves, it's the gift of God, right? Not of works. And it says in verse 9, for uh not of works lest any man should boast, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Now, all of that, beloved, that's what generates true worship. It's having an understanding that all that you have in Christ, the richness of the blessings that we have been given in salvation It's understanding all those things. It's knowing all those things. That is why God's word is a priority. Because you can't really worship God unless you understand the riches of salvation. Theology, as I said, leads to doxology. And that's why Paul, when he got to the end of Romans chapter 11, he kind of bursts forth into worship and praise. Because he just completed a whole section where he basically gave us God's beautiful plan of grace and salvation that he's extended to us. And then he bursts forth in worship. You see, worship starts in the mind. It starts when you comprehend the truth When you comprehend theology, and as I said, there's kind of a discernible pattern in Paul's letters, there's doctrine, there's doxology, and there's duty. It is comprehending what God has done for us. And when we comprehend what He has done for us, you know what it causes? It brings worship. It starts here in our mind And then it goes to the heart. That's why I say I don't need music to worship. All I need to do is really comprehend God and the truth about him. And that starts it off. It starts in the mind. Isaac Watts wrote to him, and he had it right when he said, love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. In that one line is true worship right there. Once you comprehend that amazing love, God's amazing grace, then on our part, what does it call for us? It demands my life, it demands my soul, it demands my all. And that's why you have Paul all throughout his letters kind of breaking forth into these doxologies when he just bursts out. We'll see one at the end of Romans in Romans 1627 to the only wise God be glory forever through Jesus Christ. Amen. Ephesians 3:21 unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages world without and on we could go. So we see then the plea and the people and the purpose because of the mercies of God and then the presentation. Look at the word in verse 1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies, a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Look at the word present there. Peristomai, it's a temple term. It's a technical word that was used in the Levitical system to speak of an offering. When a person would come to the temple, they would bring their sacrifice with them, they would present it. Same word there. They would present their sacrifice, that is their animal sacrifice to the Lord. And so in the Levitical system, the offer would come to the holy place and thus he would bring it before the Lord. He was presenting this sacrifice. before the Lord. This is a presentation to the Lord. That's why Paul says you present your bodies. What are you doing? What is worship? It's presenting ourselves to God. It's giving ourselves to God, your bodies. And that word there just simply means all of you. It's the one word that means all of us, every part of us. My mind, my heart, every member of my body, my soul, my spirit, every part of me, I give to God. That is worship. All of our human faculties, all of our humanness. God wants all of us, just like I was preaching this morning about Abraham. God wants to make sure we have no idols. Nothing between us and him. But that he has all of us. That is what real worship is about. That's the greatest thing you can give to God in worship is you give him yourself. You give him your mind, your heart. The body of the Christian is the Lord's temple. It belongs to God. And notice what he calls it here. In verse 1 he says, it is a living what? Sacrifice. That's an oxymoron, isn't it? Sacrifices in the Old Testament, they were always dead. There were no animals that walked away from the sacrifice. Amen. I'm glad that was over with. There's no such thing as a living sacrifice in the Old Testament. But Paul says, I want you to be to God a living sacrifice. And I think what he means here is we die to self. We are living. But all of our believing b all of our being belongs to God 24-7. And really, I'm dead to my own desires. I die in that sense. Lord, it's not my agenda, it's your agenda. It's not what I want, it's what you want. That's a living sacrifice. 24-7. The verb is heiress once for all. I don't keep doing that every day. I do it once for all. You know, I hear people, you know, that I want to rededicate my life to the Lord. Okay, fine. But you only need to do that once. Just make sure you mean it when you do it. Just do it once. That's what the verb here is. Once for all, a sacrifice was permanent. It was not for a time, it was for all time. I'm going to give you myself, God, completely for all time. It means you stay on the altar and you don't crawl off of it. You belong to the Lord. And so God wants a living sacrifice. He wants us. And that's where true worship, that's what it's all about. That's where it begins. You see, you don't come to church to worship. Again, you bring your worship to church. And if you think that worship ends when we say the final prayer here, you've got another thing coming When you go to work on Monday, you're worshiping God. The way you drive home from church is an act of worship to God. Now some of you are going to start to slow down, aren't you? Everything you do, the way you present yourself Everything because you belong to God, all of that is an act of worship because now you belong to the Lord. Everything that you do all during the week Worship is not just what we do. It is what we do when we come to God's house, but it also is what we are. It's what we are. Remember when Jonah was stole away on the board the ship going to uh Tarshus? And the sailors found them and they brought him up and they said, Who are you and what do you do? You remember what his response was? I'm a Hebrew. You want to know what I do? I worship God. That's what I do. That's kind of a funny response because he was running from the Lord. You know, and that's why when people find out that we're believers, what they should see is someone who matches their profession. I worship God. What do you do for a living? I worship God. That's who I am. That's what I do. Well, why are you running from them? Good question. It's what we are. David Brainerd was a missionary to the North American Indians. He wrote in his journal, O Lord, to thee I dedicate myself. Oh, accept of me to be thine forever. I desire nothing else or nothing more. Henry Martin was a missionary to India, and he said as he knelt on the shores of India, Here let me burn out for God. J. Wilbur Chapman once asked William Booth, the founder of Salvation Army, he said, Why has God used you in such a great way? And William Booth responded, God has had all of me there was Other men have had greater opportunities, other men have had greater intellect, but from the day that I got saved and I got a vision of what God could do with me, I gave all of myself to God He's had all of me. And that's what worship is. Look again in verse 1. That you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Look at the word holy. We become holy unto the Lord. We become set apart unto God. That's all worship right there. Set apart to the Lord for a special service. I I think you uh maybe I've told you before the story of George Beverly Shea when he was a young man, he was a very good singer, and a popular group wanted him to sing with them and they gave him the music for him to audition. And it was a very, very well-known group. And he went home to learn the music that they gave him. And as he was learning the music There was a line there in the music that he just felt like he couldn't say because he thought, what would my preacher dad think about me if I sang that line? And he went back to this group and he said, thank you, but no thank you. He said, I've dedicated my voice to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm only going to sing for him. That's what holy means. Holy means that every part of you is absolutely set apart for God. Holy, acceptable unto God. Look at that next phrase. Simply means well-pleasing. In the Old Testament, when God accepted a sacrifice, it was described as well-pleasing. When God sees a person who gives themselves to Him, who sets himself apart for God, that is well pleasing. And then notice the product, which is your reasonable service. Literally we could translate this, your spiritual service of worship. Reasonable, it means it's in the realm of the soul. We talk about worship, we're talking about something that originates in the inner person, in the soul. It's translated reasonable because it it originates in the reason, in the intellect. This is your spiritual service, the word service, litreo where we get the word liturgy, literally, it's a religious act. It's the act of a priest. Our worship before God, the service that we render, what given ourselves to Him, that is worship. That is spiritual. And it's internal. begins in the heart, inwardly. And that's what is accessible to God. That is what is satisfying to God. So we see the origin of real worship. Bodily dedication, but let me move on quickly. Number two, the obstacle of real worship. What is that? That's worldly contamination. Look at verse 2. And be not conformed to this world This is interesting. Why does Paul include this on a section about worship? Why does he talk about being conformed to the world in this section here? This is because This can destroy true worship. Worldliness can destroy true worship. Allowing yourself to be contaminated by the world or influenced by the world will pollute your worship. So ironic, isn't it? We have churches now trying to be more like the world in the name of worship, thinking that we're doing a certain somehow we're doing a service to God. That somehow if we just sing the right music, we're going to be able to evangelize. I don't see call me crazy. You can show me if I'm wrong. I'm open to that. I'm probably not, but you can show me I've never seen in the Bible music used for the purpose of evangelism. I haven't seen that. It is an act of worship that comes inside the worshiper. And yet we feel like if we just become more like the world, somehow that's going to help our worship, and somehow that's going to help us reach the world. And here Paul says, don't be conform to the world. If you want to worship God, be not conformed. The word conform here is schismatizo, which is kind of an outward conformity It's really a compound word. It kind of is an intense word. Literally to be stamped like metal or be molded. We could translate it. Stop allowing yourself to be molded by the world. You cannot allow your mind to be molded by the world. And that's what he's talking about here. It's interesting how some Bibles translate this. Do not conform yourself to this age. Do not model yourself on the behavior around you. Do not copy the behavior and customs of this world. Another translation says, don't let the world around you squeeze you into its mold. But that's what the world is constantly trying to do. They're constantly trying to conform us into its own image. And Paul says, that spoils worship. And there's a lot more I can say about that, but um for the sake of time, let me move on to the third point. The origin of real worship is bodily dedication. The obstacle of real worship is worldly contamination. But let me see show you finally the outcome of real worship, which is godly transformation. Look again in verse 2. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Real worship transforms us. And the word transform is metamorpho, where we get the word metamorphosis from And it means a change, an outward change that begins on the inside. It starts on the inside, and it changes us on the outside. And there are systems of sanctification used by certain denominations and religions that believe that they can conform you to a certain image on the outside, somehow it'll change you on the inside. That's the exact opposite of what the Bible says. The Bible says real sanctification begins on the inside and then it affects you outwardly. It begins to show up on the outside. It starts inwardly. The change begins inside. And it describes a transformation, a metamorphosis. It's the same word that was used when Jesus was on the Mount of Transfiguration. Remember that? And the Bible says he began to be changed. Same word, metamorphosis. He began to be changed in the sense that all the inward glory that Jesus had began to be displayed on the outside. And that's what the word means. And so when sanctification takes place, when real transformation takes place in the life of a Christian as a result of giving ourselves to God, it starts on the inside. And then it works its way out. We are transformed. And again, where's the key point? Where's the battle? Look in verse 2 again. And be transformed by the renewing of your what? Your mind. It starts in the mind. The battle is on the inside, and it begins in the mind. And if you lose the battle there, you're not going to be becoming like Christ. It starts with truth in the mind. That's why Jesus, what did he say? Father, sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. When God starts to make changes in your life, the first thing he's going to do is he's going to renew your mind. He's going to transform your mind. And once you get the truth in your mind, it goes down into your heart, and there's a deep affection for that, and then it begins to change who you are. But it's got to start there in the mind. That's why it's so important that you be careful what you listen to, what you allow to enter into your mind, because the battleground is right there God wants to renew your mind and change you from the inside. And so true worship will do that. True worship renews your mind. That's why, listen, you can't have real worship without the word of God. You can't have it. And that's why preaching is a part of worship. You understand that when you come to God's house, the way in which you listen is an act of worship on your part? The way you participate in the service, if you have a careless mind and you're not listening to the truth, then you're not really worshiping God very much. You say, well, your sermons are boring. Well, actually the Bible doesn't talk about dull preachers, it talks about dull hearers. I'm not boring, you're boring. I gotta preach to you all the time. Sometimes they might be, but I do the best I can to make the word clear. But we have to come with a ready heart to hear it starts in the mind And then it moves on to the outside. And then we're just transformed into the image. Let me just show you one verse and we'll close. But look, go to 2 Corinthians real quick. Go to 2 Corinthians. chapter 3, a favorite verse of mine, 2 Corinthians chapter 3, look at verse number 18. Notice what it says. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, where it says, but we all with an open face, beholding as in a glass, the glory of the Lord. are changed in the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. And what's he talking about there? He means that what is the glass? The glass is the word of God. And you know what we see? And this is again one reason I try to make the word clear is because this is, in a sense, the glory of God. You don't see the glory of God without some kind of a veil. It's reflected in this word here. It's reflected in the glass. But if you stare into this and you understand the truth, you know what God does as a result? He lifts you to new levels of glory yourself. New levels of spiritual growth. He'll lift you to new levels of renewing your mind. And as he renews your mind, he's making you more like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's why when we come to God's house, we want to look into the glass. Because in this glass, I see the glory of Christ. I see the glory of God. I see the incredible mind of God that is unfolded to all of us. And that's how sanctification takes place in the heart of God's people. And it begins in the mind. It goes into the heart. And then notice the last part. Go back to Romans 12 real quick, the verse 2, last part. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you might prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Good is things that are excellent, acceptable. Again, Paul borrows from the Old Testament sacrificial language to describe what is well-pleasing. This is well-pleasing to God. This is perfect. It's the idea of being complete. Of something being everything it should be. Our wills should only desire what God desires and delete us to only what He wants us to do. It should cause us to want to surrender all of ourselves to Him Our imperfect will and complete submission to his perfect will. And that's real worship right there. It begins with us. It begins with us giving ourselves to God, every part of us, because we understand what He has done for us. Years ago there was a man by the name of Captain Shaw. He was a medical missionary with the Salvation Army in India. He was given an assignment to this colony. It was a lepers colony And as soon as he got there, he saw three men that were in shackles around their wrists and around their their ankles, and he saw that the shackles were cutting them, and they were in great pain. And out of compassion He went to the guard and said, please take the shackles off these men. And the guard said it's not safe. These men are dangerous criminals as well as lepers. And Captain Shaw had such compassion. He said, I'll take responsibility for these men. And they took the shackles off and he began to nurse those wounds and apply medicine and bandages. Two weeks later, Captain Shaw had his first misgivings about freeing these criminals because he was called away to another place, which means he had to leave his wife and his children behind in their house, knowing that these men were free and his wife said look go ahead I know the Lord will take care of us and so after she insisted he left And one morning, Captain Charles' wife got up, she went to the front door, and she was startled because those three former criminals were lying there on her steps. And one of them said this, we know that the doctor had to go. So we wanted to stay here all night so that no harm would come to you. You see, these men had experienced the doctor's mercy. And in response, out of love and gratitude, they just gave themselves to service. And friend, in a nutshell, that's exactly what worship is So my question is, how is your worship? Are you really truly worshiping God? Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, again, we thank you for the clarity of your word. And pray that, Lord, you'll help us to apply these things. To know that Lord, you have in your mercies given us so much. And that, Lord, in response, we would give ourselves to you, every part of us, that we would present ourselves as a living sacrifice. set apart for you because Lord we know that this is good in your sight this is acceptable this is well pleasing In your sight. May we do that. And if we're holding back on anything, Lord, help us to just yield it up to you so that we can say, I've surrendered all. And with heads bowed and eyes closed around, I want you to think about that. Take a moment right there where you are, and I want you to pray and present yourself. As a living sacrifice. This should be done as a believer. You should, if you know the Lord and you know his mercies in your life, this should just this is your reasonable service. To present yourself in that way. Just take a minute there and just pray. And so, Father, tonight we do present ourselves to you. Just as your word tells us we should. Just as it is right for us to do, that you would have all of us, that our worship would begin from that point Of giving ourselves completely to you. Remind us, Lord, that it's who we are. It's not just what we do on Sunday, it's who we are. It defines us. And may it be true of us. May people see it in us. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen