Well, I hope you have a Bible close by, and I invite you this morning to take your Bible and turn to the book of James, chapter number one. James chapter 1 this morning. And the title of my sermon today is What to Do When You're Overwhelmed. It may be that you feel overwhelmed today. And I hope that this message from James will be an encouragement to you. In a book called How to Get Up When Life Knocks You Down, the author basically catalogues people who experienced tremendous setbacks in their life. And one person wrote this, my husband was a brilliant, gifted man with an incredible career, but he suffered a massive stroke. He was only forty-seven with no history of bad health. Now his gifts are gone. He's learning to speak again. We're set financially, but I agonize over how he feels trapped and ins inside of himself. What does a man do the rest of his life after something like this? And then another person writes this there has never been a history of cancer in my family I eat right, I exercise, I've taken care of my body. How can this happen to me? And then another person writes this, what do you do when everything you've worked for goes up in smoke. And on the writer gives other stories. These are people, basically, that are just overwhelmed with the setbacks that they're experiencing in their life. And I'm sure if we could take testimony from some of you that might be listening, some of you are experiencing some of the same things. You just seem to be overwhelmed with trials. And the question is, what do you do when you're overwhelmed? When it it looks like your whole world is coming apart, when your life is so radically interrupted the way ours has been in these recent weeks. Well, James is writing to people that are in similar circumstances. These are people that are overwhelmed with trials. Now let me just tell you a little bit about James, the author. This is uh there's only three people in the New Testament named James, and by process of elimination we know that this James here, this particular man, was the half-brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. And he was the recognized leader in the church in Jerusalem. By the way, at the time that James wrote this, the church in Jerusalem was experiencing difficult dark trials. And he he refers to the audience, if you look in verse number one of James chapter one, notice what it says. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered. abroad. And at first glance it looks like James may be writing to just to to Jewish people, but this is really, I think, a metaphor or a synonym for a people who are going through trials. And he uses this title to refer to them Really, the term is the dispersion. These are people that are just scattered. And the reason they're scattered is because many of them are running for their life. They're they've been persecuted. You talk about being overwhelmed. Many of them are l losing all of their material possessions They're being persecuted because of their faith in Christ. They're going through a time of adversity. In fact, in verse number two, notice what it says. And he's speaking to these believers here, and he says, My brethren, counted all joy When you fall into diverse temptations. And so again, he's speaking to believers, my brethren, and he's talking about trials that just come out of nowhere. and just overwhelm you. In fact, look at the word fall there in verse number two. When you fall, this is an interesting Greek word. It's a word that Jesus used to describe the man and the story of the Good Samaritan, the man that was on his way down from Jerusalem down to Jericho. And he fell among thieves. Same word there. And so it carries the idea of something that happened surprisingly. Something that happened swiftly. With no warning, no time to prepare. Something that happens savagely. This man is just minding his own business. He's taking a journey and all of a sudden he's hit. Wham, he's hit out of nowhere by these thieves that rob him and leave him for dead. And many believers, you can probably relate to that. This this coronavirus has come suddenly into your life. Not only is it a trial for you and your family, It's a trial for the whole state of Maryland, not just the state of Maryland. It's a trial for our whole country, not just our whole country, but for the whole world. It just came suddenly, and all of a sudden people's lives are turned upside down. It's amazing how a virus can just change the whole world. And so it just came out of nowhere. And now believers and others are learning how to cope and what to do. Winston Churchill said something that I like to quote at times. He said this, we must always be ready at our average moment to meet what our enemy will throw at us at his select moment. And it just seems like at this moment in time, this was thrown at us. And now what do you do? You're overwhelmed. Well, James gives to the believers that he's writing to four important instructions, things that we need to do when we're overwhelmed by a trial or a crisis. And so let me give them to you here today and I hope that you'll take these to heart. Number one When you're overwhelmed, when you're overwhelmed, number one, ask God for wisdom. Ask Him for wisdom. Look at verse number five If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that give it to all men liberally and upright not, and it shall be given him. And so James makes it very clear when you're overwhelmed at times like this One of the things you should do, the very first thing you should do, is to ask God for wisdom. That's interesting to me. He didn't say ask God for strength. Nothing wrong with asking God for strength He didn't say ask God for grace. There's certainly nothing wrong with asking him for grace. We do that all the time. He didn't ask God say ask God for deliverance. And certainly again, that's not wrong to ask God to deliver us from trials. But here, James says that we want to ask God for wisdom. While you're asking him for all those other things, make sure. That you put on the top of the list wisdom. God, in this time of my life, in this crisis of my life. Give me wisdom. You see, we need wisdom so that we do not waste the opportunities that God is giving us. Wisdom helps us to respond properly to the trials when they come. Because with every trial, friend, you mark it down, every time God gives us a trial, there's something that he wants to teach us. There's something that he wants to do in our life. There's something he wants to add to our life that's missing So that we can be complete and whole and mature as a believer. And so when you take a test, when God puts you through a test, you certainly don't want to miss the lesson You don't want to miss the thing that God is trying to do in your life. You know what happens when you fail a test in school? At least in my day when I was going through school When you fail a test, you have to take it over again. And I think that's true in the spiritual life. God brings us through these times to teach us things and to add things to our life. And if we don't get the lesson, if if the purpose isn't accomplished, you might have to take that test over again. I don't know about you, but I don't want to take certain tests over again in my life. The Bible says this right down Ecclesiastes 3. 15. That which hath been is now, and that which is uh to to which is to be, hath already been, and God requires that which is past. It's a very important principle. God patiently repeats things in our life until they are learned. And since we want to learn the lesson that God has for us, James says, look, ask God for wisdom. Ask God to give you wisdom in this time in your life. Look at the life of Abraham in the Old Testament. He went through a series of tests. Why? Because God was doing things in his life. He was building his faith He was adding to his life things that were missing. And so Abraham grew to the point in faith where the Bible says he Stagger not at the promise of God. But in order for you to grow and to learn and to be all that God wants you to be, you have to make sure that you're learning the lesson that God wants you to have. at this time. And so you have to be ready to listen and to uh have the wisdom to know what God is trying to do. Are you listening? And hearing what God is saying in this time. What is God trying to tell you? Did you know that in the Old Testament, when Solomon uh asked for wisdom, the Hebrew word for wisdom there is Lev Shema, literally a hearing heart. God, give me a hearing heart. Help me to see what you are doing. Wisdom is needed to interpret life. It is needed to untangle the dark threads that hang down from heaven so that we can see what God is trying to do Spirosodiatis wrote a good word about this. Let me quote him. He says this, how can I use and not merely bear the particular cross which divine providence places upon my shoulders? What is that power? What is that piece of equipment which will enable me to take that cross and make it a bridge? uh to a land um across the turbulent river. I think that's such a good thing when he says that. Take the cross and make it a bridge. God, what are you trying to teach me In this time. And when we talk about wisdom here, what do we mean by wisdom? What does the Bible say about it? We're not talking about knowledge. There's a difference between knowledge and wisdom. Knowledge is needed to pass a test in school, but wisdom is needed to pass the test in life. Knowledge is learned. Wisdom is given. It's something that God gives us. Knowledge Someone said comes by looking around. Wisdom comes by looking up to God. God is the one who gives us wisdom. John Blanchard wrote, It's the ability to discern God's hand In human circumstances, and apply heavenly judgment to earthly situations. And friend, that's exactly what we need. So think about this. James says, ask God for wisdom. Now notice a few things here. The shortage of it. Look in verse 5. It says, if any of you lack wisdom, Notice the if there in the Greek, that's a first-class condition, and that simply means that it's a uh it presupposes a standing fact. Um we could say it like this. If any of you lack wisdom and you probably do lack wisdom, it's probably a fact That you don't have the wisdom that you need. And that's the first thing we have to come to. We have to come to this realization that we don't have the wisdom we need to get us through this. So we have to understand that lack, and we have to humble ourselves and realize this so that God can give us This wisdom that we need. There's the shortage of it, but then there's the source of it. Again in verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that gives to all men liberally And upright not. Simply go to God and ask God. Now the word ask there is an imperative in the Greek. And those of you that have listened to me before, I've explained this before that an imperative, of course, in the Greek is a command. This is not a suggestion. God is commanding us. Ask God. Now when I think of this verse here, I can't help but think of This story of Solomon that I mentioned just a minute ago. And if you have your Bible, would you do this? Would you just go to the Old Testament book of 1 Kings, chapter 3? I want you to see this principle that James is giving us illustrated in the life of King Solomon. Someone has said for every New Testament truth there is an Old Testament illustration about that truth. And I find that true here particularly in this passage here in in James. It's illustrated in the life of Solomon. Look at 1 Kings chapter 3. Let me give you the background. Now Solomon is known as the wisest king in the Bible, but he didn't start out that way. You talk about a time of trial and testing in his life. When we come to 1 Kings chapter 3, we have to realize where Solomon is in his life at this time. His father David had just died Solomon is appointed to be the next king of Israel. His brother Adonijah tried to usurp the throne. Some people want Solomon dead. Others were trying to undermine him The nation of Israel was growing in population. Wartime was over. There was peacetime. Israel was kind of having a baby boom, you could say. The administration under David's reign was not sufficient to meet the needs of people that were under Solomon's reign, the whole structure of the government had to be reorganized. He was charged with building a temple so that the people would have a place to worship God. The weight of the soul of the world was literally on the shoulders of King Solomon at this time. Reminds me the story of Harry Truman on April 12, 1945. Harry Truman received a message to come to the White House quickly And he thought, well, there must be some special job for me to do. When he got to the White House, he was ushered into Mrs. Roosevelt's sitting room. She got up and put her arm on his shoulder and said, Harry, the president died And Harry Truman was too stunned to speak. And finally he said, Mrs. Roosevelt, is there anything I can do for you? And she said, No, Harry. She said, You're the one in trouble now. Is there anything I can do for you? And Harry Truman later said, I felt like the moon, the stars, and all the planets had fallen on me. It was World War II. There was enemies on each side of the ocean that he had to deal with. There were so many challenges in front of him. And you talk about being overwhelmed or feeling overwhelmed. Well, this is probably how Solomon is of a great man at this point in his life. He is now the king. He has to fill the shoes of a great man, his father, King David There are so many needs, so many challenges, so many problems facing him. What does he do? He doesn't hire a consultant He didn't appoint a cabinet of experts. He didn't go to a bookstore and buy the latest book on how to be a king. He didn't go to the nearest conference on kingship. None of those things. What does he do? The Bible says in 1 Kings chapter 3, verse number 4. If you're there, would you follow along? It says in verse 4, and the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there. For there was a great high place, and the thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. You know what he does first? The first thing that he did when he was overwhelmed is he worshipped God. He went and he made a big sacrifice at the altar of Gibeon and he worshiped the Lord. And the Bible says that uh he basically slept before that altar. He stayed there. And in these ancient days, this was a common practice, when someone wanted to get a word from their God, they would normally sleep before the altar. Solomon does this. He stays there because he needs a word from God. And God does speak to him in verse number five. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. That's amazing when you think about it. Here God gives Solomon a blank check. Solomon, ask me whatever you need. Ask me what I will give I should give to you. What would you say if God gave you that kind of offer? What would your response be? Well, Solomon uh was humble enough and smart enough to know that the number one thing he needed at this time in his life when he was so overwhelmed Was he needed wisdom? Wisdom from God. And so that's what he requests from the Lord In verse number 7, and now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David, my father. And I am but a little child, and I know not how to go out or how to come in This expression, go out and come in, is a Hebrew idiom and it refers to skills and leadership And Solomon was saying, I don't know how to lead. I don't know how to go out and come in. Joshua in the Old Testament knew how to go out and come in. David And 1 Samuel 18 knew how to go out and how to come in. In other words, they were skilled leaders. But here's Solomon saying, I don't know how to go out and come in. I am a little child in the Hebrew literary Naer Katan. I am just a small, dependent child. I don't know how to go out. I don't know how to come in. And then he says in verse number nine: give therefore thy servant an understanding heart Again, a Lev Shema, a hearing heart. Give me the ability to have wisdom and discernment and to know. Now God was pleased with that request. In fact, God was so pleased That God said that because you didn't ask for yourself riches or long life, how many people, if they were given a blank chef from God would say, Yeah, I want riches, I want, you know, a long life. I want, you know, something that would help them greatly. He didn't ask for any of those things. But he asked for wisdom and it pleased the Lord. And God said, Behold, I have done according, and verse number 12, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart. And what you'll find in the rest of uh Chapter three and then in chapter four is how Solomon's wisdom was was greater than anyone at that time. In fact, people would travel from all over the world to hear the wisdom of Solomon. God honored that request. And this g leads us to the third point. If you'll go back to James and look in Again in James chapter one and look down at verse number five. Notice what it says. If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God to give it to all men liberally, and upbraideth not Well, I could talk about the supply of it. God gives graciously. He gives liberally. The word means to stretch out. The idea of a stretching out a banquet table And filling a cup to overflowing. We have a gracious God who will give generously to his children wisdom when they ask God for it. What does Jesus tell us? Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be open unto you. So when you go through a trial and you're overwhelmed, And you go to God in prayer, you say, oh God, I don't know how to deal with this. God, give me wisdom. It's God's nature. To respond generously and to give you all the wisdom that you need. And notice what it says in verse 5: who give it to all men liberally and upbraideth not. What does that mean? That means God doesn't rebuke you or insult you for making that request. You ever ask someone for help and they they make you feel stupid in response for asking for that help? They kind of upbraid you. Here's a man who goes through a trial and a time of testing and he makes a mess of things and he goes to God and he asks God for wisdom. God's not going to rebuke that person. God is going to graciously smile on him and give him what he asked for. Look at the end of verse number five. And it shall be given him. That's the surety of it. We see the shortage of it, the source of it, the supply of it, the surety of it. God will give it when you ask. And so James says, look, when you're overwhelmed, the first thing you have to do is ask God for wisdom. But then number two, write down number two. Not only ask God for wisdom, but number two, don't be a doubter. Don't be a doubter. Look at verse number six. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss. Now in verse 5, James told him what to ask for. In verse 6, he tells them how to ask it. Ask in faith. When you come to God asking, don't come with doubting. Now, James, if you read his letter, is a master of using illustrations and metaphors. And here he's using an illustration to get his point across. He's using the illustration of a sea wave. Again in verse 6, for he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. He's like a sea wave. Now what's a sea wave like? Now those of us who live here in Maryland, we we we understand this. My father has a a boat. He likes to go out sometimes in the bay fishing. Sometimes him and my brothers will drag me along. I remember on one occasion we went out fishing. It was a It was a day when the wind was really kicking up and the waves were very active, and on that boat it was felt like you were on a roller coaster. You were going up and then down, up and down, up one minute, down the next. And James is using that to illustrate a doubter. What's a doubter like? A doubter is up and down. They're up one minute in faith, and then they're down in the next minute in doubt. And so we could say that a doubter is kind of spiritually bipolar, up and down, up and down, constantly. In fact, the word for doubt that James uses here is a Greek word dichrino. A crino is where we get the word cranium to think and then dias through to think through, or actually it's the idea of dividing. We could say it like this, to think twice. The idea is that of a second thought that contradicts the first thought. Remember Peter when he was walking on the water? That story. I love to refer to that story. Peter is uh they they see Jesus, the disciples in a boat, it's late at night, they see Jesus uh walking on the water. They didn't know it was Jesus at first, but when Jesus cried out to them, they recognized his voice. And Peter says, Lord, bid me come under the water with thee. And Jesus gives Peter one word, come. And Peter obeys that word from Jesus, and he steps out of the boat onto the water, and he's doing something incredible. He's walking on the water. Because he believed. What would cause Peter just to step out and walk on the water? Because he believed that if Jesus said he could do it, he could do it So on the first thought, he was believing. He steps out. He's walking on water. But what does he do after that? He looks around at the winds and the waves. And the second thought that came into his mind is, wait a minute, I can't walk on water. And he begins to sink. That's doubt. That's what doubt does to you. And Jesus, when he stretched forth his hand to pick up Peter out of the water, he said, Peter, why did you die Krino? Why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. You shouldn't have had that second thought. You see, someone said the doubter needs a mountain load of faith to move a mustard say a mustard seed. Pray and believe and you will receive. Pray in doubt and do without. And notice what James says here in verse number 7. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. If this is your mindset when you go to the Lord, don't think that you're going to receive anything. God doesn't honor that kind of thing. That kind of doubt. You are to believe. And notice what he says in verse 7. A double-minded man is unstable in all his You see, a double-minded person is a hypocrite who believes in God periodically, but when trials come, he fails to put his trust in God. Can I ask you a question? Are you trusting God right now? It's easy to trust God when the economy is up and everything is going well, but when A coronavirus comes and the economy tanks and now you're struggling. Do you trust God now? Do you believe God now? Can you go to Him with faith and trust in the Lord? And here James says, look, ask God for wisdom. And number two, don't be a doubter in this time. When you go to God, go to him with faith, believing in the goodness of God. But now here's the third thing. When you're overwhelmed, ask God for wisdom. When you're overwhelmed, don't be a doubter. And then here's number three, count your blessings. Count your blessings. Because look what James says in verse 9. Let a brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. But the rich, and that he's made low, because as the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. And so James here is referring to two different types of people during this trial, those who are poor and don't have a lot. And James says to them, you need to count your blessings. And he says to the rich man that perhaps has lost a lot. You need to count your blessings. Why does he say this? Why does he mention this in the context of testing? Because I want to tell you, friends, some of the greatest testing that you'll ever have to endure is in relation to material things and money. And having a lot of it and losing it or not having much at all to begin with. What is your relationship to those things? How do you regard those things? Because The temptation is for fallen humanity is to put too much faith in stock in material things and money. And when trials come, it has a way of leveling us out. And changing our thinking to help us realize what is really important, where the real blessings lie. You want to know how rich you are? Add up everything you have that money cannot buy and death cannot take away. And friend, that's how rich you really are. And James is saying essentially that. When you're going through a trial, if you happen to be a brother of low degree That is someone who doesn't have a lot, you need to rejoice. Why? Because you are a Christian, because you know Jesus. And if you are a child of God, even though you might not have a lot of this world's possessions, you are incredibly rich. Understand that? Because you know Jesus. And if you have Christ, you have everything. The Bible says this in Romans 8. 17. And if a child, that is, if you're a child of God, Then heirs, that means you're an heir. You're related to him. You're heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus. Whatever he has, I have. Whatever he owns, I own. Because we're in the same family. I have an inheritance. An inheritance because I'm a Christian and you're incredibly rich. 2 Corinthians 8. 9 says, For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. And James is saying that you can rejoice because being a Christian highly exalts you in Christ. And then he says to the rich man, That is made low, verse 10, but the rich, and that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. Now, what is the rich man to rejoice in? James says, you're to rejoice in the fact that are you to rejoice in your earthly riches that you have a lot? No. He rejoices in the fact that God uses trials to teach him right perspectives. I might be speaking to some people here, and you say, you know what? A few months ago, man, I was doing good. All my stocks were up. Blood pressure down, bank account up. Everything was doing really well in my life. And all of a sudden this coronavirus came And I lost my job. And all of my bonds and stocks, they plummeted. And things are just totally upside down in my life now And it's so different. Whereas before I was worth this much, now my financial security is gone. And James, you know what he says? You know what? Rejoice. You say, how can I rejoice in that? Well, you rejoice in the fact that in this trial, God has given you the right perspective. now. And you know what the perspective is? You're not to put your trust in those things. Don't put your security in money. Or don't put all of your hope and money and those things. Put your dependence and security and God, financial security is an illusion. The only real security comes by faith in Christ, knowing God. What did Jeremiah say so many years ago? Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. You have good health today, that might be gone tomorrow. Don't glory in that. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. You're rich today, that could easily change. Don't glory in that. But let him that boasts or glory, glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord That made heaven and earth. You know what we are to boast in? Not our health, not our strength, not our riches, not our intellect. We glory and boast in the fact that we know God, that we can have a relationship to God through Jesus Christ. That's where all of our security is. That's where all of our dependence should be. That's what's really valuable in this life. It's not money. Someone says, well, wait a minute, preacher, money talks. That's right. It says goodbye. Because look, listen to what James says. He says, but let the rich man in that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. This is all temporal. This is all going to pass away. It's not permanent. Look at verse 11. For the sun is no sooner risen with the burning heat, but it withers the grass And the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perishes, so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. That is, just like the grass of the field is so short-lived, even so, the the ri the riches of this world are so temporary. So fleeting, so fragile that it just leaves quickly. Don't put your hope in those things Trials have a way of teaching us that lesson, of putting your hope and faith in God. things. It has a way of leveling us out, humbling all of us. Let me quote to you from the great commentator Linsky. He said this, faith in Christ Lifts the lowly brother beyond his trials to the great height of a position in the kingdom of God, whereas God's child he is rich and may rejoice and boast. Faith in Christ does an equally blessed thing for the rich brother. It fills him with the spirit of Christ, the spirit of lowliness. And the true Christian humility. As the poor brother forgets all his earthly poverty, so the rich brother forgets all his earthly riches. And the two are equal by faith in Christ. It's a beautiful statement there. The two are equal by faith in Christ. Christ. And again he said and James says, look, that's that's the way temporary riches are. Let me give you the last thing and we'll be done. When you're overwhelmed, ask God for wisdom. Don't be a doubt, a doubter, excuse me. Count your blessings. And then number four, focus on your reward. Focus on your reward. Look what James says in verse number 12. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, or we could say trials or testings. Blessed is the person that perseveres through trials. And testing, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. And the idea of blessed here is the idea of being happy and complete in life. There are people who are alive, but they're not living. They're alive, but they're not enjoying life. There's some things missing in their life. They're not fully complete. And again, that's what God does with trials and testing. It's designed to complete us, to help us to see what's really valuable in this life and to not spend our time on the temporal fleeting things, but on the things that really matter the most. And if we learn this lesson, then we're going to be blessed. In fact, the reward is he's going to give us a crown of life. He says here. That's the that's the reward. Now what is the life that he's talking about? By the way, the word crown has the idea of a victor's crown. It's the idea, you know, in the o in the ancient days when a person competed in an athletic competition. And they won, they got a a laurel reef crown that they could wear. It was very temporary, but he's using that picture there of victory. In other words, when you persevere and you're in you endure through the crisis or the trial And you learn from it what God wants you to have, then you know what? You get the reward. What is the reward? This crown of life. Now there's a debate here with New Testament scholars. Is he talking about eternal life in heaven? Or is he talking about a happy, complete, fulfilled life here on earth? I think that it's the latter. I think that what James is referring to here is a more complete, a more fulfilled life here on earth. As Christians, we already know we're going to heaven. Nothing's going to change that. But they're Christians on their way to heaven, they're not really living a good, complete, full life here on earth. And God wants you not only to enjoy heaven one day when you die, but He wants you to enjoy life here on earth while you live. And when you persevere through a trial and you do it humbly and you ask God for wisdom, and your whole perspective of things has changed, and God teaches you the lesson that you need to learn. There's something added to your life, something that was missing. And now you're able to live life in a greater capacity. There's a more of a fulfillment, a happiness, a blessedness that you receive through the trial, through the circumstance. And so that's what he's talking about. Your reward when you persevere through this, when you're overwhelming, you say, oh God, give me wisdom. And God teaches you and gives you wisdom and you learn the lesson, then you at the end you end up with a more fulfilled, complete, happy life. That's the reward, and that's what God wants you to have. But now you say, Well now how do I How did I guarantee, or what's the guarantee? How do I know for sure that I can pass this test and receive this crown of life? And here's what James says in verse 20. which the Lord has promised to them that love him. You know the key to all of this is just you have to love the Lord. You have to love God. That's what gets you through. That's what persevered. That's what caused you to persevere through the trial. Your love for God. And by the way, this is another thing that a trial will, or it should produce in our lives, more of a love for Christ than we had before. The song that we sing, More Love to the Old Christ, was written by Elizabeth Prentice, was written by a woman who had lost two children. And at the end of going through her trials, she wrote this song More Love to thee. You know why? Because she at the end loved God more than before she went through that trial. And that's what God is producing it as And when the train came out of that tunnel, he saw that little child sitting on the lap of her father. Father. You see, that's what trials will do. You know, those of you that name the name of Christ, it may be in your life that the world really can't tell that you're a Christian until you go through a trial, and then they can tell who you child you belong to or who's your father. And so more love for Christ. And that's how we persevere through Let me read to you, and as we end up our sermon today, the song, some of the words of the song, More Love to the O Christ. There's one stanza that I love that Elizabeth Prentice wrote. She wrote this: Let sorrow do its work. Send grief and pain. Sweet are thy messengers, sweet their refrain. And when they can sing with me, more love, O Christ, to thee. More love to thee, more love. to thee. And what she was saying in that is that the tr the the the trials that we go through when we're overwhelmed and the sorrow that it sometimes bring are messengers from God to us that teach us. And in the end, it's it's sweet. It's not sweet when you're going through it, but when it's all said and done. We are more complete. We're more fulfilled. We love God more. This is what God wants from us. So keep a humble spirit. While you're going through this trial, ask God for wisdom. Ask Him to help you to learn the lesson that you need to learn. Don't doubt. Run into the lap of your Heavenly Father who loves you. Father, I pray today for those that are listening and watching Lord, help them to learn the lesson that you would have them learn and me as well, Lord. I need this as much as anyone Lord, in a time of when we feel overwhelmed, in a time of trial, Lord, you're trying to teach us something. You're trying to do something in our life. And Lord, so we ask you for wisdom. Lord, give us wisdom. Help us. Lord, and we come not doubting, we come in faith, believing you are a gracious Heavenly Father, a good God, who when we come in a time of trial to you and ask for wisdom, you respond by giving to us graciously. Thank you, Lord, for teaching us what is really valuable, what our real blessings are in times of trial. And Father, would you increase our love? For you. Help us to run to you and our love for you increase. I pray this for every person listening and watching. Lord, bless them and help them in this time. And I pray in Jesus' name, amen.