1 through 7 here in Colossians chapter 2. Let me read these verses with you. For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you, and for them at Laodicea. And for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, that their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. For though I be absent in flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in Him, rooted and built up in Him, and established in the faith. as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. I want to talk tonight about what every pastor desires for his church. And that is, of course, this idea that we see here in these verses, and that's spiritual progress. I read of a church, an old church in England. And in the front of the church there was a sign, and that sign read, We Preach Christ Crucified. After time, ivy began to grow up over that sign and cover the last word of that sign to where the sign read, We preach Christ. And in time, the ivy continued to grow more to the point where the motto read, We preach. And finally, the ivy continued to grow until the sign was completely covered. What is ironic is that what was taking place there with the sign was an accurate thermometer, you might say, of what was going on inside the church. Because there was a day when the church preached Christ crucified But by and by the church had been removed from the sufficiency that is in Jesus Christ. And they began to preach, rather than Christ, they began to preach philosophy. The sign read, we preach. And by and by they even gave up on preaching at all. And eventually the church died. Such is the fate of any church that does not carry out its mission to preach Christ crucified. And such is the fate of any church that is deluded by persuasive arguments and taken captive by philosophy and is removed from the sufficiency that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, this is the exact concern that the Apostle Paul has for this church of Colossae, and we can add in there the church at Laodicea. His desire for these believers is that they not be led away from the sufficiency that is in Christ by the persuasive arguments of the Gnostic false teachers. He doesn't want anything to hinder their growth. their spiritual progress, their maturity in faith. Now someone might think, well now what's the big deal? A believer cannot lose their salvation, and that is very true. If you're in the Lord Jesus Christ, you can never lose that. You are eternally secure. However, a believer can lose a lot of blessings. And they can lose a lot of spiritual ground. And they can be seriously hindered in their Christian life because of false teaching. And so Paul writes to encourage the believers at Colossae to continue to make progress in their spiritual walk. And he warns them about beguiling false teachers that have these persuasive arguments. And so he prays for this very thing. He prays for their spiritual growth. And again, this is the desire of every pastor. The heart of every pastor wants to see spiritual progress in the life of believers. So let me just give you three things tonight. If you're taking notes, write down number one the prayer for spiritual progress. Because Paul is going to is praying for this very thing. And look in verse number one. And I I would that she knew what great conflict. I have for you, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh. Now Paul has prayed for these believers. Those at Colossae and Laodicea. And I want you to notice the word that he uses in verse 1. What great conflict. The word conflict is the word agone in Greek, which is where we get, of course, the word agony. And it's the word that was used to speak of athletic competition when a athlete was striving with all of his might to win say a race. He was in agony as he would compete. This is where we get the word. It's also related to a word that we So and look back up just one verse in verse 29 of chapter 1 where Paul says, Whereunto I labor striving. Look at the word striving there. It's kind of a related word. It is agonizami. Again, the same idea. Putting out all effort, all energy. And Paul understands that ministry is work, but very specifically what he's referring to here is prayer. Let me ask you a question. When's the last time you prayed and there was agony in the way that you prayed? So much so that you were sweating, you were uh getting all that you could. You were wrestling because there was some great burden in prayer that you were struggling with. You were so exercised that you could call it agony. I was agonizing Now, this is what the Apostle Paul is doing for these believers. Now, this is remarkable, especially when you consider the fact that these were people that he had never seen before. Had never met, and yet he's agonizing in prayer for these folks. What was he praying for? Well, look at specifically what he prays for. Look at verse 2. That their hearts might be comforted being knit together. First of all, we could say encouragement. The word comforted here has the idea of encouragement. Paul says, I am praying that you would be encouraged in your faith. You know what? Believers who are not encouraged don't make very good spiritual progress. So he prays for their hearts to be encouraged, to be comforted. And that's hopefully what you get when you come to church. Hopefully you're encouraged by the Word of God. You're encouraged by the fellowship of the believers because that helps you to make progress in your spiritual world. But then notice also he prays for endearment. Look again in verse 2, that their hearts might be comforted. Notice the next phrase, being knit together in love. And this word here, knit together, is the idea of being tied together, something that is bound together. Paul said, I want you to be bound together in your love. Now, churches need to be unified. I know some churches that they're wired together through organization. The their government. They have a committee for everything. They're so organized. They have a committee for each and everything, and then they have a committee on committees. And then they have a committee that watches that committee on committees. And they're all wired together and everything is organized to the hill. The only problem is that there's no love in that church. And there's no true fellowship. Paul said, I don't want you to be wired together by organizational structure or government necessarily. I want your hearts to be knit together, woven together, in love. In other words, the idea here is let nothing disrupt the unity of the church. Now you realize, of course, that we are unified That's the way we come into salvation. When you're saved, the Bible says you're joined unto the Lord. The Bible says we're all placed into the body of Christ. wherever you're from, no matter whether you're Jew or Greek, whatever, we're all placed into the body of Christ. And so there is this natural positional oneness that we all have We're all saved by the same gospel, same Lord, same method, same Spirit dwells in all of us? You say, what is that? That is basically a positional unity that we all have in the faith But Paul's not talking about positional unity here. He's talking about a practical unity. What he's basically saying is you live out in practice what is already true of you positionally. Positionally, we are unified, we are one. Now we need to live that out in practice. We need to live as if we are Our life needs to match our position. Live out that oneness that is already a part of you, that is inside of you. You remember when the church at Corinth was having trouble with division? What's interesting if you read chapter 1 of Corinthians, you'll find that Paul doesn't give the church a great treatise on how to stay united He doesn't do that. He doesn't give a whole chapter on avoid this and beware this. What does he say? What's the sum total of what he says in 1 Corinthians? He says, let there be no division among you. End of discussion. Now why does he do that? Well basically what he's saying is you're already one, now live out the oneness that you already have You don't need a treatise on oneness or unity. You just need to live out the oneness that you have. Paul wrote in Philippians, stand fast in one spirit with one mind. So he prays that the believers there would be woven together in a tapestry of love. Let that be said of our church here. And I know it is said, but let it continue to be said that we are woven together by our love one for another. That's where our unity is put into practice. So he prays for their encouragement, he prays for their endearment, but also their enrichment. Look again in verse two where he says, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ. Now again, Paul is mentioning the riches that the believer has. Too many Christians are living like paupers when they could be living like kings. I read one time a man about a man who uh worked very hard to come over to America He got a uh a a purchased a ticket to get on board a ship, and it took everything he had to purchase that tick that ticket to get on board that ship, to go to America. But he had no money to uh purchase food. He just had some measly cheese and crackers and he used that to eat for the whole journey over. And by the time the journey was about done, he came out of his cabin emaciated and just about half dead. And when he was getting off the boat, the captain said, Sir, what happened to you? He said, Well I took all I had to get this ticket and so I didn't have enough money for food and so all I had was just a little bit and But I made it. And the captain said, Sir, don't you realize that when you purchased the ticket, it gave you access to everything on board the ship for free? You could have been feasting and eating all that you wanted. But what was the problem? This man did not realize all that he had when he had purchased that ticket. And even so, believer, when you came to the Lord Jesus Christ, you got on board the good ship Grace And in Christ, all of the blessings, the resources that God, through his grace, is made available is already at your disposal because you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Now you are enriched. But now here's what Paul's doing. He's praying. Look again in verse 2 for the the riches of the full assurance of understanding. To the acknowledgement of the mystery of God and of the Father and of Christ. In other words, he's saying, I want you to fully understand. I want you to know this. We could say it like this, until they are rich. and the assurance of their understanding. He's praying that they might realize the riches they have. Simply put, When you realize how rich you are, you're not going to go anywhere else. Again, Paul's concerned that they be not moved away from the sufficiency of Christ. And what he ha is praying is that if you understand all that you have in Christ, you won't be moved away from it. You won't be tempted to go after riches in other places When you realize all that you have in Christ. Right? To use an analogy for today, a man who drives a Cadillac that is fully loaded is not going to be tempted by a Volkswagen. All right now if you drive a Volkswagen forgive me, I'm sorry. I don't have anything against them. But I would rather have a Cadillac Escalade fully loaded. If I had my choice. And see, in Christ you're riding in a Cadillac, so to speak. And so why are you tempted by the rusty VW of the devil? Again I apologize to VW owners. The only reason you would ever trade in that rusty or that beautiful Cadillac for something that is half running is because you don't understand what you have. And in Christ you have all riches Just just a week ago I was reading about a man who's a homeless man, who was homeless, I should say, living in Salt Lake City, Utah, and he was a millionaire and he didn't even know it. He was sixty years old pushing around a shopping cart. And uh living off the street. His family had tried to get in contact with him and leave messages with him, but he would not return any of those messages. They finally, after failing time and time again to get a hold of him, they hired a private investigator to go hunt him down. and get him, and then when they got him, the private investigator would take a cell phone, call back home, hold the cell phone up to the man's ears so someone in the family could talk to him And when they found him and they and they held the cell phone up to his ear, someone on the other end, family member, said, Listen, come home. Your brother, who was filthy rich died and left you a multimillionaire. Would you please come home and claim your riches? To which the man did. Who would not? Do that. But you know, again, there are some believers, and God, you know what he's trying to do? He's trying to get the message to you that you are rich because you had an elder brother named Jesus who died for you. And he left you all of these spiritual riches because you're in Christ. But the problem is that many believers don't understand that. You don't understand how rich you are in Christ. And before you and in order for you to be rooted in Christ and not moved away from Christ, you need to understand that so that you won't be tempted. Again, look in verse 3. In whom, talking about Jesus, are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Look at the word hidden there. Again, another interesting word I want to point out to you. It is the word apokryfas or apocruphos, we could say. And that might sound familiar, perhaps you've heard of the apocryphal The word Apocrypha simply means hidden or hidden writings. And did you know this was a word that was used by the Gnostics? The Gnostics claim to have all this hidden wisdom, this wisdom that was hidden from ordinary people, and they claim to have all of this wisdom hidden in a book. And they were saying to the believers at Colossi, we have this special wisdom and knowledge that if you'll just come over to our side, we can introduce to you this hidden wisdom. That is in a book here. But Paul, basically what he does here in this verse is he takes that one word and he says, You Gnostics have your hidden wisdom that you hide from ordinary people. in a book, but we too have our knowledge that is not hidden in some unintelligible book, but it is hidden in Christ And therefore it's open to everyone. Because the truth of the matter is, Christianity is not a secret that is hidden, but it's a secret that is revealed in Christ. And all of that wisdom is hidden in Christ. Someone says, how do I get to all of these riches? You already have those riches if you have the Lord Jesus Christ, because those riches are hidden in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you have Christ if you're a believer. So you have all those resources already, and they're in the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen? Isn't that good to know that you have that? So Paul is praying for them, for their enlightenment, that they will understand all these things. But let me give you the second point here. Number one, there's the prayer for spiritual progress, but I want you to see number two what I want to call the pitfall to spiritual progress. Because here's the warning. Look in verse 4. And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words. Again, Paul's fear was that a lack of understanding of their riches could cause believers to be open to be deceived and to be beguiled The word beguiled, para logizomai, where we get the word logic, para alongside, to come alongside and to reason with someone, to come alongside and to uh basically speak logic or speak words to them. It actually means to argue alongside with the idea of causing miscalculation. And this is exactly what Satan does to the believer. He comes alongside and he argues, he reasons in the mind, and by the way, that's where the battlefield is. It's in the mind. That's why we have to stay in the Word of God, because Satan will come along and he will argue, he will reason alongside in your mind, and try to get you to miscalculate. He does that. He will bring you to a false conclusion. And how does he do that? Look again in verse 4, lest any man should beguile you, notice the next part, with what? With enticing words. enticing words. Now, this was a word that was used in secular Greek in the law courts. And it would refer to a lawyer's persuasive speech, his power to influence, an unjust verdict. Or to bring the court to see something that is not really right. That in the final analysis, it all sounds good. It's very persuasive. It sounds reasonable. But in the final analysis, it's wrong. And this person, this lawyer is so persuasive in his arguments that he can bring them to a place of error. And this is exactly what Satan does Satan is a very smooth talker. And this is what false teachers do. Someone sometimes will say, well, you know, I heard this preacher on TV, and boy, it sounded so logical. It sounded so reasonable. It sounded so persuasive. Well you better measure it by the Word of God. Because in the final analysis, it may be all completely wrong. It'll have a lot of truth in it, but it won't be the truth It'll be very persuasive. That's exactly what Satan did in the Garden of Eden. He's a smooth talker. He had a congregation of two, Adam and Eve, and he persuaded them to believe that they could find something better outside of God. than in God, so much so that they were able to they were willing to give up everything to follow Satan's argument because he convinced them of that of what he was trying to say And this is exactly what the Gnostic false teachers were trying to do. They were using all of these persuasive arguments. And they were saying to the believers, I can just hear them now, they were saying to the believers at Colossi, oh listen, we love Jesus. We're not telling you to get rid of Jesus. I mean, we believe in Jesus, but he's just one among many. We're not asking you to turn your back on him. No, you hold on to Jesus Christ, but what we're asking you to do is to add to Christ these other things. Jesus is a good place to start, but if you're really going to reach a place of spiritual completeness, you need to add on to Christ all of these other things. And that was their argument. And by the way, this is the exact same attitude that we see in the world today. That's out there. Oh, well, listen. We believe in Jesus. We just believe that these other religions are just as valid. That is called pluralism. We live in a pluralistic society. where everyone's supposed truth is is valid, but I want to tell you there's only one truth and it comes from God, and there's only one way to salvation, and that's through Jesus Christ. He is the exclusive Savior. It is Jesus and none el none else. You don't add anything to Jesus Christ. I was reading about a pastor out in California, and he had the opportunity to speak to a group of young actors And he was speaking to them about the claims of Christ and one young Indian young man came to him and said, I want Jesus. He said, I'm a Muslim, but I I want Jesus. And the pastor was thrilled. He said, That's great. And so he shared with him the gospel, the simple plan of salvation. This young man prayed the sinner's prayer. He asked Christ to come into his heart. And the pastor was thrilled that this young man had done it. But after he had prayed, this young man said, Isn't it wonderful? Now I have two religions. I have Islam and now I have Christianity. And the pastor said, no, hold on there. He backed up and said, now wait a minute, there's something you don't understand. Jesus said, no man can serve two masters. You're either going to follow Christ or you're not. And Christ is not just someone that you add something to. That's not it. But that is our atmosphere today. That's where we're living. And this is presented to young people, especially our college students. They hear that it really doesn't matter as long as you believe and you're sincere, you can add other things to Jesus Christ. And the truth of the matter is, friend, you cannot. Jesus Christ is not just something you add onto the pile of belief that you already have You either serve the Lord Jesus Christ believing He is the truth, or you don't. And Christ is all that you need. And so Paul's desire was for these believers to know the riches, the exclusive riches that a person has in Christ, so much so that they won't be beguiled. By any false teacher that comes along. Now let me give you the last thing here. We saw Paul's prayer for spiritual progress We see the pitfall for spiritual progress, those who come along and beguile people with persuasive, enticing words. But here's the third thing I want you to see. That is the portraits. of spiritual progress. Because from verse 5 on down to verse 7, what Paul is going to show us here are just some vivid pictures to illustrate Spiritual progress in the life of believers. First of all, he uses really the picture of an army. Look in verse 5. For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit. Joying and beholding your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. Notice the words order and steadfastness of faith. I want you to know that these are military terms, and they describe an army that is solid, unified against the enemy. It is the word order here is rank. Steadfastness is a solid front. It's the idea that you have not broken rank, that you're staying together as an army, standing firm. And by the way, that's what the church is. We are believers, and we stand together, we stand firm, and we don't break rank, because if we do, there will be people who will be collateral damage as a result of that We stand together, we stand firm, we stand upon the truth of the word of God, and we help one another In this regard, we're like an army that is marching together in rank, not allowing any enemy to divide us or to get in. And so that's the picture that we have here. And by the way, that's why God gives the church pastors and teachers and some among you who are teaching the word and are mature in faith. God gifts the church with people like that to guard one another, to help one another, so that we won't be drawn away from the sufficiency that is in Jesus Christ. So it's like an army working together, but then like a pilgrim. Look in verse 6, notice what he says: As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Just as you have received Christ, even so you walk. Now this is the analogy of a Christian that is just walking in the same direction. On Wednesday night we're going through the pilgrim psalms about pilgrims who are traveling to Mount Zion. This is really the same analogy here. We're pilgrims, we're on a journey, and we're walking, we're Taking step by step in the Christian life and we're moving forward. And so walk is the idea of a pilgrim making progress in the same direction. That's exactly what the Christian faith is. We are walking in the same direction, one step at a time, a long walk in the same direction, and that's how you grow in Christ. The Gnostic teachers wanted to introduce something new. You start out with Christ, but then we give you this. And Paul's saying, no, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, you continue to walk in him. It's the same thing that when you came to Christ. By the way, how did you come to Christ? Repentance and faith. I repented, I turned from my sin, I turned from the world, I turned to Christ, I put my faith in Jesus Christ. That's how you receive Jesus Christ. As you have received them, you continue to walk that way. You know, since I got saved, I have every day lived repentant every day As I have received Christ, I just can I've repented a whole lot more after I got saved than when I initially got saved. In fact, I repent every day of my life. And by the way, faith, I use faith more now than I ever did. Every day is a I have to put my faith in Christ. That's how you continue. You continue in the Christian life the way you started. And it's a long process. It's a daily walk. It's step-by-step. You ever notice we live in a society today where everybody wants something instant? We want it quickly. We live in a fast food generation. You get in a fast food line, if they're 30 seconds late, people start blowing their horn. Because people want things instantly. We want it now. But I want to tell you something, folks. There's no such thing as instant spirituality. It's as you have received Christ, so walk ye in Him day by day, step by step, repentance and faith. Just keep on following the Lord Jesus Christ. He is sufficient for every need that you have. You just keep walking in them. But then here's another picture. Not only an army and a we see the analogy of a pilgrim, but a tree. Look in verse 7. Rooted and built in him. Notice the word rooted there. Christians are not to be like tumbleweeds that have no roots. We are rooted in Christ. We're not to be blown by every wind of doctrine. No, we stay rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the idea here is that we're being nourished by Christ. You know, every tree that is rooted, the roots are the unseen part. Every healthy tree has a root system that is healthy. And those roots are drawing nourishment that makes it healthy. You see, we are rooted in Christ. All of our nourishment, all of our strength, spiritual strength, it all comes from the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we stay rooted in him. This reminds me of Psalm 1, right? You've read that. Where we're like the Bible says the righteous man is like a tree planted by the rivers of water. That bringeth forth his fruit and his season. But then notice next there's the building. Look again in verse 7. Rooted. Notice the next phrase. And built up in him. This is an agricultural term. In its present tense, we're constantly being built up. We're constantly being edified. 1 Peter 2. 5 says that we're like living stones in a spiritual house. That's what happens when you guys say God puts you in a living temple, your living stones, and God is still building on you. He's still working on you. You ever notice how around here how there's someone's always building something? Something's always torn up and something's always being built and you see those signs under construction, right? That would be good to put on every believer because you're under construction. God's not done with you. He's building you, and he wants you to be built in the Lord Jesus Christ. What is God's design? The design plans are Christ's likeness for every one of us, and he is building us. to be like the Lord Jesus Christ. But then there's another picture I see here, and that is of a river. Look in verse 7. Again, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith As you have been taught, watch this, abounding therewith with thanksgiving. And so this word here, abounding, is really the picture of a river that is overflowing its banks. And that's really the picture of a believer rooted in Christ, built in Christ, and we're overflowing like a river with what? The Bible says with thanksgiving. We're thankful every day. We're overflowing. with thankfulness to the Lord for what he has done and is doing in our hearts and in our lives. I read the story of Matthew Henry, perhaps you heard it. He was robbed one time. This is Matthew Henry the one who wrote the commentary that people like to read And after he was robbed, someone said, How do you feel? He said, Well, I'm thankful. They said, Thankful? He said, Yes. He said, I'm thankful first that I had never been robbed before. He said, secondly, I'm thankful that they took all my money, but although they took all, they didn't get much. He said, third, I'm thankful that though they took my money, they did not take my life. And fourth, he said, I'm thankful that I was the one who was robbed, and I was not the one who was robbing. That's overflowing with thankfulness. Mature believers don't grumble because of what they don't have. They are grateful for what they don't, for not for God not giving them what they deserve. And they're thankful for what God is doing. And so all these things are pictures of spiritual progress, of growing. A person is like in an army and you're you're not breaking rank. You're staying in that army. You're you're As you've received Christ, you continue to walk in Him like a pilgrim. You are rooted in Christ. You're being built up on the sure foundation of Jesus. You're overflowing like a river with thanksgiving in your heart for what God is doing in your life. And so the whole sum of this is, look, if you have Jesus, you have it all. Just keep walking in Christ. Stay rooted in Christ. Don't let anything take you away from the sufficiency that you have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. I'll close with this. There was a wealthy man who had a only son who went off to fight in the army and was tragically killed. This wealthy man had many treasures. He had many portraits and pictures in his collection. And one of those portraits was a portrait of his son who had passed. And this man, by and by, he also died. And people were anxious to get at this man's riches. He had so much. And so there was a day came when the auction was what had come to auction off all this man's riches. And people came all around because they wanted to get at these riches. And so the auctioneer was ready and the people said, Let's start. And the man said, We're going to start with the portrait of this man's son. They said, that's not worth much. We want to get at the real riches. He said, this is the stipulation and the will. We start here He said, who will bid for this? There were no bids. Except finally there was one dear old lady who was a nanny to this son, and she loved him. And she said, I'll bid for this. And she bid ten dollars. And there was no further bidding. And so he said, gone once, twice, sold to this woman. And the people said, Good, now let's get it to riches. And the man said, the auction is over. And the people said, What do you mean it's over? He said, it was stipulated in the will that the one who loved the son enough to purchase the sun had access to all of the riches. It all belongs to her. Because whoever gets the sign gets it all. You see, that's the message. If you have Jesus, you get it all. You have all the riches. If you have the Lord Jesus Christ. You need nothing else. Christ is all that you need. So let's bow for prayer. And my question tonight is: do you know Him? Do you know the Son? Because whoever has Jesus has it all. Would you like to know him? He's been looking for you And he wants you to know him. And friend, if you've never received Christ as your Savior, I want to invite you to do it tonight. Because again, in him is all spiritual riches. He's all that your heart needs. How many people here can say, I know beyond any shadow of a doubt that I'm a Christian, I know Jesus? Would you lift your hand and praise to God for that? You may put your hand down. Perhaps you couldn't raise that with full assurance. Maybe you're just considering the claims of Christ Well friend, again he's reaching out to you. He wants you to know that in him you have all that you need Are you willing tonight to turn from your sin and turn to Christ, to Christ alone? With repentance and faith to receive Christ Jesus the Lord and then to walk in him If you are, would you simply pray this prayer? I don't want to embarrass you, but I want you right there where you are, you can pray, and the Lord will meet you right where you are. Would you pray this from your heart and mean it say, Lord Jesus I know I'm a sinner. I don't deserve eternal life. I've sinned against you greatly. But I realize that the only way of salvation is through you, Lord Jesus. And so today I turn from my sin. I turn to Christ. I turn to you, Lord. And I ask you to forgive me, cleanse me, and by faith I reach out to you and ask you to save me, Lord Jesus. But friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, the Lord Jesus will meet you right where you are. Where he will give you eternal life and salvation. And you'll have all of the treasures. That you need. You're found in Christ. If you have the Son, you have everything. Father, bless these words to hearts. Help us as believers to never be moved away from the sufficiency that we have in Christ. We pray all this in Jesus' worthy and matchless name. Amen.