I invite you to take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Hebrews, chapter 11, and I want you to find verse number 24. We're going to be looking at verse 24 down to verse 29. this morning and we're going to deal with the life of Moses. And the title of my sermon is When Faith Says No. When Faith Says No. You know, whenever we say yes to something, we automatically say no to something else. That's just a nature of logic, really. When you marry your spouse and say yes at the altar, you're saying no to a lot of other things, right? At least you should. The marriages that don't really last or go through a lot of trouble is when one spouse says yes And doesn't say no to other things. And that's the way it is in the Christian life. When faith says yes to God, faith has to say no to something else. Otherwise, we're just compromising But God demands total commitment, right? What does the Bible say you can't serve two what? You can't serve two masters. When God called Abraham to leave the Ur of the Chaldees, Abraham believed God, and he said yes to God, and he went to the land of Canaan. He said no to everything else. He said yes to the Lord And Lot, his nephew, you might remember, he followed in his uh uncle Abraham's footsteps. And Lot said yes to God. But the problem with Lot is he didn't say no to the world. And Lot ended up living in Sodom And he lost, uh he didn't lose his life. He almost lost his life, but he certainly lost his family. And you remember that Lot ends up living in a cave. Darkness and in drunkenness. And so even so in the Christian life, when you say yes to Jesus Christ, it demands that you say no to the world. Paul said this about Demas in 2 Timothy 4 10, for Demoth has forsaken me, having loved this present world. You might remember that when um John Bunyan, if you ever read Pilgrim's Progress, is the allegory about the Christian life when Christian leaves the uh the uh city of destruction and he takes a pilgrimage to the heavenly city and on his way, on his journey, many people follow, but by the time he ends his journey, those people are no longer there, because they fell away, because they would not say no to lesser things. That's why this paragraph here in Hebrews 11 is so very important. It teaches us the story of how faith says no. This is the story of Moses, his parents, and then Moses himself. And you remember that in Hebrews 11, the writer is teaching us how to walk by faith, how to live by faith. And the writer of Hebrews Goes back to the Old Testament and points to so many people in the Old Testament that exemplified a life of faith. And what we learn from Moses and his parents, again, is this very lesson And this is really the big idea of the sermon, those who walk by faith will say no to the world. Look at verse 23 of Hebrews 11. By faith Moses when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And so Moses' parents and Moses himself perfectly illustrate to us really the truth in 1 John 5:4, this is the victory that overcomes the world, even our faith. Because because they believed God and they were willing to follow God, they had to say no to certain things. And I want us to learn this lesson for us. And so what I want you to see in our passage today are three fundamental ways that faith says no to the world. And here's the first one. Number one, faith says no to the laws of the world. To the laws of the world. We saw in verse 23, again, by faith, Moses, when he was born. was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. When Moses was born there was a law in Egypt that said that he had to be thrown into the Nile River and to be eaten by crocodiles. That was the decree of Pharaoh. He was the most powerful man in the world at that time. And he decreed that all male babies be drowned. The Bible says in Exodus 122, and Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Now this was Pharaoh's way of making sure that the Hebrews didn't grow too powerful in his kingdom and one day usurp and overthrow the Egyptians. This was his population control. This was the law of the land. But when Moses' parents heard this, they said no. We saw that in verse 23. Again, there are times when faith in God demands that we disobey the edicts of men. Now we know that under ordinary circumstances, Christians are to practice civil obedience. The Bible makes that very clear in Romans 13 and in 1 Peter 2. We obey the laws of man unless those laws contradict or go against the word of God. And then the believer by faith must say no. We see this illustrated in Scripture. Remember Peter and John, when they were charged not to mention Jesus' name anymore, what did they say? We ought to obey God rather than man. We're willing to obey all the laws of the land. We're willing to obey man unless you ask us to violate the word of God. And then we have to say no. And even when we oppose the law, we do it in a gracious way that honors and glorifies the Lord. And with Moses' parents They knew this was wrong. They were not about to throw their son into the river as Pharaoh had commanded. They said no to Pharaoh. Now I want you to notice their faith here. Look in verse twenty-three. I want you to see what I call cooperating faith because it says his parents in verse twenty-three. Notice that's plural, not singular. By faith Moses when he was born was hid. was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child. In other words, they were in this together. They were totally together. They both believed the right thing to do was to disobey this one command. Neither one of them were willing to compromise God's word, and so they stood together. And this is the first lesson that I learned. How important is it for Christian parents to learn to stand together? It's not enough just to be bound together. We must believe together. Because there are so many challenges. And by the way, young people, this is why you should marry a Christian. Because the Bible says, first of all, don't be unequally yoked together. And if you marry an unbeliever, you're going to have a lot of trouble in your marriage because an unbeliever has a totally different worldview than you do. They don't believe in the same Jesus that you believe in. They perceive everything differently. The Bible says, can two walk together except they be agreed? What happens when a Christian marries an unbeliever is this? A Christian says, I want to go to God's house An unbeliever says, this is my day off, I want to sleep in. A Christian says, I want to tithe our income. An unbeliever says, No, we need that money so that we can do other things. A Christian says, it's the Lord's Day, it's a holy day. An unbeliever says, it's a day off. It is a holiday. A Christian says, we have a problem in our home. Let's pray about it. An unbeliever says, let's just talk about it. We don't need to engage in that superstition. A Christian says, let's use the Bible to raise our children. An unbeliever says, let's raise them to be successful. in the world. Let's not worry about the Bible. And there's disagreement in the most important factors of that home. What I want you to see with Moses' parents, there was absolute cooperation in their faith and in their belief. But I want you to see secondly it was a courageous faith, because look what it says in verse twenty three. They were not afraid of the king's commandment. They ignored the threats and the pressures of the world when it conflicted with God's way. You know, it took courage to disobey the law of Pharaoh, but that's exactly what they did. And so they hid the child for three months, and finally when they could hide him no longer, they built a little ark, a little boat And they put it on the Nile River. You had to imagine it took faith on the part of the mother to do that. But God had a purpose, and I think that they each saw that there was something special about their child that God had big plans for their child. And when they let that ark go on the Nile River, it went down the river, and there just happened to be at the river one day Pharaoh's daughter at the right time. She was there at the river washing, the Bible says in the book of Exodus, and she happened to look at the right time. Think of all the timing that had to happen there She had to be there at the river at that certain time. She had to look at that certain time. You think any of that was an accident? Of course not. It was God watching over and taking care of Moses because God had a special purpose for Moses. And of course, you know the rest of the story. Faith knows how to say no to the laws of the world. But secondly, I want you to think about this. Faith says no to the lifestyle of the world. Look at verse 24. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. By faith, rather, verse 25, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. So notice that Moses makes a firm decision here. Notice the verbs that we see in verse 24 refusing. He refused something. In verse 25, we see choosing. He chose, and then in verse 26 we see the beginning word esteeming, that is he was calculating And what we see here is that Moses made a decision. It was not an impulsive decision. It was not something that was presumptuous. It was a thoughtful and purposeful decision. Did you know that your life and my life is made up of decisions? We could say the sum total of our life are the decisions that we make. Your life right now is the result of the decisions that you make. Some of those decisions are big decisions, very complex. Some are small decisions. But our life is the total a sum total of those decisions. That's why the Bible puts a premium on wisdom Because wisdom in Scripture is not your IQ. It's practical. It's the decisions that you make. And wisdom is making the right decision. And rather really we could say this godly wisdom is making a righteous decision, a godly decision. That's why we see so much in wisdom literature about making the right decision. And it begins with the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. But here we see that there's some decisions made And what guided Moses in his decision was his faith in God. Verse 24 starts out with the words, by faith. It was his faith in God that caused him to make the decisions that he made. And I want you to see, first of all, what faith rejects, because again in verse 24. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And I want you to see what he rejected here. He said no. He's saying no to all of Egypt and all of the world that they basically offered to him. He said He rejected the world's position. He didn't want to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, who was Pharaoh. He was the most powerful man in the world at that time. That means Moses would be heir to the throne of Egypt. Because he was the adopt uh adopted son of the princess, but he said no to all that. He didn't want that He rejected the world's power. If he became Pharaoh, do you realize that the Egyptians treated Pharaoh like a god, like a living God And he had absolute control, absolute power. Moses, who was in line to be Pharaoh, would be a man that had that kind of power, but he said no. He rejected the world's power. And then he rejected the world's prestige. Moses would no doubt be a great man in the eyes of the world, admired by all. The Bible says in Acts he was educated in all the learning of the Egyptians. He could have been Moses the great statesman, Moses the great educator, Moses the great leader, but he turned his back on all of that. He rejected the world's prestige, he rejected the world's pleasure. When Moses made this decision, he chose suffering over ease. It would have been very easy for Moses to remain in the palace. To live in that luxury, to have servants waiting on him, answering his call, but he decided he didn't want that. He refused that. And then he rejected the world's plenty He rejected the treasures of Egypt. The Bible tells us he uh he looked at the treasure of Christ and he thought it was greater than the treasures of Egypt. But he rejected all of that treasure Think about what all he rejected. I don't know if you ever had the opportunity to see King Tutts um treasures. One time it was a privilege for me to go down to Washington, D. C. They had all of his Rich is on display from the discovery of King Tut's tomb. It was all on display at the b at the Smithsonian Museum. You can go down and look at it. Incredible gold, incredible jewels, incredible wealth. At another time I went to the British Museum where they have The discovery of many Egyptian kings there laid out for people to see again. Just incredible wealth. And Moses turned his back on all of that. He said no to all of it. He didn't want it. But notice not only what faith refuses, but what faith receives. Look in verse 25, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Moses chose to suffer to be with God's people. rather than all of that treasure. Think about all that he was doing, choosing to suffer. That would be the pain of alienation. He would no longer want to be called Pharaoh, the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He was leaving his adoptive family, leaving all of the honors and the pleasures. And rather he was choosing to move out of a palace and into a little hut To be with a despised people, a group of slaves, turning his back on all of that. No wonder the Bible says Choosing rather to suffer uh affliction with the people of God and esteeming the reproach of Christ. This would all be, you can imagine, talked about By the elite in Egypt at that time. Can you imagine how people are talking or would be talking back then? He did what? He turned his back on being Pharaoh? He turned his back on all those riches What an idiot he is. He must be crazy to turn away from all of that. Why would Moses Choose to suffer affliction, to walk away from all that ease and pleasure and treasure of the world, and rather identify with A group of slaves. Look at the next thing. Not only what faith receives rejects and what it receives, but what it reckons. Look in verse 26. Esteeming the reproach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. You know why he did that? The word esteeming here, by the way, is a word, it's a bookkeeping term. It means to evaluate. And Moses in his mind, again, this wasn't a quick decision. This wasn't a presumptuous decision He evaluated it all. He put it down next to each other. He evaluated what he would get with the treasures and pleasures of Egypt. And I think he's probably asking himself, what would I get? How long will it last? Well, Moses, you'll get all the pleasure and treasure that the world could offer, but it's only going to last a season. He thought. Just a season. Look again in verse 25. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season Moses calculated and he said, yeah, I can have all of that, but it's not going to last. It's temporary. It's only for a season. It would be foolish to think that there's no pleasure in sin. There is. The Bible makes it very clear. There is some pleasure in it. That's why sin is so alluring. That's why it's so inviting. And this is the hook that Satan uses to draw people in. There is pleasure in sin, but it's only for a little while. Because I want to tell you what behind every summer of sin follows a winter of weeping. A winter of judgment. And Moses evaluated the temporary pleasures and treasures of the world on one hand, and then on the other hand, the eternal treasures And the riches of Christ on the other, and as he compared the two, he said, I can have eternal treasure, eternal riches, eternal glory that will not fade away. And Moses thought, I could suffer for a little while and get eternal treasure, or I can live for earthly treasure. and then lose out on the eternal reward. And so you know what Moses decided? He decided that the reproach of Christ Eternal treasure was far greater than anything that Egypt or the world could offer. He was willing to give up The in-hand visible treasures of Egypt for Christ, who at that point was invisible, was merely a hope, something in the future. But remember that we said that's what faith is. Faith believes in the promise of God, even though it's not visible. We couldn't see it. He was giving up the visible treasures of the world for the invisible promise of life and hope in Christ, that messianic hope. But his faith was so strong that he chose Christ over the world. And that's the decision that every person will have to make. if you want to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Dr. Vance Habner said Moses chose the imperishable, saw the invisible, and did the impossible. He chose to take God at his word. Napoleon said that in a battle there's always a crisis period of about ten minutes when decisions are made and that will determine the outcome of the battle. And life is like that. There comes times in life, crisis moments, when decisions have to be made, and that one decision will alter the course of a person's life. Moses came to that decisive moment when he could choose either the treasures of the world or he could choose the treasures of Christ. And Moses by faith chose Christ. At that moment, he thought it's better to be a pulper for Jesus than a millionaire with the devil. And why did he choose that? Look at verse 26. Esteeming the approach of Christ, greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, watch this, for he had respect. Unto the recompense of reward. This simply means he was looking ahead to the reward that was yet to come. That reward that was in the future. In the short term, Moses would have to endure ill-treatment with a bunch of refugee slaves in the wilderness, but in the light of eternity, that would be small Compared to the riches of Christ, like Paul said, the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And so Moses made that decision. He said no to the lifestyle of the world and he chose Christ. Faith says no to the laws of the world. Faith says no to the lifestyle of the world. But let me give you the final point today. Faith says no to the lure of the world. Now it may be that you have made the right decision to follow Christ, but let me warn you, my dear friend, just because you said no to the devil in the world once doesn't mean that he's going to leave you alone. He's going to continue to come back. He's going to continue to try to draw you in. Look in verse number 27. By faith He forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. Notice this next phrase, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. That is, he endured what he had to put up with there in Egypt until he completely left Egypt. He had to endure He had to continue to keep his eyes on Christ, seeing him who is invisible. That's because the world Would not leave him alone. That's because Pharaoh would not leave him alone. In fact, Pharaoh offered Moses some compromises. Would you hold your place here in Hebrews and go to uh uh uh Exodus chapter eight? Let me just show you these real quick in closing, in the last few minutes that we have. I want you to see the compromises that Pharaoh offered Moses instead of completely forsaking Egypt Why don't you try to do this, Moses? Look in chapter 8. Look down at verse number 25. Here's the first compromise he offers them. And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, Go ye sacrifice to the your God in the land. We could say this, you know, don't get saved. Don't leave Egypt. You can sacrifice to your God. You can worship God. Just do it here in Egypt. Don't forsake the land. He was trying to get Moses to worship God in the land of darkness, in the land of compromise. You know, that's what the devil says to people today. You don't have to leave the world to worship God. But the Bible says no such thing. You either love God or you love the world. You can't have it both ways. The devil says you can have it both ways. Stay here in Egypt and worship God in Egypt. The devil doesn't mind you being religious. He doesn't want you to be saved. Stay in Egypt and worship God. That was one compromise. But it notice the next one. Look in Exodus chapter 8. Look at verse 28. Look at the next one. And Pharaoh said, I will let you go that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness, only ye shall not go very far away. Okay, if you have to leave Egypt, don't be committed. If you leave Egypt, don't go very far away. Just go right across the border. And then worship God there. That's what Satan says to the believer today. All right, if you have to be a Christian, go ahead and be a Christian. Just don't be too committed. Don't be a fanatic. Don't don't be one of those Christians that uh is at church all the time. I mean for crying out loud I mean, you know, you don't have to go Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Don't get too involved in church. You don't have to be there all the time. After all, that preacher he asked for way too much. And Satan wants us to live on the borderline of the world. On the borderline. Don't be so committed. But then notice the next compromise. Look in Exodus chapter 10, look at verse number 8. Notice what else Pharaoh tells him. Exodus chapter 10, verse 8, where he says, And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh, and he said unto them Go, serve the Lord your God. But who are they that shall go? And then he goes on to say in verse number 10. And he said unto them, Let the Lord your God let it let the Lord be so with you as I will let you go, and your little ones look to it, for evil is before them. In other words, Pharaoh was saying, Look, go ahead and go Go ahead and worship, go ahead and leave the land, but don't take your little ones with you. Leave your family behind. Just you go. That's another compromise. Satan hates household religion. He'll say to you, okay, go ahead and be safe, but give me your family. Don't take your family with you. In many circles, children are being left behind in Egypt. Let me tell you something, friend. God doesn't just want you, He wants all of your family. He wants all of your children. In Acts chapter 16, verse 31, he said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house. God wants your whole household. I'm glad that when my dad got saved, he brought me in. He didn't say, I'm going to let you make your own decision about whether or not you should come to church. I know some parents want to sound really postmodern when they say that, oh I just let my own children decide. If you let your children decide, they'll end up going on the road to hell. You need to bring them to church. You make them come. I'm afraid it might hurt them. It didn't hurt me. My dad made me come. I don't want to come to church. And now look at me I can't stop going. Katherine Booth, the wife of the founder of Salvation Army Frey, said, Oh God, I will not stand before thee without all my children. That's a prayer that parents need to pray. But then notice the next compromise. Look in Exodus chapter 10, look at verse 24. And Pharaoh called unto Moses and said, Go ye, serve the Lord only, let your flocks and your herds Be saved. That is, go ahead and go, but leave behind your flocks and your herds. That is, leave behind your treasure, leave behind your wealth. Go ahead and go, but leave behind your money. and your possessions. And then Satan would love that. He would love for you not to commit your treasure, your finance to the Lord. I heard about a pastor who was getting ready to baptize a man who was a rich member, and the man said, Wait a minute, Pastor, I forgot to take out my wallet. The pastor said, Oh no, leave it in. I want to baptize that wallet too What we need to do is to baptize our wallets. God doesn't want just us, He wants all of us. He wants all that we have. Notice what Moses said. Look in chapter 10, verse 26. Our cattle also shall go with us. There shall not a hoof be left behind. I love that answer. Not one wit will the devil get. We're not leaving anything behind. We're leaving Egypt. We're bringing our families. We're bringing our children. We're bringing our cattle. Not one hoof will be left behind. We're making a full departure out of Egypt. In other words, Moses said no to the devil Or we could say Pharaoh, which would represent to us Satan. You say, how did he do all of that? How did he endure all of those temptations and compromises? Go back to Hebrews chapter eleven, verse twenty-seven. Let me show you this one thing and we're done. It says again, by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. You know how he did it? He kept his eyes on the Lord. He could see him who was invisible. See, how could he see him if he's invisible? He saw him through the eyes of faith. You see, when you keep your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ, it'll help you to say no. To the world and to the devil when Satan comes with all of his temptations. We need to say, All that I am belongs to God, all of my life. My family, my business, everything I am, I give to God. I'm leaving Egypt and keep your eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what I want to ask you this morning, have you said yes to Christ? But then I want to ask you, have you said no to the world? No to everything else. The Bible says in verse 28, through faith he kept the Passover. The sprinkling of blood, lest they be destroyed with the firstborn, and sh uh uh or the first lest they destroyed it. He that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. Verse 29, by faith they pass through the Red Sea as By dry lamb, when the Egyptians essayed to do, they were drowned. And that Passover lamb, the blood of that lamb on the door, points to us of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our Lamb who was slain, that you and I might have eternal riches, eternal life, forgiveness of sin. Friend, have you said yes? to Jesus. And then have you said no to the world. Because you're going to need to make that decision. Real faith knows how to say no to the world No to the devil. And you need to make that decision. Let's bow for prayer together today. And so, Father, help us to follow in the footsteps of Moses, the man of God, who really had all that the world could offer at his disposal. And yet, through faith, he saw Christ. He saw the riches, the treasures of Christ And he correctly esteemed those riches to be so much better than anything that the world could ever offer. Lord, give us those eyes of faith. And I pray for the person here today that may be here who has never trusted Jesus as his Lord and Savior, may they make that same decision today. To turn to Christ, to say yes to Christ, and no to Egypt, no to the world Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. Can I ask you, friend, before we leave, have you made that decision to put your faith in Christ? Have you trusted him as your Lord and your Savior? And if not, would you be willing to do that right now, friend? Right now? You can reach out in faith right where you are. Just pray in your heart. The Lord will hear you Say, Lord Jesus, thank you for shedding your blood for my sin. Thank you for being that Passover lamb. And I'm reaching out to you in faith right now. And I say yes to you, Lord Jesus. Save me Pray that and mean it, friendly. He will save you. And I want to pray for you. I don't want to embarrass you, but if there's anyone here and you've prayed that prayer, would you would you Let me know, let one of our ministers here know that you've made that decision to trust Jesus as your Savior. And I want to pray for you. Would you just lift your hand? Can I pray for you? Have you made that decision to trust Christ? Anyone here says yes, preach? God bless you, my dear friend. Anyone else say yes? That's that's me. Make sure to let us know, friend. We want to help you along in your faith. Father, bless again these words to hearing hearts. We give you glory for all that you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.