Well, good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please? Open to Psalm 119. As you know, we're going through a journey through Psalm 119. We're going to stanza by stanza. And tonight we come to the eighth stanza or the cateh section, which would be verse 57 of Psalm 119, verse 57. And we'll look at these eight verses here. Look at verse 57. Thou art my portion, O Lord, I have said that I would keep thy words. Now the psalmist starts the stanza with the declaration that God is his portion. Now portion, that's not a word that we use a lot. Most of the time we that's used in the context of uh eating, you know, um you know portion control and that sort of thing. But what is it used with here? What is the context here? What does the psalmist mean by that? Well the concept of a portion comes from the judicial system of allotting uh an inheritance or land. For example, in uh Luke chapter fifteen, verse twelve, the prodigal son said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falls to me. And he divided unto them his living. Now, it was typical in that day for the eldest son to get the larger portion and the younger son to get a a bit less. In fact that the the eldest child got about two thirds of a share. So if you had twelve acres of land, it wouldn't be divided six to six, it would be more like eight to four acres. So this portion or this inheritance would have been uh very important to the ancient Israelite It was their future. I mean you would guard it. Your standing in this in society would be determined by how much of a portion you would have. And it really kind of became attached with your identity. So this concept of fortune really took on the meaning of something that was treasured, a treasured possession. In the book of Joshua, when the land of Canaan was being divided up among the twelve tribes, you might remember this. Each tribe got their own portion, the Bible says. However, the priests and the Levites were not given a portion of land. This might seem unfair at first, but God gave them something better than land. The Bible says God said to the Levites, I am thy part and thine inheritance. In Numbers 1820 it says it like this, I am your portion. God said, you don't get any land, but I'm going to be your portion. They were blessed above others to have God as their portion. Jeremiah the the prophet called the Lord the portion of Jacob. In Lamentations 324, as Jeremiah watched the Babylonians come and destroy the land and destroy uh the really portions of many of the tribes. He declared this in Lamentations 3. 24, the Lord is my portion, saith my soul, therefore I will hope in him. And David in Psalm 16 said this. He used the same imagery. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are followed unto me in pleasant places, yea, I have a goodly heritage. And the lines there in verse 6 is referring to the property lines of one's land or the inheritance given by God. And so David is rejoicing that all of his property lines are God Himself. David was saying, you know, God is my inheritance. He's all the inheritance that I need. He's everything that I need. Believers today have the same privilege. You know, we have a great, wonderful heritage as believers. We have Jesus Christ, He is the fullness of God. We are complete in Him. We've been doing a study in Ephesians on Sunday morning and it really is telling us what our inheritance is. We have we are completely rich. We're totally rich. Because of Jesus Christ. Because of Jesus, we have all things that pertain unto life and godliness. And so the Bible really is our spiritual bank book, which really reveals to us all of the wealth and the riches that we have because God is our portion. Now here the Psalmist is rejoicing over this idea again in verse 57, Thou art my portion, O Lord, he's basically saying, Lord, you're all that I need. It's kind of like Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. I'm not going to lack anything if the Lord is my shepherd. And the psalmist here is saying the Lord is my portion. I have everything that I need because of that. Now the rest of the stanza is uh reveals how we are to live our lives knowing that the Lord is our portion. Can I ask you tonight, is god is God your portion? Can you say that as a believer? If that's true of you, there are certain things that should be true of us and our life. Because the Lord is our fortune, here's number one, we obey his word Because the Lord is our fortune, we obey his word. Again in verse 57, the latter part, I have said that I would keep thy words. I have said is uh The word in Hebrew, which is sometimes translated promised. In fact, the Legacy Standard Bible translates this, I have promised. So he's remembering his promise to obey God's word. We've seen this earlier in many stanzas of this chapter already where the psalmist makes a promise to obey the word of God. And by the way, that's exactly what salvation is. Salvation is not a fire escape from hell and then you going out and living how you want to. Salvation is coming repenting of your sins, submitting to the Lordship of Christ, and saying, I'm going to obey him all the rest of my life. That should be the pattern of our life as believers. We obey Him. And so the Psalmist is saying my response, my answer to the fact that God is my portion is I will promise to keep your words. Keep is the word guard or obey. And so again, a true child of God recognizes the treasure they have in him, and they do not regard obedience to God as a drudgery, but rather as delight. Like John said in 1 John 5. 3, this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not what? Not grievous. We delight to do that. But here's the second thing. Because the Lord is our fortune, we seek his favor. Look at verse 58. I entreat thy favor with my whole heart Be merciful unto me according to thy word. And the word favor here is a word that means it's a Greek word for face. Panin, face. And so to ask for someone's favor was a kind of a way of asking that person to turn their face towards you in a kindly way. The psalmist wanted that. He wanted that with all his heart. And again in verse 58 he says he's seeking God's favor with all his heart. He wanted the Lord's blessing. He wanted his favor because he knows if he has God's face turned towards him, he'll have the favor of God. Now in the Old Testament, when God's face was turned away from someone, that was not good. Psalm 27, verse 9, Hide not thy face far from me. Put not thy servant away in anger. This verse speaks of God hiding his face, which can be understood as a form of judgment or discipline. And Psalm 59, verse 2, but your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you. We certainly don't want to be in that place. Now the author of Psalm 119 is a young uh Hebrew, I believe, carrying away in exile, and he is seeing the result of God turning away his face from his people because of their sin. And through the prophet Ezekiel, another young exile, Ezekiel said this, he said, And I will pour-I will not hide my face anymore from them, I will pour out my spirit upon the house of Israel. declares the Lord God. Through the prophet Ezekiel, God promised a time when he would no longer hide his face from his people And so turning away God's face is punishment. So on the other hand, when God's face is turned towards you, that is blessing. That is favor. And that's exactly what the psalmist desires. That's why he prays in verse 58, be merciful unto me according to thy word. The word is gracious, anon gracious. Lord, be gracious to me. Maybe he was thinking about that priestly blessing. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face to shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. But part of having God's as our portion is realizing that all the spiritual blessings that come with it. When we seek the face of God, which is by the way we should be doing Every day as we pray, we get up, or sometime during the day, whenever it's best for you, seek the face of God and pray. Because that is seeking God's favor. And that is the key to having the blessing of God opened upon us, the storehouse of God's blessings poured out upon us. The Bible says you have not because what? You have That's not. So we need to go and seek God's face to seek his favor. Bruce Workleson tells a story, perhaps it was a dream of a man who went to heaven, got a personal tour. Saw these big warehouses and asked the guide what's in there. The guy said, Oh, it wouldn't interest you. And he said, Please let me know. And he opened the door and showed him there were these white boxes with red bows. And it and uh he said these were blessings that people was meant to be to receive, but they just didn't ask for it. Now of course that's just a story. But there's some truth to it. That in the sense that what James says, you have not, because you ask not. God has blessings that he wants to give you. But are you seeking his favor? Because the Lord is our portion, we obey his word, we seek his favor. But here's the third thing I see. Because the Lord is our portion, we live in continual repentance. Look at verse 59. I thought on my ways and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. This verse teaches us that for the believer who treasures God as his portion, repentance is a normal pattern of life. There's no such thing as being a true child of God and not walking in continual repentance. The word turn here, shoe. To turn back, a 180-degree turn. This word is translated many times as repent. This is an important concept in both the Old Testament and the New Testament, and it is foundational to the Christian life. Let me just give you four thoughts about repentance that I see here in this stanza, in this verse. First of all, true repentance begins in our mind. Notice again in verse 59, he says, I thought on my ways. In order for there to be true repentance, there first must be serious consideration of our ways. Sometimes this word shoob is translated into septuagin, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. It's with the Greek word metanoie, which literally means to uh change your mind. Meta is after noia, which is to understand or to think afterwards. We could say it literally to change the mind. And so repentance starts in the mind. It's a change of thinking towards God, towards sin, towards righteousness, towards the Bible, and so on. The prodigal son is an illustration of this. The Bible says in Luke 15, 17, he came to himself. He had to, first of all, in his own mind, see himself as a sinner and nothing but a sinner. It starts in the mind. But also here's the second thing. True repentance results in a change of behavior. Look again in verse 59. I thought of my ways, here's the next part, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. You see, true repentance doesn't just uh end in the mind. It it continues on. It starts there. It doesn't end there. It moves on to your feet. It's a complete change of direction. It is a commitment to forsake all unrighteousness and pursue righteousness. If there is no change of behavior, there is no real repentance. You can mourn over your sins all you want to, but if you don't forsake those sins, it's not real repentance. And so, and actually the Bible teaches these three elements. There is the intellectual element, the mind, it begins in the mind and the way that you think, it continues in the heart. There should be a sorrow over sin. Jesus, when he pronounced woe upon the unrepentant cities of Galilee, he said this, he said, Woe unto thee, Courtesan, woe unto thee Bessea, for if the mighty works which have done in thee had been done entire inside and they would have repented long ago in in in uh sackcloth and ashes. Jesus was describing true repentance. And what does it include? Sackcloth and ashes is a sign of deep sorrow. Part of repentance is having that deep sorrow. But again, it doesn't end there. You can be sorry for something that you've done. A lot of people show remorse or show regret, but they don't truly repent because it ends just with the emotions. It has to culminate with the will. Where you again make a commitment to forsake sin. We see many people in the Bible that felt remorse for sin or Tears, they poured out tears over their sand. Judas Iscariot felt remorse, yet he wasn't converted. Esau had a lot of tears, but the Bible says he found no place of repentance. A thousand years of remorse for a wrong act would not please God as much as one choice or one desire to change the conduct or m uh act to change your conduct. So it culminates in a change of direction. Again, anything short of that is not true repentance. But here's another lesson about it. True repentance is continual. The word turn here, we've already seen this several times in Psalm 119. This isn't the first time. And one gets the idea by reading this whole chapter that the psalmist was constantly making adjustments in his life. He would read God's word, he would see something in God's law, and he would desire to change. When he had a problem with lying, he asked God to remove it from him. That's verse 29 of Psalm 119. He said in verse 35, Make me go in the path of your commandments. And verse 36, incline my heart unto thy testimonies. He was constantly evaluating his life and making changes in his life. according to God's word. That's all part of your sanctification. That is all part of the normal child of God's life. We are constantly examining our life. We are constantly repenting and making changes. By the way, this is how you start out coming into the kingdom of God through true repentance. Now I know that there are some people out there that try to teach that repentance is not necessary for salvation. And you really don't hear repentance preached on a lot. It's a missing word in pulpits all over the country, it seems to be. But it is necessary. In fact, there's a large seminary here in the United States that basically teaches that repentance has no part in the gospel. And that repentance undermines justification by faith. That's ironic since in the Bible, John the Baptist, when he started his ministry, the Bible says he came re-preaching repentance. Jesus began his earthly ministry preaching repentance. In fact, the very first word or the first sermon that Jesus ever preached was this, repent. That was the first word. He ended his ministry preaching repentance. After his resurrection, when he met with the disciples in Luke 24, he sent them out and he said that repentance must be preached. Also, justification in the Bible is equal to repentance. In other words, when the Bible speaks about someone being saved, it'll use the word repentance example. Luke 15, 7, I say unto you that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents. That's a word that is synonymous with true salvation, with being saved. It is called repentance. Someone who is saved, someone who is justified, is someone who has repented. And we see this all over in the New Testament. But also It's the beginning how you start your Christian life, but as I said, it's a continual part. It's not just the start of it. It is the Christian life. It is the Christian life. 2 Corinthians 7. 10. For godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. You you should have a repentance that you don't repent of. You don't repent of your repentance. What does that mean? That means once you turn to Jesus, you don't say, you know what, I want to turn back. That's repenting of your repentance. Remember what Peter said? It happened unto them according to the true proverb: a dog is turned again to his vomit, a sow to his wallowing in the mire. It's a nasty verse, isn't it? I mean the images that it portrays in your mind. Turning back into defilement. And Peter is saying there are some people that have professed the knowledge of Jesus, but they turn back into their sin. Like a dog turns to his vomit or a pig goes, you hear a pig, you wash him up, open the door, the first thing he does is jump into a mud puddle. The pig goes right back into the mud. The dog was cleaned out, the pig was cleaned up, but the dog was still a dog, and the pig was still a pig. Nothing had changed. There was no change of nature. True salvation is a repentance that you don't repent of, you don't turn back. And again, it's continual. It's constant. It doesn't change. I repented many years ago when I was a teenager, but you know what? I've been repenting every day since then. I'm still dealing with sin in my life. And I'm constantly trying to walk more closer towards the Lord Jesus dealing with my own sin nature. And any believer that does not, you know, that hardens their heart against God and doesn't repent is in for a difficult journey if they are true believers. But here's another lesson. True repentance includes an urgency to obey God. Look at verse 60. I made haste and delayed not to keep thy commandments. Again, I made haste and delay not. That's uh saying something positively and then negatively is kind of a Hebrew stylistic means of adding emphasis. I made haste and delayed not. So that is conveying an urgency to obey. He's eager to make up for any lost time they may have had. And this is another characteristic of true repentance. You might want to jot down on your margin, 2 Corinthians 7, 11. It's a great verse. For behold this selfsame thing that ye sorrowed after a godly sort. And then Paul's talking about the true repentance of the Corinthians, and then he begins to describe What it was like, what carefulness it wrought in you. Yea, what clearing of yourselves. Yea, what indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal Yea, what revenge and all things you have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter. Wow, there's a lot in there. You preach a whole sermon on that verse. What does real repentance produce? An earnestness? What carefulness it wrought and use. Fuday is the word there. A haste, a diligence. A desire really to a zeal a zeal to do what is right. You had been doing wrong, but now there's a zeal to do what is right. It produces a desire to show your repentance. is real a clearing of yourselves. You want to clear your name of anything that you had done previously. It produces an anger over sin. Yea, what indignation. The sins that you used to delight in, now you're angry over them. There's an indignation in you over that sin. It produces a reverence for God. What fear, Phobas Where we get the word phobia, a reverent fear and awe of God. It produces a desire to have the relationship restored. What vehement desire. This was a longing for For the Corinthians to have the relationship that they had with Paul restored. Those are all the elements of true repentance in a person's life. It produces a zeal for holiness. Again, what zeal? And again, restitution. What revenge Or what avenging of wrong? It's a desire again to make restitution wherever they had done wrong. And so the psalmist has this kind of urgency. I made haste and delayed not. To keep thy commandments. So because the Lord is our portion, we obey his word. We seek his favor. We live in continual repentance. But here's number four. Because the Lord is our portion, we value God's truth above earthly possessions. Look at verse 61. The bands of the wicked have robbed me. But I have not forgotten thy law. Ibn Thai, I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments When he says the the wicked have robbed me, I think he's referring here to the here to the Babylonians who came to Judah and they took everything. These cruel soldiers, Babylonian soldiers, robbed the people of their lands. They destroyed the temple. They carried away the spoils from people's homes and from the temple. Here this psalmist, he's a prisoner, and he'll live the rest of his life in a foreign land, unable to claim his portion or his inheritance, whatever it was. He does, however, have a treasure that the Babylonians could not take. What is that? The Word of God. Verse 61, but I have not forgotten thy lo. He has something that is much more valuable than his earthly riches or inheritance. He has the word of God. He praises God for the treasure of his word. Look at again verse 62. At midnight I will rise to give thee thanks. Because of thy righteous judgments. He values God's word above any earthly possession that he has. God's word was so much ingrained in him, in his mind, and his heart, and uh so much so that in the middle of the night when he woke up The first thing he did was he gave thanks unto God because of God's word. Is that the first thing you think of when you wake up in the middle of the night? I'm going to give praise to God. I'm going to give thanksgiving to God because of his word. Spurgeon wrote this, midnight is the hour for burglars. And there were bands of them around him, but they did not occupy his thoughts. Thieves were all up and away with the Lord his God. He thought not of thieves, but of thanks. Not of what they could steal, but of what he would give to his God. A thankful heart is such a blessing that it drives out fear Makes room for praise. But here's the next thing, moving quickly here. Because the Lord is our portion, we obey his word, we seek his favor, we live in continual repentance. We value God's truth above earthly possessions, but here's number four, or number five, rather, because the Lord is our fortune, we make friends of God's people. Look at verse 63. I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts. So Here's this man of God, this man who has a passion for God's word, and he desires to make friends of all of those who have the same reverence and fear that he has for God. A holy man spends his night with God and his days with godly people, again wrote Spurgeon. Carefully choose your companions, beloved. Carefully choose your friends. There's a general principle in Scripture, and that's this. You now are, or you soon shall be, what your friends are. So be careful who you hang around. Be careful who you're with. Association leads to assimilation. The Bible says, he that walketh with wise men shall be wise. But a companion, a fool, shall be destroyed. One of the most important choices in your life is who you're going to make your friends. Choose godly friends. If you don't choose godly friends, it could lead to your destruction. Again, Proverbs 17, 12. Let a bear robbed of her wealth, that's the old English word for cubs, let a bear robbed of her cubs meet a man rather than a fool in his folly. It's more dangerous to be with a fool, the Bible says, than to meet a bear in the woods, a mother bear who had just been robbed of her cubs Now if that happens to you in the woods, you better make sure your heart's right with God. Because you're not going to get out of that one It's like the man who saw a bear in the woods and he began to run. The bear chased him. He tripped. The bear was standing over him and he just prayed and said, Lord, I hope this is a Christian bear. At the time he heard the Lord he heard the bear pray and say, Lord, I want to thank you for this food I'm about to receive. The psalmist is determined to avoid anyone who is not committed to the word. Again, this is not an excuse to disconnect from lost people No, we we are to befriend of sinners, to share the word of God with them, the gospel with them. But it warns us about close associates. They can pull us down. The Bible says, be not deceived. Bad company ruins, ruins, excuse me, good morals. But let me give you the last thing. Because the Lord is our portion, we obey His word, we seek His favor, we live in continual repentance, we value God's truth above earthly possessions, we make friends of godly people. But number six, because the Lord is our portion, we treasure God's expressions of love. Look at verse 64. The earth, O Lord, is full of thy mercy. Teach me thy statutes. The word mercy here, Kessid, steadfast love. We could say it like this, the earth, O Lord, is full of your constant love. And boy, that is true, isn't it? You get up and you look all around and you see expressions of the love of God. God. God loves us every day. James says every good and perfect gift comes from above, from the Father of lights, from whom there is no Veritableness, neither shadow of turning. God created a world that is just constantly giving to us, earth that is giving to us. That's all an expression of God's love. He wrote it in nature. that is that is constantly just uh showering us with benefits. The sun gives Even though we haven't seen it a whole lot lately, it's still there. It gives. The rain gives. The earth gives. Animals give. Trees give. The soil gives. God gives air to fill our lungs that gives us life. The seas and the lakes and the rivers give us fish to eat and water to drink. The earth and everything around it is constantly revealing God's Great love to us each day. Now those who are lost and ungrateful sinners, they think nothing of this. In fact, they try to figure out ways to explain away God They're not thankful for God. The Bible says that they don't acknowledge God in their heart. In fact, they take the air that God gives them to speak words that blaspheme his name. The Bible says in Romans 12, or excuse me, 1. 21, because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. That's the world. But we who have God as our portion, we're like the psalmist. We cherish every day and we see all the expressions of God's love bestowed upon us every day. And we cherish all of those things. And all of it does is move our hearts to adore our God all the more. It causes us to stand in awe of who He is. Each breath breathes out expressions of thanksgiving and worship and praise. Makes us want to draw near to God. To know him more, to delight in him more, to enjoy him more. That's why we were created to enjoy him and to enjoy his expressions of love. We learn about this God through the gift of God's word that He's given us. So the psalmist says, Teach me thy statutes. So the question tonight is: Have you made God your portion? Do you recognize God as your ultimate source of contentment, as your treasure? Are you relying on material possessions to make you happy? Do you seek his favor? Desire to live a life that is pleasing in his sight? Do you value The word of God above earthly riches? Do you cherish each day when God showers upon you expressions of his love? Let me just give you a few things that you should do to apply this. Just seek God every day through prayer and scripture. I hope that you're seeking God daily and in God's word and make a commitment to live in obedience just like the psalmist did here. Demonstrate your love for God by serving others, knowing that when you serve others, you're really serving Him. Make him the center of your life. Make God the focal point of your life. Renounce materialism. Thank God for the gifts, but remember that those are just objects that really communicate God's love to us We can enjoy those things by enjoying the giver of all those gifts. Actively seek God's will. Pray for wisdom. Listen to the Holy Spirit And when you do these things, because God is your portion, He is the center of our life. Every day when we wake up, we should pray this prayer that the psalmist prayed, Thou art my portion, Over. Lord, you're my portion. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Just take a minute before I begin to pray and just express your own prayer to the Lord that He is your portion Maybe the Holy Spirit is speaking to you about some areas in your life that you need to deal with. Just be submissive. Be sensitive to the leading of the Spirit in your life. Father, thank you that you are our portion, Lord. I can't imagine trying to live this life without you Lord, you're the one who gives us strength and grace to face the challenges of each day. And Lord, everything that we have, it's because, Lord, you've given it to us. You're the giver. May we not be obsessed with the things, but be obsessed with you, the giver. These expressions of your love. May we find our joy, our contentment, our satisfaction in you and in knowing you. Thank you, Lord, that you give us grace to face whatever challenge that we have in this life. Because Lord, indeed you are our portion. Draw us close, Lord. Give us the heart of this psalmist, Lord. I pray that his passion, his spir his spirit is contagious as we study through these stanzas and we see his passion, his obsession to know you, to love your word and obey it. Lord, may that Be part of who we are. May it be contagious in our own spiritual life. So bless these words, Lord, to hear your hearts tonight. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.