Book of Malachi. That's the last book in the Old Testament. Go to the book of Matthew and make a left. And it will be that first book there of Malachi. And I I want to do a short series on Wednesday night through Malachi. It just has four chapters And I'll probably preach four sermons from it. This is one of the minor prophets. Now it's a minor prophet not because the message is minor, because a lot of times the minor prophets have a major message But these are called minor prophets because they uh are smaller than the other prophets, the major prophets in the Bible. They're more concise in their message, and yet it has something, I think, for us. So look in Malachi chapter 1, look in verse 1. The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. I have loved you, saith the Lord. Yet ye say, wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord, yet I loved Jacob, and I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. I heard about a guy who wanted to get married and he was proposing to his sweetheart. He had the ring in his hand and he said, Sweetheart, I love you so much. I want you to marry me. And he said, you know, I don't I don't have a card like Johnny Green But I love you. I don't have a yacht like Johnny Green has, and I don't have a house the size of his house, and I don't have money like Johnny Green, but I love you and I want you to marry me. And she said, Well I love you too, honey But tell me more about Johnny Green. You ever doubt someone's love? Well, as we come to the book of Malachi, Malachi was writing to a group of people who were doubting God's love. Now they heard that God loved them, but they were questioning that. And Malachi's hearers probably thought they had good reason to question God's love. After all, life was not easy for them at this point of time in the history of Israel. They were living under an appointed governor from Persia. Even after they had come back from Babylon a long time ago, they were still living under this governor. And so they were not very happy with the political climate of Israel. But also the the territory of the nation of Israel at that time was probably half the size of Rhode Island and the crops that they had planted had failed. They suffered crop failure and what crops they were able to g uh to glean were still subject to damage. And so they were left with a way, uh left uh without a way, I should say, of supporting their families. And so they were unhappy with the financial collapse. But then not only that, they were unhappy in their home life. If you read here in Malachi, you'll find that they were having relationship issues. There was a breakdown in the in the home. Divorce was rampant There was harsh treatment from surrounding nations, racial prejudice was intense, and so they were unhappy with the social conditions. They were unhappy with the political climate. They were unhappy with the financial collapse. They were unhappy with the social condition. And they were getting bitter and resentful Towards God. By the way, you know anyone like that that's unhappy with those things? Sounds like today's newspaper, doesn't it? Well Along comes Malachi, and Malachi says, God loves you. And the people say, love? God loves us. Wherein does God love us? What do you mean God loves us? They were questioning and they were doubting God's love because of the circumstances Now I don't know, maybe it is that you're here tonight, and in your heart of hearts you're questioning The love of God. It may be that you're going through some deep dark trial. There's something in your life that is crushing you this very moment There's some why questions that you have in your heart and in your mind. There's things that you can't seem to settle. I don't know what it is, but maybe there is something in your life that is causing you to doubt God's loving. When you hear someone say God loves you, you say, what? He loves me. How does God love me? Well God sends the messenger, Malachi. to this remnant of people to speak to them and to remind them of his love. Now, the word Malachi actually in verse 1 where it says, by Malachi, Malachi actually is a word that means my messenger So consequently, there are some scholars that debate whether this is a name of a prophet or whether this is actually a title, where God is just simply sending an anonymous prophet who is my messenger. We really don't know that much about Malachi. What we do know is he prophesied during the ministry, toward the end of the ministry of Nehemiah. And that was at a time when the temple was rebuilt, the priestly worship was carried on, but the people had fallen into spiritual decline. And the very sins that Malachi preaches against are the same sins that Nehemiah mentions in the book of Nehemiah if you compare the two. But also the message. Malachi had a message from God. Look again in verse 1: the burden of the word of the Lord. Look at that word burden there. That has the idea of something that is urgent. Something that weighs heavy on the messenger. Now, preachers understand this when we talk about a burden that God has laid on his messenger. There are times when a preacher will preach and he'll have such a burden that God has laid on him And there's a sense of urgency to get that out, to make that clear. Well, that's the way Malachi, God's messenger, fell. He had a message that weighed heavy on him. He was very serious. He means business, and he wants to unload this message, this burden from the Lord, this urgent message. And essentially the message is this, do not doubt God's love. Don't doubt God's love. Now, with all that in mind, let me give you four reasons from our passage tonight from verses one through five. why we should not doubt the love of God. Here's the first one. Number one, God's spoken word to you. God's spoken word to you. Now, friends, all you have to do is just look around every day and you can see evidences of the love of God, can't we? We wake up in the morning when the sun peaks through the curtains And we see that beautiful bright sun. We see all of creation again where God has just given to us again and again of his bounty of his goodness. All of these things are evidences and demonstrations of God's love. One person wrote, The God who fashions flowers and trees delights to give us things that please And all his handiwork so fare, his glory and his love declare. And that's so very true. All of the handiwork of God is evidence to us of his bountiful great love. But let me tell you the surest Testimony to the love of God is what you're holding tonight. It is the Word of God. God's word, every page of it, testifies to his love. How do we know that God loves us? Because God says so. Look in verse number two. I have loved you, saith the Lord. God says, I've loved you. His word itself. God declares it. This is God's sacred pledge and promise to You, God says, I have loved you. And the word here, the tense of it is, He's loved you in the past, He loves you now, and He will love you in the future. His love is total for you. But now strangely enough that's not enough for some people. It's not enough that God says it in his word. In fact, if you read through the book of Malachi, what you're going to find are a group of people that are constantly disputing with God. The whole format of this book is what Old Testament scholars call a dialogue. Or a disputation where God will say something and the hearers will answer back. And they'll answer back with a cynical question, wherein? Wherein? Where, God? When? For example, look again in verse number two. I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Drop down to verse number six. A son honors his father, a servant is master. If I then be a father, where is mine honor? And if I be a master, where is my fear, saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests that despise my name? And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? God says, You've despised my name? Wherein have we despised your name? Look down in verse number seven. Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar, and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And then we can go to chapter 2, verse 17, where God says, Ye have wearied the Lord with your words, yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? And you get the message. You can go on through chapter 3 and 4, and you see these cynical questions from the congregation back to God. Where they're saying, what do you mean, God? You've got to be kidding. Where? How have we done this? And this is nothing but disputing with God. And there are some you say, well, boy, these people are bad for doing that That's very true, friend, but let me tell you something. Sometimes God's people in their mind and in their heart can say, We're in, God And we dispute with God, we argue with God, we question God. But let me tell you something, dear friend, there is nothing more sure than the Word of God. And when God says something, he means it. When God says something, that settles it. You say, I don't feel like God loves me. It's not a matter of your feelings. God loves you even when you don't feel like it. He loves you. It's a matter of the fact of the word of God. This understanding of God's love towards us is not based on feeling. It is based on the fact of God's. Scripture. Martin Luther wrote, For feelings come and feelings go. Feelings are deceiving. My warrant is the word of God. Nought else is worth believing. Though all my heart should feel condemned for one of some sweet token, there is one greater than my heart, whose word cannot be broken. I'll trust in God's unchanging word till soul and body sever, for though all things shall pass away, His word shall stand forever. God has written it in his eternal word. Write down Jeremiah 31:3. The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. That's God's word to you tonight. So number one, write down God's spoken promise for you. But then write down number two. Here's another reason we should not doubt God's love. Number two, God's sovereign promise. purpose for you. God's sovereign purpose for you. Look at verse 2 again. I have loved you, saith the Lord, yet ye say, wherein hast thou loved us? And here God answers, Was not Esau Jacob's brother, saith the Lord, yet I loved Jacob, and I hated Esau, and laid his mountain, his heritage waste. For the dragons of the wilderness. Here we see God's sovereign purpose. And Malachi is saying, when you doubt God's love, remember God's sovereign purpose in your life. God said, I loved Jacob. Now, what is Malachi doing here in this? He's reminding Israel that they are God's chosen people. He said, I have loved Jacob. Now Malachi is referring to the story of Jacob and Esau. We know that story in the Old Testament And when you come to a verse like this, there are several questions that come in people's mind. So let me address a few of these questions that maybe you're thinking about, because this may be a difficult passage for some to really understand and comprehend. When he says, I hated Esau, some people say, what does that mean? The word hey here is a comparative term. We could say it like this that the love that God had for Jacob and the way God expressed it towards Jacob was so great that in comparison, the love that he had for Esau looked like hatred. So it's a term of comparison. In fact, we see this often, well, a few times I should say in the New Testament, Jesus said, except you hate your father and your mother. and so on. But does does Jesus really want us to hate our family and our parents? No. He's basically saying that the love that you have for me ought to be so great that in comparison, the love that you have for everyone else looks like hatred And so it's a term of comparison. This is not a hostile emotional hatred that God had toward Esau. Really, it's God's com God showed his common grace and love towards Esau, but here's the point. God had a special love. And a special favor that he showed towards Jacob because God had a sovereign purpose. In fact, if you read Genesis, you'll find out Esau got some blessings too. God God was he he showered some things upon Esau. But God had a special sovereign love and purpose. that he determined for Jacob. And let me tell you something else. This was not because of Jacob's character. God's divine sovereign choice to s to to treat Jacob in a special way was not because Jacob was a a better man than Esau. In fact, if you read that passage, you'll find out that Jacob was a scoundrel. If you compare the two, Esau was actually a better man than Jacob. Jacob was a manipulator, he was a liar, he was a deceiver, and uh Despite all of that, however, God says, it's my sovereign purpose and plan to bless Jacob. My hand and my favor will be upon Jacob. In fact, the Bible says God determined that the elder shall serve the younger while the two were still in their mother's womb. And so this was just part of God's sovereign purpose here. God in the beginning had determined that of all the people of the world, God would choose Abraham. through whom to pass his plan of redemption. And out of Abraham's two sons, Isaac and Ishmael, God chose Isaac, and out of Isaac's two sons. Jacob and Esau, God said, Through Jacob, I will establish my people, the Jews, and through them will come the plan of salvation. This was always a part of God's sovereign plan to extend salvation to the world. It would come through them. Now, by the way, when you come here to Malachi, God now is speaking here of nations that descended from Jacob and Esau. Jacob Oh, speaking of Israel, Israel came out of Jacob. Edom came out of Esau. So here now God is speaking about nations. Now, let me just address one other issue. Some people might be tempted to say, well, it's not fair for God to choose one son over another. It's not fair for God to show favor to one son and pass over another. Well, let me just tell you something, friends. God can do whatever he wants. He doesn't need your permission or mine. That's called being God. Psalm 115 verse 3, but our God is in the heaven. He has done so whatsoever he pleases. God does whatever he wants. God is the standard of what is right. God doesn't do a thing because it is right. A thing is right because God does it. God is the standard of what is And many times as we read in Scripture, we'll see where God will single out an individual and say, through this person, I will accomplish my sovereign purposes. God does that. Jeremiah 1:5. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee, and before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctify thee, and I ordain thee a prophet unto the nation. Jeremiah, before you were ever born, here was my purpose for you. The Apostle Paul said the same thing in Galatians 1, and then later in Acts 9. The Lord said of him, Go thy way. He is a chosen vessel unto me. God had chosen the Apostle Paul to accomplish his purposes. So we see this throughout Scripture here today. And as we read. Now, let me just also say this, friend, if you're here, it's because God has sovereignly drawn you unto himself. Because he reached out to you. And that means that God has a sovereign purpose for you. God has a purpose for all of his children. And his love is upon you. Someone said once to the pastor, they said, I have a problem with Malachi 1. 3, Jacob, or Esau have I hated. And the pastor said, Well, I have a greater problem with Jacob have I loved. I don't understand why God loved me so much. But thank God God loves the Jacobs. That means God loves me because I am Jacob. Now let me just say one more qualifying word here. And that's simply this. The sovereignty of God never, ever, ever cancels out the responsibility of man. Never You know, sometimes when people talk about God, his sovereign purposes and his choices, they all they see is that, and they forget that man's responsibility is just as equally true as divine sovereignty. And there's a tendency to either hold to the one or the other, but not to hold to each of those equally because the Bible is very clear that each of these are equally true. In fact, there are many times when I read through the scripture, I find They are side by side on the very same passage, sometimes in this very same verse. Write down John chapter 3, verse 37, or John 6, 37, I should say. Listen to this verse. All that the Father gives me shall come to me. There's the sovereignty of God. And here's the next part. And him that cometh to me, I will no wise cast out. That's the responsibility of man God says, all that the Father gives me will come to me, and anyone who comes to me I will in no wise cast out. And so they are both there. On the same page, in the same verse. The sovereignty of God and the responsibility of man. Now, you say, well, did did did I come to God or did God bring me unto himself? And the answer to that is yes Both of those things are equally true. And immediately there there's a mystery there that I can't figure out, but God has not called me to explain all mysteries. Theology is not a problem-solving venture. It's a mystery-discerning venture. And I say that where my reason cannot go any further, I place my faith in the revelation of God. And faith is reason at rest in God. Now, let me let me show you something else. Look at Ephesians 1 real quick. Look at Ephesians chapter 1. And I want you to look at a few verses here. I want you to see again where both of these things are side by side in the scripture. Look in verse 3, where it says, Blessed be God the Father, Ephesians 1:3, and of our Lord Jesus who has blessed us. With all spiritual blessings, look at verse 4, according as he has chosen us in him before the foundation of the world And then having predestinated us, just underscore the us, blessed us, chosen us, predestinated us, verse 6, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he has made us accepted in the beloved And on we could go all the way down to verse 11. You say, who's the us there? Who's the us? Let me tell you who the us is. Look in verse 12. That we should be to the praise of his glory. Watch this, who first trusted in Christ. In whom ye also trusted. After that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of salvation, in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. You see him right there Sovereignty of God chose us, blessed us, responsibility of man, who also first trusted in Christ, and whom you also trusted after you heard the word of truth. Both of those things are there. They're both true, friend. Now, someone has compared salvation to a big mansion And uh it's so huge. Anyone anyone can come and live in it. It's got so many rooms. And here's a homeless man, he's walking down the street, he sees on the front door of that mansion a sign and it says, Whosoever will may come. And he says, I need a place to stay. I'm a whosoever will. And so he goes in. He closes the door, he looks around, but he looks on the other side door once he gets inside. You know what it says? Chosen from before the foundation of the world. Once he gets inside You see, friend, that's exactly what salvation is like. Now let me just say this: if you want to come to Christ and you want mercy, you'll get it Anybody who wants to come can get it. But friend, also realize that God has a sovereign purpose. God has called you unto himself You are his special people, just like God said, I have a purpose and a plan for Jacob. God has a purpose and a plan for you. And friend, when you are tempted to doubt God's love, you remember that God has drawn you unto himself. And he has loved you with an everlasting love. And he has a purpose and a plan for you. Now, let me give you the third thing. We should not doubt God's love because of his spoken promise, because of God's sovereign purpose But then I want you to write down number three because of God's sanctifying punishment. God's sanctifying punishment. Look down in verse number uh three. And I hated Esau and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places, saith the Lord God of hosts. They shall build that I will throw down. They shall call them the border of wickedness. And the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever. Now, what's Malachi saying here? Listen. Both Israel and Edom received punishment from God at the hands of the Babylonians. When God wanted to punish Israel with the rod called Babylon, he also used that same rod to punish Edom. And so both of these nations are being punished, but there's a difference here. You see, whereas both were destroyed, God promised that he was going to restore Israel. But he also condemned Edom to complete destruction. God said, I will restore Israel, but not Edom. Look in verse 3, again, where he says that uh and laid his his mountains. This is talking about the nation of Edom here. And laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. And whereas Edom said, We are impoverished But we will return and build the desolate places, thus says the Lord. They shall build, but I will throw down. So here's God's retribution against Edom. God said he would turn Edom's mountains into a wasteland And Edom's greatest efforts to rebuild its ruins would be frustrated by God. God says they will not be rebuilt. You know why God said this about Edom? Because when Babylon came to Jerusalem and began to destroy Jerusalem. And began to pillage and murder and kill the Edomites were watching, and you know what they were saying? They were laughing, they were shouting, they were dancing, and they said, destroy it. It. Destroy it. Destroy it to its foundations. They were rejoicing in Jerusalem's destruction. Psalm 137, verse 7. Remember, O Lord, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem, who said, raise it Raise it even to the foundation thereof. And so here God says, They will try to build back up, but I will throw down. Now let me tell you something, friend. When God says you're not going to build up, guess what? You're not going to build up. If God be for us, who could be against us, but the reverse is true. If God is against us, who can be for us? And here The Lord of the hosts, God says, they'll try to build up, but I will throw down. So we see the retribution against Edom, but then also think about the restoration of Israel. What would happen to Israel? God would restore Israel. God would bring them out of captivity. And he would restore them. In fact, this restoration was happening during Malachi's day. And God says, whereas Edom will be the border of wickedness, look again in verse 4, the latter phrase, the border of wickedness, and the people against whom the Lord hath indignation forever, Israel would be the holy land. Write down Zechariah. 212. Israel would be the border of blessing, the holy land. Eden would be the border of wickedness. Israel would be the border of blessing. So on one side, Israel, whom God loved and chose to set apart uh would be on one side, but on the other side is Edom. God had not chosen Edom, the nation of Edom, and she would be destroyed in his wrath, while Israel would be uh would be brought back to restoration Israel would experience God's correction, but Edom would experience God's condemnation. You say, what's the lesson here? Here's the lesson, beloved. God, when he punishes his children, he does it not out of wrath, he does it out of love. You see The rod that God used to chasten Edom was a rod of wrath. But that same rod that God used to chasten Israel was a rod of love. I'm glad that God doesn't treat his children the same way he treats those who don't know him. The Bible says this in 1 Peter, for the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God, and if it first begin at us What shall it be to of them that obey not the gospel? When God begins to purge and to judge, he begins in his house And Peter here says, if God starts in his house and he stir with his people, what's it going to be like for those who don't know him and have rejected him? God can take the same rod and chasten the wicked or condemn the wicked and restore his people through chastisement. That's the point. And friend, I I don't know about you, but I think God is judging America. I think he's using a rod, you can call it whatever whatever rod you want to. He can use the rod Isis to to purge and correct his church, but he could also use the rod called Isis to condemn the wicked. And sh and and uh and that that that would be condemned. Paul said this, that when we are judged, we are chastened to the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world. God chastises his people, but he doesn't condemn. uh his people. So here's the point. God always corrects his people in love. Now here's the thing. When some people are going through a difficult time, they're they begin to question God. They say, God, why And they begin to doubt God to love. Let me tell you something. If you're a child of God, God chases you because He loves you. He will not condemn you He loves his children, and he will never disown them. He will discipline them, but they will not be condemned like the world. And so here we see the special uh hand of God for Israel to restore them. And friend When God brings you through chastisement, it is because God loves you and God wants to bring you to restoration. In fact, hold your place here. Go to Hebrews chapter 12. Look at Hebrews chapter 12. And we know this passage, but let me just look at it with you tonight, talking about the chastisement of God for his people Look in verse number four of chapter twelve. You have not resisted under blood, striving against sin. Verse 5, for ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth and scourges every son whom he receives. God's chastening is a sign of his love. In fact, that's one evidence to know that you're a child of God. You know as a child of God, you can't just decide to live any way you want to. You can't just decide to say, I'll just I'll just walk away from church and walk away from God and do whatever I want. If you're a child of God, he's not going to let you do that He's going to bring you back. Look in verse 7. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chastens not? But if you be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are you bastards and not sons, that is illegitimate children. You see, friend, if you can live however you want to and God not chastise you, you better check whether you're really a child of God. Because God will not Let his children do whatever they want. God chastised Israel. God took the rod to restore Israel because they were his people. God would not let Israel do whatever they want. So God used Babylon to correct them and to bring them back and to restore them. And I don't know what it is that the Lord is doing in your life, but sometimes God will bring discipline in the lives of those he loves. Why Well the fruit of it is given to us. Look down in verse number eleven. Now no chastising or chastising for the present seemed to be joyous, but grievous nevertheless afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness Unto them which are exercised thereby. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down in the feeble knees. You know why God brings chastisement? Because He loves you and He wants the fruit of righteousness in your life He's just not going to let his children live however they want to. He's going to bring righteousness. He's going to chastise his children so that they would be straight in the path, they'll end well, they'll finish the race strong in verse number twelve, and they will go on to spiritual maturity. Now let me give you the last point. We shouldn't doubt God's love because of his spoken word. He tells us. We shouldn't doubt God's love because of his sovereign purpose. God's favor is upon his children. We shouldn't doubt God's love because of God's sanctifying punishment. When God punishes his children, it's to bring correction and restoration. and righteousness. And friend, if you're experiencing that, it's it's a it's an expression of God's love. But then here's the fourth thing. We shouldn't doubt God's love because of God's special privilege. Go back to Malachi and let me show you this last thing here in Malachi chapter 1. And look at verse number five. And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, the Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. You see, God was going to restore Israel, but he had a reason for it. Why? So that the Lord will be magnified from the border of Israel. You know what Malachi is reminding the Jews of? They had a great privilege, and what was that privilege? They were to be a witness to all the rest of the nations. They were to show the glory of God to all the rest of nations. They were to magnify God To all the rest of the nations. You see, God called Israel to be that light, but when they were carried off into captivity, all the enemy nations laughed. But now they were being restored, they were being brought back into the land, and now God was going to bring them to a position where once again the people will say the Lord is magnified. From the border of Israel. You know why God works the way He does in your life? Because God wants to use you. God has given you and I the special privilege of being a light and a glory to this whole world That's our purpose, to show the glory of God to this lost world, to magnify God, to make God look good. You know, you ever hear a parent, sometimes they'll say to a teenager before they go out, listen, when you go out, you remember who you are, you remember whose you are What's that parent saying to that teenager? Don't make me look bad by the way you act. You know what God says to his children? Remember who you are. Remember whose you are. And don't make me look bad in the eyes of this world. We are to live, to magnify God. In fact, I would say this: that should be the purpose and the passion. of our heart and life is to magnify God, is to show the glory of God in this world. That's what Paul said. Paul said, for me to live is Christ That is, I want to magnify Christ. If it means dying, then I'm willing to die. Whatever it takes, I want to magnify Christ. For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. If God chooses to bring me on, that's better for me. But as long as I live, I live to magnify the Lord Jesus Christ So we see then God's spoken promise, God's sovereign purpose, God's sanctifying punishment, God's special privilege, all of these things are reasons why, listen, friend, don't doubt God's love He's got a special calling and purpose and plan for your life. And what he's doing in your life is he's conforming you. to the image of Jesus Christ, so that you and I can indeed be that light, that glory to this world that so desperately needs the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, take these words. Let them be a challenge to our heart. And Lord, if there's someone here tonight that maybe is going through a difficult time, And they're doubting your love. I pray, Lord, that you would remind them of these special words. That Lord, you do love us. You have loved us. And you do have a special purpose for our life. And everything you do in our life, Lord, is to bring about change, sanctification, so that we can be a light and a glory. We can show forth your glory to this lost world. Remind us, Lord, of the like the song says, You have a love for us, a love that will not let us go. So, Father, bless these words to hearts. Minister, speak to hearts tonight. Encourage your people, Lord. We pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.