I invite you tonight to take your Bibles, open to the book of Psalms, and I want you to turn tonight to Psalm eleven. Psalm eleven tonight. And uh we're going to be dealing with these seven verses in this short psalm. Um years ago, a housing development firm built many houses on a site that they the land they bought for a really uh really inexpensive price. And uh when the houses were finished, they were just gorgeous. They were the loveliest of any homes in that area. But it was only after the families moved in and was there for a while that they began to notice things began to happen. Curves along the streets began to crack, roofs on the houses began to bow down. The walls began to crack. And finally, the families had to move out of the houses because the houses were unsafe to live in. Two old timers that saw all that, they knew exactly what had happened. What uh was not told to these uh l these developers was that that land that they were building on was an old garbage dump that had been filled in and covered over. And so these houses had all been built on junk, basically. The foundation was not good. The foundations began to fail. With that in mind, look in verse number three. The psalmist tonight in this chat in this psalm, in chapter eleven, verse three, asked the Interesting question in verse 3. He said, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Now the word for foundation here is a Hebrew word that appears really only here, and it's used in the sense of social order. It's used this way in other places in the Psalms, in Psalms 85, or excuse me 82, verse 5, where it talks about those who uh all the foundations of the earth are shaken. In other words, it's talking about the moral uh social order has been shaken up. We could say it like this, their world was turned upside down. The foundation upon which they stood was failing. And so this is a metaphor then that talks about just moral chaos, moral and spiritual turmoil. uh upheaval that's happening in society. What can the righteous do if the foundations around are beginning to crumble. More than 80 years ago, one commentator called this the burning question of our day. When he wrote that, that was in 1939. If he made that statement, if that was true then, how much more is it true today? What do we do when the law is not upheld? What do we do when morality is undermined? What do we do when family values are crumbling? When it just seems like everything around us has given way. I mean, I don't need to stand here and read you all the statistics. You read the newspapers, you see the nightly news, you know what's going on. Abortions continue to be committed, thousands upon thousands each year. The murder rate and the crime rate is increasing. I was reading a statistic that said that there are 47 million school-aged kids in America. Currently, over 27 million of them try drugs and alcohol each year. And then on we can go. Francis Schaefer said this, if there are no absolutes by which to judge society, then society is absolute. Everyone makes up their own value system. And that's why we have today people calling good evil and evil good, because we're no longer following the values that God has given us in His Word. It's a different foundation. The former president of Johns Hopkins University said this. He said, failure to rally around a set of values means that we're turning out highly skilled barbarians. Society as a whole is turning out barbarians because of the discarding of the value system it was built on. To restore its lost value system, America would have to return to its faith in God. There can be no value system where there is no supreme value that transcends man's natural self-centeredness, where one man's values are esteemed as good as another. Boy, I tell you, he hit it right on the head there. He's absolutely right. Today 70% reject moral absolutes. In our country, 70% according to polls reject moral absolutes. And so It feels like the foundations are failing. It feels like the world around us is crumbling. And it can even be more personal. I've been speaking about statistics about our country and our nation and what's going on around us in society. But we can get more personal and ask about your own personal life. It it may be that things around you in your life are crumbling. The foundation that you have been standing on seems like it's beginning to fail. Things are happening in your life that you never dreamed would ever happen. Things that you're facing that you never thought you would ever have to face. And for you This is a very real question. If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? David obviously wrote this in a time when he was going through a lot of trouble. We don't know exactly the background of this. There are two possibilities that are given. Someone said that this was a time in David's life when he was being opposed by Saul. That could be the background of this. Another suggestion is is that this was a time when he was running from Absalom But neither of those things really seem to fit this psalm. So we're really not exactly sure, at least I'm not, about the background of the writing of this psalm. But I am sure about this. When David wrote this, he was he was going through turmoil in his life He was going through difficulty. It seemed like his world was crumbling. And so he asked the question, if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? What do you do when the foundations begin to fail in your life? And so I want you to see three responses that we get from this and this psalm here that I want you to think about and apply to your own life. Here's the first response. Number one, refuse bad counsel. Refuse bad counsel. Look at verse 1. In the Lord put I my trust. How say ye to my soul, flee as a bird to your mountain? Now, whatever was going on in David's life, it must have been bad. Because David went and he sought counsel from his friends, his counselors. Now it's good for you to have godly counselors, people that you go to to get good advice. In fact, the Bible affirms this, right? In Proverbs chapter eleven, verse fourteen, where there is no counsel, the people fall, but in the multitude of counselors there's what? There's safety. There's safety when you have counselors around you. It's good to have godly people that you can trust that you can go to. In fact I think you know that one of the things that things that the president does when he's elected into office, one of the first things he does is he gathers around him a group of counselors, right? And that's called what the president's cabinet, right? These are all supposed to be experts, people in their particular field that are experts, and so the president will depend upon these people to make good decisions and wise decisions. And you know, when you know when that actually started? That started with the very first president of the United States. George Washington, where he appointed four people to help advise him. The first cabinet of the our country included Thomas Jefferson, who was the Secretary of State, Alexander Hamilton. the Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Knox, the Secretary of War, and Edmund Randolph, the Attorney General. These were the people that Washington gathered around him and depended upon their knowledge to make good decisions. And again, I think that's a wise thing. In fact, I think it's good for a Christian to have a cabinet. Do you have a cabinet of people that you just say, you know, these are the ones that I can go to that can help me make decisions? Well, let me just say this. Be careful about who you choose. Because you know sometimes the cabinet can be wrong. Now the foundations of David's life were shaking and crumbling. And so what does David do? He calls his cabinet together. And he asked them for their advice about what he should do. And the consensus that was given to David, the counsel was in verse number one, flee as a bird to your mountain. Now he must have been in real trouble for his cabinet to say, this is the best thing for you to do. Just flee like a bird, David. Run. This is a concrete picture here, the psalmist is painting. Why did he say you should flee? Why did the cabinet say that? Look at verse 2, for lo the wicked bend their bow. They make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. The picture here is the wicked being compared to bird hunters. who have their bow and and literally where it says where they bend their bow, literally the Hebrew is step on their bow, because in order to string their bow they would take it and they would have to step on the middle of it to bend it down and string it. But why were they doing that? Because they were getting ready to hunt. And we could say it like this, the wicked is stringing his bow. And then he says in verse number two, they make ready their arrow upon the string. That's the next step after they string the bow. They put the arrow on the string, and they make the arrow ready, that is, they pull back. And they're ready to fire this arrow. And who are they ready to release the arrow on? They're not just aiming at just anyone. Look in verse number two. That they may privily shoot at the upright in heart. They're targeting the upright. They're targeting the righteous. You ever notice how Christians in our society today that we're the favorite target sometimes of society and people That they love to shoot at people that believe in biblical values. The world loves to make us their target. And verse 2 it says that they may shoot secretly. The idea here is that they're hiding in a dark place, waiting to shoot their arrows at the upright And so David's counselors are saying, David, we think that the best thing for you to do is for you to just run or flee like a bird to the mountain, because the wicked got their arrows aimed at you. That's the best thing for you to do. And you know, on the surface, this looks like good advice. I mean, be honest, you ever want to run from your problems? You ever want to just get up and say, you know, I'm out of here? Let's just run. Let's just go away. There are many illustrations of people in the Bible that flee to their mouth, and so to speak. From the very beginning, Adam and Eve, they wanted to run and hide. Jonah wanted to run from the call of the Lord. Elijah ran from the uh the wrath of Jezebel, and he had a mountain that he literally wanted to flee to. And then Jeremiah in Jeremiah 9:2, he said, Oh, that I had a desert. Uh oh that I had in the desert a traveler's lodging place that I might leave my people and go away from them. He said, Man, I wish I had a place where I a cabin I can just go to and get away from it all You ever feel that way? I just want to get away from all of this. Well, let me just say that running from your problems never solves the problem. In fact, you might find that wherever you run to, the problem will be there waiting for you. You can't outrun problems. In fact, the Bible says that God seeks that which has been driven away. I think God sovereignly puts problems in our life, and when we run from them, God says, okay, I'm going to seek what you're driving away, and I'm going to put it in front of you again. You can't outrun this Because part of the reasons why God puts these things in our life is because He wants us to grow, to deal with that problem, not to run from it. If you run in fear, you'll never grow. You'll never be what God wants you to be. You see, with respect to your problems, God's will is not vacancy, it's victory. He wants you to learn to be victorious over these things. And so David was wise enough to see this. And he was wise enough to know that this was not good counsel. Because look again, look in verse 1. In the Lord I put I my trust. How say ye to my soul? Flee is a bird to your mountain. And they this is the interrogative how. The force of it in the Hebrew is it's a rebuke We could say it like this. How dare you say to me? How can you say this to me? How foolish of you to say this to me that I should flee. One person translated it like this, how foolish my friends are to advise me and say, flee as a bird. And so David refused this counsel because he understood it to be exactly what it was. He understood it to be bad counsel. This is not what God wanted them to do. You see, what are we saying about God in Christianity if people look and see us constantly running in fear? What does that say to others? Mom and Dad, what does that say to your children? What does that say to the lost world? When they see us trembling in fear and running from problems. Don't listen to the voices around you that tell you to run. Don't be a slave to your fears because you'll be running all the time. And so David, he rejects this counsel. And so that's the first thing. Refuse bad counsel. When the foundations are crumbling around you, there's always going to be people that will tell you things to do that are not what God wants you to do. But then here's the second thing. Not only refuse bad counsel, but the second thing I notice in this psalm is remember God is sovereign. Remember God is sovereign. Look in verse number four. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in the heaven. And what he's giving us here is a picture of absolute authority. You know what? There's no panic in heaven. God is not in heaven in an emergency session saying, what are we going to do? The foundations are crumbling. He's not pacing up and down the quarters of the golden streets of heaven, wondering what's going on. He's not doing that. He's never caught by surprise. Some of you might remember back when nine eleven took place that um some of the T V reports I'll never forget that one of the the reports that they showed was when the president, the then president George W. Bush, was told what took place in New York. And at the time you might remember he was in a elementary school classroom with children. And uh and you saw the guy just go over and whisper into his ear, and then you could literally see the shock and dismay on his face. You could see his face go pale and the blood just drain. I want to assure you that that never happens to God. God is never caught by surprise. You know why? Because like the psalmist said, God is on his throne. What that means is that he is in control. That means he's sovereign. You know what sovereignty? It contains three ideas, ownership, authority, and control. God created it all. He owns it all. He's over all things, and he is in control of all things. And you need to remember that. Because when it looks like things are crumbling in your life, Just remember, God hasn't lost control of what's going on in your life. God is in control. Psalm 135, verse 5. For I know that the Lord is great, and that our Lord is above all gods, and whatsoever the Lord pleases, He does. In heaven and on earth, in the seas and in the depths. Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in the heaven. He does all that he pleases. In Psalm 103, verse 19, the Lord has established his throne in the heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. You understand, beloved, that we have a really big God. He's bigger than you can ever imagine. And he's in control. And this means that when we look around and get the very strong sense that the world and our lives are out of control, we have to remember that we're wrong. We're wrong. When it looks like the events in your life have jumped off the track and are heading over the cliff, they're not. Everything is moving according to God's plan. You see, God's sovereignty and his providence Go hand in hand. What is providence? Providence is God's ability to execute His plan in your life. God has a plan, and God has the power to execute that plan in your life. Again, Isaiah forty-six verse nine. Remember the former things of old, for I am God, and there is none other. I am God and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning and from the ancient times. Not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, I will accomplish all my purpose. God arranges it all, and he is in the details. You ever hear the expression the devil is in the details? Well, that's not true. God is in the details. He's in the details of your life. The Bible says the heart of man plans his way. But the Lord establishes his steps. Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the Lord. that will stand. You say, well, what if I have someone over me that's making a decision that's wrecking my life? That person couldn't do anything unless God allowed it. The Bible says the heart of the king is in the hand of the Lord. He turns it whatever way he wants. And so no decision that a person over you that they can make that will determine your future is done by chance or it's because of that person's power. That person is in the hand of God. And the choices they make cannot overthrow the purposes of God in your life. They can only establish them. That's all they can do. Job says this in Job 24, 14. He performs, talking about God, he performs what is appointed for me. The theologian John J. Murray summed it up like this. The plan of God is perfect. The plan of God is exhaustive. The plan of God is for my ultimate good. The plan of God is secret. God hides it from me until it happens. I discover it day by day as it unfolds. Again, you say, well, again, what about the bad things that happen? What about the bad things that people do in the world and that affect other people that people do in my own life? What about those things? Well, again, for Joseph, things in his life just didn't make sense. Because he had a series of bad things that just happened to him, one after another. And I imagine that Joseph in that prison a few times looked up to God and said, God, what are you doing? My life just makes absolutely no sense to me whatsoever. Because he had one bad thing after another. All he did was try to obey his father. And he was thrown into a pit. He was thrown into prison. Being falsely accused, and thought perhaps at that point in his life that he would never ever see his family again. But many years later, Joseph was able to see That people that did those things, he said, you may have meant it for evil, but God what? Meant it for good. God meant it for good. That's the providence of God. Even the sorrows and the bad things that came into Joseph's life, God had control of all of that. And that's where we cling to the promise. We hang on the promise of Romans 8. 28. All things work together for good to those that love God. And so we have to remember that God is on his throne. But here's the next thing about it. Notice what he says again in verse number four. I would say that God will test his people in verse 4. His eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men. God sees everything that's going on. And it says, his eyelids try. The word for try here is test. It's a word, the idea of testing metals by fire. And God's eyes penetrate into our hearts. He knows us intimately in our hearts. And the Lord will test us. He will test the righteous. Why? Why does he do that? To bring out the best in us. And he will use the troubles and the problems around us. He will use the crumbling foundation, the shaking foundation that we are standing on. He'll use that to try us, to test us. Craigie wrote this: the testing of the righteous, though it might involve great hardship, would culminate in purity and the removal of dross. And so God will use Even the wickedness of the wicked to try his own people, to test his own people. God will allow those things, just like in the life of Joseph. All those sins that were committed against Joseph. He will allow that to try Joseph and to try his own people. Spurgeon said, God refines the righteous with afflictions. You see, you say, why? Again, God desires to put his people on display. to a watching world. We need to be like Joseph's in Egypt. We need to be like Daniel's in Babylon, where we are Trusting in the Lord. It brings glory to God when the foundation under us is trembling, but we don't because we are trusting in the Lord. And so God will try his people. He'll test his people. But here's the next thing this almost brings out. God will judge the wicked. He'll judge the wicked. Look in verse number five. The Lord tryeth the righteous, but the wicked in him that loveth violence his soul hateth. You might say, well, what about What about those that are ungodly? What's God going to do to them? I mean, here we are and we're being tried by the that what's going on in our world and all around us. We're being tested constantly. What's God going to do with the the wicked, the ungodly? Well, don't think that they're going to get off the hook. They face a greater judgment. This reminds me in 1 Peter what Peter said. Remember, he was writing to people that were going through tremendous persecution and trials. And these were godly people in the church. And Peter said, look, if judgment begins, if it starts in the house of God, if God, when he begins to purge in the judge, if he begins in the church, if he begins in his house What do you think it's going to be when he works his way out to those who don't know him? It gets more severe the farther outward he works. He may purify his own people, but he will punish those And so to emphasize this, the psalmist gives several pictures of God's judgment. There are three pictures that he gives. He uses fire and brimstone. Look at verse number six. Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and a horrible tempest. And so he uses the picture of fire and brimstone, obviously. Uh that's a very fearful thing, knowing of eternal judgment. And then he speaks about a scorching wind, where he talks about a horrible tempest. That's what he's talking about here. A And then he uses the image of a poison cup in verse six. And a horrible tempest, and this shall be the portion of their Cup. It's the image of drinking a poisonous portion in a cup. And that image is used often in the Old Testament to speak about the judgment of God. So don't think that anyone's going to get away with anything. The psalmist is saying. He may use the the ungodly in this world that tears away at the foundation. He may use them to test his people, but they're not going to get away with their wickedness. God will judge them. Be assured of that. But then here's the third thing. So David says, here's number one, refuse bad counsel. Number two, remember that God is sovereign. God knows what he's doing. But then here's the third thing: run to God for refuge. Run to God for refuge. And David ends the psalm the way he begins the psalm by expressing his trust in the Lord. Again, look in verse 1: In the Lord put I my trust. Look at verse 7. For the righteous Lord loveth righteousness, his countenance doth behold the upright. And so here David is making a conscious choice to make God his refuge, to run to the Lord and find his his confidence and trust in God alone. Instead of fleeing to a mountain like a bird, David is going to run to God for refuge. That's the right response. Run to the Lord. There's a great illustration of this in the Old Testament. You may have heard me preach on it before, the cities of refuge. Remember in the In the book of Joshua, when Joshua was divvying out land, he set aside six cities in the promised land, and he called them cities of refuge. If a person ever had an enemy that was after them and wanted to kill them, a person could run to one of these cities and find refuge. And did you know that in the Old Testament, these cities were appointed, there were There were basically three on the west side and three on the east side of the Jordan River. So they were spaced out so that no matter where you were in the Promised Land, which was uh about as about as large as the state of Maryland, basically. Uh no matter where you were, there was a city of refuge that you could run to that was close by. And the the roads were never clogged. They had to keep the roads clear. and in good order, that went to the cities of refuge. The gates were never closed in these cities. There was always clear directions. And you remember in the New Testament the writer refers to those cities as a picture of who? It's a picture of Jesus Christ. And when you feel like you need to run to refuge, just like a person in the Old Testament would run to one of those cities and find safety, the writer in the New Testament is saying, you can run to Christ for refuge. That's the place where you find real safety. Don't flee like a bird in fear. Run to Christ in faith. And find your refuge in the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, if you don't do that, you're foolish not to run to Him. One of my favorite hymn writers is Charles Wesley. And Charles Wesley, in 1738, right after his conversion. Was sitting down in his study. He loved to write poetry, and a lot of those poems were turned into hymns that we now sing. This was one summer day. He was sitting in his study And uh it was kinda hot, so he opened up the window to let the air blow through. He heard a commotion outside, kind of a squawking going on, and he happened to look out from his desk and see that a predatory bird, a hawk, was chasing a small sparrow. And the sparrow was fleeing from this enemy, this danger. And the sparrow, seeking refuge, flew into that window, into the study, where Charles Wesley was studying at his desk, and flew into his shirt, into his bosom. Seeking refuge, and the befuddled hawk would not pursue Astram. And Charles Wesley was touched by that And it led him to write the song, I think this is one of the great hymns, Jesus, lover of my soul. Let me to thy bosom fly. While the near waters roll, while the tempest still is high. Hide me, O my Savior, hide. Till the storm of life is past, safe into the haven guide, and O receive my soul at last. Isn't that a great word there, huh? And that's what we should do. We should just flee to the Lord. Some of you here tonight need to do that right now You may feel like your world is crumbling. Don't flee like a bird to your mountain. Run to Christ for refuge. Find your refuge in Him. Pour out your heart before Him. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayer. And maybe you just need to have that time right now where you just run to the Lord for refuge. With your heads bowed and your eyes closed, would you mind if I just read some of the words that he wrote in this song, Jesus, Lover of My Soul, and think about what he's saying. Maybe incorporate incorporate that into your prayer. This is what he wrote. Other refuge have I none. Hangs my helpless soul on thee. Leave, I'll leave me not alone. Alone Still support and comfort me. All my trust on thee is stayed. All my help from thee I bring. Cover my defenseless head. With the shadow of thy wing. Wilt thou not regard my call? Wilt thou not accept my prayer? Lo I sink, I faint, I fall. Lo on thee I cast my cast care. Reach me out thy gracious hand while of I while while I of thy strength receive, hoping against hope I stand dying, and behold I live Live. Thou, O Christ, art all I want. More than all in thee I find, raise the fallen, cheer the faint, heal the sick and lead the blind. Just and holy is thy name. I am all unrighteousness. False and full of sin I am. Thou art full of truth and grace. Plenteous grace with thee is found, grace to cover all my sin. Let the healing streams abound, making Keep me pure within. Thou of life, the fountain art. Freely let me take of thee. Spring thou up within my heart. Rise to all eternity Would you just run to the Lord tonight, find refuge in Him for whatever problem you may have? Father, bless these words to our hearts tonight. And I pray, Lord, that everyone here will find refuge in Christ. There may be some here tonight that need the refuge of salvation. They've never put their faith in Christ. Lord, let tonight be the moment when they run to Christ for salvation, for forgiveness. Of sin, to know that plenteous grace is found in Him. And for those that know you and feel as if their world is crumbling, Lord, may they Find true refuge in you and realize, Lord, that you're sovereign, you're in control, you are the place of safety for us. May we put our faith and trust in We trust in you. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen