Well it's good to be in God's house tonight. It's good to be back here in Maryland with you. We missed you all on our vacation. Just as a note, don't ever drive during the Thanksgiving holiday. Just not a good idea. What were we thinking? I was glad it's over. But we enjoyed visiting with family, and we enjoy visiting with our family here. Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Jeremiah. We are in our study through this book, and remember I told you we're kind of going selectively through here. And as we get into the Christmas season, what I want to do is get into some of the messianic prophecies of Jeremiah. You know a lot of the other prophets get a lot of time during Christmas. You know, Isaiah uh gets a lot of airtime during Christmas. But you know Jeremiah has a lot to say about the Christmas Coming Messiah. But before we do that, I want us to look in chapter fourteen and fifteen tonight. Uh, and I want to just deal with this passage of scripture here. Um let me just ask you question as you find this Jeremiah fourteen and don't raise your hand and don't speak out but have you ever in your heart felt as though God Now we know that God never does, but sometimes we may feel that way. And if you've ever felt as if the Lord has let you down, you can probably relate to Jeremiah and what What he's going through as we come to chapter 14 and 15. Jeremiah is somewhat disillusioned in this section of the book. He's discouraged. Uh it seems like that God is not doing anything, that God's inactive. There's a lot of suffering going on. There's a lot of pain that's all around him when he that he sees with the people of uh Judah and Jeremiah's just wondering why God aren't you doing anything? Uh why are these things happening Well, and so really just to give you the context, from Jeremiah chapter fourteen on to verse or chapter seventeen I should say, really this can Contains kind of a collage of written material. And all of this was written to design and designed to show that the punishment that God's going to bring to Judah is sealed. It's gonna happen. There's no way around it. And so Jeremiah is kind of dealing with this. And in chapter 14, it opens up with the famine. And the people pray. They even fast and ask God for his help, and basically God will not hear their prayers. Jeremiah begins to intercede, and God doesn't hear Jeremiah. And so following that, then Jeremiah begins to wrestle. He has kind of a spiritual crisis. And again I want to ask you, is have you ever gone through that? You know, it's very easy for us to kind of look holy on the outside and say, Well, you know, I've never wrestled, never doubted, I've never had any problems in my faith, but that's not real, is it I think all of us from time to time have had difficulty and suffering that we've had to contend with. And we've had maybe if not we haven't spoken them out loud in our heart. We have had those why questions And we've questioned what Lord, what are you doing? So when you come to chapter 15, this is what scholars call one of the of the confessions of Jeremiah. Throughout the book of Jeremiah, he'll have what are called these confessions. There's one in chapter 11. There's one in chapter 12. twelve there's one here in chapter fourteen and fifteen, one and seventeen, eighteen, and then on into twenty. Now what are these confessions? Basically we could really call these um soliloquies. Uh am I saying that right? A soliloquy Siloquy. You say what's a soliloquy? I want you to say that three times if you can, real fast. It's kind of a hard word to pronounce. Uh that's when there's a drama and that it the kind of it's where all the other actors leave the stage. And there's one actor left on the stage, and he kind of pours out his soul. He pours out his complaint, as it were, before the the audience. And so really this is what we have happening here in chapter 14 and 15. This is a soliloquy where Jeremiah is kind of on the stage by himself. All of the other actors in the drama of Israel have left the stage. And now here it is, just Jeremiah, and he's about to pour out his soul. Transparent, he's going to voice the things that he's feeling inside with respect to what's going on around him, with respect to God Himself. We could probably say this if Jeremiah's speeches are soliloquies, then perhaps chapter fifteen is uh Jeremiah's to be or not to be speech. You remember reading Shakespeare, Hamlet, and in the third Act, Hamlet is debating about whether he should take his life and he gives that famous speech to be or not to be. That is the question. There's a sense in which this is where Jeremiah is He's questioning the value of his existence. In fact, if you look in chapter 15, verse number 10, notice where it says in 15, 10, woe is me There's a sense where this shows the depth of Jeremiah's He's even questioning uh his existence. Uh God be from before his birth selected him to be a prophet, but here Jeremiah Jeremiah says, you know, I'm ready to not do this anymore. I'm in qu I'm questioning my existence here. And why is this? Well, because Jeremiah felt abandoned by God at this point. In his ministry, because of all the suffering that was going on around him. And again, I ask you, have you ever had that feeling of disillusionment? Recently I know of a Christian couple who were going through a very dark valley. He caught some kind of a crazy disease where it caused both of his kidneys to shut down. His wife she uh is having problems with her liver and now it's at the point where she has to have a liver transplant. And while both of them are suffering trying to get over their sickness, they left their small business that they built with their hands and hard work to someone who is a trusted friend, only to find out that that trusted friend had robbed them blind. And when I tried to encourage them, try to help them along and give them some promises from God, their response was, we don't want to hear it. They really responded with hostility. And the whole sense was, you know, God has let us down. Anytime he wants to stop uh, you know, doing this to us, we're ready for him to do that. And so they were really dealing with some real human emotions through all of their trials. And if we're honest, there may be some points in our life where we have had similar feelings, where we've gone through difficult trials. This is where Jeremiah is And what I want us to do is really just look at two parts of this passage. First of all, I want to talk about the disappointment of Jeremiah, where he gives voice, a very transparent voice So notice the first part that this Disappointment of Jeremiah. Why is Jeremiah so disappointed? Why does he feel as if God has let him down? Well, let me just give you a few reasons that I see here in the text. Number one, unfulfilled Expectations. Came to Jeremiah concerning the dearth. Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish, they are black under the ground, and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up, and their nobles have sent their little ones They come to the pits and found no water. They returned with their vessels empty. They were ashamed and confounded and covered their heads. So again, there's a severe drought. The land is in mourning. In very poetic words, in verse 2, Jeremiah says, you know, Judah, kind of being personified here, Judah is Is is dressed in black, as if going to a funeral service. Why? Because all over the land of Judah there is drought, there is starvation, there is death. Where you look in the land, you find suffering. Whether you're in the cities or the farms or the open country, there is drought and there is suffering. Verse number three, the nobles And what happens the servants come back with an empty water pot and uh they they failed their master, they feel, and so these servants were so ashamed that they were unable to find water that They kind of cover their head in shame and they hide themselves. Why? Because the custom of that day was if any servant brought bad news to their master, they took it personally. They felt as if They were a bad servant, so they're hiding in shame. But it's really not their fault that there's no water. There's drought all over the place. In fact, the ground is so dry That you can't even plow it to plant anything. Look at verse 4, because the ground is chapped, for there is no rain in the earth. The plowmen were ashamed, they covered their heads. So even the farmers Cover their heads like people going to a funeral procession. And even the animals suffer in verses five and six. If you take time to read that, the the deer, the doe, the mother deer Now the of the animal kingdom the mother deer is the most tenderest of all mother figures in the animal kingdom, and yet here she is leaving her dove is very severe. In fact, verse 1 calls it not a drought, but it's articular the drought or the dearth, as if to say, this one is You know, you ever have an event and you look back to it and you say, You remember the flood? And everybody knows exactly what you're talking about. One that was It's just so big it is the one that's and that's the way uh Jeremiah is talking about this drought here. This drought. And then on top of that, there was a triple danger. There wasn't just drought Look in verse twelve of chapter fourteen. When they fast I will not hear their cry. When they offer burnt offerings and oblation I will not accept them, but I will consume them by the sword, by the famine, by the pestilence. God refuses And God said there's going to be sword, there's going to be famine, there's going to be pestilence. This is a triple threat here. Um God is just going to just Really judge this country. Uh in fact look in verse eighteen. Jeremiah says, If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with a sword and a If I enter into the city, then behold them that are sick with famine, yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into the land, they know not. And Jeremiah says, It doesn't matter where I go, if I go to the countryside, I see corpse Corpses uh butchered by the sword if I go into the city I see people who are sick because of pestilence. And uh and so it was terrible. It was so bad that some of his colleagues were quitting the ministry. They were going out to find their own trade. And so this is a very difficult thing. What would you do? I mean, what would I do? Well, you know what he does? He weeps. And by the way, that's why he's called the weeping prophet. This was a difficult time. And so Jeremiah sees all this and he weeps. Let me ask you a question: Does your heart break when you see the suffering of humanity? It should. And here Jeremiah becomes Much like or is much like our Lord Jesus, he weeps. But then he will argue. Well, first of all, he wept. Look at verse 17. Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them, let mine eyes run down With tears night and day, and let them not cease. He wept incessantly, the way a man would weep for his daughter, if she had been wounded in war. The virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous blow. So he weeps. What's he do next? Then he presents his complaint to God. He argues. Looking uh actually back up to um verse seven of chapter fourteen. Oh Lord Though our iniquities testify against us, do thou it for thy name's sake. You know what he's saying, Lord God, just please do something. Even though we know that this is because of the sins of the people Can't you just do something? Isn't there anything that you can do? Lord, can you act now? Is there something? And why not? Why are you not doing anything with regard to this. Jeremiah wanted God to act. And he really wanted some answers and and there was nothing that was happening here. And by the way, we're the same way. We sometimes we see some Suffering, or we go through suffering, and we want God to do something. We want God to act, or we want some answers. And so Jeremiah asks a series of questions. Look in verse number 19 Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? Hast thy soul loathed Zion? Why hast thou smitten us that there's no healing for us? God, have you completely abandoned us In us? Why is there no healing for us? God, you're supposed to be our helper. It just seems like you're not helping us. Us. Let me read you what one commentator said. Where is God when you really need him? To Jeremiah, he seemed like a bystander, a passerby, an accidental tourist You could never count on him. He was never around when you needed him. He showed up every now and then and stayed in the guest bedroom, but he did not dwell with his people. He was practically a Stranger. And that's really what Jeremiah is saying in verse number eight. He says, O thou, O hope of Israel, the Savior thereof in time of trouble, why shouldest thou be a stranger in the land? God, you're our Savior. You're our hope, but it just seems like right now you're kind of a stranger to us, and you're not here with us. And in verse nine of chapter fourteen he says God you're you're like a mighty warrior but you're not really doing anything in the battle and it seems like you cannot save. So Jeremiah Is disappointed. He wants God to move. Again, we need to compare this with our own life. Has there ever been a time when you've been waiting for God to do something? Lord, open this door. Lord, act on our behalf. This is happening. And we need you to to intervene. We need your providential hand to do something. And you might wait and nothing happened. And you might want Wonder, Lord, why? There that's one reason for Jeremiah's wrestling. But then there's another one, not only unfulfilled expectation, but unanswered prayers. And this is another reason for his Disappointment. Now, by the end of chapter 14, Jeremiah had run out of tears and he had run out of arguments. So what does he do now? He prays. This was really the only thing left for him to do. And really If you read through the book of Jeremiah, you're going to find that he was one of the great prayer warriors of the Old Testament. His prayers are so eloquent. His prayers are so well designed and put together. And really we see See Jeremiah praying here. Look in verse number 20. We acknowledge, O Lord, our wickedness and the iniquity of our fathers, for we have sinned against thee. And so there's really three parts to this prayer. First, you notice And he uses really three different words there in verse 20 for sin. So he's not asking God God to forgive one or two sins, but all kinds of sins. All the sins that we have committed. This is a full confession, and full confession is also a corporate confession And you understand that when you're doing intercessory prayer, you're praying on the behalf of a group of people. And that's what Jeremiah is doing. He's praying on behalf of his Nation, of his people. We need more intercessors. And so Jeremiah acknowledges the sins of his fathers in the past. He acknowledges all the sins of the people all around them in the present. And he repents for the on their behalf. You know, it seems like this is something that's foreign to us here in our culture, in our America. We think, well, you know If if someone in the past sinned we'll say, well that was their sin, that really doesn't have anything to do with me. Or if you know a a church sinned, we say, Well, that's them, that's not me. Or if any group of people that we might be associated with, we have a tendency to push it off and not take any you know responsibility for ourselves. But the Bible doesn't really teach that. It teaches the principle of corporate solidarity. We are all one in Christ and you know what? We need the Holy Spirit Other accountable, and we need to pray for each other, and we need to intercede for each other. And many times we need to say, Lord, we have sinned. And so this is what Jeremiah is doing here And then he pleads for God's mercy in verse 21. Do not abhor us for thy name's sake, do not disgrace the throne of thy glory and and break not thy covenant with us. And so this is a plea For God's mercy and for the sake of God's glory. This wasn't just a selfish prayer where Jeremiah was saying, Lord, deliver me from suffering. He was saying, Lord, I'm concerned about your kingdom And your glory and your covenant and for your name's sake, I want you to hear this prayer. And so this was not a selfish prayer. kingdom. And then he gives an affirmation that only God can answer. Look at verse 22. Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can cause rain? What's he saying there? What's he mean? Can any of the false gods of the The Gentiles bring us rain, God? And what's the answer to that? No. None of those false gods can do anything. What's Jeremiah saying? Lord, you're the only one that can answer prayer. In verse 22, art not thou he, O Lord our God? Therefore we will wait Upon thee, for thou hast made all things. And so God, you're the only one that can do anything. And so this is really when you think about it, this is a This is a model prayer. You say, well great. So God answered them, right? Wrong. God didn't answer. Look at chapter 15, look in verse 1 It picks up there. Then said the Lord unto me, though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind could not be towards this people. Cast them out of my sight and let them go forth. God said, No, Jeremiah. No to your request. And not only does God say no, but then God tells Jeremiah, look, I'm going to do the Jeremiah prayed for life, God said, No, there's going to be death. Jeremiah prayed for peace. God said, No, I'm going to send a sword. Jeremiah prayed for rain and plenty. God said, No, I'm going to send To send famine. Jeremiah prayed for freedom. God said, No, I'm going to send them into captivity. In short, Jeremiah wanted mercy, and God said, No, I'm not going to give it And then in verse 1, it doesn't matter who's asking here. God's heart would no longer go out to these people. Instead, God says, look, just send them away. Send these people away. And we're going to look at verse 2, chapter 15. And it shall come to pass if they say unto thee, Whither shall we go forth? Where are we going to go, God? You said, send us away, where are we going to go? And then God says in verse 2, Thus saith the Lord, such as for death to death, such as for the sword to the sword, such as for family. And the famine, such as be for captivity to the captivity. God said you just go to the various places you're going to go. Those who are going to die to death, those who are going to be in captivity to captivity, those for the sword to the sword. You just Get out of my sight. You get the message that these people had crossed the line with God. God was finally done. He now listen, we have a merciful God. We have a gracious God. But there can come a point in time when a person with a hard heart sins and sins and sins, and that finally God says, you know what? Enough. I've been merciful enough And you have taken my mercy as a license, it's enough. And this is where God was with these people here. And so God goes on to pronounce judgment in verses four and five No one's going to have pity. The international community will not have pity on you. In verse 7, God says, I'm going to toss you in the air like uh grain in a threshing floor. I'm going to win you out and the real grain is gonna sta is going to fall to the ground and the others are gonna be carried away into captivity. In verses eight and nine of chapter fifteen, God said, There's gonna be so many widows, it's gonna be like the sand of the sea See in verse eight Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas. I have brought them against the mother of the young, a spoiler at noonday. I have caused them to fall In other words, there's just going to be a lot of judgment and death. And this is going to be ironclad in verses twelve through fourteen. The iron from the north is talking about the Babylonians who At that point in history, we're learning to make things with iron that came from the uh the the sea up there, the Black Sea. And so this iron from the north is talking about the Babylonians going to come with their weapons and judgment is going to fall upon the nation. And uh and so what's the the end result? Jeremiah did not get what he Asked for. God said no. God said judgment is certain. It's sealed. In fact, earlier on in chapter fourteen and verse eleven, God said, Don't look, Jeremiah, don't pray for these Don't even pray. Because we're past that. And yet Jeremiah prays. And so he's wrestling because of unfulfilled expectations. Expectation because of unanswered prayer. Then he wrestles for another reason because of we could call it undeserved suffering. Look in chapter 15, look in verse Number 10. And notice what it says: Woe is me, my mother, that I have can't uh has borne me a man of strife and a man of contention to the whole earth. Earth and essence, he's saying that, you know, um I'm a marked man. Uh everyone's out to get me. I'm a man of strife and contention to everyone. And the one thing that really seems Unfair to Jeremiah if you look at the latter part of verse ten. I have neither lent on uh ushery, nor men have lent to me on ushery, yet every one of them doth curse me. What he's saying There is that you know what? Uh I can understand if people didn't like me because I had outstanding debts. I owed them money. I can understand if if people lent to me And then I didn't pay them back. I could understand people hating me there. Or I can understand if I defaulted on a loan. Or I can understand if people let uh I lent other people a lot of money And because of that, they didn't want to be around me. Someone said if you want to lose a friend, just lend them money, you'll never see them again, right? Jeremiah said, I can understand if they hate me because I've given them a lot of money and charged them a lot of interest. Interest. But he's saying, I haven't done any of those things. I'm neither a borrower nor a lender. And yet these people want to kill me. Everybody seems to Want to get rid of me. Now in verse 15, Jeremiah acknowledges that God knew all about the situation, but if you read at the end of verse 15, it seems like there's a little self-pity that's creeping in. Jeremiah My prayer, because he says, Take me not away in thy long suffering. Know that for thy sake I have suffered rebuke. Did you catch that? Lord, you know why I'm going through this? It's because of you. For your sake. Because Lord, you're bringing this on me. Because I'm standing for you, I'm suffering. And so in essence what he's saying is, you know, I deserve a little bit better than this. Jeremiah, first of all, he didn't really want to be a prophet, and he certainly didn't want to preach a message of judgment. He would rather pre A more positive message, but this is what God told him to do. And Jeremiah was now suffering, and he's frankly saying, Lord, I don't deserve this. I Sign up for this. I deserve better than this. Do you ever say that to yourself? Lord, I don't deserve this. In fact, this is the next thing he wrestles with. We could say unrewarded obedience. Not only unfulfilled expectation, an unanswered prayer, and undeserved suffering, but there's another complaint He makes and that is unrewarded obedience. Because then he begins to talk about the fact that he's been obedient to God. He's been doing what God expected. Uh look at verse 16. Thy words were found, and I did eat them, and thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of my heart, for I am called by thy name, O Lord of hosts. What's Jeremiah saying? You know, God, uh, I've studied your word. I mean, I I rejoice over your word. I'm a good student of it. Your words were found whenever they've been revealed to me. I I dig in He wasn't being literally there, obviously. He didn't start chewing on a scroll or anything. But what does he mean? Lord, I'm I'm devouring your words. I'm getting into it. I'm re Eating it. It's not just an hors d'oeuvre. This is the main meal for me. And I am I'm filling up on it. I'm feasting in the word and I'm rejoicing in it. I'm delighting in it. That's a man who is an obedient man who loves God's word, who wants to live it out. And so uh Jeremiah says that. And then Notice where he says, so we could say he was saturated with the word of God, but also he was separated from the world. Look at verse 17. I sat not in the assembly of the mockers, nor rejoiced I sat Alone because of thy hand, for thou hast filled me with indignation. Jeremiah saying, Look, I'm not a partier God. I don't sit in the company of revelers. I don't rejoice with sin people and laugh at their dirty jokes. I don't hang around with those kind of people. No, I stay to myself. I'm a loner. I don't want to be around God, you have taught me to hate that kind of stuff. You've taught me to hate the behavior of the world, the crude behavior of the mockers and those who hate you I don't hang around with them, God. I stay home. I stay to myself. In fact, you really you can compare Jeremiah to the man in Psalm 1. Blessed is a man That walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinner, nor sitteth in the seat of scornful, but his delight is in what? The law of the Lord. That's exactly Jeremiah right here. He's delightful He delights in God's word. He doesn't hang with the wrong people. And he gave up any of that worldliness. But Jeremiah wanted something back. He wanted something back because of it. And if that's true of me, then he's questioning God. Then God, why aren't you blessing me? Look at verse 18. Why is my pain perpetual? And my we Wound incurable, which refuses to be healed. Wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar? And as waters that fail? That's pretty strong. Wrong there. God, are are you deceiving me? Will you be unto me as a liar? And as waters that fail? Now I don't know about you, but that causes me to cringe a little bit When I read that. Jeremiah again, he's very transparent. God, have you deceived me here? Are you like a spring that fails? I mean in chapter two, God was called the Fountain of living water, and it seems like Jeremiah is saying, Lord, it's more like you're kind of like a a wadi that's filled during the raining season, but then during the rest of the year it's dry The waters have failed. I'm like the man planted by the rivers of water, but the rivers are gone. And it seems like I'm not being blessed. And again, these are these are kind of strong And so that's the question that Jeremiah is saying, God have You let me down here. And again, I ask you, have you ever had those thoughts? Now, let me give you the second part of this, because Jeremiah's had his opportunity now to voice his His strivings, his wrestlings, his complaints, his arguments. And now God is going to answer. And notice what God says. Here's the second part that does Defense of God. God does answer Jeremiah. And I want to focus on these answers here because these can be helpful to you and to me. If we ever become disillusioned Because of the circumstances around us. And let me just start off by saying this: God never lets us down. Never. And if you have a thought in your mind that God has let you down, I promise you this, you're not seeing things correctly. You're certainly not seeing it from a biblical perspective. And here's what What God is going to say to Jeremiah. First of all, you're coming, Jeremiah, you're coming to me with the wrong perspective. Again, God never lets his people People down. Jeremiah had it all wrong. If anything, it was Jeremiah that was letting God down. You ever hear that old story? I think it applies here, you know, the captain of A ship is on a foggy night and he sees another ship out there in the distance, and so he radios and says, you know, turn your ship fifteen degrees to the north. And the ship radios back, you turn your ship fifteen degrees to the south And the captain doesn't like that. And he radios back and says, you know, hey, I'm a captain. Turn your ship 15 degrees to the north. And the guy radios back and says, you turn your ship 15 degrees to the south And then he radios back and he says, This is a battleship. Turn your ship 15 degrees to the north. And the guy radios back and said, This is a lighthouse. You turn your ship 15 degrees to the south You know, and in this story here with Jeremiah, God is like the lighthouse. God's doing what he's supposed to do. God's being faithful to his nature, his holy nature He cannot and he will not move. He will not change his holy nature. Jeremiah is like that battleship, and his faith was heading for shipwreck unless he changed his direction. Or we could say changed his per uh perception. And so the first thing that God tells Jeremiah is Listen, Jeremiah, you need to repent. You need to repent. Look in chapter 15. Look down at verse 19. Therefore, thus saith the Lord If thou return, then I will bring thee again, and thou shalt stand before me, and if thou take forth the precious from the vial, thou shalt be as my My mouth let them return unto thee, but return not thou unto them. And so what's God saying? Jeremiah, you need to return You need to repent of what you're thinking. And if you utter what is precious and not what's worthless, I'll let you be my mouthpiece, my prophet. But if you continue in this way, in a sense God is saying you're going to forfeit your ministry, uh, you know, Jeremiah comes to God and Jeremia says, you know, God, I've done this and I Done that, and Lord, you owe me this, and God says, Oh, wait a minute here, Jeremiah. You need to back up. And you can start by confessing your own sin. You can start by repenting God tells Jeremiah, repent. Repent of this negative thinking that you're doing. These things that you're dwelling on. These negative Negative thoughts, these negative emotions. You know, that's exactly what God's telling them. You know the problem sometimes with God's people is we have a tendency to ponder all of the negative things around us instead of focusing on the blessings of God. And that's how our emotions get all out of sorts, and then our emotions begin to control us, and we begin to have all these, and God says, Jeremiah, you need to re Repent of all that. Stop that. And stop speaking what is vile or worthless and start uttering what is precious. Repent of all And then on the heels of this, God gives Jeremiah a promise. Look in verse 19. Therefore, thus says the Lord, or verse 20 rather, jump down there, and I will make thee unto this people a thing Against brazen wall, and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee. For I am with thee to save thee, to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Sound familiar to you? This is exactly what Jeremiah God said to Jeremiah in chapter 1. When God originally called Jeremiah, Jeremiah, I'm going to make you like a defense wall And they're gonna fight against you, but they're not gonna be able to overcome you. Why? Because I am with you, Jeremiah. I'm with you. You know there's a great lesson here, and this is what it is When God's people get out of sorts in their thinking and they embrace all this negative thoughts and attitudes and think about instead of the blessings of God, all the problems, they get their eyes off of the Lord and they get discouraged. You know, sometimes God's people they come to God at that state and they say, Lord, I I need a new revelation and I need a new experience. And you know what God says? That's not what you need. What you need is to be reminded of what I Already said. You need to be reminded of the promises I've already given you. And this is what God does. God doesn't give us new revelations or new mountaintop experiences What does God do? He gives us a new enlightenment of the old promises that he's already given us. And this is what God's doing for Jeremiah. This is already what God said. He already promised them this. And this is what we need most. We need to remember God's promises. Spiritual renewal comes from hearing again the promises of God, the promises that But he has already made us in Christ Jesus. What he's already given us. We need to go back to those promises. God has promised not only to save us But to sanctify us and to protect us and to do good in our life. You understand if you're a Christian, God's already doing all these things in your life. And God Reminds us of this. So he says, Jeremiah, you are coming to me with the wrong perspective. But here's the second thing. You're focusing on the wrong problem. You're focusing on you know, the uh the evil that's around, the suffering for sin. But God says, you have to remember, Jeremiah, I I'm not absent and I'm not inactive. Go back to chapter 14, look at verse Verse 10 real quick. Thus saith the Lord unto his people, thus have they loved to wander. They have not refrained their feet. Therefore the Lord doth not accept them. He will now remember their iniquity and visit their Sins. God is not absent. He's not inactive. It's just that right now God has said to Jeremiah, look, Jeremiah, these people haven't repented Outwardly they might look like it. They might go through some ritual. There are some people like that. They they get into sin and then they go through some religious ritual expecting God just to wipe the slate so they can go out and continue Doing what they want to do. But there's no repentance there. And God's not going to be manipulated by religious ritual. And so the problem is not God being Inactive. The problem is there has been no real repentance. People like to say, well, you know, the reason I am the way I am is because look at all the evil and sin in the world. Listen, friend And that's not God's fault. That's the hardness of man's heart. That's the sin of man. People like to lay that before God. A few days ago I was at the car And I said, I'm a pastor. And he said, Oh, so you're Yeah, it's a wise guy. And then later on he came to me and said, you know what, I I really have some questions. I'd really like to talk to you. I said And then he began to talk about part of the reasons he struggles with God is because of all the evil that is in the world. Their evil and suffering. And you know what the problem is? You're looking, you're putting the blame in the wrong place. It's not God, it's the sinfulness of man. I say to the guy, the problem is not God, friend, the problem is you My sin, your sin. It's mankind. And that's what God is saying to Jeremiah. Jeremiah, you're coming to me and you're questioning me about the suffering, but have you forgotten that the uh the hardness Of the heart of all these people that refuse to truly repent and come to me, that's the reason for the suffering. It's because of man's sin. You're focused. Focusing on the wrong problem here. And then here's another thing: you're listening to the wrong message. Because what was going on at the same time, well, there were false prophets back there. Look at chapter 14 Look at verse thirteen. Then said I, Ah, Lord God, Behold the prophet said unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, nor shall ye have famine, but I will give you assured peace in this place. And it's almost Like Jeremiah is saying, you know, God, we can't just blame the people because we got all these prophets out there saying, you know, peace is coming and the sword's not going to come and everything's going to be great and something good's going to happen to you And what does God say? God says, look, I didn't send those guys. You're listening to the wrong message. I think there's a sense of even Jeremiah was confused. You know what false preaching does to people or people who or preachers who don't preach the word of God, you know what it does to people? It just totally confuses them. Because for everyone that stands up and preaches the true gospel, and the true gospel Says God is a holy God. And by the way, if God was not holy, we wouldn't need the gospel. That we wouldn't need salvation. But since God is holy and he must judge sin And he will not let sin go unpunished. That's where we need the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's where we need a Savior. But we have all these people out there that they don't want to preach the holiness of They just want to preach all positive and good and and everything great is going to happen to you. And there's just a handful that are preaching holiness and wrath and justice. Therefore we need the mercy of Christ in the cross. And that's why people are confused. Because you have a hundred prosperity, health, wealth, and prosperity preachers Out there that are not preaching the true gospel. They've watered down the gospel, and we're and we're preaching a Christeless Christianity. People are confused. And God says to Jeremiah, look, I haven't sent these prophets. They're not from me. They're not speaking in my name. And as a matter of fact Uh they're not even going to have a decent burial when I'm done with them. Chapter fourteen, verse sixteen. And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast in the street of Jerusalem. Um and he God's going to judge heavily those who are preaching a false gospel A false message. You're listening to the wrong people. Let me just tell you something, folks. Be careful who you listen to. Make sure they're preaching the word. And then finally, here's Here's the last thing. You're dependent upon the wrong intercessors, or we could say wrong people. Because God again made it clear Clear, the people of Judah, they're under the sentence of judgment. That's not going to change. And Jeremiah's unanswered prayer really teaches us two important spiritual lessons. And here's the first one. God God doesn't always give us what we ask for. And that's a reality that we have to deal with. You know, sometimes we have people that think, you know, if I pray this certain way and and do this thing, then you know, God has God has to give me what I want. And friend, God doesn't have to do anything. He's sovereign. The Bible says in Psalm 115, verse 3: But our God is in the heaven and he does whatever he pleases. He doesn't have to answer to us. Now again, he is merciful, he's kind, he's gracious. And does he answer our prayers? Yes, he does. For the most part, he grants us gracious As we pray in the name of Jesus according to the will of God, He answers our prayers. But friend, God reserves the right anytime he wants to to say no. I have a different purpose in mind. And this isn't going to be what I want. And we have to submit to that. We have to say, okay, God, you know, that's what prayer is. It's a submission to ultimately the will of God. But here's the other thing that we learn. Jeremiah's failure is this that you know basically none of the Intercessors that God referred to here in the Old Testament are going to be able to help them. Every sinner needs not the prayers of great Old Testament prophets We need the prayers of Jesus. He's the only one who gets all of his prayers answered. You say, oh, you know, Moses, certainly Moses was a great man of prayer. Yeah, he was You remember Mount Horeb when the people rebelled and did that you know golden calf episode and God said, I'm gonna destroy them, and Moses interceded and God relented and said, Okay. And then again in Numbers 14 when They refused to go over into the promised land. Again, Moses prayed and interceded, and God didn't judge them. I mean, Moses was two for two about as far as saving power in prayer. That's pretty good And then Samuel, the Bible mentions Samuel in chapter 15, verse 1. Samuel prayed for Israel at at Mizpah, and God saved Israel there. But God says here in this situation, neither the prayers of Moses or Samuel could help these people. And Jeremiah, you're a good person in prayer, but your prayer You know what this really teaches us? There's a limitation to these Old Testament prophets and what they can do. There's a limitation in what men of God can do. Can do. Let me tell you something, friend. Don't put all your hope and trust in men. But you know what they needed? They needed a savior. They needed someone who could save these people from their sins. They could pray for their sins. These Old Testament prophets could pray for their sins, but they could not atone for their sins. Only Jesus could atone for their sins. And in Jesus Christ, we have someone who not only just atones for our sins, but you know what else he does? He prays for us. He is our great intercessor. And friend, he offers then both the sacrifice for sin and intercession. That means therefore, listen to Hebrews seven twenty five. Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for Them. So get back, Moses. You can't help them. And step aside, Samuel. And move out of the way, Jeremiah. Jesus Is our intercessor. He's the one that we look to. Let Jesus Christ stand before the Father to plead salvation for lost sinners to plead your case for you because let me tell you about Jesus. He never loses a case. Never. And so here's the bottom line. How can you say that God has let you down when you have Christ As your intercessor. And he is praying for you. And I want to tell you something, friend. I don't know what you're going through right now. I don't know what your trial is or your problem. I do know this: you have an intercessor praying for you And he's not going to let you down. And he's going to bring you through this. That's Jesus Christ. He's the main reason why it is impossible. For God to ever let us down. And He will not ever let His people down. We have a mighty Savior who loves you very much. Let's bow for prayer tonight.