James Chapter 1. Isn't it wonderful that we have the Word of God? This is what we believe, what we hold to. James Chapter 1, the passage we read a moment ago And this morning I want to talk about when trials overwhelm us. This is what James is talking about here in chapter one. In the book How to Get Up When Life Knocks You Down The author just talked about several people who talked about their setbacks, their trials. And one person wrote this, My husband was a brilliant, gifted man. With an incredible career, he suffered a massive stroke. He was only 47 with no history of bad health. Now his gifts are gone. He is learning to speak again. We were were financially set, but I agonize over how he feels, trapped inside himself, unable to communicate even the simplest things. And then another person wrote this, there's never been a history of cancer in my family. I eat right, I exercise, I've taken care of my body better than most. How could this happen to me, they say And then another person wrote, I went from my father's house to my mother's house, or excuse me, my husband's house, excuse me. I thought I would be married the rest of my life. I'm afraid I don't know how to adjust to life alone. These are just a few illustrations for some people that were just hit with a trial and they're overwhelmed by the trial that they're in. And I don't know, that might be you today. Perhaps you're here today, beloved, and you're in a trial, you're overwhelmed by the trial that you're in. Well, if that's your condition, then James, the book of James is for you. James has some really good advice for us And I want to give that advice to you here today. Now, again, let's talk a little bit about James. Remember, James is the half-brother of the Lord Jesus, the one who wrote this letter. He got saved. He believed that Jesus was more than just a man, that he was God. And he surrendered to the Lordship of Christ in his life. And who's he writing to? In verse 1, it says to the twelve tribes scattered abroad. And this is really a figurative term. This is talking about the church. Many were scattered because they were going through severe persecution. They were going through adversity. We saw this last week. Look in verse 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptations. And the word temptations means trials. And the idea behind the word fall here is something that happens suddenly. This word is only used three times in the New Testament, and it has the idea of something that just comes upon you swiftly. Savagely, that you just get news, something happens, wham, you're hit by a trial, and you're overwhelmed by the trial. Well, I want you to see four instructions that James gives us here today that will help us when we're overwhelmed by a trial. And here's the first one. If you're taking those right down, number one, ask for wisdom. Just ask God for wisdom. Look in verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let them ask of God, they give it to all men liberally, and upbraid it not, and it shall be given him So what should you do when you are overwhelmed? The very first thing Pastor James says is to ask God for wisdom. Get wisdom from God. Now why wisdom? Well, it's interesting that James says ask for wisdom. He doesn't say ask for strength or ask for grace or ask for deliverance. All those things are important. But the first thing he says is ask God for wisdom. And you know why? Because in the trial, God is trying to teach you something. The trial doesn't, it's not without purpose. God doesn't give a trial arbitrarily. No, he has a purpose in it. He wants you to learn something valuable. There's a spiritual truth. There's a maturity he's trying to bring about in your life. And so if you're going through a trial, what do you want to do? You want to know what God wants you to learn, right? You want to know what is he doing in my life or your life So you ask for wisdom. You know why? Because if you don't pass a test, what do you have to do? You've got to take it over again. I don't know about you, but I don't want to take the test over again. We see people in the Bible that had to do that, Abraham. If you read the life of Abraham, it seemed like he was going through some of the same things Again and again. And yet God is patient with us. Thank God He is. He will repeat it, but He wants us to learn. And so the very first thing that we need to do is we need to say, Lord, give me wisdom. I need your wisdom. I want to know what you're saying through this trial. Write down Proverbs 15, 31. The ear that heareth the reproof of life. Abideth among the wise. Are you listening to what the reproof that you're suffering, what is it trying to teach you? Spirit Zodiades wrote this, this great Greek scholar. He said, How can I use and not merely bear the particular cross Which divine providence places on my shoulders. And that's the idea. So now when we talk about wisdom, what are we talking about? We're not talking about just knowledge. Wisdom is not just knowledge Knowledge is something that you can learn by looking around. Wisdom is something that you get by looking up. It's different from knowledge. You know, I know people that have a lot of degrees that are incredibly smart, but they don't really have wisdom from God. It there's a difference. I heard about a a a gold miner, he had several mines, he had a son that he put through school, his son got a diploma. in that kind of work and then when his son graduated he said now son I'm going to bring you back to our family business. You're going to start at the bottom, you're going to work your way up. And he said, Dad, with all due respect, I have a diploma now. He said, I I know more than most of these people here. And so the father, against his best judgment, gave his son the best mine. And a few weeks later, he telephoned his dad. He wired him a message, Dad, our mine is backed up next to the lake. There's a hole in the mine. Water is seeping in. What should I do? And the father didn't respond. He said, Dad, I need your counsel. We are, you know, we're losing this mind. What should I do? And still the father didn't respond. And finally the son wired a third time. He said, Dad, if you don't give me a response, we're going to lose this mind. What should I do? And the father finally wired back and he said, stick your diploma in that hole. I think the son got the point. There is a knowledge that comes from diplomas and education, and I'm not against that. That's important. But the wisdom that we're talking about here in James is a wisdom that comes from God. It doesn't come from anywhere else. It comes from the Lord. Knowledge is learned. Wisdom is given. Knowledge comes by looking around Wisdom comes by looking up. And so it's this wisdom that James is talking about here. Notice, first of all, the shortage of it. Look in verse 5. If any of you lack Wisdom. The if here, Greek scholars tell us this is a first-class condition. What does that mean? It means it is a standing fact. In other words, we don't have the wisdom that we need. I don't know about you, but I need more wisdom from God. When a trial comes, I don't have the wisdom I need. And so the first thing I have to do is I have to go to God. Remember, these trials are designed to make us complete Whatever the missing pieces are, God wants to add them to our life so that we are complete and entire, lacking nothing, James says. So I I realize I need it. There's a shortage of it. Then there's the source of it. Again, look in verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. And this is really an imperative in the Greek. It's not a suggestion, it's really a command. You ask God. He's the source of wisdom. People are looking for wisdom all over the world today, but they're not looking in the right places. Wisdom it comes from God. He's the source of it. When I think about this, I think about the story of Solomon in the Bible. You remember that story in the Old Testament in 1 Kings chapter 3 and 4? Talk about a time of testing. Solomon is now the king. His father David had died. Solomon was appointed the next king. His brother tried to usurp his throne. He uh was trying to undermine him. There were others trying to undermine him, and also the nation was growing in population. And the government administration for that smaller nation was no longer sufficient. There had to be more planning. Wartime was over. There was a baby boom that was taking place in Israel. All these things were happening Money was left to Solomon to use that money to build a new temple. He had to determine that and decide that. It just seemed like the weight of the world was on Solomon at that time. On April the 12th, 1945, Harry Truman received a message to come to the White House. It said, come as quickly as you can, and come quietly as you can. Well Truman was thinking that the president had a special job for him, but when he got to the White House He was brought into the sitting room and Mrs. Roosevelt said, the president is dead, Harry. You're now the president. And he was silent for a moment. And finally he said, Mrs. Roosevelt, is there anything I can do for you? And she said, no, Harry, is there anything I can do for you? You're the one in trouble now. Because you have to remember that was during World War II. We had a war on each side. with the with the Japanese and the Germans and all these responsibilities and Truman said I felt like the sun and the moon and the stars and all the planets had fallen upon me. Well that's probably how Solomon felt Now what did he do? He didn't hire a consultant. He didn't appoint a cabinet. He didn't go to the bookstore and try to find the latest book on how to be a king. He didn't go to the nearest conference on kingship. What did he do? The Bible says he went to Gibeon. He sacrificed to the Lord. That was a way of worship. And he laid before the altar all night. Why did he do that? Because back in that day they believed that the God that you worshiped, if you lay before the altar all night, that that God would speak to you. And God who is gracious and condescending spoke to Solomon. And this is what he said. Solomon, ask what you want me to give you. How would you like to have that offer from God? Here's a blank check. What do you need? And you know what Solomon said? Solomon said, Lord, I am just a child. And the word for child there is a dependent child, na'er katan. I'm just a little child I don't know how to go out and come in. And that's a Hebrew idiom for leadership. David knew how to go out and come in. Joshua knew how to go out and come in. Solomon said, Lord, I don't know how to go out and come in. I'm not a leader. And he said, Lord, give me wisdom. And you know what? God was pleased with that request. And the Bible says God made him wise. In fact, the rest of the first kings really is one story after another of Solomon's administrative wisdom, judicial wisdom, all the wisdom that he had. In fact, he had so much wisdom that other kings began to come and listen to him Where did he get that from? He got that from God. God gave him the wisdom in a time of testing. And friend, God will do that for you. in the midst of your trial. Notice the supply of it in verse 5. He says, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God to give it to all men liberally. And upgrade it not. When you ask God for wisdom, he likes that request, and he will give you a lot of it. He will give you more than you need. That's the way God gives. Ask and it shall be given you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. God is generous. in the way that he gives. And notice where it says in verse 5, and uprighteth not, which simply means God's not going to rebuke you or insult you. You ever ask for something and someone kind of make you feel bad for asking it They kind of give in a way where you feel ashamed. God's not like that. When God gives to you, he does it in such a gracious way. He never upgrades you. He smiles upon this request. And he gives liberally. And notice the surety of it. Look again in verse 5. And it shall be given him. There's an air of authority and certainty in those words. When the trials come, ask God for wisdom. And he will give it to you. But here's the second thing. Not only ask for wisdom, but here's number two. Here's the second instruction, James tells us. Number two, don't be a doubter. Don't be a doubter. Look in verse 6. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering For he that waverth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Now not only does James tell us what to ask for But now he tells us how to ask. Let him ask in faith. When we come to God, we're to come without doubting. James says, don't doubt God. in this time. When you're overwhelmed with trials, don't doubt him. Come asking and believe. Now James is a master of metaphors. You'll see that as you read throughout this letter. He uses so many illustrations to get his point across. And here he uses the illustration of a sea wave in verse number six. For he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. So he compares a doubter to a sea wave. Now we who live here in Maryland on you know the edge of the coast, we should understand seaways, right? You ever been out on a boat in the bay or the ocean? You know, my father has a boat from time to time. I went out on the boat with him and my brothers would go fishing and I remember one occasion it was really getting stormy, the winds were coming in and and uh You know, I was kind of afraid to be honest with you and saw these dark clouds and the winds picking up and I said to my dad, Dad, you see those clouds, it's gonna rain. He said, You're right, son. So he opened up a door in the boat and put on a raincoat and then threw his line back in the water That's that's not the response I was hoping for. Why, because the wind started picking up and that boat went up and down, up and down. It's like you're on a roller coaster, right? Up and down, up and down. This is what James is saying a doubter is like. A doubter is like a sea wave You're up one moment, you're believing, and then you're down the next moment, you're doubting. Someone said it takes a doubter, a mountain load of faith, to move a mustard seed. Because you're constantly doubting. Someone said a doubter is spiritually bipolar. You're wavering. And by the way, the word for doubt here is the Greek word diakrino. Dia, which means to through or to divide into. Krino, where we get the word cranium, and it means to think. And so literally it means to think twice. To think twice. And this is the word that's used. Remember when Peter was walking on the water? He saw Jesus out there in a distance, and Peter said, Lord, bid me come under the water with thee. And Jesus said, Come. He was one word. He obeyed one word of God, and he was walking on water. Stepped out of the boat and you know what he started looking around and you know his next thought was I can't walk on the water He took his eyes off the Lord, put his eyes on the circumstance, and the Bible says he began to sink. And he called out, Lord, help! And immediately Jesus came to his side. He was right there And he reached forth his hand and he said, Peter, why did you, diacrino, why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. You believed and you were walking on water, but that second doubt, that second thought of doubt came in, and you fell beneath the circumstance. And that's what a doubter is, someone who thinks twice They doubt the Lord. And James says, listen, don't doubt God when the trials overwhelm you. Ask for wisdom. but ask in faith. The great Scottish preacher, Dr. Guthrie, prayed in the morning service for rain because the farmers in that area needed rain. And when he got ready to go to a church in the evening service, his daughter said, Dad, where's your umbrella? And he said, What? He said, It's not raining. I don't need an umbrella. She said, You prayed for rain, Dad. Where's your umbrella? And he was rebuked. And he got his umbrella. And guess what? He needed it. Because it rained that night. A doubter is someone who prays for rain and doesn't carry an umbrella. That's what James is saying. Listen when you ask, ask in faith. Look at verse 8. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Don't be double-minded. Ask and believe. And so here's the first thing. Ask for wisdom. Number two, don't be a doubter. But here's the third thing: count your blessings. Count your blessings. Look at verse 9. Let the br the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, but the rich And that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat. But it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perishes, so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. Now James begins to write here about the poor and the rich Now, why does he talk about this in the context of testing? Why does he bring up the poor and the rich? It's because these are the two categories of people that he's writing to. They fall into these categories. He was writing the people who are poor and some who are rich. And some of the poor people were victims of the persecution. that they had fallen into. And they lost everything. One commentator said this. Many of them, no doubt had once been at least well off financially, but had their homes and other p possessions confiscated and had to leave them behind when they were fleeing their persecutors and at this time their common lot was poverty. And so he talks about this issue of of material things and money. And by the way, that's going to be one of the biggest trials and tests that we face sometimes in life. Is money or the lack of it? It's a time of testing for us. Our response to these things matter I heard about a grandpa who won one million dollars into sweep states and the family was afraid to tell him because he had such a weak heart and they didn't want to give him a heart attack. So they they said, well, you know the pastor, he has such a good way with words and we'll we'll ask the pastor to tell him. And the pastor said, sure, I'll go by and tell him. And so he went by Grandpa's house and They were both sitting on the front porch rocking. It was a beautiful day. And he thought, I'll just casually talk. And they were making conversation. And so finally, he just casually said to grandpa, Grandpa, what would you do if you want a million dollars? And the pastor said, oh that's easy, grandpa, that's easy. Or the grandpa said, that's easy, Pastor. I I would give it all to the church. And the pastor dropped out of a heart attack. Did you know that eighty-nine percent of all family discord is related to money? 80% of all divorces are due to money. Someone wrote, theirs was a perfect marriage except for one feminine flaw. He was fast on the deposit, but she was quicker on the draw. A lot of our trials and testings in life are going to come with our attitude towards material things. And here, James is saying Think about the blessings that you have. First he talks to the poor. Look in verse 9 again. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. Now you might be here and you might not have a lot of this world's goods. You might not have a big bank account. But you know what? You should rejoice. Why? Because if you know the Lord Jesus, you're exalted. You say, how? Because don't you realize that if you're in Christ, you have all things? That Jesus is the heir of God and we're joint heirs with Christ? And we are rich because we know the Lord Jesus Christ? Friend, we know the bread of life. We we might be hungry, but we have the bread of life. A poor man might be thirsty, but he has the water of life. We have eternal riches. And that's what he's saying here. If you're in Christ, you're richer than Donald Trump. You're richer than Bill Gates. The Bible says this in 2 Corinthians 8:9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty you might be rich. So you're highly exalted in Jesus But now he also talks to the rich now. He says to the poor, you are exalted. He says to the rich, you are made low. Look in verse 10. But the rich, and that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. And what is James saying here? He's saying, the rich man is also to rejoice. Why? Because he's lost earthly riches? No. Because he has a lot of earthly riches? No. But because now, because he's in Christ, he can correctly evaluate earthly riches. It's not as much as what people think they are. Money will never get you out of your problems. Money doesn't solve problems Riches can buy marriage, but it can't buy love. It can buy four years of college, but it can't buy an education. It can hire a doctor, but it can't make you well. It could take you just about anywhere except heaven. There's a limit to it. You add up everything that money cannot buy and everything that death cannot take away. If you have that, that's how rich you really are. And so what does salvation do? What does Christianity do for the rich man? It helps them to properly assess His riches before God. And that is that eternal values, eternal things are much more significant than material things. That you have Jesus is so much more than riches. Well someone says, well, money talks. That's right, it says goodbye. Look look in verse look in verse uh ten again, but the rich in that he is made low, watch this, because as the flower of the grass He shall pass away. Verse 11 for the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withers the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perishes. so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. That is, these temporal values, these temporal things, they don't last a long time. They're like the the flower of the field. It's short-lived When the sun comes out, it just withers it up and it's gone. They're gone before you know it. Your real riches are in knowing Jesus. That's what he's saying. So James says, ask for wisdom. Number two, don't be a doubter. Number three, count your blessings. But here's the last thing he says, focus on your reward. Number four, focus on your reward. Look in verse 12: Blessed is a man that endures temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. And so here James is saying, focus on the crown of life, that reward that God has for you. If you go through trials and you do it patiently. And you focus on the Lord and you pass the test, there is a reward, there's the crown of life. And this is here referring to the victor's crown that back in these days you would win at a game, at an Olympic game. They would give you this wreath, this crown But did you know that believers will get crowns in heaven? And this is called the crown of life. And this is for those what's the what's the qualification for this crown? Look again in verse 12, which the Lord shall has promised to them that what love him. You see, this is the issue right here. The requirement is that we love God, and the this is present tense in the Greek. A continual love for God. That's the idea. Let trials draw you closer to the Lord. Let the trials cause you to love God even more. That's the idea. A man was riding on a train and saw a child playing in the aisle. He couldn't tell whose child it was, but the train went through a dark tunnel. And when it came out of the tunnel, he saw the child sitting on the lap of her father. You see, the the trial should cause you to run to the lap of God. When you go through that long dark tunnel. Elizabeth Prentice was the daughter of a great preacher. And she had a lot of trials throughout her life. She was strong in spirit, but she had a frail body. And she had a baby. And after a while, this baby died. Then she had another child. And that second child died. And so for weeks she was just inconsolable. And this is what she wrote in her diary, empty hands and a worn-out, exhausted body, and an unutterable longing to flee from a world that has so many sharp experiences. And for a time it looked as if she was just completely overwhelmed in her trial. But she began to read the scripture. And she began to read the Word of God, where it talked about asking God for wisdom, asking God for help. And she crawled into the lap of God And then she picked up a pen and she wrote down these words. More love to thee, O Christ. More love to thee. Hear thou the prayer I pray, unbended knee. This is my earnest plea. More love, O Christ, to thee. More love to thee, more love to thee. And then she wrote these words. Let sorrow do its work. She understood there was a purpose in the trials. Let sorrow do its work. Send grief and pain. Sweet are thy messengers, sweet their refrain, and when they can sing with me, more love, O Christ, to thee. More love to thee, more love to thee. And that's how you overcome the trial. That's how you pass the test When you focus on the Lord, the reward, but also you have more love. The crown of life is given to those who love the Lord. And so when you're overwhelmed with a trial, just remember these instructions that James gives us. Number one, ask for wisdom. Don't be a doubter. Count your blessings. Focus on your reward. Let's bow for prayer together. Lord, help us to apply these things to our life And I I pray for these who are here today, these your beloved people, your beloved sheep, your saints, some of which I would dare say are in the midst of a trial today. And maybe this morning they're overwhelmed. And Lord, they need your wisdom. Help them today, Lord. Help them to focus upon you, to ask in faith, to count their blessings, and Lord. To say like the hymn writer said, more love to thee, O Christ. How many people were here today and say, that's my prayer, I'm in a trial? I need God's wisdom, and I'm asking right now for that. Would you lift your hand and let me pray for you today Hands all over, God sees your need, my friend. He sees your need. Let me pray for you. Father, bless these, your children Give them what they need. Give them the wisdom that they desire. And help them, Lord, to understand what you're doing. So that they, Lord, can get in harmony, harmony with what you're trying to do in their life. And Lord, give them more love to thee. May they receive a crown of life for their faithfulness in the trial. Let me put your hands down. Maybe you're here today, and let me just give this invitation. Maybe that you're here today, you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior. Well, friend, that's the greatest test you'll ever take is what will you do with Jesus? Do you believe he's the Son of God? Do you believe that he died for your sins? Well then the question is what will you do about that? And friend, if you've never made a decision to trust Jesus as Lord and Savior, you're failing the test of life. This is the greatest test Would you be willing right there where you are to say, Yes, I'm a sinner and I need a Savior? And I want this very moment to ask Jesus into my heart. God has spoken to me. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand? Can I pray for you? Anyone here? Do you know that you know Jesus? As I look around, I don't see any hands raised. So that means that everyone here knows beyond any shadow of a doubt that you're going to heaven. Friend, if there's any doubt, don't put this off. And if you want to talk to us about this after the service, then you can come to one of us here, and we'll be glad, one of our pastors here on staff We'll be glad to talk to you about this. Father, bless these words to every hearing heart. We give you glory and honor and praise for what you're doing in our life. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.