Well good evening. Good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please, and open to the Old Testament Book of Judges We started a series in the book of Judges. We're calling this How to Be Faithful in a Faithless Time. And we're going to go be in Judges chapter two tonight. Judges chapter two. And we're going to Speak on this subject when a generation forgets God. Judges chapter two. Notice what it says in verse number one. And the angel of the Lord came from Gilgal to Bochim and said, I made you go out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land which I swear unto your fathers, and I said, I will never break my covenant with you, and ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land. Ye shall throw down their altars But ye have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this? This is a very sobering passage of Scripture And so I want to talk tonight about, therefore, when a generation forgets God. When a generation forgets God. Next year we're going to be celebrating 250 years as a nation. Not long after the American Revolution, the young United States began to drift from the faith that was really such a part of its birth, that guided its birth The founders of our country often spoke of divine providence, often spoke of dependence on God's wisdom and blessings, but within a few generations, prosperity had rip been replaced uh had replaced prayer. People were no longer seeking the Lord like they once did. Comfort had replaced conviction. Churches that once overflowed with worshipers were now pretty much empty and Very quiet. The people enjoyed the freedom that their fathers fought for, but they had forgotten the faith that their fathers lived by. And history calls that period a time of moral and spiritual decline. A nation that had forgotten its founder And yet out of that time, out of that darkness, God brought revival. We call this now the second great awakening, when God turned hearts back to him and revival swept the land. And the reason I mention that is because that pattern that we see here in Judges chapter 2. This chapter is very similar. After Joshua and that generation, uh had victory. Joshua later, he passes away. And then there comes another generation, the Bible says, that did not know God. They didn't know what the Lord had done for Israel. Here's the next generation. They're enjoying all the blessings that the former generation had fought for, but yet this next generation had forgotten God And when a nation forgets its founder, it falls into confusion, it falls into compromise, and worse. So this chapter here, Judges chapter two, is one of the most sobering passages in the Old Testament. It shows us what happens to a people Israel, remember, had seen God's mighty hand. They saw some of the great miracles, the miracles that were in Egypt, the miracles at the Red Sea, the miracle of the walls falling down at Jericho, all those things that happened under Moses and Joshua, and yet within one generation the Bible says there came along a a group of people that did not know the Lord And within one generation, the next generation, they're bowing before idols. This was not accidental. This was just simply forgetfulness. They forgot God. It's been said that Christianity is always one generation removed from extinction. It only takes one generation that forgets God. And so I want us to learn some lessons from this. This is why we have these stories in the Old Testament. The Bible says they're examples unto us, and so we can learn from these, so we don't make the same mistakes that others have made. So I want you to see where five critical areas where Israel forgot and where we must remember. We need to make sure we don't make the same mistake. And number one, they forgot the faithfulness of God. They forgot the faithfulness of God. Again, look in verse number one of chapter two. And an angel of the Lord came up from Gilgal to Bochim and said, I had I meant I made you go up out of Egypt And have brought you unto the land which I swear unto your fathers, and I said, I will never break my covenant with you. Now what we see here in these first few verses is that this angel of the Lord appears in two different places And these are very two significant places. First of all, the angel of the Lord appears at a place called Gilgal. Now Gilgal was a special location for Israel for many reasons. In fact, the word Gilgal, this place, is mentioned thirty-eight times in the Old Testament. This was the campsite that Israel first made when they entered into the promised land near Jericho. So when they crossed the Jordan and they were right ready to go conquer Jericho. The campsite was called Gilgal. Gilgal is a word that means rolling away because there's a sense in which when they crossed the Jordan River, they were rolling away the reproach of their past unbelief. Which is why they were not in the promised land already. And it was there at Gilgal that the Israelites erected a memorial of twelve stones. You might remember that in the book of Joshua. It was there at Gilgal that they celebrated the Passover It was there at Gilgal that the commander of the Lord of hosts met with Joshua and gave him the battle plans that he was to follow as they were to conquer Canaan. It was at Gilgal that Israel made commitments of faithfulness to God. Now here, many years later, the angel of the Lord appears again in this very spot. Now, by the way, this is the same angel that appeared in Joshua chapter 5, the commander of the Lord of hosts. This angel of the Lord is not just any angel. This is the what we would call a preincarnate appearance of Christ. This is a Christophany. When Christ appears in the Old Testament, you might say, well, how do we know that? Well First of all, when the angel speaks, he doesn't use the normal formula that a normal an angel, a messenger from God would use, for example We hear sometimes this expression, thus saith the Lord, and then they begin to speak. Well, this angel doesn't use that formula. In fact, what we see is the first person, I. Look again in verse number one, where he says, I made you go up out of Egypt and have brought you unto the land which I swear unto your fathers. And I said, I will never break my covenant with you. Again in verse three, wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out. You see the use of the word I over and over again. This is the language of God. This is God. This is the Uh angel of the Lord is Yahweh. It's a it's a pre-incarnate appearance of Christ. This is God speaking to them. And he's reminding them of how he had been faithful to them, that he had kept all of his promises He never broke the covenant. And yet, even though God was faithful to them in return, what was their response? They were not faithful to God. In fact, he reminds them, look in verse two, and ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land. Ye shall throw down their altars But you not have not obeyed my voice. Why have you done this? Israel did the opposite of what God commanded. They were in this covenant relationship with God. They were expected to obey. God was faithful. They were not They did not do what the Lord said. They did the opposite. Instead of tearing down the altars, they entered into agreements where they worshipped at those altars. And so the angel asked this good question in verse 2 Why have you done this? Why? They were they forgot that they were fighting a war with an enemy. The question we have to ask ourselves is, have we ever forgotten the faithfulness of God? God's been so faithful to us When we uh compromise with the world, we show that we've left lost sight of God's past goodness and faithfulness. And as a result of their disobedience, as a result of their f faithlessness God announces that he will not drive the Canaanites out. You see, when you forget God, it will cost you. It will cost you future victories. It'll bring trouble down upon us. Look at verse number three. Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you, but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their God shall be a snare unto you. Victory comes from God alone. If he doesn't grant victory, we will never have it. And here God says, He makes them another promise. This is not a good promise. He says that he will not, therefore, give them victory over the Canaanites. The Canaanites will be a snare unto them. The word snare here means to lay out a trap. That is, they would be an ongoing temptation. They would be an internal burden. The door would be open for self-destruction because of these Canaanites. They would be really the cause of their undoing And what we'll find out in the history of Israel is that eventually the Israelites end up worshiping the false gods of the Canaanites, and ultimately that brought destruction down upon Israel. This is exactly what God said would happen in the book of Joshua. God warned them if you forget me, then I will not drive the Canaanites out, and they will become a snare. And it will cause destruction. So there is Gilgal, where the angel appears and makes this solemn announcement But then the second place is Bokim. Look at verse number four. And it came to pass when the angel of the Lord spake these words unto all Israel, all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice and wept, and they called the name of that place Bokim. and they sacrifice there unto the Lord. The response of Israel's when they heard this announcement was to Now when it says the angel went from Gilgal to Bochum, it doesn't mean that he walked. It just simply means he appeared in both places. And I think there's a purposeful contrast here by the writer. He's contrasting Bochem with Gilgal. Gilgalskuse was the place where God had given victory because of their obedience to him. But now Bokan will be the opposite. It'll be the place where they will be de uh uh they will they will be given the promise of future defeat because of their disobedience. As one writer said, the phrase, from Gilgal to Bokim, expresses the decline of Israel from spiritual lofty heights to a pit of spiritual despair. And they respond to this in three ways, as we see here. First of all, they wept. It says in verse number four, they wept aloud. They lifted up their voice. This wasn't a quiet weeping, this was a loud wailing. And then secondly, they named that place Bokan, which means weepers, or we could say the place of the weepers This is a lesson to all of us that partial obedience always leads to boken, that leads to weeping. There is no joy or spiritual victory in half-hearted obedience. and compromise because all that is in reality is disobedience, it's unfaithfulness to God. Some people may be experiencing a bokum in their own life. Because they're not fully obeying the Lord as they should. It's sad to say, but I know Christians who are not enjoying their Christian life. Let me tell you, the most miserable people in the world are believers that are not obeying God. They're trying to live what one foot in the Christian life and one foot in the world. They are involved with sin in their life. They fail to spend time in God's Word. They fail to be in church with God's people, getting the encouragement from the people of God, they will not commit themselves fully to the Lord, and they are not enjoying their Christian life. That's the one of the one of the worst things that a person can experience is this lack of joy and peace because they're not walking with the Lord. And this was true true in the time of Judges And this is also true in our day today. Notice the other thing they did in verse number five was they offered a sacrifice unto the Lord, it says. the uh the that sacrifice would not change God's judgment that he gave upon them. That was going to happen regardless of what they did. You see the consequences for some sins we will have to pay for the rest of our life That should stop and make us think before we act. A man can jump out of the window and then on the way down think, you know, this wasn't a very good idea And on the way down can say, God, can you please forgive me for jumping out this window? Can he get forgiveness? Absolutely. God will forgive him. Is he still going to hit the ground? Yes, he's still going to hit the ground. Because God's forgiveness doesn't cancel out the law of gravity. And so it is with sin. There are some sins we commit, we have to pay the consequences, yet God is merciful even in that Yet here they will pay the devastating consequences of disobeying the Lord. They forgot the faithfulness of God. But here's the second thing. They forgot the example of a godly leader. Look at verse number six. And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land. And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the Lord that he did for Israel. And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being a hundred and ten years old, and they buried him in the border of his inherited inheritance at Timnath Haras in the mount of Ephraim. So these verses that we read here, verses 6 to 9, are really just a flashback. The writer is, you know, moving from where he is to flashing back to a time. Right when Joshua died. And this is the second time that the writer here mentions the death of Joshua. He mentioned it in chapter 1, but when he mentions it in chapter 1, he's giving this from the perspective of a historian. Here, when he mentions it in chapter 2, he's giving it from the perspective of a prophet. The first time he mentions the death of Joshua, he was talking about the military result of after Joshua's death. Historically what happened militarily, their failure to obey God's command in their military conquest. But here in chapter two, he's more interested in the spiritual impact Their disobedience, their unfaithfulness to the covenant with God. Joshua's life was a testimony of faith and courage. As long as he was alive, he guided the people, and the people followed in his example. But when he died, they forgot all that. They forgot the example that Joshua had set. And they began to serve their own interests rather than serving the Lord. So Moses passes the mantle of Joshua. Joshua is a faithful leader, but when Joshua dies, there's no one to pass the mantle to. There's no clear successor. And without that strong leadership, Israel quickly fell apart. You know what this makes me think about? All of us have been influenced by godly leaders in our life. Godly people. Thank God for godly pastors. Thank God for godly parents and teachers. But we have to realize that their example has to become our own conviction. We have to remember their example and we have to determine that we're going to walk like they walked. We're going to follow that pattern. Faith cannot live by proxy. Each believer has to know God for themselves. But here Israel forgot all about the godly leaders that they had before them, specifically Joshua, and they went their own way. So they forgot the faithfulness of God. They forgot the example of a godly leader. But here's number three. They forgot to teach the next generation. Look at verse number ten. And also and also all that generation were gathered under their fathers, and there arose another generation after them So here's this one generation, the generation of Joshua. This was a generation of people that were faithful. to God that obeyed his word, but all that generation died and they passed away. But now here's another generation coming behind them, and guess what? They didn't know the works which God had done for Israel. Now the problem here is that this new generation were ignorant. And we could say that this was a failure of the older generation to teach and to testify. There's a sense in which they dropped the baton. And by the way, God told them, that's why they set up memorial stones, because God said, you know, when your children ask you, what what means these stones? Why are these memorials here? Then you use that as a teaching lesson. You re tell them what happened. You tell them what the Lord did. This was God constantly telling that generation, teach your children. Teach your children about me. Let them know what I had done. And there's a sense in which this didn't happen. And because of that They forgot the Lord. They or they didn't know him in the to begin with. Like a relay race where the baton is dropped, they dropped the baton. Israel dropped it. So we have to take warning from this ourselves. Parents, grandparents, church leaders, we have to deliberately pass the truth down to the next generation. We have to teach them diligently. The Bible commanded this in Deuteronomy 6. 7, teach them diligently unto thy children. Guess what? If we don't decipher our children, the world will gladly decipher them. In fact, that's happening as I speak all over. One of the greatest ministries that a person could ever have is investing into the lives of our children. Teaching our children the Word of God, teaching them the gospel. That's why, thank God for Ministries Lake Iwana. Thank God for our Sunday school. For Bible drills and so on. We're always looking for people that we always need people that are willing to teach children, to invest in children. There's not a better way to spend your time than to teach children the truth of God's word. A famous principle that is observed by historians and sociologists is called the three-generation rule. And this is what it is. The first generation earns or experiences revival. The second generation enjoys it. And then the third generation forgets it. And you can see this pattern throughout history. We can see it in the history of our own country. The pilgrims and the Puritans of the early sixteen hundreds came to America. They came with a burning zeal for the glory of God and the gospel. It was reflected in their Covenants and compacts that they made. Our nation was founded based on biblical principles. I know there are secular historians that don't want you to believe that they try to rewrite the history, but the fact is that is true. That's why the pilgrims and the Puritans came here to America. But within a few generations, their descendants had grown spiritually cold. The conviction that the founders had flickered into compromise. That's exactly what we see here in Judges 2, verse number 10. We could also see this in the Reformation in Europe. When the Reformation came and the gospel was rediscovered, Germany and England had revival. There was great work that was being done with the gospel. Biblical convictions were guiding the lives of people. But within a few generations Much of Europe drifted back into cold formalism. By the 18th century, Germany, the land of Luther had embraced rationalism instead of revelation. The Bible was replaced for man-made philosophy. And the mind became God. The grandchildren of the reformers forgot the gospel that their grandfathers had died for. And by the way, we're seeing this same cycle here in America today. We're seeing the exact same thing happen. Again, at the beginning of our nation, our nation was informed by Scripture Even those who were not Christians were guided by the values of God's Word. Our laws were based upon the Word of God. Scripture informed our laws, Scripture informed our education, Scripture informed our morality. But in recent decades, all of that has been forgotten. All of it's been forgotten. The Bible has been removed from the schools. Prayer has been removed from schools. Prayer has been removed from the government in many places. We have elected officials that want nothing to do with the Word of God or God. Many young people today are spiritually illiterate. They know nothing about the Bible. They know nothing about Adam and Eve and the story of why redemption is necessary. Like Israel in Judges' days, we have raised a generation that knows not the Lord. And it's a very, very dangerous thing. Sociologists call this generation the nuns. Not the N-U-N-Nuns, but the N-O-N-E nuns. Why? Well, because when you ask them what is their religious affiliation, they say none. have any. I'm not part of any church. Um I don't believe in God or I don't have anything to do with religion. They are the nuns. And today they make up nearly one third of adults that are under thirty. thirty. One third of adults under thirty say, I have no religious affiliation whatsoever. That is the spiritual and moral equivalence of Judges 2. 10 that is happening right here in our country, here in America. And I'll tell you what else we're seeing, we're seeing the rise of neopaganism. When America abandons Christianity, it doesn't become neutral. That void will be filled by Satan and by evil. You say, why do you say that? Remember in the New Testament when Jesus taught the story about that vacant house? Here was a house that was occupied by a demon spirit and it was cast out. And that spirit went out looking for another haunt, another place to live, and he couldn't find it. But he came back to his old haunt, and guess what he found? That it was swept, it was clean, and he thought, I'll just go back to my old house And he said, this time I'm going to bring seven others more wicked than me. And that void was filled by a worse group of spirits. And Jesus was using that illustration to talk about that generation of Jews that when Jesus came during his ministry, all the miracles that he did casting out Satan and binding Satan, that left a vacuum. And that vacuum was when when it wasn't filled by Jesus The idea was when Jesus came to that generation, what were they supposed to do? They were supposed to receive them as Lord and King, but they didn't And when the house was empty and it remained empty, what moved in were seven more spirits that were more evil. Same thing's happening in America. We are seeing again the rise of a neo-paganism. America was a pagan country before the pilgrims came with the gospel, and then God brought revival because of it. But now what's happening is we're witnessing a revival of ancient pagan ideas in modern dress. We're witnessing a neo-paganism in America. And that's a very, again, a very dangerous thing. There's been a failure to transmit the word of God, the works of God. And most churches today, they're more concerned about entertaining their audiences than teaching them the Word of God and discipling them with the gospel. The way it's what's really the important thing with churches today is how can we fill the building? And pragmatism is the thing. Whatever it takes. Even if it's just entertain and mix in a little bit of scripture, we're more concerned about entertaining than we are about the truth of the And again, that is we're gonna we're seeing the consequences of that because we're seeing those who even claim to be Christians, it's a superficial expression of faith that's not real. And they don't really know the Lord at all. I know that sounds pretty pessimistic and I don't mean to. I just want you to rem I want to remind you that in the book of Judges, you know what we see constantly? God raising up Judges raising up deliverers. Why? Well, because God is constantly calling his people back. And God wants to bring revival if we want it He wants to do something new if we'll desire it. The same God who raised up those judges is still calling his people to repentance and renewal. And that's what we need to do. But let me move on to number four. They forgot the faithfulness of God. They forgot the example of a godly leader. They forgot to teach the next generation. Number four, they forgot the holiness of God. Look at verse eleven. And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam. And they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt and followed other gods. of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the Lord to anger. And they forsook the Lord and served Baal and Ash. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he delivered them in the hands of spoilers. Having forgot God's faithfulness and that failed to train their children, Israel quickly plunged into idolatry. And the Bible says they served Baal. And this was all evil in the sight of the Lord. Who was Baal? And sometimes we see the word Baalin, which is really the plural form. Baal was this God who supposedly was, they called him the the uh Balaam means Lord, but he was called the the uh the god of fertility or the god of uh thunder and rain, ancient statues of Baal depict him with lightning bolts in his hands because it was Supposedly, the idea is that he was in control of all the rain. And he was in control of uh fertility, allowing the land to bring forth fruit and all those sort of things. He was therefore the storm god. And he was paled with Ashtaroth, which was his wife. And so to serve Balaam meant that they served various local expressions of this God Baal. Let me tell you what was involved with worship of Baal. It was it was uh first of all child sacrifice. You were encouraged to sacrifice a child to him Which is just heinous beyond words. But also it was uh immorality. Baal is often centered on ritual prostitution. Both men and women would engage in as temple prostitutes and all kinds of heinous immoral acts. Supposedly, these acts were to encourage Baal to send the rain upon the land. It was incredibly wicked and vile Um they had special offerings, special feasts. They had altars on high hills. The Bible talks about the high places where Israel would go and commit what God would call spiritual adultery by worshiping these false idols. All of this was incredibly evil in the sight of God. And God's anger was kindled. And notice again in verse 14, and the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of spoilers. This is the next thing they forgot. They forgot the consequences of sin. It's foolish to think that you can walk away from God. You can sin and get away with it. It's just foolish to think that. And yet sometimes we allow ourselves to go there. Just as you can't play with fire and not be burned, you can't play with sin and not have consequences. And so what happens here? They treat sin lightly, and God shows them the devastation of what they did, that you can't do that, you can't play with sin. And so what happens? We see here God allowing them to be delivered into the hands of what the Bible calls spoilers. And this is where we call the cycle of sin in the book of Judges. The cycle of sin, where it's it's rebellion. We see this in verse eleven. The children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and then that then that causes ruin. We see that in verses 14 and 15. He sold them in the hand of their enemies, their enslaved, their oppressed Then in verse number 18 we see repentance. They get to a place where they repent. They cry out to the Lord God in their distress And God raises up deliverers to deliver them out of the hands of the enemies. He rescues them. Look in verse number sixteen. Nevertheless, the Lord raised up judges, which delivered them out of the hand of those that spoiled them But once that happened, however, when the judge died, guess what? They would relapse right back into sin. Look at verse 19. And it came to pass when the judge was dead that they returned and corrupted themselves. more than their fathers in following other gods to serve them and to bow down unto them. And they cease not from their own doings, not from their stubborn way. So this is just a downward spiral spiral that we see here. Rebellion against God, which leads to ruin. Repentance is stirred, but after God rescues them, they relapse right back into the same sin, right back into the same thing. And so this chapter is a warning call. To stop the foolishness, stop forgetting God. Stop forgetting these things. When we do, we uh we pay the consequences for it. We will pay for the consequences of our sins. My mother, I I know I've probably told you this story before, but please pretend like It's the first time you heard it. My mother she I remember telling me this story and I I remember it many times and this passage causes me to remember it again when she was a little girl. She grew up in Western Maryland on a dairy farm. And uh th it was kind of a thing where they had some land and some some family lived in houses on that land. Her gr grandmother lived not too far away on their land, and her grandmother came to her one day and said, I want you to take this sack of beans t down to the barn, which was a long way off. And my mother, who was a little girl at that time, she threw that sack over her shoulder and began the journey to put it into the barn. But halfway there, she was tired of carrying this sack of beans and there was a pond right there. And she thought uh she called her Maul Dove, that was her gr her grandmother. Maul's not gonna know about these beans. She's never gonna want to get these again. So she just took that sack of beans and threw 'em into the pond And it sunk to the bottom, and she thought she'll never know. Well, some months later, my mom's grandmother was looking for her. And m got word to my mother that you better go down to the pond. Mall's waiting there for you. And my mother walked down to the pond, and there at the pond were hundreds of bean sprouts coming up out of the water Hundreds of bean sprouts coming out. And my mother said, Jerry, your sin will find you out. Don't forget that. And I never forgot that. And that's really the message here. You can't sin. You can't be f uh disobedient and faithless with God and expect there not to be some So the message is don't forget the Lord. Cling to the Lord. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for the word of God and the narratives, the stories that are are in it that help us and remind us of truth that we need to to to hear. And take to heart. Father, help us as a people to never forget you. Help us, Lord, to never be lured into the world, the things of the world But the Lord, to always be committed in our walk with you, knowing that partial obedience, half-hearted commitment, doesn't lead to joy, it leads to defeat, the lack of peace. And we pay the consequences. Lord, help us to be diligent to teach the Word of God to the next generation so that they do not forget God. This is something that we must be committed to continually in our life Speak to hearts, Father. How we thank you, Lord, that this story here reminds us that human deliverers ultimately will all fail. The only real deliverance comes through the deliverer, Jesus Christ. Christ. Even though you raised up these judges for a time they were effective, but they were temporarily effective, and how people went back into sin. And it reminds us that the perfect deliverer is Jesus Christ, who bore our sins on the cross, that we might have life, forgiveness, eternal life. Lord, help us to be reminded that we serve a perfect deliverer. Help us, Lord, to be faithful every day of our life to Him. May our love for Him grow. May it increase every day that we live in Christ. And we pray Cry all this in Jesus' name, Amen