And I invite you to take your Bibles tonight. Open to the New Testament Epistle of James. We are looking at James for a little bit here. And the Lord has led me into this book. I think it's something that is good for us to look at. And tonight we're going to be looking at verses 5 down to verse 12. And the title of the sermon tonight is When Trials Ambush Us. In the book Get Over It and On With It, How to Get Up When Life Knocks You Down, the author catalogs several people. uh who experienced tremendous tr uh setbacks in their life. You might say they were ambushed by a trial. Here's what one of them says. My husband was a brilliant gifted man with an incredible career. He suffered a massive stroke. He was only 47 with no history of bad health. Now his gifts are gone. He's learning to speak again. But I agonize over how he feels, trapped inside himself. Unable to communicate even the simple things. What does a man do the rest of his life with something like this? And then another person wrote this. But my husband was a Christian. Christian men are not supposed to run off with their secretaries. And then another person wrote this. There has never been a history of cancer in my family. I eat right, I exercise, I take good care of myself. How could this happen to me? And then another person writes, what do you do when everything you work for goes up in smoke? One lady wrote this, I thought I would be married the rest of my life. I'm afraid. I don't know how to adjust to being alone. Now all these people have something in common, and that is that they are just overwhelmed by a trial. It seems like they've been ambushed. There's something they didn't expect that hit them And so the question is, what do you do when you're overwhelmed by a trial? Now this is what James is talking about here. Remember who James is? James, we identified the author last week He is the half-brother of our Lord Jesus. Out of the different men named James in the New Testament, we narrowed it down that he is the writer. He doesn't call himself or introduce himself as the half-brother of Jesus. He introduces himself as the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Dulas. James came to see that Jesus Christ was the Son of God and the Messiah, and he got saved and became a godly leader in the church in Jerusalem. Now who's he writing to? Look again in verse 1. He says to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. Now remember, we say this is kind of a a metaphorical description to speak about believers who were scattered all abroad. They were being persecuted, and they were therefore scattering and running for their life, many of them. And then we also talked about the subject. What is he talking about? Look at verse 2. My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into divers. Temptations. Now the word fall here, as you remember, if you were with us last week, this is a word that's only found three times in the New Testament. One place It describes the man who is on his way from Jerusalem down to Jericho, and he fell among thieves, these robbers And and of course you know the story, they left him uh half dead there on the road to Jericho. And so this word carries with it the idea of an ambush, something that com comes suddenly, something that comes uh unexpectedly with no time really to prepare. And so here's this man, he's traveling, and uh everything is fine and suddenly wham he is hit by These men who ambush him and James is in a way saying trials are like that. Everything is going well in your life. You're expecting things to continue to go well, and suddenly uh it ha it comes a trial. It can come with in the form of a phone call, a a message, a doctor's report, uh however. And suddenly you are ambushed by trials. Did you ever notice how trials never seem to come by just one? They come with a few. Like uh what did the old timer say? Troubles come in threes, right? Think about the life of Job. I mean, Job was hit with one trial after another after another after another. And this is what James is talking about here. And this is the way trials will come. Well the question is, when We're overwhelmed when we're ambushed by trials. What do we need to help us through those trials? Well, I'm going to give you just four things that James will give us here in this passage that will help us. Four things we need when trials come. And here's the first one. Number one, we need wisdom. We need wisdom. Look at verse five. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that give it to all men liberally and upbraid it not, and it shall be given him. So what should you do when you're ambushed by a trial? James makes it very clear you need to ask God for wisdom. Now it's interesting to me that James doesn't say ask God for strength. He doesn't say ask God for grace. He doesn't say ask God for deliverance. I'm sure all of us have prayed those prayers, and there's nothing wrong with that. But here James focuses on Wisdom. He doesn't say ask God to change the circumstances. You know, we want God to change the circumstances. God wants the circumstances to change us And a lot of times God's not going to change the circumstance until we change. Until we learn what God wants us to learn through this trial and through this Test. Do you remember what I said about tests? Tests are uh in the in the spiritual walk are just like tests in school. Uh if you don't pass that test, you're gonna have to take it over again. Remember Write down Ecclesiastes three fifteen, that which is has been is now, that which is to be has already been, and God requires what is past. That is to say that the principle is God will patiently repeat something in our life until we learn the lesson that God wants us to learn. That's why when you're in it trial, the thing that you pray for is, oh God, give me wisdom. You ever pray that when you're taking a final exam in school? God, give me supernatural knowledge. to pass this test. I remember one time when I was studying a PhD seminar at Johns Hopkins on Biblical Hebrew, the professor there on the final exam, you know what he did Uh he did something he didn't tell us he would he was going to do it, but you know what the whole test was? He copied a sheet from the Dead Sea Scrolls. And then he cop made copies of it and he gave us that and he said, That's your test. Translate the Dead Sea Scrolls and then interpret it. And so you talk about praying for wisdom I prayed, I said, God give me the gift of tongues right now. Help me to help me to pass this test, this formidable test. That's probably the hardest test I'd ever had. But James is saying, look, when you're going through a trial, the first thing you should do is say, oh God, give me wisdom. I want to learn from this. I want to learn what you want me to learn. I don't want to have to go through this again. I want to be able to benefit from this trial the way you want me to benefit from it. And so we have to pray that prayer. We have to ask God for if you ever things over and over and over Look at the life of Abraham. This has happened before teaching him to have. 15 verse 13. Proof of life is Life here, are you died when a tropical Do you know what for wisdom is Wiz Zero Nearly bare bus with voters What is that piece of that cross river? Wisdom so that we will God is giving us to mature. And that's true. So James says, pray for wisdom. Now what is wisdom? Well, wisdom is not the same thing as knowledge. Knowledge is good. And someone has said that knowledge is the ability to take things apart, and wisdom is the ability to put them back together. I've met people that are incredibly smart. They are genius-like, but they don't seem to have just a good old common sense. Just just skill. And really the word wisdom is from the Greek word Sophia, and which actually means skill. So we could say that wisdom is skill in living. Wisdom is not theoretical. It is practical. It is not measured by degrees, how many degrees you have. It is measured by deeds, what you do. the decisions that you make. It's not acquired truth in lectures, it is applying truth to life. And so that's wisdom. Someone said this that wisdom, John Blanchard wrote, is the ability to discern God's hand in human circumstances and apply heavenly judgment to earthly situations. And so really, when you boil it down, wisdom is the choices that we make. Uh what choice do you make? And in the midst of a trial, what do you want to do is make the right choices? You want to do the right things. So pray for wisdom. Now notice here the shortage of it. Look in verse number five. If any of you lack wisdom. The if there is what Greek scholars call a first class condition clause. It kind of presupposes a standing fact. In other words, we say it like this: it is a fact. that you don't have enough wisdom, okay? It's a fact that I don't have enough wisdom to face this trial. We don't none of us have it. If we had it, we wouldn't need this test in the first place, probably. And so we have to assume that we just don't have the wisdom to to to do this. We need wisdom from God Now it this points back to verse number four. Remember what we learned last week? Go back to verse four. But let patience have a perfect work, that you might be perfect and entire, wanting or lacking nothing. Remember, a test is designed to give you what you lack. God wants you to be complete. God wants to fill in the gaps of your life spiritually. God wants you to be the place where you're mature spiritually. And that's what the word perfect means. It doesn't mean sinlessly perfect, it means just being mature. And so God will give us trials and tests to fill in the things that are lacking in our life And so that's why we uh have to assume we don't have the wisdom, we have to ask God for it. But notice the source of it. Look again at verse 5. Not only the shortage, but the source, verse 5. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. And this is really an imperative in degree. James is not making a suggestion. He's giving a command. He is commanding us in the time of trials. to pray to God and ask God for wisdom. Now when I think of this verse, I cannot help but think of Solomon. Now we just studied 1 Kings, so let me go back and just remind you of what we studied And and hit that nail a little bit harder. You remember Solomon was the wisest king in all the Bible. And in 1 Kings chapter 3 and 4, it records the story of the time of testing in his life. What had happened Well, Solomon was the son of the great king David. There was no king greater than David. Solomon was to be the next king. You remember his brother tried to usurp the throne? People some people wanted Solomon dead. Others were trying to undermine him. Israel as a nation, they were growing in population. The old government under King David was not suitable to meet the growing needs of that. nation, a new administration was necessary. Wartime was over. They were having kind of a baby boom in peacetime. And so also he was charged with building a temple. There was a lot on Solomon. It was I I'm sure he felt the weight of the world on him at that time He kind of, like uh Harry Truman said when he found out he was president and Roosevelt died, Truman said, I felt like the moon, the stars, and all the planets had fallen on me. And I think that's how Solomon perhaps felt. What did Solomon do? Facing all of this. He didn't hire a consultant. He didn't appoint a cabinet of experts He didn't go to the bookstore and buy the latest book on being a king. He didn't go to the conference on kingship. You know what he did? The Bible says he went to Gibeon. There was an altar there in Gibeon. And he offered us a burnt offering to the Lord. In fact, he offered a huge burnt offering to the Lord. And then you know what he did? He got on his face. And he prayed, and he slept before the altar. You know why they did that in the ancient Near East? Because there was the belief that if you slept at the altar That God would speak to you in a special way. And indeed, God did. God came to Solomon, and you remember that blank check offer that God gave to him? God said to Solomon, Ask me anything that you want. And Solomon's request pleased the Lord. Solomon said, Look, God, I I'm just a child. Just a toddler A dependent child. I don't know how to lead. I don't know how to go out or come in. And that was the Hebrew euphemism for leadership. Joshua knew how to go out and come in. David knew how to go out and come in. Solomon says, I don't know how to do that. I don't know how to lean. And then that's when Solomon asked God for wisdom. And God was pleased with that Because you know what? That recognized one thing that we all need to recognize, the source of real wisdom is Almighty God. He's the source of it. The Bible says in Proverbs 2. 6, For the Lord gives wisdom. Out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding. So notice the next thing. We saw the shortage of it, the source of it, but then the supply of it. Look again in verse 5. Then if you lack wisdom, let them ask of God to give it to all men liberally. Liberally. Notice he gives to all men liberally. That is, he gives in generous generous doses with great generosity. And this word liberally has the idea of a of a banquet table that is just loaded down with with goodies. Where I think of the verse in Psalm 23 where David said, My cup runneth over. Here in a way, God will give us so much wisdom that it'll just run over. He'll give us what we need and more than that. You know, thank God we have such a gracious, generous God who just gives so wonderfully. And I love the way this reads literally in the Greek. Let him ask from the giving God is literally how that reads. God knows how to give generously. And so notice the next thing that he says in verse 5, and upbraideth not. Not only will God give it to you, but he'll give it to you in a gracious way, where that you will not uh get the sense that you're uh God's making you he's rebuking you. You know. You ever ask someone for something and they make you feel silly? They make you feel bad that you even ask. God never does that. He will not upbraid you. He will give you wisdom. He will smile upon your requests. He won't make make you feel foolish. He'll he will bless you. So notice the last part, the surety of it. Look again in verse 5. And it shall be given him. Boy, I love that And James writes it with an air of authority and certainty. Listen, in the middle of a trial or test, you go to God, you ask him for wisdom, you recognize that you need it, and guess what? You're going to get it. You're going to get it. That's the promise of the Word of God. So when you're ambushed by a trial, we need wisdom. Recognize that. But here's the next thing: we need faith. Look in verse number six. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Now in verse 5, James tells us what we ask for, but in verse 6, he tells us how to ask it. He says, let him ask in faith. We have to come to God in faith without doubting. James says, look, when you come to God and ask for this in the middle of trial, don't doubt, don't you doubt God. And then James, if you read study James, you'll find out that he uses many illustrations from the world of nature. He's a master kind of a metap of metaphors. And so he's going to use an illustration of what a doubter is like. You know what a doubter is like? Well, we saw it in verse 6. It says, for he that wavereth or is doubting, Is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. Now we live here on the Atlantic coast And I'm sure that you've probably been out on a boat. Have you ever been out on the boat in the bay and a storm roll in and the winds pick up and you're in that boat? And that's happened to me before. My father took took us out on a boat fishing and here come this storm rolling in. And I I want to tell you I got concerned. And I I said, Dad, you see that storm? He said, Oh yeah I do. He said, You're right, son. And he reeled in his rod and he put on his raincoat and he cast the rod back out into the water. That's not the response I was hoping for. And then when that those winds picked up, uh the waves just started it we felt like we were on a roller coaster. You go up and then you come back down. And then you go up and you come back down. And the the stronger the waves, the more the wavering of the of the of the waves of the sea. The stronger the wind, I should say, the more the waves will go up and down. And so that's what a doubter is like. A doubter is up one minute and down the next. Just like a sea wave. In fact, the word for doubt is from the Greek word diakrino. And think of it this way. Krino is where we get the word cranium, and it means to think. Die is through. So it's think of it like this. You're kind of dividing the mind into two. And so it really means to think twice. It's the idea of you have one thought that's a thought of faith, and then the next thought is doubt. And so you're up in faith, first thought, next thought, you're down in doubt. And really, you know what doubt is? Doubt is thinking twice. You have faith one minute, and then the next thought is you have doubt. And and you remember when Jesus uh uh had was walking on the water and the disciples saw him and Peter said, Lord, if it's thee, bid me come under the water with thee. And Jesus said, Come, and Peter stepped out, and he was walking on the water. And then he began to take his eyes off the Lord. He looked at the winds and the waves. And what happened? He began to sink. And Jesus immediately stretched out his hand. And he picked them up. And then he said this, Peter, why did you Diacrino? Why did you think twice? You had it right the first time. When you trusted me, you were walking on the water. You were above the wind and the waves. But that second thought of doubt is what did you in. And that's the same. God says to us, don't doubt. When you come to me You don't doubt. You know, doubters are like spiritually bipolar. They're just up and down, up and down. Someone said a doubter needs a mountain load of faith to move a mustard seed. And so pray and believe. Ask in faith. Someone wrote, pray and believe and you will receive. Pray and doubt and you'll do without. Because look in verse number seven, for let not that man think that he shall receive anything from the Lord. You're not going to receive anything if you pray and doubt when you pray. So we need wisdom in the time of trials. We need faith in the time of trials. But here's the third thing: we need humility in the time of trials Look at look look what he writes in verse number nine. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. But the rich and that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. Now James begins to write to the poor and the rich, and why does he do that? Because in the context of this testing, this is this is who he has and his audience, people who are poor and some who are rich. One commentator wrote this, many of them, no doubt. Uh once had been at least well off financially, but had their homes and their possessions confiscated and had to leave them when they were fleeing their persecutors. And so So we have these people that fall into these two categories, those who are poor and those who are rich. And notice what James first he addresses the poor. So think about this thought, the exaltation of the poor in verse nine. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he's exalted. You say, well, preacher, I don't have a whole lot of this world. It's good. God takes care of me. I wouldn't call myself rich. Well, that's okay, because the fact that you know Jesus, guess what? You are rich. Because salvation exalts you. And that's what he's saying right here, the brother of low degree, let him rejoice, because he is exalted. You know Jesus, you understand you have an inheritance in heaven that can't be touched, that fadeth not away. And God has blessed you in so many ways. You have the bread of life, Jesus You might be a little hungry, but you have the bread of life. You might uh be thirsty, but you have the living water. You have eternal riches. Your home here might not be much, but friend, you've got a you've got a nice home waiting for you in heaven In Christ you are exalted, is what the Bible is saying. You are rich. Write down Romans 8:17. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. And so James says, rejoice, because you're an heir of God. You have been exalted. You have been made rich. You may have been deprived. Maybe through a trial from some of the world's goods, but don't worry about that. Just focus on your eternal inheritance. God's always going to take care of you. And remember how rich you are in the Lord Jesus Christ. Don't find your joy in worldly circumstances or possessions. That that will disappoint you. Find your joy in the fact that you are saved and God is producing in you Christ's likeness. And that's why you're going through that trial. But here's the second thing. There's the humiliation of the rich. Look at verse ten. But the rich in that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. Now, this is what I call the acknowledgement of eternal values Now the rich man is to rejoice also. What is he to rejoice in? Is he to rejoice in his earthly riches? No. He's to rejoice in the fact that God is using his trials to teach him the right perspective towards earthly riches. And that we shouldn't put our faith in these things. Earthly riches really are not secure. Uh you know, financial security is an illusion, I promise you that. S people that went through the Great Depression, they were rich men that were made poor overnight. There's really the there's only uh eternal security. That's the real security. And what James is saying is the rich man can rightly focus on true riches. And the true riches that God's speaking about are not the things of this world. It's not money. It's eternal things. It's spiritual things. You know, riches can buy marriage, but it can't buy love. Riches can buy four years of college, but it can't really give you an education. Riches can hire a doctor, but it can't make you well. It can take you everywhere except heaven. And it can buy you anything except happiness. You get all those things from God. God is the one who gives us those things. That's true riches. And so the poor Christian rejoices in the provision of God and the wealth of his spiritual position. The rich is humbled And it reveals to him that material blessings are only temporary. Spiritual riches are eternal. And so you know what happens? You know what Charles does? It just levels us out. With the poor are exalted, the rich are made low, and you know what? We're all level at the foot of the cross. We're all on the same level. The great Lutheran commentator Linsky, he wrote this. He said, Faith in Christ lifts the lowly brother beyond his trials to the great height of a position in the kingdom of Christ. Whereas God's child he is rich and may rejoice and boast. Faith in Christ does an equally blessed thing for the rich brother. It fills him with the Spirit of Christ, the Spirit of lowliness, and true Christian humility. As the poor brother forgets all his earthly poverty, so the rich brother forgets all his earthly riches, and the two are equals by faith in Christ. Isn't that good? We're they're equals by faith in Christ. Equality is driven home through trials And so, listen, you know what? You ever notice when you're going through a deep dark trial, or maybe you lose a loved one? Money doesn't mean anything in times like that It means absolutely nothing. So we're not to be preoccupied with earthly things. Now just to get the point across, look in verse number 10. He says, But the rich in that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. Again, he's using another analogy from nature. He's saying, you know, riches, or the rich person who depends on riches, riches are like the flower of the grass It's going to pass away. Look at verse eleven. For the sun is no sooner risen with the burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perishes So also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. And what James is saying there is, look, these earthly riches are just temporary. They're going to fade away. They're not going to it's not going to be here for long. It's like grass. What happens to grass when you cut that grass? It just fades away. What happens to a beautiful flower? That beauty doesn't stay very long, it withers very soon. When a dry heat, Sorracko wind that James was talking about back in Palestine would blow. that that flower would just fade away. And James is saying that's what happens with money. And those who put their faith in eternal or excuse me in temporary riches. Someone says, well, money talks. I know it says goodbye. And that's what James is saying right here And so we need to be humble. That's the thing. We need to be humble. The wealthy Christian has a true spirit of humility that says, I don't put my trust in the possessions of this life. I put my trust in the Lord. Now here's the last thing. When trials ambush us, we need wisdom and we need faith and we need humility. But number four, we need love. We need love. Look in verse number twelve. Blessed is a man that endureth temptations. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Now James says for those who do pass the test of life or the trials, there is a reward. But before we get that reward, we have to endure, and we endure as we have a love for Christ. That's what gets us through the trials, is a love for Christ. Now the reward is the crown of life. You know, back in this day when a athlete would compete, what did they get? They got a laurel crown. a crown of greenery. And he's using that idea here. God is also has a reward for those who go through trials and they do it with faith in the Lord. And they love the Lord and they trust God in the trial. James says, look, when you endure, when you persevere through the trial, what you're going to get is a crown of life. Now, what is this crown that we're talking about here? There's a debate by scholars as to what James means with this crown of life. Is this talking about eternal life? As some will say, or is this talking about a happy, complete, fulfilled life here on earth And so there are some who think it's eternal life, but you know what? If you're a Christian, you already have eternal life, right? So I think what he's talking about here is a complete happy life here on earth. And again, this goes back to verse number four. Remember what he said? Trials are given so that we lack nothing. so that we're mature and whole. We have all that we need. And I think that the crown of life is a person who is happy, who is blessed. who is someone spiritually that's lacking nothing. It's the idea of utter wholeness, utter happiness. In fact the word blessed In verse 12, that's the idea, a satisfied, happy, blessed life. And he's talking about right now. God wants you to have that right now. He wants you to have that kind of life. And so when you are given a trial and you persevere through it, and you love the Lord, then you get this crown of life. Again, look in verse twelve, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. And this word for love is an ongoing love. This is the requirement. We saw the reward. This is the requirement. It's a love that does not cease. And this, beloved, is the mark of a true believer. A true believer is not someone who at one time loved Christ and then stopped. A true believer is someone that continues to love Christ, and in fact that love for Christ will increase, especially in trials. You ever notice how when you go through a trial, it doesn't pull you away from the Lord. It draws you close to the Lord. A man was riding on a train. He saw a child playing in the aisle. He didn't know whose child that was. And then the train went through a dark tunnel and it got totally dark. And when it came out of the tunnel on the other side, the man saw that child sitting on his father's lap. He knew who that child belonged to then. And you see, when you go through a dark tunnel You know what you need to do? You need to run into the arms of your Father. And you need to let everyone see whose child you are. A trial will cause you to have even more love for Christ. and more love for God the Father. I I love the story of Elizabeth Prentice. She was a a woman who uh Went through a lot of trials in her life. The two greatest trials was when she lost uh an infant baby, and then right after that she lost another small child. You can just imagine a mother losing two children like that. And she was, for weeks, she was inconsolable. And she prayed to God. And She found herself crawling up to God and loving God more than she ever had before. And she wrote the words to the hymn that we love to sing, More Love to the Old Christ. More love to thee. That was written out of this deep dark trial. And in the one phrase she wrote, Let sorrow do its work, send grief and pain. You know what you know what the work of sorrow is? It teaches us to love the Lord even more It teaches us to trust God even more and to lean upon Him even more. And so when you're ambushed by a trial, remember that we need wisdom. We need faith. We need humility. We need love. Ask God for these things. You know what? He'll give them to you And you know what? You'll be victorious in that trial. And you know what? He will fulfill the things he wants to do in your life. He will make you mature and complete Spiritually lacking nothing. And you will receive the crown of life. He wants you to have it right now, that blessed life, if you persevere, if you endure. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let's bow for prayers. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. I know many are going through trials and heartaches. And what I want you to do is right where you are, quietly, I want you to pray and I want you to ask God for these things. Would you do that right where you are? Especially if you're in a trial. Say, Lord, I I need wisdom. God, give me your wisdom. God, give me faith. I don't want to be a doubter. I don't want to be like a sea wave, spiritually bipolar, up and down, up and down. I want to have a steadfast faith. And I want to come when I pray in faith, believing. And God, would you give me humility? Humble me, Lord. Trials are designed to do that very thing. Humble me. And God, will you give me love? Help me to love you more in this trial. And God give me victory. Help me to learn. Just pray that. Father, bless your word to the hearts of your people that are Many here that have been ambushed by various trials, not just one, but several, just seem to come from nowhere. Lord, we know that to us it's a surprise, but it's not a surprise to you because you planned it and you have a purpose So Lord, may we be submitted and yielded so that your purpose is accomplished in our life. And may your people be blessed as a result of what you're doing. And we pray all this in Jesus' name, Amen. All right, Red