Would you open your Bibles tonight, please, to the book of 2 Kings? We continue our study in 2 Kings and look down on chapter 6. We are going to look at uh verses eight down to verse twenty-three. Want you to look uh we'll read a few verses here in ch in chapter eight and we're Read verse 15 with you. And when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold a a host come past the city, both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master, how shall we do? And he answered, Fear not, for they that are be with us are more than they that be with them. And Elisha prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man and saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha. I want to talk tonight to tell you what the sermon is when you're outnumbered. I read one time about uh the Lone Ranger and his sidekick Tonto. They were riding across the prairie. They were riding west and a big band of Indians was coming towards them, and so they decided to ride east. And when they rode east, they saw another great big horde of Indians riding to them, very hostile. So they turned north And again another big group of Indians was riding towards them from the north, so they turned south. And once again, uh a big group of hostile Indians was riding towards them and they stopped and the Lone Ranger said to Tonto, Tonto, we are surrounded. What do we do? And Tonto said, What do you mean we white man? He really was the Lone Ranger at that time. You ever feel overwhelmed? Do you ever feel like your problems have surrounded you? You ever feel like you're outnumbered? We kind of see this dynamic in this narrative of Elijah and his servant. They wake up one morning and suddenly they are surrounded by a hostile army. Elijah's servant looked up after he got up early. He saw this horde of soldiers and horses and chariots. And he rightly surmised that this was not a social call that they were paying on him and his master. And he ran to him and said, Alas, what are we going to do? And suddenly they were in the midst of a trial And this reminds us of what James said in the New Testament. And James said, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation. The word fall is something that happens suddenly, surprisingly. And this is what happens here. And this is the way trials will come upon us suddenly. Now none of us have probably w ever walked out the door in the morning and had to confront an army of barbarian hordes in the front yard waiting to do us bodily harm But we do all do know what it's like to be thrust into a sudden trial when there's a a great problem that has confronted us, perhaps even a life-threatening problem. And we can relate to the servant's panic and h and his cry. And while the servant is filled with panic, however, what we see here in the verses that we read is that Elijah had a peace that passed his understanding I mean the servant probably wondered how Elisha could be so cool in a time like that. Elijah was not concerned because he was able to see Beyond the natural realm, he was able to see behind the scenes what God was doing on his behalf. that is stretched across the front of the stage. Behind the screen and the players, there's a light that's cast so that the shadows are all you can see when you look at the screen from the front. The audience from the front, they see the shadows on the screen And and behind, however, is where the real things are taking place. You know, life is like that in a lot of ways. In the world that we see now, we see a lot of good and evil happening. We see a lot of things going on around us. There's real battles that we have to face as believers. But what we don't realize is that there's a war that goes on behind the scenes. There's a battle in the invisible world And we don't realize that the divine warrior is there fighting on our behalf. There is a spiritual warfare that is taking place that is very real. The Apostle Paul said, For we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Right? Against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And so this story reminds us that Satan is working for our destruction, and God is working behind the scenes on our behalf. Because he loves the people of God. And when our circumstances may s seem to be overwhelming and the problems outnumber us, God is with us. I think this story here is a beautiful illustration of Romans 8. 31. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Even when our circumstances look overwhelming. It looks like we're counted as sheep for the slaughter. Remember Paul said that. He quotes from the Old Testament, as it is written, For thy sake, we are killed all the day long. We're counted as sheep for the slaughter. But then he goes back and it's almost like he says, Now He says, nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors. It might look like we're counted as she for the slaughter. It might look like we're outnumbered. It might look like we're on the defeated side, but that's not the case. Paul said, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. And so Elijah knew this. His servant did not. And Elijah had to remind his servant of something that he needed to see. And in verse 16, he prays that God would open the eyes of his servant so that he could see. Actually in verse 17. And Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray that he opened his eyes. And suddenly the servant saw the unseen spiritual world that Elisha already saw the mountain was full of horses and chariots, and the fire of God was all around And uh he strolled out to meet the soldiers, that is Elijah, and calmly asked God to strike them blind in this story, and that's exactly what happened. And then Elisha leaves this this military army twelve miles south into the capital city of Samaria where there was an army of Israel waiting there inside the city and now the enemy that surrounded Elisha are now surrounded. God kind of reversed the situation there, didn't he? Those that had surrounded Elisha are now surrounded themselves. So God turned the whole situation around. And as a believer, we have to remember that we're always on the winning side. God is able. To work, even though we may seem outnumbered, but the truth of the matter is when God is on your side, when you're a child of God, you're never outnumbered. So I want us to see in this story, really the big idea here is that since God is our all-sufficient resource, we in the time of trial, a sudden trial, we don't panic. We pray, or we could say we replace panic with prayer. So I want you to see three important reminders that we need to uh to learn or to remind ourselves about. When we feel outnumbered or overwhelmed in times of trial. And here's the first lesson I want you to see. Number one, remember that our all-sufficient remember that God is our all-sufficient resource in times of trial When a trial comes, just remember God is all sufficient. He is our resource. And now remember something I've said before, you'll probably hear me say it again, but When we go through the miracle section here of the prophet Elijah, one of the major purposes that Elijah is trying to establish to the readers, which are people that are in exile now in Babylon, who need this message because they're surrounded by uh the enemy and the enemy land. But what Elijah is trying to remind them of is the greatness of God, especially in contrast to the false gods that Israel had chosen to worship. We see the greatness of Yahweh in contrast to the weakness of Baal. And here we're going to see God's knowledge, his power, his sovereignty. All of this dominates this story. And in times of trial, we must focus on God, and we must remember these things about our great God. So here's what we need to see. First of all, our God sees and knows all things. Now back up to verse number eight. Let's look at the story here. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp And the man of God said unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place, for thither the Syrians are come down And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor twice. God knew exactly what the Syrian king, who happened to be Ben Hadad II, God knew what he was planning to do. And what God did was God revealed it to Elisha his servant, who in turn revealed it to the Israelite king Jehoram, and they were able to uh save themselves from the plans that this evil Syrian king had for them. Now Baal could never do this for King Joram. The uh the the the God that they serve did not have eyes. The idols they don't they have eyes, the Bible says, but they do not see. They have mouths, but they cannot speak. These are weak gods And here, the King of Syria is getting a theology lesson. The God of Israel, Yahweh, sees all things and he knows all things. And none of the false pagan gods could do this. The Bible says the Lord sees not only the actions of people, but he sees their thoughts. Psalm 94, 11, the Lord knoweth the thoughts of men, that they are vanity. And Proverbs 15, 3, the eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Now when the king of Syria realizes that the king of Israel is always one step ahead of him, he thinks he has a spy in the camp. So look at verse eleven. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled. That means it was agitated. He was enraged. He was infuriated. Because he's thinking he has a traitor. It was sore troubled for this thing, and he called his servants and said unto them, Will ye not show me which of us is for the king of Israel? Since the king of Israel always seems to know what's going on, since he always seems to be one step ahead of us, there has to be a spy in the camp. And so would you guys let me know Who's the person in the camp that's telling the king of Israel all of our plans? The Septuagint actually reads this like this Who betrayed me to the King of Israel? Again in verse number 12. And one of the servants said, None, my lord, O king, but Elisha the prophet that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber. That had to be news. There's nobody that's a spy king, but Elisha is able to tell the king of Israel, even the words that you speak in your bedroom. Elisha knows your pillow talk. He knows everything that you say behind closed doors. Nothing is hidden. That's amazing. It took the intelligence experts more than 2,500 years after this to be able to bug a room. But God is much more effective than the CIA. God doesn't need the CIA. He knows every thought. He knows every motive of every heart. Nothing is hid from him. Now, you might think that the king of Syria might learn from this, but notice how foolish he is in verse 13. And he said, Go and fetch go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch him. And it was told him saying, Behold, he's in Dothan. Didn't you hear what he just said? He already knows what you're thinking. He already knows the plans that you make. Don't you know that if we make a plan to go get him, he's already going to know that But he's not really thinking very well. And Elisha uh no doubt knows this. Elisha could have hidden himself. But he knew that God wanted to solve this problem in a way that would teach the Syrian king and the king of Israel some lessons about the reality of the living God. Because again, these ancient false gods that they worshipped They were depicted as really just m not much better than men. They were constantly fighting among one another in their own mythology. They were subject to contingencies, to chance. They really didn't know a whole lot. There was no way they could look and see into the future. And this Syrian king had never dealt with a God from which nothing is hidden. And so he's about to get a big lesson here in the power of God You know, we might we are foolish to think that we could ever hide anything from God. God knows all of our secret thoughts, let alone all of our words and all of our deeds. So our God is all knowing and all seeing, but also our God is all powerful. And we're going to see here the king of Syria and his army is about to learn this, that Yahweh is omnipotent, he's all powerful. And when the army of the Syrians surrounded Elisha's house God does some miraculous things. Look at it it says down in verse number 18, and when they came to him, Elisha prayed unto the Lord and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smoked them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. Wow. God Elijah just praised God give him blindness and God just the Bible says Smites them all with blindness. And here's this army now, and they're groping for sight. They're completely blind. You know what? God knows how to solve our problems. He has unlimited power to deal with the biggest problems that we have in our life. And if is your problem as big as a hostile army that's trying to get at you? Well God Has the answer for all that. David said it like this. The angel of the Lord encamps round about those that fear him and rescues them. In Psalm 27, 3 he said, Therefore though a host encamp against me, my heart will not fear This was no big deal for God just to instantly strike this army of men with blindness in response to the prayer, the simple prayer. of Elijah. There is no man or nation so powerful but that God can't deal with it. It's a very simple and easy thing for God to do. God is able to deal with any problem that you face You may feel outnumbered, you may feel like you're overwhelmed, but beloved, uh trust me, it's not a big problem for God. One time a woman came to the well known Bible teacher, G. Campbell Morgan, and said Dr. Morgan, Dr. Morgan, do you think we should pray about little things or just big things? And he looked at her and he said, Madam, can you think of anything in your life that is big to God? Our God is omniscient. Our God is omnipotent. He spoke the universe into existence. Nothing is too difficult. for him. Now you might be sitting there and thinking, well that's nice. That might work for Elisha. That might work in Elisha's day. I mean if only I could just utter a short prayer and all my problems were instantly solved like these soldiers, that would be nice Well, this leads to the next idea I want to give you here about God. Our God is sovereign over all the circumstances of our life according to His will. Now, if we belong to God, we can trust Him to protect us. And beloved, He will protect us until He's ready to call us home. The Bible says in Psalm 911, He will give His angels charge concerning you to guard you in all your ways. Again, the Lord is stronger than the most powerful enemy, and he's able to watch over us. Elijah's servant slept peacefully all night, not knowing that these hostile forces were surrounding them, and when he saw them in the morning, he panicked But God's protection was there even though he didn't see it or he didn't know it. And again, you might be thinking, well, again, that's great. It all works out neatly with Elisha. But what about when God's people go through horrible trials? Or when God's people go through death? And some godly people suffer for years and they wrestle with a disease and then they die of that disease or maybe they go through persecution. Where is God's protection for them in those times? Well let me just tell you, beloved, that God's purposes for his people are not always the same. God might allow one person to be miraculously delivered, and it might be God's will for another person to go through the trial. For years. You remember the story about Peter when at Pentecost, the Bible says he was filled with the Holy Spirit, and he preached, and 3,000 souls got saved. And the Bible says Stephen was filled with the Holy Spirit, and he preached, and he got stoned. Peter got 3,000 souls. Stephen got 3,000 stones. The will of God for Stephen wasn't the same for Peter. God had a different purpose in mind. And that's true of all of us. God's purposes are different. And there's a key thing here, I think, that a lot of people may miss when they're studying this. In verse 13, notice where Elijah was when the army surrounded him. Where was he? In verse 13 it says, and he said, go spy where he is that I may send and fetch him. And he was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan. Give there's only two times that this little town is mentioned. It's mentioned here, and it's mentioned in one other spot. You know where it is? It's mentioned in Genesis chapter 37. It's in the context of the story of Joseph. You might remember when Uh Joseph's father said to him, Go find your brothers, go look for them. And Joseph went out in the field looking for his brothers. And you remember that story? He happened to be in a field. And there happened to be another unnamed man there at the same time, and Joseph asked him, Have you seen these guys? And the man said, Yeah, I saw your brothers, and I happened to hear that they were headed to Dothan. And think about that. You think it was an accident that that man happened to be in the field the same time Joseph did? You think it's an accident that he heard exactly where the brothers were going? Because what happens in the story right after that? Joseph goes down to Dothan. And then what happens? Well, we all know the story. When he got there, his brothers threw him into a pit. They were about to kill him. A caravan was passing by, headed for Egypt, so they decided to sell him into slavery. And after many years as a slave and a prisoner, God made him prime minister of Egypt under Pharaoh. So here's another doth and experience that doesn't go the same way for Elisha. I mean, as he sat in the pit there at Dothan, or as he traveled in chains to Egypt, or as he sat in the chains in the Egyptian dungeon. Joseph never had a vision of chariots of fire or a host of armies that were surrounding him. I mean he could have used them during that time But that's not what happened to Joseph. Where were the angels? Where were the chariots when Joseph was suffering? It wasn't God's will. But Joseph later looked back on the years of trials, and he told his brothers later in Genesis 50, verse 20, You meant it for evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about The salvation of many people. Even though he didn't see any angels, even though he went through years of agony, Joseph knew that God was sovereign, directing all the circumstances of his life And beloved, even though you or I may never get a vision of God's angels surrounding us, just rest assured they're there. And even if you have to spend years in a dungeons, so to speak. Our God is sovereign. He's omniscient. He's omnipotent. And he has not abandoned you. He has a purpose and a plan for you. And so our sovereign God is over the outcome of whatever doth and experience you might have. He might decide to miraculously deliver you for his glory or he might decide to allow you to go through the trials or go to the dungeon for his glory because he has a purpose, but rest assured God is sovereign over it and God has a purpose for it. And remember, he's all sufficient. He will get you through it if that's his purpose, if that's his plan. But here's the second thing I want you to remember. Number one, remember that God is all-sufficient. He's our all-sufficient resource in times of trial. But number two, remember that prayer replaces panic with peace in times of trial. Prayer is our means of access to our all-sufficient God. Remember what Paul wrote Philippians 4, 6, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passes all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. To me, Elisha here is an illustration of that Because he's a great peace. It's like peace has guarded his heart. And by the way, the word where it says to will guard your heart, that's a Greek term that means shall go shall watch over It's a military term, like a garrison, like a group of soldiers will surround something to protect it. The peace of God is like a group of soldiers surrounding your soul Surrounding your heart in times of trial. It's the peace of God that comes in response to our prayers. In the same way, God's peace guards us from anxiety, doubt, and stress. Um we see this here in this story here. Major trials can hit so suddenly. So suddenly. And when that time comes, we need to remember to go to God in prayer. Elijah's servant went to bed peacefully, no thought of being surrounded the next day by an army. He got up. Saw what was going on and thought he could probably die that day. And life is just that uncertain. Let's face it, there's a lot of things that can happen. We don't know what tomorrow holds We don't know what could happen. There could be a terrorist attack, there could be a major earthquake, a fire, accident on the highway, and so on. Life is so very fragile. That's why it's foolish to live for this life only, as if there was no eternity. It's foolish not to get be ready for death when it comes. Because we don't ever know when it's coming. The uncertainties of life should make us want to depend upon God every day. But notice these things about prayer. Again, prayer replaces panic with wisdom for dealing with the trials. Again, notice in verse number fifteen, and when the servant of the man of God was risen early and gone forth, behold a host compassed the city both with horses and chariots, and his servant said unto him, Alas, Master, what shall we do? And he answered, Fear not For they that are with us are more than they that are with them. And Elijah prayed and said, Lord, I pray thee open his eyes that he may see. And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw. And so this is there's an obvious contrast here. That's what I want you to see in this story. There's a contrast between the panic of Elisha's servant And the peace of Elisha. And the difference is because of Elisha's prayer. And I don't think this was the only prayer he prayed that morning. I think Elisha was in constant communion with God in prayer. Now the text doesn't state it directly. Obviously it was through prayer that he gained, I think, supernatural knowledge of the enemy's planned rage. We read about that earlier. Elisha knew how God wanted him to to treat this crisis. Because he had prayed. You remember that Elisha's mentor, Elijah, was also one day surrounded by soldiers. The soldiers had come to get him. They were going to take him away and and perhaps kill him. And you remember that on that occasion, Elijah, what did he do? He prayed and called down fire from heaven and took care of business that way. Elijah here is different He could have done that, but that was not God's will for him on this occasion. And I think that Elisha knew that through prayer He knew through prayer that God wanted to deal with this foreign army in a different way. You see, this Syrian king had already seen evidence of the reality of Elisha's God. He had seen his servant Naaman healed And so perhaps God wanted to teach this king more. And so the treatment of Elisha towards this army was going to be a bit. different. Elisha was actually, we're going to see here in the story, was going to be gracious to uh this army. Both kings and both armies will have further evidence. of the kindness and the power of God. And again, even though it's not really stated, I believe that Elijah gained wisdom on how to handle this particular trial Through prayer. And you know that we we're reminded of what the Bible says in James chapter 1, and this is in the context of a sudden trial. When a sudden trial comes, what does James say? If any of you lack wisdom, let him what Let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and uprighteth not, and it shall what be given him in a time of sudden trial When you go to God in prayer, God says he will give you wisdom to know what to do in that trial. And he'll give it liberally And so prayer replaces panic with wisdom for dealing with our trials. But another thing, prayer opens our eyes to spiritual reality. This prayer here Reminds us of the reality of this spiritual realm. Elijah's servants were unaware of this. Or Elijah's servant, I should say, was unaware of this. Elijah prayed for God to open his eyes to this spiritual reality. Again, I ask you, did you know that we we have a spiritual warfare that's going on constantly? That there's a real invisible world there behind this physical, temporal world? We can't see with our naked eyes, but it's there. You remember the story of Daniel chapter 10? The Bible says Daniel was praying about something, and God dispatched an angel with the answer, and this angel was upheld by the prince of Persia. And there was a warfare that went on in the heavenlies, and it went on for some time. Daniel was fasting and praying, and there's his spiritual warfare going on, and God dispatches Michael to help this angel and uh he's fighting against the Prince of Greece. And finally an angel comes to Daniel and says, you know, your prayer was heard. But what we see there in that whole chapter is just an amazing glimpse into the invisible world where spiritual warfare goes on. And this is very real, beloved. The Bible speaks about this heavenly spiritual And yet it seems like some Christians have trouble dealing with this or believing this. Some liberals especially that don't believe the Bible. with a rock for his pillow and he had a dream and he saw a ladder going all the way up to heaven and there was God an angel were ascending and descending on it. This was God telling Jacob that he was watching over him with this Host of heaven. And then again, Jacob saw angels of God when he went to meet Esau. And the Bible says in Genesis 32, 1 and 2, that Jacob, when he saw them, said, This is God's camp. David knew of this mighty host because again he said the angel of the Lord encamps round those who fear him and delivers them. And so the the Bible teaches about guardian angels. If you're a child of God, then you have angels watching over you over every step you take. And so what Elisha saw there in Dothan was not unusual. It was kind of unusual for him to be able to see it because, you know, few mortals are ever given the privilege to gaze into the spiritual world and see the army of God in all of its fiery splendor. But it's not unusual for the army to be there. It's not unusual for the angels to be there. God Has countless angels at his disposal that he can dispatch to do his will and watch over his people. The English poet John Milton said this He described how thousands are at his side bidding to do God's will. These angels are gentle enough to care tenderly for all of God's children, but they're also fierce enough to defend them against the deadliest foe. And again, Paul said, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Remember, he was in a Roman prison when he wrote that, and he was chained up next to a Roman soldier. And yet Paul knew that his battle wasn't with that Roman soldier he was chained to. That the battle was a spiritual battle There's a struggle that takes place that in the unseen world with dark forces. And you know what prayer does? Prayer opens our eyes to see that spiritual reality. Prayer links us up with God who Through our prayers gives us victory in that realm. I read a really interesting story in the Global Prayer Digest. It told about a medical missionary to Africa who was speaking at his home church in Michigan. And this is what how the story goes. He told about how he often had to travel by bicycle through the jungle. to a nearby city for supplies. And it was a two-day trip that required camping overnight. And it it a he would camp overnight at the halfway point. And when he got to the city he would go to the bank, he would get money, he would buy medical supplies and other supplies and take them back. And on one of these trips he saw two men that were fighting and one had been badly injured. So the missionary treated his wounds and witness to him about Christ And then he returned home without incident. On his next trip to town, the story goes, the man he had treated came up to him and said that he knew the missionary was carrying money and supplies that night. And this man and some of his friends had followed him into the jungle, planning to kill him and to take his money and his drugs. But just as they were ready to move into his campsite, they saw that he was surrounded by twenty-six armed guards. And when the missionary heard this, he laughed and he said that he was all alone out in the jungle that night at his campsite. But the man insisted, oh no. Not only I, but also my five friends saw and counted the 26 guards, and because of them we were afraid, and we left you alone. And at this point, in the church in Michigan, where this missionary was telling the story, a man jumped to his feet and asked, Can you tell me exactly the day this took place? And the missionary thought for a moment, he was able to give him the exact date. And the man in the church continued, when it is night in Africa, it is morning here. And that morning I was preparing to go play golf. And I was putting my golf bag in the car. And he said, I felt the Lord leading me to pray for you. And this urging was so strong that I called the men in this church to meet here and to pray for you. And then he said this, would all those men who met with me on that day, please stand up. And altogether, 26 men in the church stood up. But they had prayed for this man. So prayer is the thing that opens our eyes. To see the spiritual reality of that warfare that goes on in that invisible world and gives us victory. But here's another thing: prayer makes possible what is humanly impossible. I mean what God did here, look again, look down at verse 18. And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the Lord and said, Smite this people I pray thee with blindness. And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha. And Elijah said to them, This is not the way, neither is this the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. But he led them to Samaria. And it came to pass when they were coming to Samaria that Elijah said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes, and he saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria It's amazing that was what was able to happen here through prayer. Elijah prayed and they were blind. Elijah then led them into the capital city of Samaria. Then he prayed that God would open their eyes, and God opened their eyes. You see, prayer makes possible what is humanly impossible. Opening the servant's eyes so he could see angels, closing and then later opening the eyes of the soldiers, those are all things that are humanly impossible. We can't do those things. Elijah's prayer was not for his servant to do what he already could do, or to use some ability that he already had. His prayer was for God to do something that was humanly impossible. to do these things. And that's what we do when we pray. And so often we forget this. So often we forget that when we pray, we're asking God to do the humanly impossible. Like tonight I ask you, find think of someone that's lost and ask God to save them. You know why I ask you to do that? Because we can't do that. Only God can bring salvation to their heart. Only God can open up blind eyes. Every lost person is spiritually blind. Only God can open their eyes. The Bible says in 2 Corinthians 4 4, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ Who is the image of God should shine unto them. Only God can open up blind eyes so they can see the beauty of Jesus Christ in the gospel. Only God can do that. Now these Syrian soldiers, they thought that they had an easy job when their king told them, you know, go find this one man and bring them back. Take this single unarmed man captive. They thought, well, no problem, we can do that. But through Elijah's one-sentence prayer, these proud men were humbled into groping after the prophet They were completely at his mercy. Then their eyes were open in response to the next prayer that Elisha prayed, and they realized that they were in big trouble. In the same way, God has to humble the self-confident sinner so he realizes The danger that he's in. He realizes how spiritually lost he really is, how spiritually blind he really is. And that's what we do when we pray for God to bring someone to salvation. God might have to bring them through something where it humbles them And where they see their weakness, and where they see their danger, and they know that they're they must humble themselves and God must open their eyes to see their desperate condition. to see they are doomed unless God's grace rescues them. And then we see here in this story, it ha it really has a good ending. Because these men, these enemy soldiers are brought in and they actually end with having a wonderful banquet. Here's the Here's the third and final lesson I want you to see here. Now, these soldiers they deserve condemnation, but instead they get mercy. Here's the third thing. Remember to be a testimony of God's grace in times of trial. Remember that God is all sufficient. Remember that prayer replaces panic with peace in times of trial, and remember to be a testimony of God's grace in a time of trial. That's what we see here in verse number twenty. It says, it came to pass when they were coming to Samaria that Elijah said, Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. And the Lord opened their eyes. And they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria. There's a lot of shocks going on here in this story. I think the first one we see is can you imagine the soldiers at the gate when they see Elisha the prophet leading a whole army of Syrians into the city of Samaria They're probably thinking, what's going on here? Here this one prophet has captured this whole army and he brings them into the city And then Elisha prays to open the eyes of these soldiers, and their eyes are open, and suddenly they realize they're in the middle of Samaria with the soldiers of Israel surrounding them. I mean that had to be a shock And notice what happens right after that. The king of Israel is there, and King Jeram wants to kill them all and claim a victory for himself. Look at verse 21. And the king of Israel said unto Elisha When he saw them, my father, shall I smite them? Shall I smite them? You can almost hear his excitement. It's killing time. Shall I smite them? He wanted to kill them. He wanted to claim a victory for himself. But Elisha would not allow that to happen. In fact, Elisha took this whole matter out of his hands. Because look at verse 22, and he answered, Thou shalt not smite them Wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast taken captive with a sword and with thy bow? Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and go to their master. Elisha basically said, look, was it Joram that defeated this army in battle? Were you the ones that brought these guys in? Are these your soldiers? No, they're not. If these were your soldiers, then you could go ahead and kill them. If these are your prisoners, you can go ahead and kill them, but they're not your prisoners. These are my prisoners. And I don't want to kill them, I want to treat them good. I want to be kind to them, I want to be gracious to them And so really they were not prisoners of war in the eyes of Elisha. They were his guests. And so he says to the king, put before them bread and water. And Jura was smart enough to know that having a meal with your enemy was a covenant of peace. We see this often in the Old Testament. When Abraham made a covenant with Abimelech, who was his former enemy, it was a covenant of peace. They had a feast together. And so Joram, uh Jehoram went beyond, uh you can call him either Joram or Jehoram. Joram's easier. He went beyond the prophet's request of bread and water, and he prepares for them a great feast. Because look in verse 23, and he prepared great provisions for them. And when they had eaten and drunk he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel. By eating together they made a covenant of peace. And the Syrians went back to their place. They no longer would raid the borders of Israel. And the lesson that we see here is when we go through times of trials. These are opportunities to show the grace of God to others, even our enemies. Solomon said, If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat. If he's thirsty, give him water to drink. In doing this, you'll heap burning coals on his head. And the Lord will reward you. And Paul later will quote from this in Romans chapter twelve, and he applies these two believers today. When you're going through a time of trial and difficulty, take those opportunities to share the grace of God to others. Remember, there's a An unsaved world that is watching. And at this moment in time, Elisha knew this was an opportunity to communicate to the enemies of God the kindness and the grace of Almighty God. And he did that, and what a witness he was to these enemy soldiers. So when you're going through a trial and you feel outnumbered and you feel overwhelmed, remember that our God is all sufficient. In times of resources. Remember that prayer replaces panic with peace. Remember to be a testimony to God's grace. And now let me just say one more thing and we're done. This story is also a beautiful picture of salvation. What Elijah did is a beautiful picture of the saving gospel of Jesus Christ. God is a great king, but we came into this world his enemies. We were under the dominion of another king, a wicked king. And we did the will of this evil king, this evil king who sought to bring other people into his captivity. We were blinded. We were helpless in our condition. We deserve to got to die. But you know what? God demonstrated amazing grace and love to us through Jesus Christ. And through the death of Christ on the cross for our sins, he gave us salvation. And the Bible says this in Romans 5. 10. When we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son. You know what happened? God opened our blinded eyes, and we saw Jesus for who he is. The beautiful King of glory, our Savior. And you know what? God saved us, and we experienced His undeserved favor and grace. And you know what God did after that? God invited us to sit down to dinner. To have a banquet. You know what the Lord's Supper is? The Lord's Supper is a covenant love feast to show that we're no longer God's enemies. We have become his friends. We are guests at his table. Now God wants us to treat our enemies the same way that He treated us. So, yes, our spiritual enemies may be strong. We may feel outnumbered, we may feel overwhelmed. But there's a way for us to win. It is by using the ultimate weapons that God has given us of prayer. That gives us access to this all-sufficient God and gaining victory through love. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. It may be that you're here tonight and you may be going through a trial. You may feel surrounded, outnumbered, out overwhelmed. With a trial or a burden. And God may be speaking to your heart tonight. And you need to remember that God, the God that loves you, that saves you, He is your all-sufficient resource. In the time of trial. And you need to remember that prayer replaces panic with peace. And prayer is a thing that gives you access to this great God. That will help you through. Is that you tonight? Maybe you just need to take a moment in prayer and reach out in prayer and say, God, that's me. I need your help. I need your resources. I need your strength. I need your deliverance. If my doth and experience is that I will have to go through the trial, I need your strength and your grace to get me through. And give me the the strength to be a testimony of your grace in these times. Is that your prayer? Said, would you pray for me? That's what I'm asking God to do for me tonight. That's my prayer. Can I pray for you tonight? Would you lift your hand? Can I pray for you if that's your condition? God bless you. Father, again, we thank you for your word and how it ministers to our heart. Be with those, Lord, that are in a time of trial. Help them to be reminded of these things. And for those who have never experienced the kindness and grace of God and salvation. Lord, may you open their eyes. Right now they are serving another king. They're enemies, but Lord, you want to make them friends. You want to be good to them. You want to invite them to a banquet where there's a covenant of peace, where they can have their sins forgiven. Know the joy of salvation. I pray, Lord, that you'll move so mightily in their heart that they will not rest until they get that matter settled, that they come to Christ. And friend, if that's you tonight, it only takes just an act of faith, reaching out in prayer. Just to pray. Say, Lord, open my eyes. Help me to see the beauty of Christ. Save me from my sins. Lord, bless your word to hearing hearts tonight, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.