Would you take God's word tonight, please? Open to the book of Hebrews, the Book of Hebrews, chapter 11. On Sunday night we've been looking at this chapter, and we've called this series the Hall of Fame of Faith. And I want you to look in chapter 11 and look in verse number 24. And we're going to look at verses 24 down to verse 29 tonight. And uh I titled the sermon When Faith Says No. Look at verse 24. Actually, verse 23, we'll start there. By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. By faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward And by faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood, lest He that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. And by faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, when the Egyptians, saying to do, were drowned. Whenever we say yes to something, we automatically say no to something else. When you're married, uh you when you marry your spouse and you say yes at the altar, you automatically say no to a whole lot of other things. At least you should. And the marriages that don't last or go through trouble are marriages where one spouse might say yes and the other one uh doesn't learn how to say yes and no. at the same time. And that is the way it is in the Christian life. When faith says yes to God, it has to say no to something else. Otherwise, that person is compromising, and God demands total commitment. We cannot serve two masters. When God called Abraham, Abraham believed, and he left the Earl of the Chaldees, he left behind all the pagans of that land, he left behind that whole lifestyle, and he went to Canaan. He said no to so many other things when he said yes to God. You remember that Lot followed his uncle Abraham into the promised land. But Lot didn't learn how to say no to the world. And Lot chose to live in Sodom and almost lost his life, and he certainly lost his family because he didn't know how to say no. Even so, when Jesus calls us to follow him, we say yes to Christ, and we say no to the world. Both decisions are necessary. And if your faith doesn't know how to say no, then you're headed for some serious trouble. in your Christian life. Second Timothy Paul said this for demons has forsaken me, having loved this present world In the classic uh allegory of the Christian life called Pilgrim's Progress, John Bunyan shows how many people were joining Christian on his journey from uh from uh or to the celestial city from the city of destruction. And in that journey many were accompanying him, but along the way they fell by the wayside because they would not say no to lesser things. That's why this paragraph in Hebrews 11 is so important for us to understand. The writer introduces to us the next people, group of people, we could say, that made the Hall of Fame of faith. It's Moses' parents and Moses himself. And they demonstrate to us what real faith is. They are an example of how to say no. Their faith conquered Egypt, which in scripture is a symbol of the world. They're a perfect illustration of the passage in 1 John 5 4 that says, For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world, and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. And so the big idea here in this whole sermon I want to communicate to you is this. Those who walk by faith say no to the world. Now, notice from this passage here that there are three fundamental ways that faith says no to the world. Number one, faith says no to the laws of the world. Look at verse 23. By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. When Moses was born, there was a law in Egypt that said that he had to be thrown into the Nile River to the crocodiles there. That was a decree from Pharaoh. Pharaoh was the most powerful man in the world at that time, and they treated him more than just a man, they treated him as if he was a god. And he decreed that all male babies be drowned in the Nile. Exodus 122, write that in your margin. And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. And this was Pharaoh's way of making sure that the Hebrews don't grow so powerful that they end up taking over the Egyptian Empire. It was his way of population control. That was the law of the land. That was the edict from Pharaoh. But Moses' parents, when they heard this, they basically said, no, we're not going to do this. There are times when faith in God demands that we say no to the edicts of men To the laws of men. Under ordinary circumstances as Christians, we obey laws. We respect governing authorities. In fact, we should be the example of that, the model of that. in the world should be believers who are good citizens and obey the law and are respectful to government and show due respect. However, there is a time when as believers we have to stand up and say no. We're not going to do that. And that's when the laws of men are contrary to the revealed word of God. At that time, we have to obey God Rather than man. Remember, just write down Acts 5. 29. Remember that that was what Peter said. Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than man. This doesn't mean that the believer can oppose any law that he happens to dislike. You know, or a law that creates a problem for him. That's not what this is about. But rather It's when that law is a definite violation of God's word that would go against his or her conscience. to then obey that law of men. When we do oppose a law, we do it in a manner that glorifies God. And so a Christian has no right to create unnecessary problems for others. And so we have to be careful in the way that we do this. But this was obviously against God's word, and the parents of Moses knew that throwing their sons to the Nile River, to the crocodiles, that was absolutely wrong. And they said, no, we're not doing that. That's not an option for us. They said no to Pharaoh. And they had what I call a cooperating faith. Again, notice where it says that by faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his Parents, that's plural. They were both together in this. They both knew this was against God's word. They knew that uh you know this was something that God Would hate and they thought that perhaps in their heart that God had a special purpose for their son, but whether whether God did or not, it was against the word of God to do this. And neither one of them were willing to compromise the word of God And so they stood together. And let me just say from this that it is important that Christian parents learn to stand united and stand together, to have a cooperative faith. It's not enough to belong that you belong together. You have to believe together as husband and wife. That's why it's important that Christians marry Christians. The Christians marry those that love Christ. The problem with marrying an unbeliever is that they have a different worldview. They have a different set of beliefs. They perceive the world differently than a believer does. Christians have a certain system. We have a certain lens through which we view the world. We view the world through the lens of Scripture, through the lens of God's Word. And husbands and wives are to agree in these most important factors in life, the way we look at the world through the lens of Scripture. We agree that our relationship to Almighty God is the most important factor. We have to agree on that. The Bible says, can two walk together except they be what? Except they be agreed. And so there's disharmony in a home when there's not that agreement. This is what happens when a Christian marries an unbeliever. A Christian says, I want to go to God's house. The unbeliever says, Well, this is my day off. I want to sleep in. A Christian says, I want to tithe our income to the Lord. An unbeliever says, no, we need that money so we can do other things. A Christian said, it's the Lord's Day, it's a holy day. An unbeliever says, it's the weekend, it's a holiday. My time off. A Christian sa, when they have a problem, a Christian says, well, let's just pray about it. An unbeliever says, that's not going to work. That's superstition. Let's just try to do our own thing and work it out. A Christian says, let's use the Bible to raise our children and the nurture and admonition of the Lord. An unbeliever says, let's raise them our way so that they'll be successful in the world. And there is disagreement on the most important factors in life. It's going to be a constant struggle and a frustration. When a believer is married to an unbeliever. There was a lady named Olivia, and she was a devoted believer, but she married a man named Samuel Clemens that we know as Mark Twain. And he was very witty and he was very humorous, but he was not a believer. In fact, he was a skeptic and he didn't believe the Bible to be the Word of God. And Olivia loved Samuel and she thought that she could have a good influence on him and that she could convert him to Christ And so she married him in direct disobedience to God's word. And for a while they were happy. He let her practice her faith. And one day she was reading the Bible out loud and he said, I can't sit here and listen to you read that any longer. And her heart was wounded. And she closed up spiritu spiritually, and they both began to drift apart. They both began to go their own way. The marriage managed to survive And then deep sorrow came into that home, and they didn't know where to turn. And Samuel Clemens said, Olivia, if it helps you to lean on your faith, then go ahead and do it. And she said, husband, I have no more faith to lean on. And that's the result of that kind of a situation There has to be a cooperation. I see a cooperating faith, but also I see a courageous faith. Again in verse 23, they were not afraid of the king's Command. They ignored the threats and the pressures of the world when it conflicted with God's way. It took courage to disobey Pharaoh's Law. It took courage to hide their child for three months and then to put them in a little boat and put them on the Nile River, trusting that God would providentially watch over him Mothers, can you imagine doing that? Can you imagine taking your three-month-old child, putting them in a basket, and then floating them out on the Nile River? I remember when we were over in Egypt, we took a we took a boat down the Nile, I thought of this story. And I was looking at that big wide river and you know everything and I thought, how could a mother put a child in a basket and just float them? out on the river and just entrust them to God. I tell you, that takes courage to do that. That takes faith to do that They were trusting that God would watch over them, and indeed God did. Pharaoh's daughter happened to be at the river. This is another one of those providential events, you know, it's not an accident, it's providence. She happened to be at the river at the exact time and she was there washing herself, and she happened to look up at the right moment. And she sees this basket, and she she takes the basket out of the water, opens the basket, and lo and behold, there is this little baby in that basket. You think all of that was an accident that it happened just like that? That was all according to God's providence. And she named him Moses because the word Moses, which is a popular Egyptian word, means drawn out, because she drew him out of the water. It's a what a paradox that is. Pharaoh wanted uh water. He wanted uh the parents to throw children into the water and for the water to kill them, but it was actually water that saved Moses. Now that's not an argument for baptismal regeneration, by the way. But he was actually saved by the water. Pharaoh's army would actually be the ones killed by the water, drowned in the Red Sea. The Bible says God catches the wise in their own c craftiness. But there are times when faith uh has to say no to the edicts of men. It doesn't matter if the state says abortion is legal, God's word says it's wrong. It doesn't matter if the state says same-sex marriage is legal, God's word says that it's wrong. And we have to learn to say no to the laws of the world. Here's number two. Faith says no to the lifestyle of the world. Look at verse 24. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And so here Moses makes a firm decision. And notice the verbs here in these verses. Verse 4, he refused Refusing to be called the Sons, so there's something he refused. Verse 25, choosing. In verse 25, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God. There's something that he chose. And then in verse number 26, esteeming. There is something that he calculated, something that he esteemed. And so Moses made a decision, but it was not an impulsive decision. It was not something that was presumptuous. It was a thoughtful, purposeful decision that he made. And let me just say that life is made up of decisions. Some decisions are simple and unimportant. Some decisions are very complex and extremely important. But the Christian life, the godly living, involves making godly decisions That's why the Bible has a whole bunch of books under the wisdom category. They are wisdom books because they're all designed and helping us make the right decision. The word wisdom is the Greek uh uh uh the he uh the Greek word is Sophia actually means skill. Wisdom is actually skill in living. It's not theoretical, as you've heard me say before, it's practical. Wisdom is not measured by educational degrees, it is measured by everyday decisions. It's what you do. It's skill in living. And there's a very very real sense in which the sum of our li the sum of our lives is based on all of the decisions that we have made. You are what you are because of all of the decisions that you have made in your life up until this point. Your life is made up of all of those decisions. Now, wisdom in the ancient world was a matter of making the right choices, making the right decisions And and the wisdom books of the Bible, it's it takes it a step further. You know, back in the the earli antiquity, uh every country, every culture had their wisdom books, they had their wise men. The Israelites came along and they had their wise men and and they had their wisdom books. But there's a difference with the wisdom books of the Bible, and that is it's not just making a right decision, the wisdom of God is making righteous decisions. And where does wisdom begin? It begins with the fear of the Lord. It is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions so that you make the right decisions. Again, the sum total of your life is the decisions that you make. And notice that Moses, he starts out by making some choices here. Notice what faith rejects. Again, in verse number 24, refusing. First of all, he rejected the world's position. In verse 24, by faith, Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. That's a big decision. It tells us that Moses was in a very high place in his life at that time. Who was Pharaoh? Well, he was the king. He was the most powerful man in the world. at that time, leader of the most powerful empire at the world at that time. And Moses was heir to the throne of Egypt because he was the adopted son of Pharaoh's daughter. Think about that. He could have been the most powerful man in the world politically at that time. Now we know that the woman who drew Moses out of the water was a woman by the name of Hapchetsut. And she was the daughter of Pharaoh that found them in the Nile, and she was the uh daughter of Tud Moses the First who died without sons, and had sheps who married her half-brother Tud Moses II to help him when he became Pharaoh, but they did not have a son, and he died young. And so You know what she did? She did uh the unthinkable. She she declared herself to be the next king in Egypt. First woman Pharaoh in Egypt. And she had a stepson, which was her husband's son, who was uh not her son because she evidently couldn't have children, and so he married another woman and had a son through her, and so now she has this stepson that's not hers, and she has I'm kind of reading between the lines here a little bit, but she had every reason to despise that boy Because that was not her son. And while all this was happening, somewhere along the line, she finds this little baby in the Nile, and she decides that he will be the next Pharaoh. And she begins to train him and all the wisdom of Egypt to be the next Pharaoh. Acts 7. 22 says this. about Moses. He was educated in all the learning of the Egyptians, and he was a man of power in words and in deeds. And so here is Moses now being put in this unique position to where he has the opportunity to be the next Pharaoh of Egypt. His mother, who was on, who was on the throne at that time, she was calling the shots, and she had him earmarked for that position. But you know what? Moses said no. I'm not interested. I don't want that. Wow. He rejected the world's position, but also he rejected the world's power I mean you think about this, the Egyptians treated the Pharaoh as if he was some sovereign god, like he was a god on earth. And so Moses turned his back on all of that. He said, I don't want that. He also rejected not only the world's position and power, he rejected the world's prestige. Moses would no doubt be a great man in the eyes of the world if he had chosen to do that, admired by all. He could have been Moses the great statesman, Moses the great Pharaoh, the Egyptian scholar, the great leader But he turned his back on that. Very few would have passed that test. He rejected the world's pleasure When Moses made his decision, he knew he was entering into a life of suffering and sorrow. It would have been a lot easier just to remain in the palace and live in ease and luxury. He could have servants continue to wait on him hand and foot. They would be at his back and call. But he refused all of that. He rejected the world's plenty. Not only did Moses refuse the pleasures of Egypt, he refused the treasures of Egypt when he said no to all of that. It was uh when we went over to Egypt, uh we had the opportunity to go to the Cairo Museum and see some of the treasures of Egypt. that are on display there. Incredible wealth, gold and jewels and precious stones. On a few occasions I visited the British Museum in London that also has some of the treasures of Egypt there And I I thought about this story when I I looked at that. Moses could have easily been an incredibly wealthy man. I mean, doesn't it seem seem strange to you that he would turn his back on all of that treasure? But he said no to it all. Faith is known by what it rejects, but also what faith receives. Look at verse 25. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Moses chose to suffer to be with God's people. Faith would rather suffer affliction in the will of God than have pleasure and ease outside the will of God. Moses refused to all of that. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Moses chose to suffer the pain of alienation and misunderstanding from his adoptive family. I mean, Pharaoh's daughter had rescued Moses from death, adopted him as her son, raised him in the splendor of the palace. I mean you can imagine the hurt feelings when m Moses said, you know, I I'm not no longer gonna Be called this. This is not what I want anymore. I mean, Pharaoh must have been outraged that here is this young man who uh was an ungrateful wretch. Moses chose to suffer the loss of the world's honors, pleasures, and wealth. Moses chose to suffer being identified with a bunch of slaves. rather than with those that were on the high society in Egypt. Moses chose to suffer the world's reproach. Can you imagine the gossip that went around when Moses made this decision? um ridicule. They were probably saying, uh this guy's unbelievable. I mean what an idiot. I mean he he had all of this. It was all in his control. All of this power, all of this wealth. And here he is, he throws it all away. Why would he do something like that? Faith re uh Faith is known by what faith rejects He refused. What faith receives? This is what he chose, choosing rather to suffer, affliction with the people of God. And then what faith reckons Look at verse 26. This is the key to all of this. Esteeming the reproach of Christ's greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. Why did he turn his back on all of that? Well, here's the answer right here. The Bible says Moses had been doing some figuring. I mean, again, this wasn't in a moment of anger. This wasn't a quick decision. He was thinking through all of this. The word esteeming here is a bookkeeping term. It means to evaluate. Moses evaluated, this is what I get if I stay in Egypt and I continue to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. And what will happen to me in the future, here's where I'll end up, and here's what I'll get. And he's thinking about all that in his mind. How long will all this last? Just a season. It's not going to be forever. It would be foolish to think that there's no pleasure in sin. The Bible speaks about the pleasures of sin. There is some pleasure in it. It is very alluring. It is very inviting. This is the hook that Satan uses to tempt people and to draw them astray. There is pleasure in it. It's fun for a while, but it's only for a season. It is very temporary. It's very fleeting. After a summer of sin, there's always a winter of weeping. So Moses, he's evaluating these temporal pleasures these treasures of the world. He's looking at that on one hand, and then on the other hand, he's evaluating the eternal treasures and riches of Christ. He's holding these two together. And Moses thought, if I choose to believe this messianic promise and suffer With my people, the reproach of Christ, if I choose to suffer that, it's only going to be for a short time. And after that, what am I going to get? I'm going to get eternal reward. I'm going to get eternal glory. So let me think about this. I can have temporary treasure on one side, temporary honor. And then it go away, or I can have eternal honor, an eternal glory, and eternal reward. I can suffer now temporarily and have a great eternity. Or I can have it all now, and it all be gone, and it's all temporal. And so Moses, you know what he did? He took God at his word. This is where faith comes in. Faith believes what God says. You say, no, wait a minute, he didn't have any evidence about that. That's right. The only thing that Moses had to act upon was The promises of God. That was it. The spoken promises of the Word of God. He was willing to trade in all of the visible treasures of the world in Egypt for the invisible promises of God. But that's what faith does. Faith takes the future invisible promises and brings them into the present as a real reality, something that's very real. In fact, the promises of God, of eternal reward of the of the messianic promise of Christ, that was so very real to Moses, it was even more real than all of the visible treasures that were there around them. And that's why he chose Christ over all of the treasures of Egypt. Dr. Vince Habner said this: Moses chose the imperishable, saw the invisible, and did the impossible. And that's what faith does. Moses came to that moment of decision in his life, and he made his choice. He moved out of the palace in Egypt. He moved into one of those little huts habited by humble people. He thought it's better to be a pulper for Jesus than a millionaire for the devil. He compared the temporal pleasures of this life with the eternal riches of Jesus, and he chose Christ. Look at verse number 26 where it says for he had respect unto the recompense of reward. That simply means he was looking ahead to the reward that was yet to come. That's what he was looking to. The future. Faith banks on eternity. It looks into the eternal. In the short term, Moses had to endure ill treatment with a bunch of refugee slaves. In the wilderness, but in the light of eternity, the sufferings of this present life are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And that's what Moses saw. When I when I think about this, I tell you what I think about. When I was over in Israel one time, we were on a dig and uh we took a tour on the weekend and uh we went to Herod's Winter Palace in uh Jericho, and then a little way from way ways away from that, there's the New Testament Jericho, and then there's the modern city of Jericho. And so we were going to the New Testament Jericho because that's where Herod built his winter palace where he would spend a lot of time. Now when we went there at that time, of course, it's all in ruins. And standing there in the middle of the ruins of that winter palace, you can look up and what you see is the what is called the Mount of Temptation. You can see it right while you're standing there. It's right there in front of you. You can't miss it. And the the guy pointed out that, you know, that's the Mount of Temptation. And uh back in Jesus' day, someone standing on the Mount of Temptation could look out over the plain where we were standing with all these ruined buildings around us. And it would have been in Jesus' day standing there and looking over all this, it would have been a beautiful sight because Herod was a builder and he loved to build beautiful things. And there would have been pools and buildings. It would have been like a little a little room there with the finest of buildings. And you could probably see it as far as the eye could see over the plain, all these beautiful buildings and pools and gardens that he would have built that would have been there back in Jesus' day. And I think about that when Jesus was there on the Mount of Temptation with the devil. When the devil, remember what the devil said to him, listen, I'll give you all of this. All of this can be yours. If you'll just bow down and worship me. And you remember what Jesus said to him? Get thee behind me, Satan. No way. What was he offering Jesus? He was saying, Jesus, you can have what you can see with your eyes right now. And he was asking Jesus to choose the visible treasures of the world over the invisible future. Of eternal reward. And Jesus is an example to all of us by that was a no-brainer for Christ. He said, No way. No way. And by the way, you know what the Bible says? The world is in the midst of passing away. And there I was standing in the middle of all those ruins. That's what Satan offered the Lord It's it's nothing but a it's nothing but ruins right now. In fact, not far from where it was standing was a is a garbage dump. And the stench was so bad that I couldn't really stay there that long. It was just terrible. And that's a reminder of the world. That's what the world offers. It's temporary. It's junk in the end. It's garbage in the end. The only thing that's worth living for are the invisible promises of God that leads to eternal reward. And this is the choice that Moses made. He weighed the momentary afflictions with eternal joy in heaven, and then he chose. He chose to suffer reproach, temporary reproach, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Faith says no to the laws of the world. Faith says no to the lifestyles of the world. But here's number three. Faith says no to the lure of the world. Again, look at verse twenty seven. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible Through faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of the blood of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them And as I said, Scripture points to Egypt as a symbol of the world. Pharaoh, a symbol of Satan, just because you say no to the world once doesn't mean you don't have to deal with the world again. I mean you can say no to the world, but guess what? The world's going to come back at you again. It's not no just once. It is a constant denial. We have to constantly say no to the world. I mean, Pharaoh wouldn't go away. Pharaoh didn't want Moses and the children of Israel to leave Egypt. He did everything he could to keep them in Egypt. He offered some real clever compromises. Even after you make a decision for God, just know this: the devil's going to come after you, and he's going to ask you time and time again to make some compromises. Uh to you know ease up a little. And don't ever think it's good to compromise with the devil Exodus, look, look in Exodus chapter 8. Let me just show you some compromises that Pharaoh offered. Look in Exodus chapter 8, verse number 25. It says Exodus 8, verse 25. It says this. And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron and said, Go ye sacrifice to the Lord or to your God in the land. In other words, you know, if you want to sacrifice, you want to worship God, just do it here in the land. In other words, don't forsake Egypt. He was trying to get Moses to worship God in the land of darkness. And the land of slavery, in the land of compromise, the devil says the same thing to Christians today. You don't have to leave the world to worship God. You can worship God and have the world too. You know, you can still live like the world and be a part of the world and worship God. Satan doesn't mind you being religious just as long as you don't have salvation. You know, you can do a little bit of that worship here, just don't commit yourself. Don't become fanatical. We have so many people that come to church. But they don't ever really leave Egypt. I mean they come and they worship God, but Egypt is there is still in their heart. They've never truly been saved. And here's another compromise. Don't become committed. Look at Exodus chapter 8, look at verse 28. And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness Only he shall not go very far away. Ferris says, well, if you have to leave Egypt, all right, but just don't go really far. Just go across the border. And don't go that far away. Stay close. I mean I really care about you. Satan says, you know, if you have to get saved, whatever you do, don't become an extremist. Don't become fanatical. I mean, do you have to attend church every week? I mean, do you have to do it three times a week? That's too much. Don't get too involved in church. You don't need to be there all the time for crying out loud. That preacher is asking for too much. Aren't you sick of listening to him? Satan tells us to live on the borderline. You know, don't be too committed. Just stay, keep Egypt close. So some Christians want to see how close to the world they can live. and yet not be fully committed to the Lord. But here's another compromise. Don't believe in household salvation. Look in Exodus chapter 10, look at verse 8. And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh, and he said unto them, Go, serve the Lord your God, but who are they that shall go And then in verse number 10 he says this, and he said unto them, Let the Lord be so with you, as I will let you go, and your little ones look to it, for evil is before you. In other words, and Pharaoh here he sounds so nice and kind. And what he but he's saying, you know, yeah, go ahead and worship. I mean, if you gotta go, go do it. But I tell you what, you better leave your little ones behind. You know, we it's too dangerous for them. I mean you don't want to bring them out there in that wilderness, do you? I mean leave them back here in Egypt. They're better off here with me in Egypt. You've you've got to go worship. You go ahead and do it But just leave your children to me. Go ahead, but just don't bring your families with you. That's what the devil says. Well, if you want to get saved, that's fine. But don't stuff that stuff down your children's throat. The devil hates it when a person gets saved, but what really bothers him is when the whole family gets saved. And the whole family becomes committed to Christ. You know, I I look fondly on this a lot, but One of the greatest well, it's the greatest thing that happened in the life of my family when I was growing up here, it was my father got saved under Pastor Johnson. You heard me talk about this before. And you're going to hear me say a lot more. I'm sorry. I'm warning you ahead in advance here. But it was such a turning point in our whole family. I mean, here we were, this family, we were lost, we didn't know the Lord. My father came to church here. He heard the preacher, Pastor Johnson. He was he was converted. I knew instantly something had happened in his heart. I mean he just absolutely was not. the same person. In some ways he was the same. And I'll tell you one of them. You didn't you still didn't mess with him, all right? But he loved the Lord. And I would open the door uh sometimes his room and he would be on his knees. In fact every time I passed by the in the evening, his bedroom door, if it was cracked open, he would be in his room on His knees with his Bible open, constantly reading, constantly praying, and it was just the Lord had obviously done something in his heart. And here's the one thing I'm grateful for. When my father got saved, he didn't say to me, Jerry, I want you to really consider and pray about coming to church with me. Uh he didn't give me that option. It was more like, you know, get ready or going to church. Well, I don't want to go. What has that got to do with anything? What's that got to do with anything? You're going to church. You're either going uh with without being sore Well you're gonna go hurting. But you're going. So you make your choice. Well, I weighed my choice here. I wage the size. Let me see, go to church, be in pain, or go to church pain-free. I chose pain-free. And I I'm so grateful that my father made me go to church We need more parents that will be a little more forceful about that. In many circles, our children are being left in Egypt. God doesn't want you out of Egypt. He wants your whole family out of Egypt. He wants all of your family out of Egypt. He wants your whole family to be saved. Catherine Booth, the wife of the founder of Salvation Army, prayed this prayer. She said, Oh God, I will not stand before thee without all my children. That's a great prayer for us to adopt. But here's the next thing. Don't commit your treasures. Look in Exodus chapter 10. Look at verse 24. And Pharaoh called unto Moses and said, Go ye serve the Lord. Only let your flocks and your herds be stayed. Let your little ones also go with you. This time when when when Moses refused, he said, no, we're going to bring our families with us. Then Pharaoh says, okay, well then if you gotta bring your children, then leave your flocks and your herds behind. You know, you would definitely want to do that. Satan doesn't want you to commit your treasure, your finance to the Lord. He says, you know, if you've got to get saved, that's fine, but I mean you don't have to give all that money to the church, do you? You don't have to do that. I heard of a pastor who was getting ready to baptize a rich member and the man said, wait a minute, Pastor, I I forgot to take my wallet out. And the pastor said, Oh no, leave it in. I want to baptize your wallet too There's some believers need to baptize their wallet and dedicate their whole life to the Lord. But here's how Moses answers, Exodus 1026. He said this, I love this. Our cattle also shall go with us. There shall not be a hoof left behind, for thereof must we take to serve the Lord our God. For we know that not with what we must serve the Lord until we come And so Moses said, No, we're not leaving anything behind. We're not leaving any children behind. We're not leaving any animals behind. Not what what one hoof will be left behind. Not one wit will the devil get You're getting nothing. We're leaving all of us. And that's what Satan has to know. All we have is God. All of ourselves, our lives, our children, our business, our money, everything belongs to God. All of us, every part of us, when we leave Egypt, we leave. We're gone. We're not going to compromise We're not going to be pulled back in by the lure of the world. And that means that we have to constantly say no to the world and no to Satan. But that's what faith does. We say, no, look at verse 27. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. You say, how was he able to say no to all that? Well, he just kept his eyes on the invisible. We would say it like this. He kept his eyes on Jesus Christ. If you want to know how to continue to say no to the lure of the world, let me tell you how. Keep your eyes on Jesus Christ Keep your gaze on Christ. Keep your eyes on the promises of God. Resist the lure of the world by looking at Jesus and keeping your eyes on the promises of God. That is the key to the Christian life. And so Moses and Israel made a full departure from Egypt. Faith says no to the laws of the world. It says no to the lifestyles of the world. It says no to the lures of the world. When you say yes to Jesus Christ, you say no. And have you been doing that? When the Bible says through faith they kept the Passover, it's referring to the blood of the Lamb, to Jesus Christ. This all points to the blood of Jesus Christ that delivered you from sin and the world. It took one night for God to take Israel out of Egypt. It took forty years for God to take Egypt out of their hearts. Whenever things get tough, some people need, you know, they they want to run back into Egypt, but they just need to keep their eyes on the world. And you need to learn to continually say no. No. I've made my decision. I'm not turning back. My commitment is with Christ. Faith says no. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, thank you for uh again another Life in Scripture, another person in Scripture that we can look to for encouragement and inspiration for our own life. Thank you, Lord, for this example. Help us To live by faith every day of our life, that we may have a life that is pleasing to you. And Lord, we live in such an insidious world that is constantly trying to Pull us away, to conform us to its likeness. And yet, Lord, it is our faith that gives us the victory that overcomes the world. And so help us, Lord, to continue to walk in faith. Help us every day of our life to say yes to Christ. All that I have belongs to Him. We see Him who is invisible. And through that That vision of faith, that vision of that comes from the promises of your word, it helps us to overcome the lure of this world, the pleasures and the treasures of this world that tries to pull us in and get us to forget our commitment to Christ. Lord, may we follow the example of Moses and learn to say no to things that need to be said no to. Give us strength to walk as committed believers, pleasing in your sight. We pray in Jesus' name, Amen.