It's good to see you all here tonight. I invite you to take God's word tonight and open to Psalm chapter sixty. Psalm chapter sixty. We've been looking at some of the Psalms here on Wednesday night, and Psalm sixty is uh Very interesting psalm. This is a psalm I was reading for devotions the other day, and that's really where this sermon comes from. Psalm chapter 60. We're going to look at the whole chapter. um of this wonderful psalm. You know, when I was a kid growing up on South Baltimore and Riverside Avenue, my brothers and I found creative ways to stay entertained. We used to get into shoe fights. We would run through our row house there in Baltimore just throwing shoes at each other. These shoe wars often lasted for a few hours or until my mother put a stop to it. On one occasion we were upstairs throwing shoes and my father had worked all night. He was in bed sleeping. We had a long hallway there at uh at our upstairs and at the end of the hallway was my father's room and the door was open. I was I threw a shoe at my brother who ducked. And the shoe landed on my father's face. Yeah. Well, to to say it made him angry is an understatement. We were afraid for our souls. S-O-U-L-S. And when he woke up, he had a smelly shoe on his face. And judgment fell swiftly and painfully on all of us. I thought throwing shoes was a game that we invented. You can imagine my shock one day when I was reading through this psalm and learned that God sometimes throws his shoe. We see this in chapter 60, verse 8, where God says, Moab is my washpot, over Edom will I cast out my shoe. It turns out that throwing shoes has an ancient history to it. I was reading about this in Victoria, England when people uh when a bride and groom would get married, uh people used to throw old shoes at them to start their as they began, you know, went out and started their honeymoon, they would throw shoes at them. And the reason they did that, uh, quote, he one writer said, uh we we we throw old shoes after young married folk in order to express our wishes for their good fortune. Not sure how that all worked out. But also you can go farther back than that with regard to throwing shoes. This goes all the way back to, of course, the Old Testament times in the ancient world. It was considered an insult. If you go to the to the Middle East ancient days, um it was an insult because a shoe was considered an unclean object because of its contact to the ground. And to throw it at someone was a sign of disdain and protest. And that custom really has remained in that part of the world, especially. To throw a shoe at someone was considered the ultimate insult Some of you might remember on December 14, 2008, during a press conference in Iraq, the then president uh George Bush was standing behind a podium and a journalist threw his shoe at George Bush. And when he threw the shoe, he said, basically, this is a farewell kiss from the Iraqi people, you dog, and he threw his shoe. And then he missed And then he threw his other shoe, saying, This is for the widows and orphans and all the all those killed in Iraq, as he threw the second shoe. President B Bush duffed And uh was avoid being hit by either of the shoes. If you want to see that shoe, they have it in the New York Museum, by the way. Why you would put that there, I'm not sure, but anyway. On July 15, 2012, in Alexandria, Egypt, during an official visit, U. S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's motorcade was pelted with shoes. And the chanters protested chanting Monica Monica referring to the Monica Lewinsky scandal involving her husband, uh the former president Bill Clinton And then, you know, there are other incidents that, you know, you can look at. In fact, um, you know, online I noticed that uh what a peaky uh uh what a well Well Wikipedia, excuse me. Uh sorry to say that. Um it lists, you know, hundreds of incidents. I was shocked at this when researching this. Now the question is, why does God throw his shoe Here in the song, you know, God is portraying himself as throwing his shoe. Someone asked, does God have shoes? Does God have feet? We know, of course, that God is a spirit. Many times in Scripture, God will portray Himself as a man with human characteristics and qualities. The Old Testament does this often. It talks about the eyes of the Lord or everywhere. You know, does God have eyes or the hand of the Lord? Or the arm of the Lord is mighty. Does God the Father have these human body parts? We know that God the Son, Jesus, is the man in heaven. But does God the Father have these human parts and this is called theologians call this anthropomorphism. Anthro is the Greek word man. Morphism is the idea in the form of, and many times in the Bible, God the Father will portray himself in human forms in order to communicate truth about himself. Um and this is what is happening We see this often in the Psalms, especially in poetic images. God is portraying Himself in the form of a man because God wants to communicate important things about Himself. And Edom here in this chapter is portrayed as a disobedient servant to whom God cast his shoe. And really this poetic metaphor in verse eight is a s is a beautiful summary of the message of the whole psalm where God again is portraying things about himself that's important for us as his people to So I want you to look at this with me. First of all, why does God throw his shoe metaphorically? Why does he do this? Well, to warn us about his displeasure, we could say. This is a sign of God's displeasure. Edom, again, was like a servant that earned the displeasure of Almighty God. And so God cast his shoe at Edom. You don't want to fall into this favor with Almighty God. That's a dangerous place for anyone to be. In fact, this whole psalm here is a prayer for God's favor to be restored to Israel. Israel had sinned and had fallen into disfavor with the Lord. And notice verse number one where it says, O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased. Israel had displeased God, and God as a result was showing his his disapproval of that. Now we're not sure exactly what Israel did to provoke the disfavor of God. But they knew, and we might not know specifically what it was, but we know in general, what is it that brings God's disfavor? It's sin, right? It's disobedience from his children Several times in the Psalms, the Psalm confesses that God's displeasure is the result of our sin. When we don't take sin seriously, when we play with sin, when we refuse to forsake sin in our lives When we do things that we know are displeasing in God's sight, then we fall into disfavor with God. Now, as a result of Israel's Falling into disfavor, God allowed the enemy of the Edomites to invade them. While King David was up north fighting the Syrians, down south the Edomites had attacked. And they did great damage. As a result, Israel felt totally abandoned by God. This initial invasion from Edom made the people uh shake like an earthquake. I it felt like, you know, they were just absolutely being overwhelmed like a flood. They were bewildered at all that was taking place. And David interprets Israel's defeat as a sign that God was disfavored. uh t uh that had his disfavor toward Israel. Now but and so as a result, you know, there are certain things that God did to show his disfavor. And these are the some of the same things that God does with his children when we fall into disfavor with God. These same things happen to us. What will God do? Well, first of all, He will cast us off. Look at verse 1. O God, thou hast cast us off. The Hebrew word cast off, Zanah, meaning to reject or to shun. You don't want to be rejected or shunned by God. Spurgeon had an interesting comment. He said, To be cast off by God is the worst calamity that can befall a man or a people. But the worst form of it is when a person is unaware or indifferent to it. Perhaps Israel didn't really know how far they had fallen in disfavor with God until this had happened. But in a sense, when we sin and we live in disobedience, God casts us off. You could say like an old shoe But also God will break us. Look in verse 1. Thou hast scattered us. The word scattered here means to break down. And sometimes God needs to break us. You know, sin has a hardening effect on our heart. The Bible talks about that in Hebrews 3. 13. But exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. You see, when we sin without true confession and repentance, we become hardened and we lose our sensitivity to sin in our life. It's like walking into a dark room. It's very dark when you first walk in, but after you're there for a while, you stay there, the room is not so dark. You your your eyes adjust to the darkness and it's not so dark. That's the way sin is. You know, it it appears to be very dark at first, but then if you're in it long enough, it's not so dark after a while. And sin has a hardening effect on us. And so as a result, God has to break us. He has to bring back that sensitivity to sin. And in order to do that, he will break us. And that breaking process is called chastisement. God will sometimes chastise his disobedient children. It might be in the form of a physical sickness or financial reversal or loss of job or You know, God taking something dear from us. God knows what rod to use to break his sheep. But then God will turn away from us. Look again in verse 1. Thou hast been displeased, O turn thyself to us again. Now, I I propose that the worst thing that can happen to a Christian is when God turns away from us and he allows us to struggle on our own. And then we see really how weak and how helpless we truly are. In Hosea 417, it says, as Ephraim is joined to idols, leave him alone. God said, if Ephraim wants their idols, just leave them alone. And God withdraws his grace. I remember one time when I was a small child, about seven years old, our family went to a carnival that was really crowded. My father kept warning me, don't wander off, don't wander off. I kept wandering off. And uh one time I wandered off, I looked around, I didn't see anyone, I was alone. I didn't realize it, um, you know, at the at first, but then You know, I I became terrified in this crowd. My father was watching the whole thing, but he hid from me. He was teaching me a lesson. You know, he kind of left me to myself for a little while, and then after a while I felt his hand grab me. I'll tell you what, I didn't wander off again. You know, sometimes God will hide himself from us. He will he will withdraw, he'll turn away from us, he'll hide himself from us. And leave us on our own. And then when we find out how foolish we are, how helpless we are, then God will, you know, turn again to us when we understand the reason and the message That's why the psalmist prayed in Psalm 27, 9. Hide not thy face far from me. Put not thy servant away in anger. Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. But then God will shake us up. Look at verse 2. Thou hast made the earth to tremble, thou hast broken it. And here is the imagery of an earthquake to illustrate that what is uh secure to us, it um appears secure to us, I can I should say sometimes is not An earthquake comes suddenly, it comes destructively, it shakes up everything, it does great damage. Of course, we read of earthquakes and their damage that they do. and uh the horrible loss that comes from an from earthquakes. And here God uses this imagery of an earthquake. David uses this imagery to speak about what Israel was going through. Their whole lives were turned upside down by this attack from this enemy, Edom, because of their sin and di and God's disfavor against them. And so God uses this thing just to shake up their lives. You know, psychologists tell us that earthquakes can be more destructive psychologically than natural disasters because basically they take away our peace of mind. And everything around us that we should felt like should be secure is shaken. And and God sometimes will do that. He'll He'll take away our peace. He'll remove our sources of security. He'll knock the crutches out from under us that we lean on. And all of that is a result of the consequences of sin in our life. Sin and rebellion against God. And then also God will bring bewilderment, bewildering calamity into our lives. Look again in verse 3. Thou hast showed thy people hard things. Thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment. And this metaphor expresses the confusion that comes by calamity. They stagger about like a per a drunken person. This is the effect that calamity might have on someone's life. This is what David is describing happened to the people after they are attacked by Edom. They're they're bewildered. They're staggering around in shock. Like drunken people. Again, this is the awful consequences of God's disfavor against them because of their sin and disobedience. You know, God expects a life of obedience from his children. He expects us to obey what he says. And when we disobey and we go our own way and we rebel against God, there's a price to pay for that Now you might be asking, what if that's me? What if I have come into disfavor with God? What do I do? Well, that's not really a difficult question to answer. You repent immediately of that You confess it before God. You forsake that sin. The Bible says that God restores his favor to those who are repentant. And really by the end of this psalm, what we're going to see is that God's favor indeed is restored, and then God will end up giving victory. This psalm may open on a bad note, but it closes on a positive note. God is merciful and God is forgiving. And to those that confess their sin and forsakes their sin, God always shows mercy and kindness. The Bible says in Psalm 103 verse 9, he will not always chide, will n neither will he keep his anger forever And so, why does God cast his shoe, so to speak, to warn about his displeasure? But I see another thing in here that this metaphor Teaches us about God. God casts his shoe to remind us about his sovereignty. Beloved, God is sovereign over all the nations. Nations that make arrogant boasts that shake their fists at God are nothing in God's sight. Notice verse 7 of Psalm 60 here. Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is also the strength of mine head. Moab is my washpot. Over Edom will I cast out my shoe. God's casting his shoe at this arrogant nation, the enemy of God's people. When God cast his shoe at Edom, it was not only to show his displeasure, but to communicate the fact that he is the sovereign king over all the nations. This mighty nation. That defeated Israel is nothing to God. That nation that gave Israel so much trouble and so much sorrow, God said it's nothing to me. I throw my shoe at that. That one thing in your life that has defeated you is nothing to God. God can give you victory over that any time. And so casting a shoe at Edom stands for God having absolute power and control over our problems and our enemies and he can give us victory over those things. This was a a little nation here. That was boasting arrogantly, and God says, they're nothing to me. They're nothing. And so really what is portrayed here in these verses, actually from verse four on down to verse uh eight is really the picture here is God is a sovereign warrior king This is what you see here in these verses. He's like a warrior, and he's going to go out now for Israel and battle against these nations that um are giving Israel so much trouble. And what we what God port is portraying here is that He's the one who determines the victory. Victory comes from Him. Verse 4. Notice what David says, Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee that it might be displayed because of the truth. David believed that whenever an enemy came against his people, God would raise up a banner to represent his truth. Should Israel be defeated, the banner of truth was disgraced. And David believed that God would not permit that to happen. That God can can and will give his people victory. Those who fear him, those who trust in him. God is the one that can give you victory over whatever enemy you may face. He delivers the godly. Look in verse 5. That thy beloved may be delivered. Save with thy right hand and hear me. God's beloved ones, plural, are the Israelites, but really it stands for all of his people. And David asked for victory for those whom God loves. The right hand was a symbol of power. And then God designates the boundaries. Look in verse six. God has spoken in his holiness. I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem and meet out the valley of Suc of Succa or Succo, excuse me. Gilead is mine, Manasseh is mine, Ephraim is is the strength of mine head. And what this shows here is that God, who is the sovereign warrior king, who has defeated the enemy, has the sovereign right. to determine the borders of all the nations. And here, by his holiness, God has spoken. That is, he promised, he swore to Jacob or to Israel certain lands that they would have, and God in his Holiness is going to keep his word. So he's depicted here as a victorious warrior conquering the land and then uh apportioning it out to his people. Shechem and Sukkot, towns west and east of Jordan that were prominent in Israel's history. God will fulfill his promise to Jacob to give the lands to his um people as God said. Verse 7, Gilead and Manasseh are territories east of Jordan. Ephraim and Judah are territories west of Jordan. All are claimed by God and have a right to his protection. Ephraim, the most powerful tribe and the chief defense of the nation, is compared to a warrior's helmet. Notice where it says that where it says in verse seven, Ephraim is also the strength of mine head God said it's like a helmet that a warrior wears, my helmet. Judah as the tribe which belonged to the Davidic sovereignty is compared to a royal scepter in Scripture. Verse eight In strong contrast to the honor that God assigns to Ephraim and to Judah is the disgrace that he assigns to the enemy nations of Moab and Edom in verse 8. Moab is my washpot. Over Edom will I cast out my shoe. Moab, notorious for his pride, is compared to um a washpot that a servant brings to a victorious warrior after battle to wash his his feet in when he returns from the battle And God says, I'll take off my shoe and cast it at Edom. And again, all this portrays God's sovereignty. God is sovereign over all the nations. We have to remember that God is in control. That's something that we forget. That's what is being portrayed right here. Edom, this powerful nation, is nothing to God. And the same is true of all the nations of the earth. Our government might be afraid of China or Russia or North Korea or Iran. But you know what? Nations like that, God just throws a shoe at 'em. I mean, they're nothing to God. Remember Psalm 2, where all the nations gather together against God? Is God in heaven frightened, worried about what's going to happen? What does the Bible say? He that sits in the heaven shall watch. Shall laugh. This is nothing to God. God moves leaders and nations like pieces on a chessboard. God You know, God casts shoes at them in disdain for those who think in any way that they could thwart the sovereign purpose and plan of Almighty God. They think they're in charge, but God is the one who's in charge. You know, remember Nebuchadnezzar had to learn that lesson? Remember that proud king of Babylon thinking that he had built Babylon? And he was warned in a dream to humble himself, and he did, and after a year, he walked out on the palace, a roof. And boasted, is not this the great Babylon that I have built by my power, my might, my majesty? And in that moment God struck him with insanity. And the Bible says for seven years he wandered around like a like an animal eating grass like an oxen until he learned the lesson That the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomsoever he will. We need to constantly be reminded of who is in control. It is God. We have a big God Bigger than this universe, bigger than we could ever understand. And this means that when you think that your life is out of control, you know, it's nothing. God is in control. And you need to submit yourself to God. God cast a shoe to warn us about his displeasure. He casts a shoe to s remind us about his sovereignty, but finally the la the last thing, to teach us that he is the only source of victory. How is this mighty nation, Edom, going to be defeated? This nation that that basically uh horrified Israel That shook them to their very core. This nation that left them in bewilderment, staggering around like a drunken man. How are they going to defeat this nation? Will it be by their own strength? Of course not. Israel is so weak, they need a warrior to go and fight their battle. Who is going to help them? Who are they going to call? Many times in the history of the nation of Israel, when a when a mighty nation bullied them, you know what they would do? They would they would do political alliances with another nation and and try to get help from another king of another nation to help them. But the new the new king of Israel, David, he was a different man. The Bible says he was a man after own of God's own heart. So look at verse number nine. David is the one speaking here, and he asks these questions. Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me into Edom. Remember, David was up north fighting against the Syrians. Now he comes back down to Israel and he's facing the Edomites. He sees what happened. He sees the defeat of the people. He sees the bewilderment And David the King, the leader, asked the question, who's going to help us out of this? Who's going to fight this battle? The answer was obvious. Look at verse 10. Wilt not thou, O God, which has cast us off? He was the kind of leader who looked to trusted in Almighty God. David knew that through repentance and confession, that they could gain the favor of God through depending upon God. That's the place God wants us fully dependent and trusted on him that they could get back into the favor of God and God could turn that situation around. God could uh defeat their enemy. But notice in ten in verse ten where he says you know uh or excuse me verse nine who will bring me into the strong city What city is he talking about there? Well remember this is the nation Edom, and the fortified city of Petra, or Silah. This is the capital of Edom. And what David was going to do, David was going to attack the enemy with the help of God. He was going to go to that city. And he was making it clear that he was trusting God alone for the victory. He didn't trust in himself. He didn't trust in his capable officers or valiant soldiers. But he trusts in God fully in the Lord alone. So David really is teaching us two lessons here. First of all, only God can give victory. Again, David speaking about the city of Petra, this fortified city. This was one of the most impregnable mountain cities in the in that whole area on that other side of Jordan. Petra I don't know if you've ever been there. I've never been there. Um I've talked to people that have and I've seen certainly seen footage. But Petra is a pr approach through a narrow cut in the limestone cliffs for about two miles. There's just this narrow passage to get to that city. And someplace it's so narrow that only two horses side by side can fit through it That's how narrow the passage is. Only a handful of brave men could defend this city against an army because of that narrow passage. And so really it was a city that was so difficult to breach. And so David is asking the question, who will help us breach this impregnable city And he knows that the help of man is worthless. Look at verse 11. Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. David says, I'm not looking to man for help on this. You know, if you're if you're asking God for victory in your life, you need to learn from a winner like David. David doesn't look to man. He learned a lesson that we all need to learn, that only God can give victory. And so he looked to the Lord That's the first lesson we see here from David as he regathers this bewildered nation and leads them forward and teaches them to trust in Almighty God. And then the second thing is we have to ask for it. We have to ask for victory. You know, sometimes people say they want victory, but I wonder if you're not asking God for it. If you're not seeking God and praying and pleading with God for it, we have to ask him for it. Although David knew only God can give the victory, he also asked him for it. That's what he's doing in this final stanza. In verse number 11, give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man. And then notice verse 12, through God we shall do valiantly. For he it is that shall tread down our enemies. With God, we can gain the victory. He will trample down our enemies. The great Jewish scholar in his commentary says this loophole says this psalm closes on a strong note of confidence. Which was engendered by the promises of God which were grasped in faith. And so David has victory. And by the way, the Bible records David's victory. You might want to write down in the in the margin 2 Samuel 8 Verse 13 and 14. Let me tell you what happened as a result. 2 Samuel 8, 13. And David got him a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the valley of Salt. Being 18,000 men. So David's up north. He's fighting the Syrians. He comes back down. He sees the situation. He trusts in the Lord. He leads the people into battle, verse 14, and he put garrisons in Edom throughout all Edom, put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants And the Lord preserved David whithersoever he went. There it is. David got victory over this mighty so-called nation, the nation that got through Eshuat. And this is a metaphor for teaching us that victory comes only from God. Only from God. And it gives that victory to those who trust in him alone and to those that sincerely ask him for that Victory. I'm telling you by the authority of the Word of God, God will give you grace and strength to overcome your enemy if you will trust him. Now, you and I, we're not kings like David. We don't have military battles to fight, but we but we all have battles, spiritual battles, and we all have our petras. What's your petra? What's the impregnable city? What is it? Is it a sinful habit? It is a person, a challenge, a spiritual issue? We all have those battles to fight And by God's grace he will give us victory if we will trust him. Trust God and watch him cast his shoe at your petra or at your Edom. Victory will be yours. Now let me close with this. Did you know that in the book of Ruth, taking off one shoe and giving it to another was a custom for redeeming items? If two people wanted to enter into a covenant, instead of signing a contract, you would take your shoe off and give it to the other person. I'd rather have the signed contract, by the way, but But in Ruth, an unnamed man took off his shoe and he gave it to Boaz, who was redeeming Ruth and making Ruth his wife. This that man was not a willing redeemer, but Boaz was willing, and he was qualified to redeem Ruth And really, in that story, the unnamed man really is a picture of Adam. Because of Adam's failure, we need a Redeemer. We need a kinsman redeemer. On the cross, the shoe was cast at Christ, our Redeemer. He took all of our sins upon himself. He bore the wrath of God for our sin. He made a covenant to redeem us. From sin. He who was sinless took our sins. And the reason that we could have any victory at all is through knowing Jesus Christ. And if you don't know him, I would encourage you to come to him. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Father, thank you for the beautiful metaphors that we see in Scripture that help us to understand truth about you. The most important thing about us, Father, is what we think about you as our God. And that when we see these beautiful images in Scripture, how you condescend to portray yourself as a man so that you can communicate your character to us. Lord, we thank you that you are doing this so that we can have a full understanding because our joy and our satisfaction increases the more we know about you. How we see how faithful you are, how we see how holy you are. That's what we see in this psalm. You're a holy God. And Lord, you will not allow sin to dominate our lives. You will chastise us. You will cast your shoe as it were in disfavor, so that we will deal thoroughly with sin. Lord, you are sovereign over all the nations. And that means, Lord, that you're sovereign over our lives. And Lord, you're the only one that can give us victory. Over the problems, the challenges, the things that we face. And I pray that we'll learn from David to trust in you for that, you alone, to ask you for that victory and to trust you and thank you, Lord, for what you're going to do for us. And there may be some folks here tonight, heads bowed and eyes closed that maybe you just need to ask God right now to cast his shoe at your Edom. Whatever that's that impregnable city of Petra that's that's brought bewilderment into your life, defeat, fear Would you just be like David and say, you know what, vain is the hope of a man Lord, will you help us? And through our God, we can do valiantly. And put your full trust in the Lord. Father, let that be our prayer tonight. And help us, Lord. We are a needy people. And we need you desperately. We thank you and we praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.