Would you take God's word and open to the Book of Colossians, chapter two, please? The book of Colossians, chapter two. And we're going to look at verses 8 down to verse 10 of Colossians chapter 2. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word this morning? Colossians chapter 2 in verse 8. Beware lest any men spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily, and ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power. This is the word of the living God. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Pray with me today. Father, we thank you for your inspired word. And Lord, I pray that you'll give us attentive hearts and speak to us today and help us to see our completeness in Christ. And may we apply these things to our own heart and life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In the book Our Sufficiency in Christ, the author talks about the story of two men, Homer and Langley Collier. They were the sons of a respected doctor. Both of these men had uh college degrees. They uh were becoming attorneys. When the old Dr. Collier died in the early part of the century, his sons inherited the family home. They inherited the family estate. These two bachelors were were set financially for the rest of their life. They inherited riches from their father. But the Collier brothers chose a particular lifestyle, not all consistent with the material blessing and status that they had been bestowed with from their father. They lived in almost total seclusion. They boarded up the windows of their house. They padlocked the doors. All their utilities were, including water, were shut off. No one was ever seen going into that house or leaving the house. From the outside, it looked like the house was empty. On March 21, 1947, police received an anonymous telephone tip that a man had died inside the boarded-up house. And so they went there to investigate and they were unable to uh get through the front door to force the door open, and so they had to enter through a second-story window to get inside And once they got inside, they found Homer Collier's corpse on a bed. He had died clutching a newspaper. And even though he had been blinded, he still had that newspaper in his hands. And the and the scene was really grotesque, the whole backdrop of it, it seems like these brothers were collectors. They collected everything, all kinds of junk. The house was crammed full of broken machinery, auto parts, boxes, appliances, folding chairs, musical instruments. Rags, assorted odds and ends, bundles of newspaper. One thing was for sure, all of it was worthless. It was worthless junk An enormous mountain of debris blocked the front door. Investigators were forced to keep using the upstairs window to to get inside. And for weeks they would excavate and they finally worked a path clear to the front door. Nearly three weeks later, workmen, as they were still hauling away piles of junk, They found a grisly discovery. Langley Collier's body was buried beneath a pile of rubbish, some six feet away from where his brother Homer had died. It seems that Langley had been crushed to death in a crude trap that he had built to protect all of his precious treasure, what he thought was treasure. from intruders. The garbage they eventually removed from the call your house totaled more than 140 tons. No one ever knew why the brothers were stockpiling all of this junk in the house. Homer and Langley Collier Their whole life is kind of a sad, but kind of a fitting parable to many people and the way they live in church. Even though these men were rich, they had been bestowed with all kinds of riches. They were set for life. They lived a life of self-imposed depravity, or excuse me, deprivation, I should say, and They lived with junk when they could have had the treasure that was given to them. They binged on the scraps when they could have had so much more. Now, you think about that, I think about that story, I think about the the Colossians that Paul was writing to were in danger of doing the same thing on a spiritual level. This is a warning that Paul is giving to the Colossian Christians. He didn't want them to substitute the spiritual treasure that they were given in Christ. for the trash heaps of the world, spiritually speaking. And by the way, that's a danger for every believer. Do you realize that when you come to Jesus Christ, you're spiritually rich? You've been left an inheritance. And the danger is that we could leave the treasures that we have in Christ, and we can replace Christ for other things that are worthless. And so this is a strong warning from the Apostle Paul. The world is constantly offering substitutes for Christ. Now you have to remember, we dealt with this passage last week, but let me remind you that Paul is refuting a heresy that was getting into the Colossian Church, a heresy called Gnosticism. And also mixed in with his Gnosticism was man-made philosophy, and then a mixture of Jewish legalism. And what these heretics were claiming was that Christ alone could not really give them all that they needed That there was a higher plane spiritually that they could ascend to. That Christ could not give them all of what their soul needed, what their heart needed. He couldn't meet all their spiritual, emotional, or psychological needs. They needed to go outside of Christ if they wanted to really Advance spiritually. They were adding things. And so they were saying that there's truth that's hidden outside of Christ And by the way, remember what the Gnostics believed? They believed that the highest God sent out a series of what is called emanations, or we would say beings that were less God. They called uh called demi-urge is a word that you use sometimes, or demagogues or smaller gods. And so there's a series of emanations that come out of God. And the way to go into the highest level spiritually is to ascend this ladder of these beings. And in order to do that, you had to have special knowledge. Hence you get the word Gnosticism, which comes from the Greek word gnosis or knowledge. You had to have this special knowledge to ascend this ladder into spiritual perfection. And the Colossian heretics taught That Jesus Christ was simply one of those emanations. And it was good to know Jesus, but you needed more than that. And so Paul is warning about this dangerous philosophy, this dangerous teaching. And he warns them that when you add To to Christ you lose everything and you really are living off of the junk of the world And by the way, the same danger exists today. The devil is still telling Christians that there is truth and wisdom and spiritual knowledge that you can't find in Christ. It's outside of Christ. If you want it, you have to go outside of Jesus to find it. And so Gnosticism never really died, you know. We still see it all over. today. This neo-Nosism. One one writer wrote this, where imprecise doctrine and careless Bible exegesis are tolerated. And where biblical wisdom and discernment languish, people always tend to look for something more than the simple sufficiency God has provided in Christ. Today, as never before, the church has grown careless and hazy with regard to biblical truth, and this has led to an unprecedented quest for hidden knowledge. And he's right. He goes on to say nothing epitomizes neo-Nosism more than the church assassination with humanistic psychology or philosophy. So when people go through difficulties and burdens and they have problems, scripture and praying with someone that's hurting emotionally, that seems too superficial. We have to we have to have trained psychologists, we have to have uh psychiatrists, we have to have all these people that are qualified to help people with their spiritual and emotional problems. We have to go outside of Christ. We have to go outside of Scripture. We have to go outside of the church to do this. And Paul warns about this whole idea. He warns about this whole thinking. The book of Colossians says that Jesus Christ is all you need. You're complete in him. And so I want you to see what Paul does is he gives a contrast here between philosophy and Christ. You're going to have to choose. Either you choose philosophy, the philosophy of the world, you choose man's wisdom, or you choose Christ. So look at the contrast. I want you to see these two ideas. Good news today. The sermon only has two points to it. We're going to contrast the slavery of philosophy. Versus the sufficiency of Christ. Number one, the slavery of philosophy. Look at verse 8. Beware Lest any man spoil you through philosophy. Now we know the word philosophy comes from two words, Philaio, to love is Sophia, wisdom, the love of wisdom. But really, in Paul's time, philosophy meant Everything that had to do with theories about God and the world and the meaning of human life. So philosophy attempts to answer these questions. Is there a God? Is he knowable? Who is man? Why am I here? And what is the purpose of life? Any school of thought or system that tries to answer these basic questions outside of God is really Philosophy, the philosophy of men. And by the way, anytime you see that little three-letter suffix ism and it's added to a word, that's kind of a school of thought, that's kind of a philosophy. For example When you take the word existence and you add the ISM and you get existentialism. You take the word secular and you add ISM, now you have secularism, you have a school of thought. You take the word human and you add ism to it. Now you have humanism. Again, it becomes a philosophy. It becomes a school of thought. And all over we have all these isms. That compete against Christ. Dr. R. G. Lee said there isms that ought to be wasms And these philosophical systems that are out there are anti-God. They are attempts to find meaning in life outside of God. And so they're competing for the mind and soul of men. You say, what's the problem? Well Paul tells us in verse eight, notice what he says, but beware lest any man spoil you through Philosophy, the word spoil here, a really unique Greek word, it occurs only here in the New Testament. It's not even used in classical Greek much. It is a word that means to be carried off And to be enslaved, it has a sense of being kidnapped. Someone was living free, and then suddenly they are Captured, they're kidnapped, they're made a slave. And Paul is using this word here to talk about this is what philosophy does to a person on a spiritual level. It abducts you. It carries you away. They kidnap converts from church. Uh you know, false teachers don't go out and win the laws and make converts. They can't do that. Their system doesn't really do that. What they do is they kidnap children from the church. And they enslave people in their own ideas. Spurgeon said this, beware those who pretend that they are going to enrich you, but whose real object is to plunder you. They say that they will give you advanced thought, deeper ideas, a system more congruous with the age. Plenty of people would spoil you in this way by teaching you their profound thoughts, their grand inventions, their bright ideas. Beware of all of them. You will philosophize men into hell, but never into heaven. It's enslaving. But here's number two. It's empty. It's empty. Look again at verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. Vain something devoid of substance, fruitless, without effect. It's empty. The word deceit is uh interesting. It's the idea of uh being promised something and not getting it. This is what philosophy does. It kind of promises a lot, it it it gives very little And it it leaves you empty. Leaves you with nothing. Now of all the isms that are out there, and you can just go down the line, humanism, existentialism, pragmatism. Positivism, hedonism, pluralism, and on and on you can go. The one overarching philosophy that kind of binds it all together is secularism. And secular is from the Latin word which means this time or this world. And secularism basically is the idea that all of life, all of human value, everything about this life Is in the here and the now, there is no eternal after this. There's only this life. There's no eternity. Everything that happens is here and now. And so really the motto of the uh Secularist is is that right now counts and that's it. It's the it's the right now counts for right now idea. There is no eternity after that. But of course we know the Bible teaches something totally opposite of that. You were created for eternity. And this is not all there is. And so the Christian's motto is, right now counts forever. Everything that we do now has eternal consequences to it. There is an eternity. There is a life after this life here. And if you're in Christ, you have a lot to look forward to as a believer. But the motto of the secular is there's no eternity, there's no eternal perspective. And so It's the philosophy called the Hik et month, that is the here and the now. Whatever you're going to get out of life, do it here, do it now. In Paul's day it was the Epicureans. Who said, eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow you die. And by the way, it's no accident that people that buy into this whole system of thought are people who are miserable and depressed. And they're in despair. You know why? They've bocked themselves in. They've taken away any meaning of life. And so you have these philosophers. Let me quote one. John Paul Sarder, the existential philosopher, said this, life is an empty bubble on the sea of nothingness. Wow, that's pretty d that's pretty despairing. Nietzsche, the uh German philosopher, the one who was the originator of God is dead Not in the sense that he's literally dead, but the idea of God is dead. Since there is no eternity, there's only the here and the now. We don't really need God. And so the whole idea of a God is dead. There's only the here and the now This man, one writer said, collapsed under the weight of the despair of his own ideas. He spent the last 11 years of his life in an insane asylum Bertrand Russell said at the end of his life, he was a philosopher, he said, philosophy has proven a watch out for me. You know what someone said a philosopher is a blind man in a dark room looking for a black cat that doesn't exist. The problem is sometimes he thinks he finds it. It's empty. It's empty. But here's the other thing Paul said. It's enslaving, it's empty. It's earthly. Look at look in verse 8 again. Where he says, Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit after the tradition of men. Where do these philosophies come from? from the tradition of man. And of course tradition has the idea of something that's been hand down, handed down from generation to generation. It's been perpetuated Uh but just because it's been handed down for a long time doesn't mean it's true. It was a lie from the beginning, it's still a lie. And what happens is men they add to it. You know, philosophers just they quote each other and they add more thoughts to the the lie that was originally propagated. And that's the whole idea here. They're just perpetuating depraved human thinking and it's handed down And one philosopher adds more to the other. And it's all of man. It's not of God. You know what happens when you put your trust in man? Let me show you something. This is worth seeing. Go to uh Jeremiah chapter 17 real quick. Culture Place in Colossians. I want you to see this. I showed this to our seminary students in chapel yesterday. I want you to look at this. Look at Jeremiah chapter 17. Look down at verse number 5. This is a contrast that Jeremiah is giving. And look at it, verse 5. Jeremiah 17. Thus saith the Lord. Cursed be the man that trusteth in what? Man. Well what happens? He makes flesh his arm, whose heart departs from the Lord. When you put your trust in man, when you make flesh your arm, your heart will depart from the Lord. Look in verse 6. For he shall be like the heath in the desert. And shall not see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness in a salt land not inhabited. This is a picture of barrenness, futility, emptiness. In fact, the word heath there For he shall be like a he it's the Hebrew word R R, A R, A R is the way we transliterate that. R R, an R R. What's an R R? Well you know, uh uh Hebrew scholars have kind of questioned that. They've in fact different English versions have different translations of that. Some say well he'll he'll be like a shrub in the desert, or some will say it'll be like a juniper in the desert. Some say it'll be like a a tree in the desert. And they use all kinds of different words and they struggle over that because no one really knew what a R R was I was over in Israel a few years ago and we were visiting the New Testament Jericho where there's the ruins of Herod's winter palace. And on the way to that Ruins, the guide stopped and he showed us a little bush, a little tree, and he said, This is an R R tree. Same exact word here. And on the tree was this little fruit. It looked like a pear. It was green. But when you when you grab it, it feels like a water balloon. And if you if you cut it, what drips out is a white substance, looks like milk, has the consistency of milk. And the guide said, that's poison, that's deadly poison. He said warriors used to dip their arrows in that to make sure they killed their enemy. Think about that when you think about this verse. He shall be like the RR in the desert. Poison. Deadly poison. Death. I think that's what Jeremiah had in mind here. To put your trust in man and to make flesh your arm is like poison. Deadly poison. But look on the other hand, look at verse 7. Blessed is a man that trusteth in the Lord. Whose hope the Lord is. Notice the contrast? He's not cursed, he's blessed. He's not trusting in man, he's trusting in God. His heart doesn't depart from God. His hope is in God. He's turning to the Lord with all his heart. And notice verse 8, for he shall be like a tree planted by the waters that spreadeth out a root by the river. And shall not see when he cometh, but his leaf shall be green, and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit. A complete, total different picture. There's not emptiness here, there's fruitfulness There's not barrenness, there's plenty, there's growth, there's life, not death. That's the difference. Anyone who teaches people to trust in man is bringing a curse down. And Paul said this philosophy, it's enslaving, it's empty, it's earthly, it comes from the traditions of men. But here's the other thing, it's elementary. Again, look at verse eight. Beware lest any man fool you through philosophy and vain to see after the traditions of men, after the rudiments of this world. What does Paul mean when he calls it the rudiments of this world? This is not really an easy term to define. There are several possibilities, but let me just boil it down to what I think it's talking about here. In a sense, the term is referring to basic elements of learning. The rudimentary things of learning, things in a column or things in a row literally here. So it's the idea of your ABCs. Your your numbers one, two, three. Paul said these are rudimentary principles of instruction. They're for childhood. These are not for adults. These are for children. Just starting out. My wife and I, we're we're going to be going to England. Um my y my grandson Theo is four years old now. He's going to be going to school for the first time. He's got his little British school uniform there. Gonna be going into a private school there. I I wanna be there for that. I want to see him go in. I want to hold his hand, welcome in. I was thinking about just going in and sitting in class with him. What if I just go in and the teacher says, What are you doing here? Well I decided to go back to school. Well, what's your level of education there? Well I have a PhD, but uh I'd really go like to go back to the rudimentary principles. I'd like to learn my ABCs over again. You know what she would say? She'd say, You are mad And she would call security and say, please get this man out of here. What person, what mature adult would go back into kindergarten To learn the the elementary principles, that just doesn't make any sense. And this is Paul's whole point right here. To turn from Christ And to man's philosophy is like turning back into the elementary, rudimentary principles of infancy, of childhood In the 19th century, there was a philosopher named Augustus Kump. He was a founder of a philosophy known as positivism And his theory was this that mankind in Western culture went through a series of stages in his societal development. The infant stage, he says Listen to this. The infant stage, he says, is when men seek theology and religious answers to the questions of life and the meaning of life. That's the infant stage. You're seeking theology and religious answers. But then, he says, man grows up and he passes through this early infancy stage and then he becomes more mature. And he leaves religion, and he leaves theology, and he moves into philosophy. That's exactly the opposite of what Paul is saying here. Paul saying, no, when you leave Christ and you turn to philosophy, you're turning back into the infant things. You're turning back into the ABCs. This isn't some advanced, deep, new, profound knowledge. You don't improve. on your wisdom and knowledge by turning from Christ. It is elementary, but here's the last thing. It's exclusive. Look again at verse 8. where he says, uh not after Christ. It excludes Christ. It is seeking truth, seeking wisdom outside of Christ. Spurgeon said modern philosophers will accept anything except the bleeding substitute for guilty men. That's the slavery of philosophy. But here's the second thing. Number two, the sufficiency of Christ. Because notice what Paul says. Look again at verse 9. For in him Dwelleth all the fullness of the Godhead bodily. And ye are complete in Him. Which is the head of all principality and power. So this heresy attacked on two fronts. First, it attacked Christ. and the and the nature and the person of Christ. And then it attacked the believer and our relationship, our identity in Christ. So Paul says, first of all, he's the fullness of God. He's the person of God in verse 9. In him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead. And the word for fullness here, pleroma, And this is a word that the Gnostics in that day love to use. When they talk about these emanations that came out from the highest God. They called that the pleroma. That was the source of the pleroma. All these emanations, and you had to ascend this ladder of beings and knowledge to get to the highest God. And Paul is basically saying, no. There's only one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. And he is the preroma, he is the fullness of God. You've seen him, you've seen God. In him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead, not just a part, all he is fully God. Totally God. Someone say, well, how does that help me? Well, notice again the position of the believer. Look at verse 10. And ye are complete in him. Look at the word complete there. The word in verse 9 for fullness, the Greek word, and the Greek word in verse 10 for complete, you know what? That's the exact same Greek word. Ye are pluroma in him. You're full in him. Christ is the fullness of God, and since you're in him, you're one with him, and you share in that fullness. So there's nothing that you lack. You have it all when you have Christ. I mean just suppose you went to the beach and you stood at the shore of the vast Atlantic Ocean and you took a jar and you dipped it into the water. Of course you couldn't fit the whole ocean into that jar, but that jar becomes full of the fullness of the Atlantic Ocean. You think about that when you think about Christ. Christ is infinite. He's all the fullness of God. And whoever whichever one of us finite creatures dips the tiny vessel of our life into him, we become full of that fullness. We share in that. Which means what on a practical level? That at any moment what you need, Christ is there for you to give you what you need. See, I'm going through a real trouble. My heart hurts. You know who's there to give you the strength that you need? It's Christ. You say, I I I just I need wisdom. Well he's there, he is your wisdom. Look to him, he'll help you. You need comfort, he'll give it to you, he's there. You need courage, he'll give you courage. You need peace, he'll give you peace. You need emotional strength, he'll give you emotional strength. You are complete in him. In the fullness of Christ, you are complete. So you don't need anything else. You don't need to go anywhere else. When you're born into the family of God, you have all that you need. John Blancher was right. Philosophy is the search for truth. In Jesus, the search ends. It ends in Christ. There's a story about a woman who was at the hospital and she was seriously ill. Her husband would come every day and check on her. Doctors would say, Well, she's improving, she's improving. And one day When they went in, uh, the doctor said, well, she passed away. And the man was very sad. And he said, Well, what did she die of? Improvements? You know what the church is dying of today? Improvements. Because we're seeking things outside of Christ. They're seeking things outside of the scripture under the name of improvements. They are heaping up piles of trash and junk and neglecting the treasure that they've been handed. And that's a huge mistake. In Christ we have all that we need. One of my favorite hymn stories is the story of Charles Wesley. One of my favorite hymns, Jesus, Lover of My Soul. And the story is when he's writing that hymn. Well actually before he wrote to him, the the event that really caused him to write to him was when he was in his study and he opened up the window And he noticed that a predatory bird, a hawk, was chasing a little sparrow, and that sparrow, seeking refuge, flew into his study, and literally into his vest. And was hiding there in his chest. It was kind of a remarkable thing. And he was stunned by that whole event. And later he wrote the words, Jesus, lover of my soul, let me to thy bosom fly. And some of the words are so beautiful. He writes, Hide me, O my Savior. Hide me till the storm of life is past. Other refuge have I none. Hangs my helpless soul on thee. Thou, O Christ, start all I want. More than all in thee I find. Plenteous grace with thee is found, grace to cover all my sin. Thou of life, the fountain art. Freely let me take of thee. Spring thou within my heart. Rise to all eternity. I tell you what, if you want philosophy, you can have it. I choose Christ. Let's bow for prayer together. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you, do you know the Lord Jesus? Do you know him as your Savior? He is the Son of God who died for your sins and rose again. All of your sins were laid upon him. The Bible says the Lord The Father laid on him the iniquity of the soul. And the wrath of God that should have fallen on me or you fell on Christ. And Christ with his death satisfied the wrath of God, and salvation is a gift. And you come by faith and you receive it when you put your faith in what Christ has done. Have you done that? Have you repented of your sin? Have you put your faith in Christ? And if you have it, will you do it right now, right where you are? The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Would you just reach out in prayer? Right there we are. Say, Lord Jesus, you are all that I need. And right now I need salvation. I need forgiveness for my sin. Cleanse me and save me and make me your child. And if you pray that prayer, please let us know. We want to encourage you in your Christian world today. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.