Take your Bibles, open to the book of James, chapter 5. We are coming to the last chapter in our study of James. We've been looking at this very practical letter on Sunday morning. I hope it's been a blessing to you. Now throughout this letter, James has been giving us one test after another to help us understand and determine Genuine faith, whether our faith is a genuine faith. He's addressed the area of how one responds to trials. He's talked about how one resists temptation. He's talked about how one restrains their tongue. This morning, he's going to deal with the issue about how one regards their treasure. He's going to deal with the issue of money here in chapter 5, verses 1 to 6. Now the way we handle our money is perhaps the truest indicator of the spiritual condition of our heart. Now I know that money is a very sensitive topic. Someone said the most sensitive nerve in the human body is the one that goes from the hand to the pocketbook. But James doesn't shy away from this subject. And neither does the Bible for that matter. Did you know the Bible has much to say about our relationship to money and material things? There are 500 references in the Bible on prayer, 500 references on faith, but there are 2,000 references in the Bible on money and our relationship to money and possessions. Out of the 38 parables that Jesus told in the Gospels, 16 deal with how well we handle money. Jesus taught a lot about this. In fact, he taught more about this than he taught about heaven and hell. One out of every ten verses in the Gospels deals with money or possessions. So God has a lot to say about this subject. Why? Because God knows that the dedication that doesn't reach the pocketbook doesn't reach the heart. Billy Graham said this, if a person gets his attitude towards money straightened out, then almost every other area of his life will be straightened out. So in this passage here in James, James is going to give a strong rebuke to some with the wrong attitude towards money. Some people say, well, money talks. Well, James would agree with you. He says money talks. In fact, money testifies. In verse number three, he warns that your money might testify against you. Look in verse 3. Your gold and silver is cankered. And the rest of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Your money might testify against you. So here And James's analogy, money is personified. Money is like a person. And they're called in to the courtroom of God to give a testimony about you. And James says, you know, your money might testify against you. Now some people might look at James 5 and say, well, this was referring to rich, to the rich person. This isn't talking about me because I'm not rich. But I want to tell you something, dear friend. Rich is a very relative term. Compared to most people in the world, you are rich. In fact, I wish that some of you could travel to other countries in this world and see how other people live. I've been to many countries. Some places where and by the way wherever I go when people find out I'm an American they automatically assume that I'm rich because compared to them really I am. I've been to countries in Africa, I've been to countries in Central America, I've been to places in Mexico, and I see the poverty there And I see how people live. And I want you to know, dear friend, that the person who makes minimum wage here in America has it a lot better than most people in the world today. And so you are rich. Besides, James is not referring just to having money. He's talking about the wrong attitude towards it. You can not have a lot of it and have the wrong attitude towards it. Or you could have a lot of it and have the right attitude about money. But most people don't seem to comprehend that the wrong attitude towards money can bring a curse. Look at verse one where he says, Go to now ye rich men and weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you Here are rich people, and James says, Look, misery will come upon you. The word weep means to sob aloud, to lament bitterly. It was used in wailing for the dead. How is an intense expression of grief Most people think that money brings happiness, but James is warning, that's not necessarily so. It may bring misery. It may cause you to weep In the book Success, Motivation, and the Scriptures, William Cook describes a meeting that took place years ago with some businessmen. These were tycoons. They had unimaginable sums of wealth. And for years the media had trumpeted their success. And they met together one day in Chicago to enjoy all of their success together. But then in the book, Dr. Cook relays what happened to these men in the years to follow. In the years to follow, they all lived miserable lives Three committed suicide. Two were sent to prison and died in prison. Several died penniless and alone. Their wealth became a curse to them. And so what is our attitude towards money? That's what James is going to talk about. Now there are three guidelines that he gives us here in this passage that help us determine whether or not We have the right attitude towards money. And here's the first one. Number one, how we guard it. How we guard it. Again, look in verse one. Go to now ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days Now how we guard our money is very revealing. The man James has in mind here is a man who hoarded his wealth. Notice at the end of verse 3 where he says, You've heaped treasure. This is the Greek word theosaurzo. It's where we get the word thesaurus. Now what is a thesaurus? It's a collection of words, right? Actually, the word actually here means a collection. And so these rich men that James was talking to were collecting their money like some people collect stamps. They don't intend to use it, they just intend to have it. It's wealth taken out of circulation. They collect it not because they need it, but because they want more of it And they want to hold on to it for the mere joy of having it. They're not investing it. Nothing wrong with investing. They're not using it. They're not saving it for a purpose. There's nothing wrong with saving. Nothing wrong with having a savings account. I have one. In fact, the Bible puts a stamp of approval on fiscal responsibility. But it's wrong to hoard it It's wrong just to gather it when it's not being used for a purpose. And the motive here is just simply the love of money. Now some people inadvertently quote the Bible. They say money is the root of all evil. Money is not the root of all evil. The love of money is the root of all evil. And normally there's two reactions you get when you preach about money. Those who feel themselves poor feel a little spiritual. Those who feel themselves rich get defensive. Both responses are wrong. You don't need to feel that way It's wrong to love money. Money's not wrong, but if you love it, it's wrong. First Timothy 6:10, for the love of money is the root of all evil. Which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows. Some hoard money because they love it. Again, you can be rich and not love money. You can love money and not be rich. Most of God's servants in the Bible, godly servants, were people who were well off, Abraham. was rich. David, Solomon, Joseph of Arimathea, Barnabas in the New Testament, they were men who were well off. It doesn't mean that if you have money that you're it's wrong. No, that's not it James is talking about this love of money that hoards it all up from an attitude of covetousness and greed. It's the attitude that says, get all you can, can all you get, sit on the lid and poison all the rest. It's that attitude of getting. Jesus said this in Luke 12, 15. And he said unto them, Take heed and beware of covetousness, for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesses. It's one thing to possess an abundance of things. It's another thing for an abundance of things to possess you. Paul said covetousness is idolatry. And we talk about hoarding. What are we talking about? Let me give you an example. I read about a lady named Hetty Green. She has been called America's greatest miser. When she died in 1916, she was worth over $100 million. That's when a million was a million Let me tell you how she lived. She ate cold oatmeal because it cost to heat it. Rather than buying new clothes, she would stuff her old clothes with newspaper. When she bought a newspaper, she would resell it, normally at a higher price. When she bought a train ticket, she would ride a Pullman coach, never a ticket where you could have a sleeping compartment. She would sit up all night just to save on money. She would spend all night in the attic of her factory sorting out rags, white in one pile, color in another, because she found out she could get a penny more for white rags She had a business in New York, but rather than buy a house in New York, she would rent a flat under an assumed name so she wouldn't have to pay rent. Her son had to suffer a leg amputation because she delayed so long in looking for a free clinic. And when she lay dying, the nurses had to put on street clothes because she refused to pay nurses That was a miser. That's hoarding money. Money was her master. She hoarded it. She loved it. And the Bible says hoarding money is a sin. Ecclesiastes 5. 13, there is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt. And James makes a point that hoarded wealth, God's going to take it back. He will take it if you hoard it. Look at verse 2 real carefully. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten, your gold and silver is cankered, and the rust of them shall be a witness against you. Now, in the first century, by the way the word corrupted here means rot or decay. And remember in the first century they didn't have certificates of deposit. They didn't have stocks of certificate of gold or stocks of certificates. Their wealth was measured in grain. It was measured in garments, and it was measured in gold. Grain is the first thing that James deals with that he says your wealth has is will rot is rotted. He's referring to grain here. You see a man's worth in that day was according to how much grain he was able to get into his barn Remember the man in Luke Jesus referred to who had uh uh storehouses of grain? And he said, I have much good laid up for many years, and Jesus said, You fool, your soul will be required of you This man had a lot because he had it all stored up in grain. But grain, if it's not used, what's going to happen to it? It's going to rot. By lack of use? Then he says your garments are moth-eaten. You hang your clothes in the closet for a long time, the moths are going to get them. They work in secret. And then your gold in verse number three. He says, your gold is cankered. The word cankered here is a word that means to rust. Like a hinge on an unused gate, it will corrode, it will get rusty. Why? Because it's the hoarding of wealth here. God says your grain will rot, your garments will ruin, your gold will rust. And James is teaching us here a very clear principle. And God's economy, if you don't use it, you will lose it. He doesn't appreciate hoarded wealth. Someone else will take it Someone else will get it. By the way, James is writing to the rich here, and in 70 AD, this is just a few years after James wrote this letter, Titus invaded Jerusalem, the Roman general. You know what happened? The rich had their riches taken from them. In fact, according to history, the rich were the first ones paraded in the streets and killed. Those who hoarded their riches lost it all. So our attitude towards money first is determined by how we guard it. But also number two, write down how we get it. Not only how we guard it, but how we get it. Look at verse number four. Behold, the higher the laborers, the who has reaped down your fields, which is of you, kept back by fraud, crieth, and the cries of them which have reeked are entered into the ears of the Lord of the Sabbath. The issue here is how we get our wealth is so vitally important. When James wrote this, he had in mind men who received their money through exploitation, through illegitimate means God never condemns the acquisition of wealth through legal or legitimate means. The Bible commends good industry, it commends good work, it commends good business. But James condemns here rich men who got their wealth by exploiting others. They were not doing right. Now, again, back in this day there were no labor unions to stand up for the poor. In many cases, the laborer was a victim of a greedy and stingy employer. And look at verse number four where it says, kept back. Behold, the hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you, kept back by fraud. This is referring to an illegitimate, fraudulent action. And the tense of the word suggests that the man had no intention of paying his workers. What was going on? Here's a rich man, he was hiring laborers under him, and at the end of the day, he would keep back their wages. He wouldn't give it to them. He would sign a contract with them and then he would look for loopholes in the contract not to give his fair share. Not to do what he should do. The Bible says, withhold not good to them to whom it is due when it is in the power of thine hand to do it. But this man was oppressing the laborer. By the way, there's a law in the Old Testament that gave specific instructions on how the laborers were to be treated. Leviticus 19, 13. Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor, neither rob him. The wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. You see, back in this day, a laborer was paid at the end of the day. At the end of the workday, he would go see his employer, and his employer would give him his wages at the end of each day And God gave a command in the law. He said, look, you don't hold on to that man's wages all night. You don't say to that man, oh, I'll pay you the next day, and not give it to him. God commanded the employer to pay them. freely at the end of the day. It was a sin to keep back the wages of a man. Why? Because that man was dependent upon it. He had to feed his family. He had to have it at the end of the day. Again, Deuteronomy 24, 14. Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and neither needy, excuse me, whether he be of thy brethren or of thy or thy strangers that are in the land within thy gates. At his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it, for he is poor, and he setteth his heart upon it, lest he cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be a sin unto thee And so here was a person who was so greedy and stingy and he was rich and he wasn't giving to whom it was due. He would hold it back. He would keep it. He would oppress the poor. And what option did a poor man have in that day? Look at verse number six. Ye have condemned and killed the just, and he doth not resist you. That is, the rich controlled the courts. The courts in James Day were easily controlled by money. The rich blackmailed, they bribed, they threatened, they killed judges. The men in that day, the rich men, said, we believe in the golden rule. The one who has the gold rules And this was an abomination to God. This was a sin. Proverbs 11:1, a false balance is an abomination to the Lord, but a just weight is his delight. That is, when a man works eight hours, you give him eight hours pay. If he works hard, you give him the correct retribution for that labor. You don't hold any back You do what is right. You compensate rightly. Notice verse number four. Behold, the higher Of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you, kept back by fraud, crieth. And the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of the Sabbath. That is, here are these laborers and they're being exploited and they're being oppressed and they're not being dealt with justly. What are they doing? They're crying out to God And James says, you know what? The Lord of a Sabbath, he's listening. He hears. And he will do something about it. Sabbath simply means host. He's the Lord of hosts. And when an oppressed person cries out to God, it gets the attention of the Lord of hosts. That's what James is saying. So your attitude towards money is revealed in not only how you guard it, but how you get it. There are some people that don't mind compromising or doing wrong to get their wealth or their riches. They don't mind exploiting others or hurting others to get what they have. That's wrong. That's a sin. Your gain at the expense of someone else, or your gain at someone else's loss is not the biblical way to do business. It is not right. And God sees that. It's a wrong attitude. Our attitude is determined by how we guard it, by how we get it, but also here's the third thing, by how we give it By how we give it. Look at verse number five again. He says to them, while he's rebuking them, ye have lived in pleasure on the earth and have been wanton. Ye have nourished your hearts as in a day of Slaughter. James condemns the rich in this verse because they give only to self. They're investing in self. They use their money for themselves. No one else. The word wanton means to give oneself to pleasure. Nourish means to it's the image of a cow being fattened for the slaughter. James, who's a master of metaphors, says the self-indulgent wealthy are like stock being led to the slaughter. Now, if you don't ever want to give, then it's the wrong attitude towards money. If you're only using your money for selfish, indulgent purposes, it's the wrong attitude towards money. I heard about a man who was suffering from a severe lower back problem. He went to see the doctor. The doctor investigated and found out he had a severe case of Wallet sciatica, he called it. Man said, what's wallet sci- what's wallet sciatica? The doctor said, pull your wallet out. It was a big old thick wallet. He said, that wallet is causing you a lot of problems. It's too thick He said, What you need is a wallet ectomy. You need to get give away some of that. There's some people that need a wallet ectomy. They need to learn to give. Give to others who are in need. And by the way, this is just simply the way God wants it. This is just good stewardship. Everything we have, God has given it to us. And we're to God has been so freely giving to us. We are to so freely give to others. Let me just in closing here. Just give you a few principles of good stewardship. There's first of all what I want to call the law of clarification. And this law simply states this God already owns everything. The Bible says in Chronicles 29, 11, All that is in heaven and in earth is thine. It's all God's. If you read that chapter, thine is used over and over again. Lord, it's all yours Everything I have, everything you have, it's all God's. The silver and the gold, they are mine, says the Lord in the book of Haggai. Everything belongs to God already. So don't get the idea that when you come and you give here a church that you're making God rich. It's already his. All of it. God says in Psalm 50 verse 12, if I were hungry, I wouldn't tell you. Why? Because the world is mine and the fullness thereof. God is not a collector, he is a giver. He's constantly giving. All that we have comes from him. And he gives us freely every day. Then there's the law of circulation. There's the law of clarification. It's all God's Then there's a law of circulation, and this law states that God wants all of his wealth in circulation. He wants us to just constantly give. To others and those around us. That's the nature of God. God is constantly giving. That's the nature of Jesus. Look at his life. He was constantly giving. He gave up his glory. He gave his the riches of heaven. He gave his love. He gave his life. He gave every drop of his blood He gave it all. Look at the law of nature. Notice that everything around us in nature is giving. The sun gives us of its raise. The earth gives to us. Animals give to us. Trees give to us. Why is that? Because this is the way God made creation. He made creation to constantly give. This is called the law of mutual beneficence. God made his creation to constantly give, give, give, give. That's the way it's always been You say, what spoiled that? This glorious cycle was spoiled by man's sin. Man's sin stopped all that. Satan introduced a new concept to the human spirit, and that was get, get, get. I want for me, I want for me, I want for me. And man became greedy. Man became a hoarder. Instead of a gracious giver, he became a hoarder. Jack Taylor wrote this. He said, quote, I'm convinced That there are not true shortages in the world overall. Just a terrifying imbalance brought about and maintained by the sinfulness of man. The world has been thrown into imbalance by man's greed and Selfishness. Any system of economy breaks down when vast amounts of resources are hoarded and taken out of circulation. then the economy suffers. Mankind suffers. This is opposite of God who is constantly freely giving And is displeased with hoarding. Proverbs 11, 24. There is that scattereth and yet increaseth. There is that withholdeth more than is meat, and attendeth to poverty. Then let me give you another law. There is the law of cooperation. And what does that law say? God wants us to be good stewards. He wants us to cooperate, and he wants us to give the way he gives to us. To keep his wealth in circulation. But then there's the law of consecration, and that's simply this. Before you can really give anything in it be any benefit, first you have to give yourself to the Lord. You have to consecrate yourself to God. God doesn't want your wallet, friend. He wants you. He wants your heart. And the surest indicator of your heart is how you treat your material wealth. He wants your heart. If he has your heart, he has all of you. Because again, it already all belongs to God. It's already all his. Now I've used this illustration before, but it fits here perfectly. Hope I don't overuse it, but the greatest lesson I ever got on giving was given to me by my son Jeremiah, who just sang a minute ago. And when he was a little boy, when he was two years old, he was laying on the floor, he was playing, and he was eating a bag of Cheetos. Now I was I had just eaten lunch and I was bringing the dishes back. into the kitchen. My wife had brought them to me in my study. I was bringing them back to her in the kitchen like a good husband should do, fellas And I passed by Jeremiah and he was laying there on the carpet. He was eating Cheetos. Just a little guy, a little toddler. And I wanted to have some fun. I laid down next to him and I opened my mouth and I said, give me some. Now I know what you're thinking. Shame on you for eating his Cheetos. But those Cheetos already belong to me. I already paid for them. They were mine. I bought them They were mine. And the issue to me was not Cheetos. I could bury him in Cheetos if I wanted to. That's not the issue. But I wanted to see what he would do, so I just opened my mouth. You know some kids will just kind of know they're mine. Let's see what he would do. And so he kind of smiled and he laughed and he reached into the bag and he stuffed one in my mouth. He reached through the bag and then he stuffed another one in. And he started laughing and he kept stuffing them in. And so I finally had to say, no, no, that's enough, that's enough Now you see the point is this, every time he reached into the bag and stuffed one in my mouth, he was giving me his heart. I didn't want his Cheetos. That's not the point. I wanted to I wanted his heart. And I want to tell you something, friend, when you come to God's house or when you give You're giving God your heart. It's an act of worship. God says, look, the gold and the silver, it's already mine. I already own it all. You don't make God rich. You determine how you're going to worship Him. And does He have your heart? That's the law of consecration. God wants your heart. If you give with the same spirit that you pay taxes, you may as well keep it. Because it's not an act of worship. Giving is worship. It is saying, God, all that I am and all that I have is because of what you have given to me and continue to give to me. You are the great giver. And Lord, I give you my heart, and as a testimony of my heart, I give you this gift. It's a gift of love. And there's another law. You know what the law is? The law of cultivation. You give to God, you you know what you're gonna find out? God's gonna just give it right back to you. He's going to give you a whole lot more than you gave. You know why? Because he can trust you. He can trust you. He knows that you're going to keep his wealth in circulation. So he'll give to you more so that you can continue to give, and the more that you give, the more God gives back to you. That's the law of sowing and reaping. You reap what you sow, you reap more than you sow. A farmer doesn't plant a seed in the ground and get the same seed back. He gets the whole harvest back for years to come if you plant a tree. You get more, you get it later, you have to be patient. But God says, look, if you keep my blessings and my wealth in circulation, I'm going to entrust more to you. But the problem is when man becomes a stengy hoarder and others suffer, God can't trust someone like that. And it shows the wrong attitude towards money. Let me just close with this. How we guard it, how we get it. How we give it all shows our spiritual maturity, our heart of worship towards God. But friend, here's the most important thing. Do you know God to begin with? Do you know him? George W. Trute was a longtime pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas. He was invited over to a wealthy Texans home to eat dinner. This man was incredibly wealthy. And after the meal, the rich man took him out back and he wanted to boast a little bit. And he said, You see over that horizon there as far as you can see? He said, All of that is mine When I first started, I had nothing, but as far as you can see, all of that is mine. He pointed one direction. And then he said, You see the woods over here, you see all the way back there? He said, All of that is mine And then he pointed in the other direction. He said, this over here, all of this, I own all of this, all of that's mine. And all of this over here, all of this is mine. And he waited because he thought maybe Pastor Truitt would say something like, oh wow, I'm impressed. He was expecting some kind of a compliment. But Pastor Truett looked up and he said, How much of that do you have? How much of that do you have? And the man put his head down. And then Pastor Truitt said, All of this, this is temporary. All of that, that's eternal. How much have you invested up there? How much of that do you have? You want to know how rich you are? Add up everything that money cannot buy, everything you have that money cannot buy and death cannot take away. That's how rich you are. And friend, the greatest riches you'll ever have is to know Jesus Christ and to have eternal life. And to have a home in heaven where there will be no mortgage payment, just a life with Christ. Do you have that? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word. So very relevant to us, so very practical. And Lord, we need to take an examination of our own heart in light of these things. All that we have and all that we are, Lord, you have given to us. Have you been able to entrust us, Lord, with more? Can you, because of our heart, our heart attitude? Lord, give us the right attitude towards material things and money. And may we, Lord, invest not just in selfish wanton pleasure, but to take what you have entrusted to us and reinvest it. For the blessing of others, for the good of others, for the spread of the kingdom, for eternity. Help us, Lord. If there's greed, if there's covetousness, if there's selfishness in our heart, help us to remove it. Help us to focus on Jesus, who is the most selfless giving person. that ever lived, so selfless that he was willing to lay aside his glory, his own riches. He who was rich became poor. That we who are poor might be rich. And Lord, if there's someone here today that's never trusted Christ, I pray that today will be the day of salvation for them. And with head bowed and eyes closed, how many here will say, I want the riches of eternal life. I want to know Jesus. If you've never come to Christ, then receive him as your Savior, friend. Eternal life. It's available right now. It's a prayer way for where you are. If you're willing to put your faith in Christ this very moment If you're here and say that's my prayer, I want Christ. Would you raise your hand so I can pray for you? Anyone here? Anyone here? And my next invitation is to Christians. Friend, do you have the right attitude towards wealth and money? May we never allow covetousness or selfishness or greed To find lodging in our heart. May we be as God is, a gracious giver. Father, bless these words to our heart. Use them for your glory. We pray In Jesus' precious name. Amen. All right. Pastor John Gorham, where are you? There you are. He's going to come and lead us in our closing. I live my voice. Wershiping all my soul rejoice to enjoy my king in watching. May it be a sweet, sweet stop in Father, we praise and thank you that we are here this morning, that we can be challenged uh straight in our pocket uh where it really counts. to live for you, to use our efforts, our job, our time, our money to further the kingdom of Christ To spread the good word that there's salvation and no other, that every man, woman, and child on this planet can come. and know salvation from their sins through the Lord Jesus Christ. We ask, Father, tonight as we come back and throughout this week, that we might live a life that brings glory and honor to you in every facet of our lives. Use us to bring others to Christ. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.