All right, thank you so much. Would you take God's word tonight? And I want you to open to an Old Testament book, the book of Jeremiah, and I want you to find Jeremiah chapter 32. And verse number one, we're going to spend Christmas with Jeremiah tonight. Is that all right? You know, sometimes when it's Christmas season, you know, p preachers and pastors know it's kind of hard to preach on the Christmas story and find something new and a new way to approach it. It's not always easy. It's a big challenge to do that. But I want us to look at the Christmas story from the view of an Old Testament prophet who is so very faithful the prophet Jeremiah. And so we're going to look at parts of chapter 32 and parts of chapter 33. On October 1, 1970, an obscure company in Arkansas named Walmart went public with an initial stock price of $16. 50 per share. Now if you had purchased one hundred shares of Walmart stock then, spending one thousand five hundred and or excuse me one thousand six hundred and fifty dollars and you held the stock Today, that investment would be worth, are you ready for this? $31 million today Yeah. Let's all side together that we didn't buy any of that stock. Or maybe you did buy some stock here. If you did, I'd like to speak to you after church. We have we have needs. But You know, people who invest in uh uh that stock back then, they invested with the idea that there would be uh a future dividend. When you make an investment, you're basically placing your hope in a prosperous future, are you not? In our text today, God is going to ask Jeremiah the prophet to make an investment. He's going to ask Jeremiah to make a purchase. Now, under the circumstances that Jeremiah found himself, as we come to these chapters here, that's going to look to us like a really ridiculous thing. for Jeremiah to do. In fact, the people who already thought Jeremiah the prophet was a bit crazy If you study the book of Jeremiah, you know, he was a prophet who was crying out against the sins of the people, and they thought that he was already off a little bit. Well, they had all their doubts removed when they heard about what Jeremiah does here In chapter 32 and chapter 33, Jeremiah decided to buy some land in his hometown. Now to the people there, this seemed like a complete waste of money. The real estate principle that applied to Jeremiah's purchase is known as anticipation. According to the principle of anticipation, property value may be affected by an expectation of a future event. Now this is according to the fundamentals of real estate appraisal. I don't know anything about real estate, but looking this up, this is uh this is the principles, the solid principles that they go by. In other words, how much a piece of real estate is worth depends on what is expected to happen to it in the future If the government, for example, decides to run a superhighway through your dining room, your property value will plummet. This is the principle of anticipation. This helps us to explain why Jeremiah's land deal Seemed like just a really, really bad idea here. It was an absolutely waste of money to some people at that time. It was the worst time to buy So why did Jeremiah decide to purchase some land in his hometown? Well let's take a closer look at this whole story here I'm going to give you about Jeremiah, and I want us to look at it in just three, or excuse me, five of five basic acts in this drama. And here's the first one, uh what I call the prison. Uh as chapter thirty-two opens up We're going to find out the several reasons why it was not a good idea for Jeremiah to invest in real estate at that time, because at that time the city of Jerusalem and the land of Judea was under siege Look in chapter thirty-two and look at verse number one, the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord in the tenth year of Zedekiah, king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar For then the king of Babylon's army besieged Jerusalem, and Jerusalem, or excuse me, and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up. in the court of the prison which was in the king of Judah's house. This would be the tenth year of Zedekiah's reign. That would be 587 BC. This means That Jerusalem was already under siege from the enemies, the Babylonian army, for some time, for months. Jeremiah had been preaching that this was coming. You might remember the story of the of the sin of Judah, where Jeremiah cu went out and preached against the sins of the people and said, as a judgment, God is going to bring against Jerusalem and Judea. He's going to bring the armies of the Babylonians. God was going to judge the sins of the people. And sure enough. They came and the siege of Jerusalem and the land began. It had already been going on for many months by the time we come here to chapter 32. In fact, they were halfway through the siege. And Jerusalem was uh was being besieged, the city was was uh being surrounded and it was going to be destroyed. It took the Babylonians just eighteen months to destroy the city of Jerusalem. And already they had this had been underway. And so and do you remember what Jeremiah prophesied up to this point? If you've ever read anything about Jeremiah. What did he say was going to happen to the land when the Babylonians got done with it? The land would be absolutely desolate. There would be nothing left. And so the housing market was about to hit rock bottom. in Jerusalem and the surrounding areas. And as it says in the real estate textbooks, anticipation may also lower value if property rights are expected to be restricted. Or if the property somehow becomes less appealing to prospective buyers. Less appealing? Are you kidding me? Uh Jeremiah's property settlement took place right before the city of Jerusalem was going to be destroyed. How would you like to buy my house if it's surrounded by the enemy? And the enemy already basically has taken possession of it? I'd like to sell you my land and my property. if if well if the enemy's already taken over it. And so uh things got so bad when the Babylonians were besieging Jerusalem that they actually tore down houses and tore down palaces in a desperate attempt to shore off the defenses of the city walls, this hardly seemed like a time to buy a house. Houses were being torn down. So imagine trying to persuade a bank to give you a loan when your city is surrounded by the most powerful army on the earth. In short, it was absolutely, positively the worst time for Jeremiah to buy the farm. the old farm back home or the house back home. There's another reason why it was a bad idea, and that is Jeremiah was under arrest. How is this going to work if Jeremiah is in prison? And he was locked up in the st in the stockade. It was no time to invest in real estate, especially out in the countryside, if he was in prison. Again we see in verse number two that he was shut up in the court of the prison which was in the king of Judah's house. Uh the courtyard of the guard was a place where privileged prisoners were kept instead of the con the confines of a dungeon. And so and by the way, when we were visiting the city of David there over there in Israel, we uh looked at one spot that was Scholars believe was the place where Jeremiah was held in the prison that is being referred to right here. Now it's not hard to understand why Jeremiah was in prison. The king, Zedekiah, considered him a traitor. And why was that? Well, because he was calling upon all the people of Jerusalem and Judah to surrender. Because God had already decreed judgment and the exile was coming. There was nothing they could do to stop it. All they were going to do is just get themselves killed. Actually Jeremiah was trying to save lives by telling the people, look, surrender to the armies, don't put up a resistance because your fate has been determined. Well the king of uh Judah did not really see it that way. He could not understand why Jeremiah preached against the city. Look at verse number three, for Zedekiah, king of Judah, had shut him up saying, Um, What wherefore dost thou prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it And Zedekiah, king of Judah, shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall behold his eyes, and he shall leave Zedekiah to Babylon, and there shall he be until I visit him, saith the Lord. You can understand why Zedekiah didn't like that sermon. Zedekiah, you're going to be carried away into captivity. You're going to see the king of Babylon, eyeball to eyeball. You're going to be uh cast into a prison there. And so Zedekiah thought this message was at the least it was demoralizing. At the worst, it was a treasonous message. And so Jeremiah then was put into prison. And so it was very possible, too, that Zedekiah was planning on killing Jeremiah if things didn't go well So again, you can see this is not a time to invest in a house. It's not a time to buy the farm if you're getting ready to buy the farm, if you know what I mean. And so one scholar said this, thus Jeremiah's life was in Zedekiah's hands during this time. So this is the prison. But also notice number two the purchase. The purchase does take place because here in chapter 32, verse number 6, while Jeremiah is in prison, he gets a visit from a family relative. You say, oh, well, that's really nice. They were concerned about Jeremiah. Not exactly. You might remember when Jeremiah was preaching, even his own family turned on him. In Jeremiah chapter 12. People were plotting to get rid of Jeremiah the prophet, and part of the people that were plotting were people of his own hometown and people in his own family. And so when Jeremiah gets a visit from a relative, it's not necessarily a good thing. Notice in verse number um six and and Jeremiah said, The Lord the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Behold, Hanamiel, the son of Shalom, thine uncle, shall come unto thee, saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth. For the right of redemption is in thine to buy it. God said to Jeremiah, Jeremiah, you're going to get a visit. It's going to be a visit from your long-lost cousin. He's going to come and he's going to tell you to buy uh y uh of a field of property back in your old hometown of Anathoth. God told him he was coming and surely he did come. Uh What a great guy that he was. Right in the middle of the siege, when the housing market has tanked, when his cousin Jeremiah is in prison, and it's possible he might be killed, he comes to Jeremiah and says, Hey Jeremiah, I got a sweetheart of a deal for you I've got some land here that, boy, I'm going to give you a great price on this land. Hannah is one of the all-time wheeler dealers of the Old Testament. Uh you know, I know what you're thinking, there's I I have a family member that's kind of like Ann Emile. You know, he's the he's the family member you stay away from because at all the family reunions he comes to you and wants to sell you something. You know. And so here he is, his cousin comes. Sure enough, he comes, just like God says. Look at verse number 8. And so Hanamel, my uncle's son, came to me. in the court of the prison, according to the word of the Lord, and said unto me, By my field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the country of Benjamin, For the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption is thine. Buy it for thyself. Hey, this is a good deal for you. Retirement plan here for you. Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord. So he comes. He offers this deal. Oh, listen, this is ideal, Jeremiah. Now what his cousin doesn't tell him is that the land that he's offering In the outskirts of Jerusalem, it's already in the possession of the Babylonians. Even if Jeremiah bought this land, it wouldn't be his. He couldn't take possession of it. He couldn't do anything with it unless, of course There was some kind of a miracle. There was some kind of reversal where the Babylonians all of a sudden decided to say, hey, you know what? We're going to give you back your land Unless that happened, there was nothing that Jeremiah could do with this land, unless there was some future miracle. And of course Jeremiah knew that. Now we really can't be sure of cousin Hanny's motives on trying to sell him this land. Maybe he was just trying to take advantage of the situation, unload some worthless land. It might have been that Jeremiah, he was the nearest relative, it was the right of of his to redeem. After all we know in the Old Testament, according to Old Testament law, you couldn't sell your property just to anyone. It had to stay within the tribe within the same family. That was according to the law of God. Jeremiah, or I mean there wasn't a really big market to buy this anyway. And narrowed down even more, and it had to be somebody in the family. But Maybe this was a test of faith for Jeremiah. Maybe Jeremiah's uncle and his cousin heard Jeremiah preaching about there's going to be a future restoration. There's going to be a time of peace one day down the road. And since Jeremiah preached that message, maybe they wanted to see if Jeremiah really believed what he preached. If you say there's going to be a restoration of the land If you say there's going to be a time of peace, well then put your money where your mouth is, Jeremiah. And go ahead and buy this property, this piece of land. It's worthless right now. It's a battlefield right now. But if you really believe what you preach, then one day it's going to be worth something. So what do you say? You want to buy this land from me or not? You want to really show me that you really believe what you preach? But whatever the cousins and motives were, that's beside the point. The point is that Jeremiah knew that God wanted him. We see this at the end of verse number 8, where Jeremiah says, Then I knew that this was the word of the Lord. Jeremiah knew that God wanted him to buy this land. God told him to buy the field. Again, this seemed like the most illogical thing to do, and Jeremiah probably wouldn't have bought that land. If it were not for the God who said, Jeremiah, you buy this property. And so Jeremiah obeyed. Look at verse number nine. And I bought the field of Hanamel, my uncle's son, that was in Anathoth. And weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver. And what we see from verses ten on down to verse fifteen is a detailed description of how Business transactions were carried out in Jeremiah's time. He weighs out the seventeen shekels of silver to purchase the land. Um and again this would take great faith to purchase land that was already occupied by the Babylonians. He was essentially buying a battlefield. The silver that he actually gave them was worth more than the land. Some scholars say all this was a decent price And others argue about it. But regardless of the price, the title deed was worthless again because the Babylonians now own the land. But Jeremiah measured out the price. He signed the deed in the presence of witnesses. Look down at verse number 11. So I took the evidence of the purchase, both that which was sealed according to the law and custom. And that which was open, and I gave the evidence of the purchase unto Baruch, the son of Nerah, the son of Maasa Maasiah, and the sight of Hanamel, mine uncle's son, and in the presence of the witnesses that subscribe. That subscribed the book of the purchase before all the Jews that sat in the court of prison. All this was done. It was all legal. The legal documents were signed. The witnesses were there to attest that Jeremiah had lost his mind that bought this land and did something crazy. And Jeremiah preserves the title deed. Look at verse thirteen, and I charged bear roof before them, saying, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, take these evidences, this evidence of the purchase both which is sealed and this evidence which is open, and put them in an earthen vessel that they may continue many days. So what does he do? He he takes the title deed, he puts it in what we would call a safe deposit box, which was back in this day would be an earthen jar. And when I read this, I think about the Dead Sea Scrolls. You know, you read about them, how they're put in these big clay jars and they were found in nineteen forty seven. Uh they had been there for th uh you know two millennia And they were safely, you know, preserved in those earthen jars. So here Jeremiah takes the title deed and he puts it into this jar. And he preserves it because Jeremiah was banking on the fact that there would be a future restoration. Jeremiah was banking on the fact that God's Had the ability to keep his promises, to do what he said he was going to do. By faith, he was making, listen to this, he was making an investment really in the kingdom of God. Derek Kidner writes this, to buy land overrun by the world's conqueror, and then to take elaborate care of the title deed was a striking affirmation. As solid as the silver that paid for it, that God would bring his people back to the inheritance, their inheritance. Now word had to get out that Jeremiah had done this. That Jeremiah the prophet, who was being held in the the court prison. had bought land that was already occupied by the Babylonians and the people Must have sh shook their heads in disbelief and thought that this guy has lost his mind. This prophet that they already thought was crazy. Lost his mind. Hannah laughed all the way to the bank after he made this deal. It wasn't a real large sum of money, but he was glad to get whatever he could for worthless land. And so notice the next part of this. We see the prison. And then we see the purchase. But here's the next part of the story. I call this the prayer. Because notice Jeremiah's response. Verse 16. Now when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase under Baruch, the son of Nariah, I prayed unto the Lord, I guess so. He had bought the land, had the title deed, put it in a safe place, and when all was done, remember Jeremiah is still in that prison. And he prays. You might say that he had a little bit of bars remorse here. Or maybe he had a crisis of faith You ever notice that when we have a triumphant experience of faith, it's normally followed by a testing experience of doubt? You know, you did what the Lord told you to do, you did the right thing, and then all of a sudden later on you're wondering, man, what did I do? Is this really going to happen? Now he was wondering how God was ever going to make this property Valuable. Doubts were gnawing at his soul. So he begins to pray. And by the way, this is the right thing to do. When you have doubts about something, go to God in prayer and just pour your heart out before God. Give God your honest feelings. And this is what Jeremiah does. And what we see here in verses 17 down to verse 19 are really some good things about prayer. True prayer involves worship. He focuses on the greatness of God. Look at verse 17. Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power, and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for you. God, there's nothing too hard for you. This verse describes the greatness of God. You know, when we pray, we should spend time worshiping and adoring the greatness of our God. But also true prayer involves rehearsing the works of God. In verses 20 down to verse 23, Jeremiah recites a summary history of Israel. to illustrate God's greatness. God had performed miraculous signs and wonders in Egypt, and he continued to perform them, and yet God's people disobeyed Verse 23 explains why disaster came down upon them. Look at verse 23. And they came in and possessed it, that is the land, and they obeyed not thy voice, neither walked in thy law. They have done nothing of all that thou commandest them to do. Therefore thou hast caused all this evil to come upon them. True prayer involves pouring your heart out That's what we see in verse 24 down in verse number 25. The Babylonians had already built sea tramps to take the city. Jeremiah could foresee the city Being surrounded and being overtaken by the Babylonians, and the result of that would be sword, people killed, the result of that would be famine and plague. And Jeremiah acknowledged that what God said would happen was taking place. And then he says this, look at verse 25. And thou hast said unto me, O Lord God, buy thee the field for money and take witnesses, for the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans. You know, Jeremiah, his heart was kind of doubting right now. He thought maybe he made a fool of himself. Jeremiah wanted God to explain to him how houses and lands could be bought and sold again in Judah. in this capital that was about to fall to this mighty army and this mighty empire of the Babylonians. You know, we're kind of like Jeremiah the prophet, aren't we? How many of you here believe God is great? Say amen. How many of you think that God does marvelous things? Say amen. How many of you are you willing to trust him with your smallest decisions in life? Oh me. We know he's great. We know he can do anything. We know he's powerful. Okay. Are you willing to trust them then with some of these smaller issues, quote-unquote smaller issues, life decisions? Do we trust them to move on our behalf, to do things for us? And that's what Jeremiah is dealing with here. But notice the fourth part of this, we see the prison and the purchase and the prayer that Jeremiah makes. But number four, write down the promises. The promises. Because what God is going to do is He's going to give a word to Jeremiah. He's going to speak to him. Why did God have Jeremiah buy the field and store the title deed? Let me just say this. You remember, if you ever study the book of Jeremiah, what you'll find out is that God has Jeremiah do some things to demonstrate the message he's preaching publicly. Some of his sermons are acted out. For example, one time God told Jeremiah to go buy a girdle, a beautiful sash, which is not the clothing of a prophet. Okay? It'd be like putting on a a silk tie on a mechanic. Alright? Um it's just it's just that decor just doesn't go together. You know, but God said, Jeremiah, I want you to go and I want you to buy a beautiful sash. Wear it. Don't put it in water. Don't clean it. Don't send it to the dry cleaners. Just wear it. And when it finally gets crusty dirty, I want you to go bury it. Why why did God have Jeremiah do something like that? Well there's a message in that to the people. That the sash represented the people, Jeremiah, God, and when you get sinful, when you get dirty, you get separated from God. And those sins that you commit, you'll be buried in one day. So God had Jeremiah do things to illustrate messages. One time God had Jeremiah wear a yoke around his neck. And walk through the streets of Jerusalem preaching that you are going to bear the yoke of the Babylonians. Again, this was an active message. And by God telling Jeremiah to buy the field And to put the the document of ownership, the title in a safe place, this word got out, and this was an illustration to all the people that were there that there's going to be a future. That there's going to be hope in the future. This was a message to everyone. That's part of the reason why God had them do it. Look in chapter 32. Look in verse number 15 of chapter 32. For thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, houses and fields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land. Now humanly speaking that didn't look all that good with the with with the with the land already being destroyed and houses being torn down and the enemy army surrounding and getting ready to destroy it all Here God is saying in the midst of this through the prophet Jeremiah, yeah, there's going to come a time when houses and fields and vineyards shall be possessed again. Look in chapter 32, look in verse 44. Men shall buy fields for money. And subscribe evidences and seal them, and take witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the mountain, and in the cities of the valley and in the cities of the south, and I will cause their captivity to return, saith the Lord. God was telling them through this symbolic act That the land would be occupied again, that there was coming a time of peace. There was coming a time of joy. Now again, from Jeremiah's perspective, this didn't look Good. It looked impossible from his perspective. I mean Jeremiah looked out the other side of the walls and he could see the Babylonian soldiers and the machines of war coming against the city. It all looked hopeless. But look in chapter 32, look in verse number 27. Here's another message that God gives to Jeremiah. Actually look in verse 26. Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah saying Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? Isn't that a great verse? God comes to Jeremiah and his doubts, and God says, Jeremiah, you remember who I am? I'm the Lord. Is there anything too hard for me? Is there anything too hard for me? And so you may be here tonight, you might be waiting on God to move on your behalf. You might be like Jeremiah wrestling with doubts. You may feel a bit foolish for having done something in faith, believing that God was in it. And now you're questioning, was it the right thing to do? It might be that you're without a job, you're praying for an open door, it looks hopeless from your viewpoint. It might be that you're praying for a wayward child They have it hardened their heart. They won't listen to a word that you say. It might be that you have some kind of physical disease or illness. It doesn't give you much hope. The doctors aren't giving you a very encouraging report It might be that you're at the mercy of some unjust system and you're waiting for a decision. It might look like that everything in your life is kind of out of your control And from your vantage point, it might look like that things in your life right now are hopeless. The word that God gave to Jeremiah is the word that God is giving to you tonight. Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? Is there anything too hard for God to do in your own life? And by the way, this is the message of Christmas. This is what Christmas teaches us. This is one of the great reminders to us. You remember when the angel came and told Mary that she was going to have a child? Even though she wouldn't know a man, that sh th this would be a a a child through a virgin birth. And remember what The angel said, when Mary questioned that, how am I going to have a child? I'm a virgin. Remember what the angel said, is there anything too hard for the Lord? Is there anything too hard for God? With God, nothing shall be impossible. God can turn your situation around. That's not a hard thing for God to do. God explained to Jeremiah that he would give the city, and deemed he would give the city into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar And the Babylonians. That was going to happen. Because the people had provoked them to anger. Look in chapter 32. Look down at verse number 31. For this city have been to me as a provocation of mine anger and of my fury from the day that they built it even unto this day. that I should remove it from before my face, because of all the evil of the children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to anger For they, their kings, their princes, their priests, their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and they have turned in unto me the back and not the face. God's very descriptive here. All the people, even the leaders, even the ones you would expect to lead out in faith, they've all turned their back on me. And they sinned greatly, and this judgment is coming down upon them because of the anger that they provoked out of God. But that's not the end of the story. God says, I'm going to restore them. Look down at verse number 37. But behold, I will gather them out of all countries whither I have driven them in mine anger and in my fury and in great wrath And I will bring them again in unto this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely Here, God is giving a promise to Jeremiah. Jeremiah, yes, I will bring judgment on this place, but I am promising you there's going to come a time when I will restore this land. And I will bring peace. In fact, I wish I had more time, but we don't have a lot of time. But notice the I wills of this section. Verse 37, I will gather them out of all the countries. Look down in verse number 38, where he says, and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. Verse 39, and I will give them one heart in verse number 40, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them that I will not turn away from them. And verse 41, yea, I will rejoice over them to do good, and I will plant them in this land, assuredly, with my whole heart and with my whole soul. That's not all that God said to Jeremiah while he was in prison. Now you have to again you have to remember he's in prison here. He just made this purchase. He's filled with doubts, and God is saying, Jeremiah, I'm going to bring peace again. Peace will come. But then look in chapter 33. God continues to speak to Jeremiah. Look in verse number one. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah the second time while he was yet Shut up in the court of the prison, saying, Thus saith the Lord, the maker thereof, the Lord that formed it to establish it, the Lord is his name, call unto me And I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Jeremiah, I want you to know. I'm going to do great and mighty things. And he's talking, God's talking here about the future. God's talking here about what is going to come. I'm going to do great and mighty things. You can't even Understand, you can't even know great and mighty things that you know not. And God says, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna bring back the captives, I'm gonna cleanse them from their iniquity I'm going to pardon their iniquity. I'm going to fill this city with joy. Look in verse number 10 of chapter 33. Thus saith the Lord, again there shall be heard in this place which ye say shall be desolate without man, without beast, even in the cities of Judah, in the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man, without inhabitant, without beast. Verse 11, the voice of joy And the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, and the voice of them that shall say, Praise the Lord of hosts. For the Lord is good, for his mercy endureth forever. And of them that shall bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord, for I will cause to return the captivity of the land as at the first, saith the Lord. Jeremiah, there will be joy again There will be peace and people will come to this land. You'll hear again the voice of the bride and the voice of the bridegroom. Why is that important? Well, because uh, you know, when the cap Babylonian captivity came, all marriage ceased. All these things were were done with. You know. Why was that? Well, you can imagine because uh There was no future there in that city. In fact, God told Jeremiah, don't marry. Don't marry anyone because you know of what's going to happen here. And so there would be no weddings, there would be no joy, there would be no worship or sacrifice unto the Lord in the temple because that temple was about to be destroyed. All this stuff was going to go away. But God says, you know, there's going to come a day when one day I will fill again this house with joy. And gladness will come, and peace will come. And this is the last part I want to show you tonight. We talked about the prison and the purchase and the prayer, and now God is giving these promises. To Jeremiah, but notice the last part of this whole story. That's finally the prophecy. The prophecy that God gives to Jeremiah. Notice in verse 14, a very important phrase. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, we're in chapter 33, verse 14, that I will perform the good thing which I have promised to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Again in verse number 15, where it says, in those days, this expression is used 16 times in the book of Jeremiah. Nine times it's used to refer to the coming Messiah. He's referred to as the branch of David or the branch of righteousness. Look at verse 15. Those days, at that time, will I cause the branch of righteousness to grow up unto David. This is just another title for the Messiah that is going to come. Christ has so many titles because he's so great we can't really Fully capture his greatness. That's why there's so many titles. In fact, in the book of Jeremiah, he's referred to as the spring of living waters He's referred to as the Good Shepherd, as the Redeemer, the Lord our righteousness, David the King, the agent of the new covenant. But here the emphasis is on the promise that God made to David about his son that will come, the Messiah would be a son of David. Now Jeremiah previously referred to this. Hold your place here. Go back to Jeremiah chapter 23 and look at verses 5 and 6, real quick. Jeremiah 23, look at verses 5 and 6, because there's some great verses here. In Jeremiah 23, 5. Behold the days come. saith the Lord, that sounds so familiar, that I will raise unto David a righteous branch, and a king shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth. In his days, Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely, and this is his name, whereby he shall be called the Lord our righteousness. In other words, Davis family tree, out of Davis family tree, there's going to come a special sprout. A righteous branch. And who would he be? He would be called the Lord our Righteous never as the Lord is all cats, you know why? That's the divine name. You know why? Because this one would not just be a man He would be God. This is an incredible messianic prophecy that's being given right here. And Jeremiah, all he's doing in chapter 33 is he God is expanding on that promise. of a righteous branch. The the Messiah is going to come. He would be a uh branch uh from the house of David, a branch of righteousness to grow up. Unto David, it says in chapter 33, verse number 15. And so here, I think, is one of the greatest promises of Christmas ever been given. And it was given to a prophet who was in a prison while all around them the city was being destroyed. All around there was darkness. All around there was despair. All around from a human perspective, things were bad. They were ir irrecoverable And yet in that time God makes a great promise to his prophet, and God says, Jeremiah, there are days that are going to come. There are going to be better days. I am going to send a branch from David's house. And he'll be called the Lord our righteousness or a righteous branch. That's going to be a time when the Messiah will come. And there will be gladness and there will be joy. I don't know about you, but in my mind, I'm thinking about Jeremiah and that present receiving this promise from God. And to me, it's almost as if he's hearing the bells of Christmas right there in that prison. He's hearing about this Messiah that's going to come one day. Well, if you're Jeremiah, what's the next thought you have in your mind? When is this going to happen? I mean when Lord? When are you going to do this? It says in verse 14, behold the days come. God affirms it's going to happen in those days. Again in verse 16, in those days. So when, now God doesn't give a specific time to Jeremiah, but what he does do is he gives some indicators of when the Messiah is going to come. You know, we're here, we're waiting for the second advent of Christ, right? You're waiting for Jesus to come back. Doesn't the Bible give us some signs to look for? When the time is right for Jesus Christ to come, here God is giving to Jeremiah the prophet in that prison some signs of the first advent of when Christ is going to come. And what are those signs? Well we we kinda already saw this in that verse number eleven. First of all, back up he said it will be a time where there will be the voice of joy And the voice of gladness, and the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, newly wedded couples, there that will be there, their mouths will be filled with praises unto God They'll be praising God for the goodness of God. Again, this is a time when there were no weddings taking place. God says, you'll hear young married couples, the bride and the bridegroom giving praise to God in that time. That'll be heard in the land. There will be worship again in verse number eleven. It says, There will be those them that shall bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the Lord. How are they going to do that if the temple's gone and it was destroyed? There's going to come a time when the temple will be rebuilt. And worship would be restored. And once again you will hear people giving praise to God, bringing the sacrifice of Praise to God in the house, in the temple. Remember we talked about the peace offering. That's the only offering that really is a thanksgiving offering where you're bringing an offering to God for something great that He has done in your life that happened often And it's recorded in the book of Leviticus when you wanted to just bring a peace offering, a praise offering to God in God's house. That's what they would do. And God said, Jeremiah, It'll be a time when people are bringing their offerings again to the temple, when you'll hear the voice of the bride, and there's another sign that he gives them. Look in chapter 33, look down in verse number 12. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, again in this place which is desolate without man, without beast, and all the cities thereof shall be a habitation of shepherds. causing their flocks to lie down. Again in verse 13, and when the sh when it it says, in these cities all around The cities of the south and the land of Benjamin and the places of Jerusalem, the cities of Judah, shall the flocks pass under the hands of him that telleth them, saith the Lord. That is These shepherds will be watching over their flocks, watching them, examining them. It'll be a time when shepherds will be in the field. Worshipers will come to the house of the Lord. You'll hear the voice of the bridegroom and the bride saying, Praise the Lord. Say, when did all this happen? I'm wrapping it up. Give me five more minutes. Is that okay? Five more minutes? That'll be your Christmas present to me. Look in Luke chapter 2. Luke chapter 2. I think all of this is the fulfillment of what God told Jeremiah, the prophet. And it came to pass in those days, there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed. You know the story here, right? And what happened? Drop down to verse 8. And there were in the same country, shepherds abiding in the fields, keeping watch over their flock. Do we see shepherds watching over their sheep? Yeah. What about weddings? What about the voice of the bride? Well, if you read Luke chapter 1, what you're going to see is Mary singing a song, giving praise to the Lord. From a young married couple is giving praise to God about what God is about to do. We know that. And by the way, in the song that Mary sang, if you read it, I challenge you to read this during the Christmas season. You know what this whole song is about? Mary's song, how that this child that she's going to have, that God's going to give her miraculously, you know what he's going to do? He's going to reverse things for people. He's going to turn the world upside down. That's basically what God said to Jeremiah, what was going to happen. God's going to bring a reversal. And everything that looks dark will come to light, and those that are oppressed will be freed, and those who have been humbled will be exalted, and the proud will be brought down. This child is going to reverse things around, just as the prophecy in Jeremiah told us, the king, the branch of David, the Lord our righteousness, came when there were shepherds in the field keeping watch over their flocks. You say, what difference does Jeremiah's teaching about the shepherds make? I think this is another prophecy regarding the birth of Christ that was fulfilled right down to the very detail. To the very detail. One scholar said this the announcement of the birth of Jesus Christ to shepherds was as necessary as his birth in the town of Bethlehem, or his belonging to the house and line of David, or his being born of a virgin, and I think that he's right. And so this was the fulfillment. And so really what Jeremiah got there that day in prison was kind of a a forelook, we could say, a foreshadowing of what God was going to do. That first Christmas, God was going to send his Messiah into the world. Who would bring peace, who would turn things upside down, who would bring hope to hearts. And beloved, that's what Christmas is all about. That's what it's all about. And the one thing I want you to take from all of this here, based on everything I've said, I want to leave you with the Christmas promise that God gave to Jeremiah in that prison so long ago. Jeremiah 33:3, call unto me. And I will answer thee, and I will show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. Now I've heard a lot of explanations about this verse. I've even had heard people say, this is God's phone number, Jeremiah 33, 3. In the context of Jeremiah 33, this is a promise about the coming of Jesus into the world. About what God's going to do. God's going to do great and mighty things. And because of Jesus coming into the world, because of this Messiah, we can call on the God and we can ask Him to do great and mighty things. because of our Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ. God is saying, if you call out to me I can reverse things for you. I can turn things around for you. And and what is that on the basis of? It's on the basis of His Messiah, the Lord, our righteousness, the righteous branch. Based on that, because of Jesus Christ, God can turn things around in your life That's the hope that Jesus Christ brings. That is literally the hope of Christmas. Do you need God to turn things around for you? And do you believe that he will? Are you willing to trust him? Let's bow for prayer tonight. So heads bowed and eyes closed. I just want you to take a moment there before we sing our song and we're dismissed for tonight. Maybe there's a situation in your life where you need God to reverse it for you, to turn it around. From a human perspective, it just doesn't look like anything can happen That nothing can be done. But it's like God asked Jeremiah, Is there anything too hard for the Lord? Call unto me, and I will answer thee. And I will show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. That's the promise of Christmas Are you willing to ask God to do that in your own life? Tell them. Bring your burden to them. Tell them what your problem is. Give it to Him and let Him turn it around for you. Father, I thank you for this wonderful story in the Old Testament. The first promise of Christmas that you gave to Jeremiah, the prophet, sitting there in that dark prison, in a very dark situation. And yet, Lord, you filled his heart with hope A hope that's based upon what you were going to do by sending your Son into the world to be our Savior, to be our Redeemer. To be the one as Mary sang in her song that would bring a reversal of fortunes in our life because of him. Father, do that for those that need this tonight. For those that are absolutely desperate, Lord, for you, to work mightily in their life. And we Father, we ask all of this and we pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen