All right, good to see you here tonight. Would you take God's word, please? Open to the book of Psalms as we've been looking at Psalms here on Wednesday night. And tonight I want to look at Psalm 3 with you. Psalm 3. And tonight I want to talk about uh when your world is coming apart in Psalm three. During a transatlantic flight, the play the pilot came over the intercom and said, ladies and gentlemen, I'm delighted to be your pilot for this flight. I can tell you the flight is going well. Nevertheless, I want to tell you about a minor inconvenience that has occurred The passengers on the right side can, if they look out their windows, see that the clo the closest engine is slightly vibrating. That shouldn't worry you because this plane is equipped with four engines and we're flying along smoothly at an acceptable altitude. As long as you're looking at the right side, you might as well look at the other engine on that side. You'll notice that it's glowing. That shouldn't worry you either because as this plane is designed to fly with just two engines, if necessary. And as long as you're looking at the plane, look Uh uh those on the left side, you shouldn't worry. If you look out you'll see the uh uh on the side of the plane and notice that the engine that is supposed to be there is missing. It fell off about ten minutes ago. Let me tell you that we're amazed that the plane is doing so well without it. However, I want to call your attention to something a little more serious along the center aisle all the way down the plane, the crack has appeared. Some of you are, I suppose, able to look through the crack and maybe even notice the waves on the Atlantic Ocean below In fact, those of you that have very good eyesight, you might notice a little s a small lifeboat that was thrown from the plane. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you will be happy to know that your captain is keeping an eye on the progress of the plane from that lifeboat Not not a flight that I would want to be on. Well, today you may feel like one of the passengers on that plane. Everywhere you look, things seem to be falling apart in your life. When you look out to the right side or look out to the left side. Maybe your your marriage is falling apart, maybe your career, your finances, your children, your emotions, or your health. Sometimes life has a way of tearing us apart. Many, if not all of us, have experienced circumstances in our life where it seems like our whole world is just coming apart. Now, this psalm was written at a time when David's world was coming apart. David had reigned for decades as one of the most powerful kings in the world. He defeated Israel's enemies and expanded the national borders. He made Jerusalem the capital of the nation and also the spiritual capital. He brought the ark there. To make it the spiritual center. He became the uh a powerful and wealthy king, one of the greatest in history. But then David sinned with Bathsheba, and you know the story of that He also, along with that, ordered the death of Uriah. And David repented when he was confronted by the prophet Nathan. But David's sin had set in motion a series of God ordained devastating consequences. Of course David was forgiven for his sin, but he still had to pay the consequences for that sin. David told his son Amnon raped his half-sister Tamar. Tamar's brother Absalom murdered his Amnon, taking revenge on what happened. Absalom fled into exile for several years. Later he was permitted to return, but David wouldn't see him for two years. He refused to see his wayward son. The resentment built and Absalom began to build. uh a a group of uh followers or I should say supporters from the disgruntled people in the kingdom offering himself as a more sympathetic leader than his father David And finally, Absalom was able to piece together a strong conspiracy, and David realized in order to survive, he had to flee from the city of Jerusalem with all of his supporters. All of his servants and their little ones hastily grabbed whatever they could and took off toward the wilderness. And the Bible says that David followed them, weeping, walking barefoot with his head covered in shame. And to add insult to injury, there was a man by the name of Shimei from the family of uh David's predecessor, King Saul And as David came out, he cursed at David, and he threw stones at him, and he accused him of being a worthless man who really brought this downfall upon himself because of his own sin. This was one of David's most traumatic moments. You could say that his whole world was falling apart. This was humiliating for him. Everything that he had spent his life working for, suddenly it unraveled. Many whom he thought were allies and friends had abandoned him, and they sided with his rebellious son. And the most painful wound wound wound of all was the treachery and betrayal of his son Absalom. It brought home to David his own failure as a father. Yeah, David's world was coming apart. Now few of us here tonight have experienced anything like David, but in a lesser way, maybe some of you here tonight can relate. to some of this. Again, you may be going through something right now that is kind of pulling your world apart Um I you know, I can go on the list of things. There are many things that can happen in our life. But the question is what do you do when your world seems to be coming apart? David wrote Psalm 3, he wrote a psalm Maybe that's the reason why he's called the man after God's own heart. Some scholars call Psalm three a morning psalm, and Psalm four, which may have been written at the same time, they call it an evening psalm. Perhaps David wrote Psalm 3 right after he crossed the Jordan as he was leaving Jerusalem, running away from the uh Absalom's rebellion. And he was on the other side of Jordan awaiting the inevitable forces of Absalom that They were going to do battle with. Verse 5 hints that he wrote it after waking up safely after a good night's sleep. Look at verse number 5. I laid me down and slept. I awaked, for the Lord sustained me. And so this psalm teaches us that we can keep it together even when our world is coming apart. We can experience God's peace even in the midst of the most difficult circumstances that we're facing in life. So I just want you to see seven things from this psalm that we can learn from David that would help us, help you, if things in your life are just seem to be going all apart. Here's number one. Face your problems with God. Face your problems with God. Look at verse 1. Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? Many are they that rise up against me. David begins by crying out to God and telling God his problem That's been my experience as a pastor that I've noticed how some people sometimes try to run from their problems instead of facing those problems head-on. Some people ignore their problems hoping that they'll go away, or others try to forget them with a prescription or drown them in a bottle Don't get me wrong, there are crisis times in a person's life when the trauma of what they're going through is so difficult they might need some momentary medical help at that time. Nothing wrong with that. Proverbs 31, 6 I think, gives a b biblical warrant for Times like that, strong drink was used for medicinal purposes. But the point is, God allows troubles in our life because they have a sanctifying value to us. It's like the songwriter wrote, let sorrow do its work. Sorrow has a work that it does. It has a sanctifying purpose in our life. And I think that to some measure that sanctifying purpose is lost if we do not face the trials that we're in, the so the sorrow that we're in head on. And David teaches us here that you don't run from your problems. Rather, you run with your problems to God. You take that problem to God. Don't hide yourself from your problems. Hide yourself in God. David runs to God with his troubles, and they were mounting. Again, verse 1, Lord, how are they increased? that trouble me. And David here uses the divine name. That was used only in a time when it was kind of a life struggle, a a life or death situation. One writer said that David's address to God as Yahweh had the same connotation as New Testament believers addressing him as Abba Father. David's adversaries were increasing in number. Now David had always had adversaries, it always had enemies, but here they were growing daily. Things were snowballing against David. And he faced, however, his problems with the Lord. He took them to the Lord. Here's number two. Don't give in to negative talk. Don't give into negative talk. Look at verse 2. Many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God Whenever your world starts to come apart, there will always be people that talk negatively to you about your situation or against you. This even may be people that may be sincere, seemingly wanting to help want to help. Maybe someone supposing to be spiritually and wise giving you advice that you never asked for. Always love the advice that's never asked for. Trying to be helpful. They're like Job's friends. They mean well, but Job called them miserable counselors. There will always be negative talk. Don't give in to it. And verse 2 reports the words of David's enemies who were impugning his relationship to God. The verse literally reads, Many are saying, to my soul That is, their words were hitting David in his heart and his soul, saying there's no deliverance for him in God. Maybe they were bringing up the now public sin that David committed with Bathsheba and the murder of her husband. Maybe they were saying, you know, he's a hypocrite, he's a scoundrel. How can he claim to follow God? His claim that God has anointed him as a king is a joke. God is not on the side of anyone like that, anyone who's a phony like that. Spurgeon wrote this, doubtless David felt this infernal suggestion to be staggering to his faith. If all the trials which come from heaven, all the temptations which descend from hell, and all the crosses which arise from earth could be mixed and pressed together, they would not make a trial so terrible as that which is contained in this verse It is the most bitter of all afflictions to be led to fear that there is no help for us in God. God can't help you. There's no hope for you in this situation. Now Jesus on the cross suffered similar trials to that. His enemies taunted him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he delights in him, for he says, I'm the Son of God. And even worse, as he bore our sins, Jesus felt forsaken by the Father. As we heard that cry in Matthew, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? The difference was, of course, David knew that he was being taunted because of his own sins. Jesus, our Savior, was guilty of no sin. The sinless Son of God took upon himself our sins. But nevertheless, David hears the negative talk. He knows of it, but the thing that we have to admire here about David is he doesn't give in to the negative talk. He brings all of that to God as well. Every once in a while you'll get the negative words from others, negative speech, maybe a negative letter. Take it all to God. Take it to the Lord. That's what David does. God, many say of my soul, there's no help for him in God. Don't give in to that and allow that to affect you. And then here's number three. Number one, face your problems with God. Don't give in to negative talk. But number three, focus on who God is. Focus on who God is. Look at verse 3. But thou. I love the way this verse starts out. But thou, O Lord, in that difficult circumstance, David focuses on the Lord. He remembers who God is. He remembers that God is for him. And David remembers three things here about God. The Lord is our shield Verse 3, but thou, O Lord, art a shield for me. We all know that a shield, what it is, we know that it's there for protection. How it's a weapon in battle to protect us. When you have a shield, you're protected from the enemy. You're protected from swords and arrows of the enemy. The first time this occurs in the Bible is when God said to Abraham, I am thy shield. In Genesis 15, Abraham had just defeated some wicked kings in battle. Nighttime was about. You know, Abraham was probably worried about a counter-attack. Here it is dark at night. He just defeated these kings. They could counterattack at night, wipe us out. But God comes and says, Abraham, I'm your shield. I've got your back. I'm watching over you. It's great to know that God has your back. That God is watching over you. The Lord is our shield, the Lord is our glory, it says in verse 3. My glory. Although David had great earthly acclaim. before this catastrophe. He's acknowledging that his identification really comes from his association with the Lord. His only claim is the Lord's glory. Whether the Lord restored David to his place of earthly prominence or not, that doesn't matter. David says the Lord, God was his glory. Dave was saying, it really doesn't matter what people say about me. God, you are my glory. As Christians, we share in the glory of Christ. And that's the thing that we should relish more than anything else. The thing that we should glory in is the fact that we know Jesus through the cross. Like Paul said in the New Testament. That, you know, God forbid that I should glory except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's what we glory in But also the Lord is the lifter up of my head. Again in verse 3. But thou, O Lord, art a shield from me, my glory, the lifter up of mine head. This is a Hebrew expression for restoring one who is cast down to his previous position. It refers to God restoring us to the joy that we had before the crisis actually came. That thing that is bringing us low, that thing that in your life might be bringing you low and causing your head to bow down. God is the one that can bring your head up. He can be the lifter up of your head. He humbles the proud, but he lifts up the humble who cry out to him. And he brings joy, and he restores to them that joy. The restorer of that joy and that glory. The psalmist said in Psalm 27, verse 5: For in a time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me upon a rock, and now shall my head be lifted above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy. I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto you, Lord. When your world is coming apart, focus on who God is to you Here's number four. First of all, face your problems with God. Number two, don't give in to negative talk. Number three, focus on who God is. And number four, vent your emotions to God. Look at verse 4. I cried unto the Lord with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. When our troubles increase, we have a tendency to run to others and tell other people about our troubles. And that's there's nothing wrong with that. We need uh we need encouragement from others around us. That's why we uh have brothers and sisters in Christ, right? We help each other through th times like that. But David shows us that the first person we need to run to, invent to, is God. David cries out to the Lord. He says, with my voice. That gives me an impression that he's crying out loud. This was not a silent prayer. There are times when I pray, I'm silent when I pray. Tonight when we pray, we pray silently here together. God hears those prayers, of course. And there are times when I pray that I might write my prayers in a journal. I keep a journal and write down my prayers. I find this to be helpful. When I'm trying to really think through what I want to say, I write it out in a journal as a prayer to the Lord. But then there are times when I'm praying that I just cry out with my voice. I just speak out loud to God. And there are times when I'm sure you've done the same thing. I notice that those times are when m I'm filled with more emotion, more passion at the time. Maybe you Can understand that. When you're venting your heart to God, there are times as believers when we just need to go to God and just vent to the Lord. Just go give it all to the Lord. I think this is exactly what David is doing here. He's praying out loud with great emotion. He says here in verse 4, I cry to the Lord with my voice. And he heard me out of his holy hill. God's holy hill refers to Mount Zion and Jerusalem, where the Ark of the Covenant remained. And uh this was the place where uh the Levites carried the ark too. Um and so the ark was there. So David's heart was humble before God. And David worshipped God there. And David would still go to that place before the ark and just cry out to the Lord because that was a symbol of the presence of God. And so we we vent our emotions to the Lord. And you know, wherever that place is where you meet with God, that place that you've determined, God will hear your voice as you cry out to Him. But then here's number five. Face your problems with God. Don't give in to negative talk. Focus on who God is. Vent your emotions to God. And then number five, learn to rest in the peace of God. Look at verse number five. I laid me down and slept. I awake for the Lord to sustain me. Now we've all had problems where it kept us up at night, maybe all night at times. But David, despite the dark circumstances around him, was able to sleep. That's that's kind of amazing to me, you know. Even though things were this was the worst time in his life, even though things were falling apart, David was able to sleep. When he woke up the next morning, he recognized that God had given him a restful night. And he was experiencing the peace of God. This is the result of focusing on God in prayer, crying out to God Isaiah 26, 3. That will keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. And really, this whole Psalm, Psalm 3, really illustrates Philippians 4, 6 and 7. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ. So David cried out to God in prayer, then he went to bed. Not in the palace. He's not in the palace now, he's running, but he's camped in the wilderness. And a tent, yet he slept through the night. Reminds me of Peter on the night before uh his intended execution. You remember that story in the book of Acts? He was so sound asleep, the pr in the prison between two guards The angel had to wake him up. That always amazed me in that story. You know, he was going to be executed the next day, and there's two guards, and Peter is sound asleep. I don't know about you, but I probably wouldn't be sleeping. He was so asleep that the angel had to rouse him and wake him up. Hey dude, I'm here. Hey dude. I'm here to get you. David woke safe and sound because the Lord sustained him. He woke up rested. The source of David's peace came because he knew God was watching over him. And David would later write in Psalm 121, God doesn't slumber nor sleep. We have a God who watches over us. Well, we sleep. He doesn't need to sleep. He doesn't slumber or sleep. In ancient days, the ancient people worshiped gods who slept. I think I told you that before. Um all the ancient false gods that they made up really in their mind were gods who were more human and some of them slept. In fact, uh most of them slept. Um and uh they needed to be wakened before they could do anything. I think I told you when I was in uh Nepal visited a a Buddhist complex where a bunch of temples around. I walked into one temple and there was a big image of the god. He was asleep. He was just laying down there peacefully asleep. I I tiptoed, I didn't want to wake him up. We have a God, the true God, who doesn't slumber or sleep. And he watches over all of us so that we can sleep peacefully. God doesn't need to get drowsy. He's the Almighty God. And David knew this. God watched over him. And that's the key. Rest in God. God wants us to rest in him. Face your problems with God. Don't give in to negative talk. Focus on who God is. Vent your emotions to God. Learn to rest in the peace of God. And then here's number six, refuse to be controlled by fear. Verse six. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me roundabout. This goes along with the previous point. When you rest all night with God's peace, you're not you're not going to be controlled by fear the next morning. Verse six is the morning after the restful night. Verse 5, David rests at night. Verse 6 is the next morning. Morning is an important time of the day. How many of you know that? A bad morning can wreck your whole day. As I've told you before, I'm not really a morning person. I know that there are some people that are. Can't stand those kind of people. In fact, there's a verse in the Bible against people like that. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, 14, He that blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning It shall be counted a curse unto him. Solomon wasn't a mourning person either, if he when he wrote this. The devil attacks me in the morning, it seems like, with negative thoughts. And maybe that happens to you too. You wake up, you grab your phone, there are text messages, Facebook messages waiting for you. Some of them are not very uplifting or positive. You have to do this, you know. You have to do this. Here are things that have to happen today. And people are asking you, you know, contact me, call me. You know it's all bad. You know. In verse 6, David is getting up after a restful night's sleep. He grabs his mobile phone and checks his text messages and it reads, You now have 10,000 enemies. The army that is coming to kill you now has reached 10,000 in number. Reports began to come in that David's enemies were growing in number. Again in verse 6, I will not be afraid. of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me round about. As these reports were coming in and David's enemies were growing in number, and that they would probably attack at any time. You know, the first response in getting bad news a lot of times for us is that we're just filled with fear. Don't give in to those fears. Don't give in. David doesn't. His first response is, I will not fear. Not going to be afraid. I'm not going to give in to that fear. You see, when you're trusting in God You don't give in to fear. Did you know that fear and faith can't occupy the same place in your heart? And as long as you're walking in fear, you're not walking in faith But when you're walking in faith and you trust the sovereign God, there's no room for fear there. They can't occupy the same place in your life. And if you let fear occupy your heart, it can be debilitating. It hinders us from doing what we ought to do. Someone said fear is a dark room where negatives are developed. It destroys peace of mind and eats us, it robs us of rest. It's like sand in the machinery of our life, our soul. And we can't give in to fear in our life. And David doesn't. David refused to. And I want to tell you, beloved, you don't have to give in to those fears. Bring it to the Lord. Trust in the Lord. Refuse to harbor that fear in your heart. And David had to learn this the hard way. He kind of learned to deal with his fears when he was a young shepherd boy. When a bear came to take one of his lands, he had to face that bear. Now, I don't know if I would have a problem facing a bear if I had a big gun. David had a sling and a stone. And he faced a bear with a swing and a stone? Seriously? And then a lion. Again, I w I don't know if I would have a problem if I had a big gun and even there I'm like, man, you better shoot straight, buddy. But if I had a gun I don't th I think, you know I I remember one time on a safari in Africa, we we saw two big lions with furry manes laying under a tree in the shade and the jeeps stopped and they said, You can get out and get a picture. So I did. I got out of the Jeep, went close to the side, holding on, careful not to get too far out away from the door. These guys were sleeping. Can you imagine facing a lion with just a sling and a stone? David had to learn not to give in to fear. And here David, and of course we know the story of David with Goliath, he wouldn't give in to the giant Goliath out of fear. He didn't give in to Saul's jealousy, the powerful king of Israel who tried to kill him on two occasions. He didn't give in to that fear. And here David refuses to give in to fear again. He refuses I will not be afraid. In Psalm 56, verse 3, David said this, what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. I'm not going to give in to fear, but at times when fear does try to enter into my heart, I'm going to make a decision to trust in God. I'm not going to allow it to stay in my heart And this is a mental discipline that we have to have, that we have to practice. I will not be afraid. Why, David? Because he knows God's with him. Let me give you the last thing here. Face your problems with God. Don't give in to negative talk. Focus on who God is. Vend your emotions to God. Learn to rest in the peace of God. Refuse to be controlled by fear. And number seven, depend on God in humble prayer. Notice verse 7 and 8. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God. For thou hast smitten all my enemies upon the cheekbone. Thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly. Salvation belongs unto Lord. Thy blessing is upon thy people. And here David in these two verses just then again prays about the whole situation. This is the next morning. He rested all night. He got this news. He refuses to give in to fear. And then he just says, I'm going to bring this all to God. I'm going to give it to the Lord. And while David prays, he's reminded of how God has delivered him from enemies in the past. God, in the past, you've brought me through this. You've delivered me from enemies. Past victories can be a source of present-day confidence. And David just commits this whole matter to God in humble prayer. He remembers that God is faithful. God faithfully delivered them. He's confident that God will do it again. After all, salvation belongeth to the Lord. God loves to bless his children. This is why God wants us to pray, because our prayer is an expression of humble dependence upon God. You know, prayer is not so much made that so God can find out what you need. God already knows what you need. Jesus said that. Your father already ha knows what you need before you ask him. God already knows what you need. God wants us to pray because our prayer expresses humble trust and faith in God. It's a means by where we can We can increase in our faith and trust in the Lord. And so we humbly bring those things to the Lord in prayer. So What do you do when it seems like your world's coming apart? How do you keep yourself together? We're all going to face those situations in our life. They're all going to come. We're going to have trials like that. David, he's very practical here in this psalm. Face your problems with God. Don't give any negative talk. Focus on who God is. Vent your emotions to God. Learn to rest in the peace of God. Refuse to be controlled by fear. Depend on God in humble prayer. In short, really, all David did was place his life, which seemed to be falling apart, into God's hands. And I want to tell you something. When something when your life seems to be falling apart, God knows how to put all of it back together. He knows how to put it all back together. Better than it was before. So just put it in his hands. Put it in God's hands. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful hymn. Thank you, Lord, that reminds us of who you are. And there may be some here tonight that can say like David, how are they increased that trouble me? Problems have increased. Seems like they're on every side. They're rising up all around. And I'm not sure exactly what to do. Lord, may we follow the example of David. May we cry out. With our problems to you, not listen to the negative people around us, but remember who you are. Lord, you are a shield for me You're my glory. You're the lifter up of my head. Lord, help us to rest in the peace of God, to rest in you, Lord. And ref and refuse to be controlled by fear, but just to continually come to you and depend upon you in humble prayer. And Lord, we know that whatever we're dealing with, Lord, you're able to put it all back together. So Lord, we just put it in your hands in faith. In an expression of faith, we just bring it to you. And we put it in your hands. How many here tonight say that's my prayer? Just I need God to do that for me, putting it in His hands. Father, in the end we're just weak people, and we can't do this without you. And in a way, weakness is strength, Lord, when we confess it to you. Because we know at that time is when you come and take control. So Lord bless these your saints, all those that are under the sound of this, if they're in a situation where it just seems like things are coming apart. Lord, help us to follow the example of your servant David. Give grace, Lord, to your people as only you can. And we ask all this in Jesus' mighty name, Amen