All right, good to see you here tonight. I take invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Judges as we're going through the book of Judges here on Wednesday night. And tonight we deal with uh Judges chapter ten. You probably never heard a sermon out of judges chapter 10. I notice that a lot of commentaries kind of skip over this chapter almost like it doesn't have a whole lot to offer, but In fact, it's the opposite. There's a lot that God has to say through this chapter to all of us. And tonight the title of our study is When God Does Not Answer. When God Does Not Answer. There's an assumption most of us carry often without realizing it, and that is if we cry out to God, He's going to answer. If we confess our sins, he will quickly deliver. And many times that is true because as we sung tonight, God is faithful But in Judges chapter 10, it kind of confronts us with a sobering reality. There are moments when God hears his people and he refuses to answer. In verse number 10 of chapter 10, Israel cries out to the Lord. Look at verse 10. And the children of Israel cry to the Lord, saying, We have sinned against thee both because we have forsaken our God and have served Balaam. And instead of immediately answering and giving deliverance, notice what God says in verse number fourteen. Verse 14, God says, Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen. Let them deliver you in the time of your trouble. So that's startling when you read that. So this chapter forces us to ask a very deep question, and that is, why would God delay, or why would he even refuse to answer his children when they cry out to him? God is not being cruel. It's not because God is indifferent to us. But as we'll see, it's because God is doing something deeper in the life of all of his children when at times he will not answer. Sometimes God will hold deliverance and hold the answer that we're asking for, again, not to harm us, but to expose perhaps some false repentance. or maybe to get us to the point where we're absolutely, totally ready to surrender to everything that God wants. He wants true surrender. So what I want you to see tonight in this chapter are just six reasons God does not answer when we cry out to him. And here's the first reason, number one, because we've grown comfortable in sin. We've grown comfortable in sin. And we see this in verse number six, but before we get to verse six. Verses 1 to 5 is a kind of a kind of a quick uh uh almost a footnote here in the in the book of Judges because it mentions two judges and their scholars call them minor judges And they're they're labeled minor judges, not because uh they are insignificant, but because the biblical record gives a very small amount of information about them. We don't really know a whole lot about them And so we want to look at these two judges that are mentioned here. One is Tola and the other is Yahir. And we see again these in the first five verses we see Tolah mentioned in verse five or excuse me verse one and after Abimelech there arose to defend Tola the son of Pu'ah the son of Dodo I'm glad that that's not the name of anybody here tonight, son of Dodo. A man of Issachar, and he dwelt in Shamir in Mount Ephraim. So again, there's just a few things we can draw about this man, this judge. He was from the tribe of Issachar. He lived in the hill country of Ephraim in Shamir. And uh he was described as one who arose to defend Israel. And so he this suggests kind of a stabilizing uh influence, a positive role. And he reigned for 23 years, which is relatively long. It was a very peaceful tenure for 23 years There's no mention of his of any military exploits, there's no mention of any battles or any dramatic deliverance like we read about with Gideon or Jephthah or Samson or anything like that. So why does the writer mention this man Well, it kinda you know when you read it at first it may seem like uh it's really insignificant, but really his inclusion is really important because we're coming from the transition from Abimelech now to another period in Israel And so Tola comes after Abimelech. And we read about the story of Abimelech in chapter 9. And it was one of the darkest stories in all of the book of Judges, if you remember. Abimelech's rise was marked by self exaltation, it was marked by the murder of his brothers, it was marked by civil unrest and judgment. But Tola's brief mention kind of signals a return to order It signals quiet. Tola's leadership represents restoration after a time of revolution. He's a selfless leader. He's a stable leader. And so what we see here then in this passage is faithful leadership without the spectacular. Unlike more famous judges. Tola, he performs no record of miracles, he leads no famous battles, he doesn't give any famous speeches or anything like that, and yet he just faithfully, steadily governs for 23 years. Some of the most important leadership is steady, it's quiet, and it continues on. It perseveres. And that's what we see here. In a book that is filled with all types of extremes, Tola stands as a picture of ordinary faithfulness. And that's what we need is just ordinary faithfulness. And it's also evidence of God's continual mercy. Even though Israel repeatedly falls into sin, God is continuing to give deliverers. And it shows that God has not abandoned his people. And so his life speaks very quietly, but also very powerfully. Some people are called just simply to stand in the gap to just be faithful, to maintain order, and just do what the Lord has called you to do faithfully, quietly. And that matters a lot to God. But we also see Yahir, he's mentioned in verse three, and after him arose Yahir, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years, and he had thirty sons that rode on thirty ascolts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havot, Ya'ir, unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead, and Yaiir died and was buried in Cayman. So here's another judge who also leads quietly and faithfully. And the mention of him having 30 sons, riding on 30 donkeys, and governing 30 cities, again it appears random, but it signals wealth. It signals influence. It signals a time of peace that was there in Israel. In the ancient Near East, to ride a donkey that was showed prosperity because most people didn't have that opportunity. Most people got around the normal way of walking. But here are these men riding upon donkeys, which again suggests um prosperity. And also this uh Jair having s thirty sons, that suggests uh strength, it it suggests uh legacy and continuity. And each of these sons, they reigned over thirty cities, which suggests also there was some administrative governance that was going on in Israel at that time And so again, this fits with the pattern of Tola. It was leadership that was stable. There was peace, there was stability. It's a kind of a kind of a a time of uh prosperity for Israel. Even in the dark ages, there was still a time of peace and stability, although it wasn't, relatively speaking, a very long time. And so the Bible tells us that Yahir left his lasting imprint to the land by having these cities named after him where it says, Havot Yahir. are the names of the cities in verse number three, which literally means the the villages of Yahir. So he evidently had a an impact on the land at that time. So we see a time of stability. There's no major crisis. There's no rebellion during the leadership of these men. There are no battles, no dramatic stories. And all this is happening opposite of Abimelech. So these are just quiet years. And that's exactly the point that the writer is making. That's what he wants us to see. For this time there was stability. Now, what did Israel do with that? You would think that at this time of leadership, in this time of quiet and peace and prosperity, that Israel would return to God, they would be grateful to God. And they would show it by returning to the Lord, but that's not what happened. Because look down at verse number six. And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and served Balaam and Ashiraf In other words, after the seasons of peace, the people still returned to sin. Which means that the issue was never their circumstances. The problem was not a lack of leadership. The problem was not a lack of opportunity. The problem was their heart. Their heart was unchanged. It shows their sinful heart They didn't fall into sin because life got hard. They returned to sin even when life was stable. Some people sometimes will think, you know, if my situation were better were better, I would be better able to walk with God faithfully. But Judges chapter 10 shows that shows the opposite. It reveals the depravity of the human heart It reveals the propensity of people just to take God's goodness for granted and not really to show appreciation Israel had peace, they had leadership, they had time, and yet they still turned away from God. Because the greatest problem that we face is not the things that are outside of us, it's the things that are in us. So we see this again. And Israel sinned, but they didn't just sin lightly. Again, look at verse 6. And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord, and served Balaam and Asherath. And served the gods of Syria and the gods of Zidon and the gods of Moab and the gods of the children of Ammon and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook the Lord and served him not. Sin upon sin. They serve Baal, they serve Asherah, and then the writer names the gods of the surrounding nation. The Lord had just given Israel victory over these seven nations, but now Israel was worshiping the various gods of these seven nations. No wonder God was angry with them. Because look what we see in verse number seven, and the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel. What foolishness to worship the gods of your defeated enemies. And the worship Israel embraced in verse 6 was really bad. I mean it was really dark. There was the worship that associated these gods was unspeakably cruel. There was sensual perversion that was a part of this worship. There was the body was defiled in the name of devotion. Innocent children were offered in the fire to the God Molech. This is this is horrible. It was the darkest type of corruption in this type of ritual worship, corruption of the soul and of the body And so this wasn't something that they stumbled into. This was a pattern. This was something that they lived out. And yet here they were now praying and expecting God to answer their prayers. They were very comfortable in their sin. They were very comfortable in their idolatry. And when things turned bad for them, when they got a little uncomfortable, they cried out to God. But God does not rush to answer. When people are sinning and they're comfortable in their sin. And that's what we see here in this. Sometimes we ask, why isn't God answering my prayers? Maybe the better question we should ask is, is there something in my life I have no intention of giving up? And that's the reason why God's not answering your prayer. Because you have no intention of giving up your sin. And you expect God to run to your aid when things go bad. God's not obligated to respond to prayers that are paired with ongoing rebellion in the heart of the person who's offering those prayers. So why does God sometimes not answer? Well, because we've grown comfortable in sin. But there's another reason, number two, because we want relief more than restoration. We see this in verses 7 down to verse number 10. God will chastise Israel. Again, in verse 7, and the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines and into the hands of the children of Ammon. God is always faithful to punish his children when they go wrong. And here God uses the Philistines and the Ammonites to punish them. These nations are on either side of Israel, so there's a sense in which Israel is being hammered from both sides, and they're being crushed in the middle. And it's summarized in verse number nine, where it says that so that Israel was sore. distress in verse number nine at the uh at the end of that. The phrase means more than just that they were having a hard time. It carries the idea of being pressed down, being crushed, being hemmed in. being brought to a place where there's no escape. Israel is not just under attack. They're having pressure from all sides. And this was designed by God. There's enemies on the outside. There's idols within them. There's God above them who's against them. They have nowhere to turn. And there was 18 years of this distress. It's not a bad day. It's not a difficult season, but nearly two decades where God's hand is heavy on Israel Because of their sin. And again, this is all the punishment of God. God will press you externally when you refuse to yield internally. And this is what God is doing here with Israel. That's why it says they were sore distressed. And then notice they cry out. Look at verse number 10. Where it says, And the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, saying, We have sinned against thee both because we have forsaken our God and also served Balaam. On the surface, this all sounds good. Wow, they're crying out. They confess. They acknowledge. They finally cry out. But there's something missing here because nothing has changed. Nothing's changed with them. Why did they cry? Not because they suddenly hated their sin, but because they couldn't endure the suffering they were going through any longer. That's the reason they cried out. And the phrase sore distressed in verse number nine kind of helps us understand verse number 10. They were not moved by holiness. They were not convicted over what they were doing. They were moved by pressure, the pressure they were in. They didn't cry out when they began sinning. They didn't cry out when God first chastised them. They stayed that way for eighteen years. They waited until they couldn't bear the suffering anymore. That should tell you something about the human art. God might delay answering when we want the pain removed. Because he's not after the pain, he's after the problem. God's not interested in making your life easier. You understand that? He's not interested in making you comfortable. He's committed to making your heart right. He's committed to making you holy. And if that means you have to go through a little pain and suffering, so be it. Because holiness is much more important than your comfort. There's a difference between Lord fix this situation I'm in and Lord fix my heart. Many prayers are really about comfort. They're about escape. They're about relief. But God's after something deeper than that. He's after true repentance. He's after holiness. He's after transformation. And so there's a tension here in the text. Israel wants deliverance from their enemy. They want comfort. God wants deliverance from their idolatry. He wants holiness. He wants total restoration. They want relief from pressure. God wants to restore their relationship to him. And until the deeper issue is addressed, God is not going to let the pressure remain. Reminds reminds me of me sometimes when my engine light comes on on my car. I just want the light to go out. It's really irritating to have that light there constantly flashing. And I just wanted to go out. I'm ready to unplug some wire just to get the light out. Rather than, you know, have the engine checked and figure out what the problem is, I just want the light to go out. And there's a lot of people that are like that. And this is a problem here with Israel. Uh they just want the light to go off. But God has been giving the warning light because God wants to fix the engine. God wants to take care of the root problem. And so we do the same thing. We don't mind God helping us feel better. We just don't want him to deal with what's broken. And in order for God to really deal with what's broken, he's got to go deeper, which means you're going to have to endure this. You're going to have to go through this. We pray, Lord, take away the stress. Lord, remove the consequences. But rarely do we pray, Lord, search me. Lord, change me. Lord, deal with what is causing this in my life. But relief without repentance is just a reset for future ruin. If God only turned off the warning light without fixing the problem, that wouldn't be mercy. That would be neglect. on God's part. Because if he relieved and and the greatest evidence I think that God loves you is that he's not answering right now. He refuses to just take off turn off the warning light. He wants to fix the whole problem because if he relieves you from this problem or he relieved it too soon, you would be right back there where you were, if not worse. So why does God sometimes not answer? Because we've grown comfortable in sin. Because we want relief more than restoration. But here's number three, along with that, because our repentance is only words. Our repentance is only words. And again, we see in verse 10 where Israel cried unto the Lord, saying, We have sinned against thee. The key word here is saying, Here's Israel, and this is what they're saying. This is not the first time Israel has done this. If you read through the book of Judges, they're constantly saying, oh Lord, oh Lord, we confess. The only problem was it wasn't genuine. It wasn't real. And here in this moment, their repentance is reactive. It's not radical. It's not real repentance. There's a difference between true repentance And false repentance. You see, true repentance is demonstrated not in what a person says, but in what they do. In what they do. God is not moved by repentance that is verbal, but is not visible in the changes that you make in your life. You can say all the right things and still have a heart that is turned away from God. And that's what we see here with Israel. They confessed, but they didn't change. They didn't remove any of the idols. You see, until God sees That we've removed the idols and we've done what he w that what he would expect. It's not real repentance. And so Why does God sometimes not answer? Because we've grown comfortable in our sin. Because we have we want relief more than restoration, because our repentance is only words. But here's number four, because we're still trusting other saviors. Because we're still trusting other saviors. God's not going to hear us if we're trusting in other so-called saviors or things. And notice God how he responds to their prayer in verse 10. Look at verse 11. And the Lord said unto the children of Israel, did not I deliver you from the Egyptians and from the Amorites, and from the children of Amon, and from the Philistines? And the Zidonians also, and the Amalekites and the Maonites, did oppress you, and you cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand. Verse 13, yet ye have forsaken me and served other gods, wherefore I will deliver you no more. So God asks a searching question. God begins not with comfort comfort, but with a question. He takes Israel back through the history. Over and over again, God has proven himself faithful. God has delivered them over and over and over again, continually And God asked this question not because God's searching for information. He already knew. This is designed for them to think about what God has been doing for them all this time. He has delivered them over and over and over again. It's almost like God saying, How many times have I already shown you that I am enough when you look to me? Daniel Block, the commentator, writes this, Yahweh's rehearsal of past deliverances is intended to expose the irrationality of Israel's behavior. They have no excuse for seeking other saviors. God delivers and delivers and delivers, and yet here they are seeking other saviors. And so their problem is not ignorance. It is a misplaced trust in spite of the evidence that God has been giving them about his faithfulness. And we need to ask ourselves, how many times has God delivered us? How many times has God provided for you, delivered you, sustained you? And yet when the next trial comes, how many times do we look other places? For God's help rather than to the Lord. So God gives a solemn statement in verse number 13. You have forsaken me and you've served other gods, wherefore I Wherefore I will deliver you no more. And so the question shifts from a uh to from a question to a declaration. In spite of all this, Israel forsook him. They just turned away and served other gods. They didn't just sin. They replaced God with other gods. This wasn't just failure, this was replacement. They replaced God. And God says, I'm not going to deliver you anymore. That's a sobering statement. A sobering statement. I'm not going to help you anymore. Why would God say that to them? Well, because as long as they believed in other saviors or that their other saviors were viable. They were not really truly returning to God. And as long as you're depending upon other things, you're not really, really trusting in the Lord. You're not really turning to the Lord If God delivered them while their trust was divided, they would still have idols. Their idols would remain. Their hearts would remain unchanged if God delivered them while they were trusting in something else. The repentance would still be shallow. And so God might delay an answering when our trust is divided. We don't have a full total trust in God. We might say, well, we're trusting God, but really we're also we're trusting money or we're trusting influence. Or we say, oh, we're trusting God, but actually we're trusting other people or even ourselves. And God sees the difference between what we say and what we're really leaning on. God sees that change. Partial trust is no trust at all. It's no trust at all. So look at verse 14, where God says, Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen, let them deliver you in the time of your Tribulation. Again, that's a stunning statement. God's not ignorant of their need. He's not indifferent to their suffering. He's just exposing their divided heart. Telling them that their heart is not truly trusting in him. And God's kind of using sarcasm here. Hey, you chose them. Go talk to them. Talk to those idols that you made. See how they help you. Again, why would God say go to other gods? Because as long as there's a beliefs that other saviors are viable options, they will never truly return to the Lord. So, it's a warning. I think of the story in 2 Chronicles 16 about King Asa. Early in his life, the Bible says King Asa Totally trusted in the Lord. He completely trusted in God. When a massive Ethiopian army came out against Israel, This is what he prayed in 2 Chronicles 14 11, Lord, it is nothing with thee to help, whether there be many with them, or that they have no or that they have no power. In other words, God, you know, this is no problem for you, and we're trusting in you, and you know what? God delivered them. But later in his reign, things changed. When uh a king of Israel threatened Judah, Asa didn't pray, he didn't seek the Lord. You know what he did instead? He made a political alliance with Ben Hadad, the king of the Syrians, instead of trusting in the Lord. And the pro and the problem was solved. He got help by that king, but this caused something to happen in the heart of the king. He no longer put his trust in the Lord, and from there he just went downhill. And the same thing happens to us. The Bible says this, the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is perfect towards him. him. And this was God's response to this king when he did not trust in the Lord. It was God's response to Asa. God's looking for those whose heart is perfect towards him. That is those that are really truly trusting in the Lord. And so he lost something there. So why doesn't God sometimes answer? Because we've grown comfortable in sin? Because we want relief more than restoration? Because our repentance is only words. Because we're still trusting other saviors. But here's number five. Another reason is because we have not yet surrendered to his will. Look at verse 15. And the children of Ezra Israel said unto the Lord, We have sinned. Do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Deliver us only, we pray thee this day. Now here is a prayer that God can hear. We see here surrender. Something changes. Do unto us whatever seemeth good unto you. You know what that is? That's surrender. That's finally surrender. And then again they said, the Bible says, and then they put away the strange gods in verse 16. So God begins to move when we stop negotiating with God and start surrendering. Stop negotiating with God while you're holding on to things in your life that you shouldn't. And start surrendering to the Lord. And there's a turning point in the prayer when we do that. We move from God, do what I want. To God, do whatever is right. And that's where real repentance begins. That's where it begins. Do whatever seems good to you, God. Whatever you you think is right. That's surrender. It's no longer God get us out of this. But God, do what is right. Do what is right. Even if it cost us. Even if that we have to endure more pain. and suffering. Lord, do what you think is right. They're no longer negotiating terms. Now they are submitting to God's will. And now what we see here is repentance. Repentance becomes real when we stop trying to control the outcome. And we just surrender to the Lord. Daniel Bloch again writes, the people abandoned all attempts to manipulate Yahweh, and they place themselves entirely at His mercy. And then their action follows. They put away the strange gods from among them, and they served the Lord. And so we finally see that it's not just words, but now it's actions. It's not just confession, but now it's change in their life. They didn't just feel bad about their idols. They got rid of all of them. Again, there's a turning point in prayer when we remove, when we move from, God, do what I want to do what is right. So sometimes our prayers will go unanswered because we're unwilling to yield. We're unwilling to surrender. But here's the last one. God does not sometimes answer because he's leading us to something deeper. He's leading us to something deeper Look at verse number sixteen, notice what it says. And they put away the strange gods from among them, and served the Lord, and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel. And this is one of the more remarkable statements in the chapter where God was grieved. Now, God had said, I'm not going to deliver you anymore, and yet now we read where God's soul was grieved. Over Israel. God had delayed, but he had never abandoned them. He never abandoned them. God's silence is not indifference. His delay doesn't mean that he's totally absent. It was preparation. What was he preparing them for? Because God wanted to do something deeper in their life. And that's what we have to remember. God wanted to expose their idols. He wanted to reshape their desires. He wanted to produce humility in them. He wanted to bring them to true repentance and true surrender to Him. So it's it's preparation. God doesn't delight in our suffering, but He will use it. He will use it. He will continue to use it until He accomplishes what comfort could never accomplish. That's why he got you out of that comfort zone because that comfort wasn't doing anything for you. And God will use suffering until he'll accomplish his purpose. And once that work is done, his heart is moved on our behalf. And what we see here is both sides of God. He's holy. He will not accept shallow repentance, but he's also compassionate. He's moved by genuine by genuine return to him. And he's compassionate towards his people. So when God doesn't answer you the way you expect, it doesn't mean that he doesn't care. It just means that he's trying to remove something in your life that you're clinging to. He's correcting something deeper in your heart. And he's preparing you for something greater. He wants to do a greater, deeper work in you. Sometimes God withholds what you want to give you what you actually need. To what you actually need. So Why does God sometimes not answer because we've grown comfortable in sin? Because we want relief more than restoration, because our repentance is only words Because we're still trusting in other saviors, because we have not yet surrendered to his will, because God is leading us to something deeper. To something deeper. Now there's a tension here, and I'll close with this. There's a tension here in this chapter. God is holy, as we saw, He will not accept shallow repentance, and God is compassionate. He's grieved by suffering. We see a tension between those two attributes of God, those two parts of God's nature. Where do they meet? Where do these two things meet? I tell you where they meet. They meet at the cross in Jesus Christ. Because in Jesus Christ, God does not ignore our sin. He does not lower his standard. He does not excuse false repentance Instead, Christ bears the judgment. Christ provides the righteousness. Christ enables true repentance. What Israel could not sustain, Christ perfectly fulfilled in his life and in his death. And so if God's not answering you the way you expect, just don't immediately assume that he's distant or that he's uncaring. Ask instead this question: is there something I'm holding on to? Is my repentance a shallow repentance or is it real? And ask this question: have I truly surrendered to God in this? Let's bow for prayer together. Father, we thank you, Lord, for this chapter, for what it teaches us. And how Lord that there are times when you will withhold answers because not out of cruelty, but out of kindness. Often, Lord, we trust in other things rather than you. We trust ourselves, we trust systems, we trust people. And it's not until we're sore distressed. When everything else fails, that we we finally turn to you. And even then we may not turn with a true repentance. But Lord, you you delay until finally we say, Lord, do what's right. Do what's right. When we stop negotiating, when we stop depending on false saviors, when we truly surrender to you. And Father, that's when you begin to move. So Lord, I pray that tonight the prayer of our heart will be: Lord, we don't just want your help. We want you. We want a closer walk with you. We want you to be thorough in our lives. We want, Lord, you to bring about a deep transformation and holiness. We want you, Lord, to do what you purpose to do in our heart, that deep work that you desire to do in all of us, to where we're trusting in you and you alone, you and nothing else. And we pray all this in Jesus' worthy name. Amen.