Would you take your Bibles tonight as we go to God's Word, and we're going to look at Psalm 121 tonight. We've been looking through the Psalms and we've been looking for encouragement and things that help us in these Psalms and This is just another great chapter here in Psalm 121. And we could call this a song of help. Or we could call this when you need help, where do you go to get that help? Psalm 121, I think one of the most powerful words in the English language is the word help. It really shows a kind of a total desperation and humility when you go to the Lord and you say, Lord, I need your help. In fact, I think that's probably one of the most effective prayers that we pray. Lord, I need your help. And this is why this psalm is such a blessing. It has been to so many people, so many Christians through the years. Because it tells us about the help that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. This psalm is used to minister to many people through the history of the church. I read of David Livingston before he went. on his uh trip to Africa to be a missionary there, that he gathered his family together and he read Psalm 121 with his family together. And uh this was a source of comfort to him all throughout uh his his uh ministry as a missionary. And so uh it's a beautiful psalm. And uh look so look at it verse number one. I would lift up mine eyes into the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep Now let me remind you that in these Psalms here, you'll see a little subtitle right up right below the chapter number, which is Psalms of Degrees, or we could say Psalms of ascending. And there's different theories as to what these Psalms really mean or what that subtitle means. Some people believe that uh in the the steps leading up into the temple in Jerusalem. They're actually on the southern end of the temple, 15 wide steps followed by 15 narrow steps And so they believe that they were purposely designed that way because when you're walking up into the temple and you have big wide steps and then you have little narrow steps, you had to keep your head down and look uh where you're stepping or you would trip and fall. And that also provided for them to have the right posture when they walked into God's house. They would they would bow their head down. And uh that was a humble posture as they were walking into the house of the Lord. Some people believe that was purposeful. Fifteen of these widesteps, they believe, were steps where pilgrims would come and they would stand on those widesteps and they would sing one of these fifteen psalms of ascent as they ascended up into the temple. That's one theory of the Psalms of But also another theory is that these were the psalms that were sung by the Jewish pilgrims as they were traveling into Jerusalem to worship the Lord. And they were singing these songs along the way, stations along the way, as they traveled through uh the desert. They were Jerusalem was located upward on a geographically on a hill and you would literally ascend up into Jerusalem to worship the Lord there. And so they believe that that is why these songs were written. We could call these pilgrim psalms. Psalms of the Traveler Psalm is another title for this. But the two key words in this Psalm are first of all the word help. We see it in verse number one. I will lift up my eyes into the hills from whence cometh my help. This is the Hebrew word Ezer. You might remember the story in 1 Samuel where after the Lord helped them, he raised the stone of Ebenezer. Remember that? That's where the name Ebenezer comes from. Ebon is the Hebrew word for stone. Ezer is the word for help. And so it is the stone of help. And that's what this word here is in the Hebrew. It just simply means the help It's providing assistance. Sometimes it's used in a military context where military assistance is given by God to someone who needed it in battle. And so really this whole psalm is about help. This is a psalm about how God helps us. It tells us who our helper is in verses 1 and 2. It tells us how close our helper is in verses 3 and 4. It tells us what our helper does for us in verses 5 and 6. It talks about the limits, or we could say the unlimit, the uh the unlimited help that we receive from our helper. And another word that is important in this psalm is not only the word help, but look at verse number three, the word keep, where it says, He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. The word keep And then also the word preserve in verse 7, the Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. Now actually, that's two different words there in your English version, but that's one word in the Hebrew. It's the same word that is used and it's Shamar, and it simply means to hedge about, to guard, to protect. It's used to speak of a shepherd who watches vigilantly over their sheep. It is to watch over, it is to protect, it is to keep from harm. And this speaks about what God does for you and for me. Beloved God is our helper. Now you might be here tonight and say that's good because I need help. Anybody here, don't raise your hand. Could say I could use some help tonight. Or I maybe not tonight, but there's going to be some time in your life when you're going to need help from the Lord. So I want you to notice with me three encouraging steps to get the help that you need from God. And here's the first one. Number one, remember the name of your helper. Remember the name of your helper. That's what I see here in this psalm. Look again in verse number one. I will lift up mine eyes into the hills. From whence cometh my help. So th the first thought I want to give you under that is first of all is danger. We see this in verse 1. You say, where is the danger? When he says, I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills Now I know, think about the hills there. Some commentators translate this as if the psalmist is looking to the hills as his source of help. It's kind of like this. I I'm lifting up mine eyes to the hills because I know that there in those hills my help is going to come. And some people have the sense, that sense when they translate it. But I don't think that's at all the sense here. The hills were not a source of help. The hills were a source of danger. Okay? They were not the helper And in fact, the psalmist is looking into the hills with kind of a sense of anxiety and a sense of fear. Why? Well, because traveling back in that day in that region of Palestine This would be the uh the hill country of Judea. There were a lot of hills. There were a lot of valleys. There were a lot of crevices and places for for uh uh for robbers to to hide, for murderers to hide, for wild animals to hide in those hills, in those crevices, in those caves. And so to travel over those hills there in the hill region there of Palestine, that was a dangerous prospect. Don't you remember the story of the Good Samaritan who went from Jerusalem down to where? You guys read your Bible, Jericho? He went from Jerusalem down to Jericho. And what happened? He fell among thieves. You know why? Because if you travel that road from Jerusalem to Jericho, it goes down and it winds around, and there's hills on either side, and robbers Thieves would hide in those hills, ready to pounce upon some uh unguarded traveler that was taking that road. And so the hills were a source of anxiety. Also hills were uh were uh places where idolaters would worship false gods. You ever hear the expression the high places We see that all throughout the Old Testament. 78 times, in fact, we see that expression. The high places is where idolaters would worship their idols. And so the hills were not uh a source of help. The hills were a source of fear and anxiety. I mean if you're traveling, nobody likes to continually walk up a hill. How many ever looked at a hill and said, Oh, praise the Lord. I get to walk up that hill. I just keep walking upward and upward and upper. I mean it's it's labor. It's hard. And so the psalmist is looking to the hills And he has anxiety, he has fears. And he asked the question, from whence cometh my help? We saw the hills. Notice the help here. This is again, this is a question. The psalmist is not saying I'm looking to the hills because my help comes from the hills. No, he's not doing that. This is a Hebrew term that is an interrogative term. It's the May Ion is an interrogative. It's not necessarily relative in function. And so it's it's the form of a question where he's asking and saying, you know, oh, I have these hills in front of me. Who's going to help me? Who's going to help me in this journey all the way to Jerusalem when I have to walk through all of these dangerous places? And I got to walk through all these hills up these hills. From whence cometh my help. Now we could apply that to us today because did you know that you're a pilgrim, every one of us here if you're saved? How many of you saved tonight? You know the Lord. Guess what? You're a pilgrim then. This world is not your home. You know what you're doing? You're traveling to the city, the New Jerusalem in heaven. We're all in this journey, and along the journey, you know what we're going to face? We're going to face some some anxiety. We're going to face some fears. We're going to have hills in front of us. Those hills might represent some of the challenges that we have in this life. What is your hill tonight? What's the hill that causes you anxiety or fear And this is why the psalmist is reminding us to find help. And he's asking the question, from whence cometh my help? Where am I going to get the help? to face these hills that are in front of me and he's reminding himself so we see first of all danger in verse 1 but now I want you to think about dependence in verse number two My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. My help cometh from the Lord. Again, commentators debate how to interpret this. They some think that this is this is a song, so it's supposed to be kind of one of those antiphonal songs, you know, where you have a choir on each side and choir one one choir sings to the other and they sing back and forth to each other. Some think that that's how this is intended. Others think that this is a dialogue between two travelers that are traveling up to uh Jerusalem and they're talking and they're looking at the hills and one says to the other, you know, where where are we going to get help on this journey on these hills? That's the way some take this But then there's others who interpret it like this, that this is actually an internal dialogue that the pilgrim traveler is having with himself. You ever do that? You ever talk to yourself? Don't raise your hand. Sometimes people think you're crazy when you talk to yourself, right? But you know what? We see this dynamic a lot in the Psalms. I don't know about you, but when I'm reading the Psalms, I get the sense that many times he's speaking to himself And he's reminding himself. And so what he's doing here is he's having this internal dialogue with himself as he's traveling. You know, you ever do that, drive down the road, you're talking to yourself in the car? I'm not talking about talking about other people and how bad they drive. I mean you're talking to your actual self You're reminding yourself of things. Again, we see this in, for instance, in Psalm 42, verse 5. The psalmist says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? Why art thou disquieted within me? I showed this to you before Where in that verse, the psalmist is talking to himself and he's saying, Why are you cast down? Why are you depressed? You hope in God. You see, he's preaching to himself there Some of the best sermons I've ever preached, I preach to myself. Just want you to know that before I preach to you, I preach to myself. Sometimes when I'm by myself, I have to remind myself of things. And so the psalmist in Psalm 42 is he he's down and he's he's kind of berating himself and saying, why are you down? What do you have to be down about? You need to learn to put your hope in God. You know, he's kind of suffering a depression. And you know what he's teaching us there in that verse is that you don't give in to your negative emotions because we're all going to have them I was counseling a dear, sweet Christian woman not too long ago who was struggling with depression in her life, and there are many saints that struggle with that at times in their Christian life. And you know depression, it could be it could be um um medical, it could be that you know you know you might need to get a physical physical exam and there may be some things that you need to get right medically in your life sometimes. That's a cause of depression. Sometimes the cause is circumstantial. Sometimes it's because the circumstances around you are causing uh pain and and difficulty for you and that's understandable. Sometimes depression is is uh temperamental. It might be your personality. Some people just seem to be in their personality more prone to melancholy than others And they are not always up, and they sometimes need to guard their emotions, knowing their personality. And sometimes it's just spiritual. The reason some people are depressed is because they're not walking with the Lord. They're not putting God first in their life. You remember what the psalmist said in Psalm 16, I set the Lord always before me He is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. He's saying I'm putting God in front of me. I'm pursuing God in my life. He's the number one factor in my life. And I will not be moved. I'm not going to be moved away from this one obsession, this one priority in my life to pursue God first and foremost. And you know what the next verse says? Therefore my heart rejoices. You know why? Because when you pursue God and you put him number one, the natural result of that is joy. And the reason some people are depressed is it might be spiritual. It could be medical, it could be circumstantial, it could be temperamental, it could be spiritual, or it could be a combination of all those things. It could be a little bit of all of it. But here's the thing. When those negative emotions come, we need to learn not to give in to those things. Don't give in to the fears. When they come. And sometimes the best thing you can do is to remind yourself and talk to yourself. You know, everyone in here tonight, you know enough of God's word that you can preach yourself a sermon You can do it better than I can. You know enough of God's word that when you get down, you can remind yourself of what God's word says. And this is what the psalmist is doing here. He's having this internal dialogue, and he looks at these hills, and he's got fear and anxiety, and he's saying, who's going to help me? How am I going to get through this journey, this long journey? And then he reminds himself. And I think, in fact, this whole chapter, Psalm 121, I think is an internal dialogue where the psalmist is reminding himself of things that he needed to be reminded about. And so notice what he says. He asks the question, who will help me? And then in verse 2, my help cometh from the Lord. There he is talking to himself. You remember that your help comes from the Lord. Now, again, notice that the word Lord there is in all capital letters, which in your King James Version, if that's what you have tonight Remember that that means that that is the divine name in the Old Testament. It's not Adonai, it is Yahweh. It is the name that was so holy that Jewish scribes before they would even write that name down in a manuscript. They would get a new pen and they would take a bath before they even wrote the name down because that name was so holy. It was so holy that Jews never pronounced that name unless they were in a life or death crisis. And here he's reminding himself of the Lord. He is your helper That great God. And by the way, where does this come from? This comes all the way back from Moses when God revealed himself to Moses and and God was calling Moses to go to Egypt. And Moses said, Lord, who shall I say sent me? And God said, I am that I am. That name Yahweh comes from that self-revelation of God where he said, I am, and he means he's the ever-present one, the ever-uh living one And he's the one who's always with you, always present, no matter what your trouble is. He's there. And so the psalmist reminds himself, the Lord But not only that, the creator. Look in verse 2 again. My help comes from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. How powerful is this helper of yours? Well, he created everything. Surely you don't have a problem that he can't deal with. You've got a pretty strong helper here, the one who created the heaven and the earth. The idea here is I don't have to fear the hills. Because the one who is watching over me is the one who created those hills. I don't have to give in to that fear. Why should I be afraid? And so this is the idea here. He's reminding himself of the name of his helper So here's the first step. Remember the name of your help. But also here's number two. Remember or recognize the nearness of your help. Recognize the nearness. Look at verse 3. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. And so this verse answers the question, how close is my helper to me? It's one thing to have a helper But what if that helper is not close by? You have to have someone who's close. And here God reveals how close He is to you. He's right there with you. That's what this verse tells me. God is my security. We see in the beginning. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. And the word moved here simply means slip or slide. to stagger or be shaken. And again, if you're thinking about this as a journey, the pilgrim making his journey up to Jerusalem, you know, probably one of the things that they were afraid of is stumbling along the way. uh on those hills that you would have to walk up. Very easy to slip in the fall to get injured, you know? Anybody ever fall? You slip? Maybe take a step and you weren't watching. And you know, you know how easy that is? It can happen just at any moment. You can trip and fall. I remember I was when I had my office over here in the other building, I came out late one evening, all the lights, someone had turned all the lights off. It was totally pitch dark And I knew that there were chairs in there like there are in the chapel area, and I thought, well, that's no problem. I remember where the chairs are. I'm a very smart person. And I remember that I began to walk and someone had moved a chair Right in my path. Um, you know, I don't uh it was one of you all, I know it was somebody in here. But uh they moved a chair right out in the path and I I didn't see it because it was dark and I mean I slipped over that chair I landed on my back. Yeah. That's what I said. Oh. And I'm going to tell you, you know, I I believe, you know, you've heard me say there are no accidents, only acts of providence, right? And I knew that that was ordained from the beginning of the of time. I just laid there and I thought about that and I thought, well, you know, I'm glad it's over with. Glad it's over with. It's just so easy. I mean you you feel confident and then you just take a wrong step and you fall. And you know what? It's that way in life sometimes. We can take a step that perhaps we shouldn't take. And this is what the psalmist is saying. You know, God, you know how close he is to me? He's guarding my steps, he's monitoring my every step. In verse 3, he will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He will not let you slip. He will not let you fall. When you're putting your trust in him, when you're asking him for help, what does the psalmist say in Psalm 37? 23 the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. And so God is right there. He is guarding us He is our security. But also God is my, I could say this, God is my sentry, because look again in verse 3. It says, He that keepeth thee will not slumber And then again it says this in verse um in verse 4, behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. So two times the psalmist emphasizes that the God who is right there with you, who is watching over you, who is helping you, he doesn't ever get tired He doesn't ever sleep. Now I know that we know this, but put yourself in the ancient world when this psalm was written. Did you know that the ancient people believed that even the gods slept? That was the normal thought that they had. Uh and of course they were worshiping gods that they made up in their own mind, right? I mean there's only one real God These were false gods that they fancied in their own imagination, but in their own imagination they could not imagine a god who did not sleep A god who did not at some times slumber, for example, in Greek mythology, hypnos was the god of sleep Did you know that? Uh we get our word hyp hypnotized from that, hypnotic. The Roman God for sleep is somnas. You know, you've heard of insomnia, where you can't sleep. Somnas means sleep, and this was the Roman God for sleep. Uh Nix was the goddess of night. That was the mother of Hypnos. Hypnos lived in a cave and he he lied on a c he was lying on a couch. That was the way he was depicted in uh in mythology. That's all he did was just lie on a couch. In Mesopotamian literature, a sleeping God is one who is unresponsive to prayer. He doesn't hear because he's busy sleeping at the time. You might remember when Elijah was ridiculing the prophets of Baal because Baal was not. Hearing them, Baal was not answering by fire. And you remember what Elijah said? He's probably just asleep. You might want to yell a little bit louder Because again, in ancient thinking, they couldn't imagine a God who didn't sleep, but not so with the true God, the living God, the psalmist reminds us that he does not slumber and he does not sleep. You have a guard that is watching over you continually. He he never loses focus over you. He does not sleep. He does not weary of watching over you. Isn't that an encouraging thing to know? Nothing gets by him. He neither slumbers nor does he sleep. A man wrote a book entitled God Works the Night Shift. Interesting name for a book based on this psalm here and it's so very true. So God is my security, God is my sentry, he's watching over me and you He does not sleep. God is my shade. Look at verse number five. The Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night And one real danger for a traveler was the danger of heat exhaustion or sunstroke. You know, when you read this here in our day and say, well the Lord is my shade, you know, that's cool, that's good But you have to remember, again, the audience that he's writing it to, living in that area, shade was a very precious commodity Especially to a traveler traveling through the hill country of Judea when the sun was so very hot, it was hard to find shade, and on this journey Uh and they were making to Jerusalem. The the psalmist is kind of in his mind fancies God is being the shade for him You know, sometimes people when they travel would have a servant and the servant would have a uh palm leaves that were put together and made up and they would walk along beside them and kind of provide shade for them as they made a journey. And the psalmist almost is fancying God as serving us in this way. He's right beside us. He's right upon your right hand, on your right side. He's furnishing you shade. As you travel, and you know what this this also reminds us of of the God who was the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. Remember when the glory cloud followed Israel through the wilderness That glory cloud provided shade from the sun during the day and warmth as a fire at night The psalmist said in Psalm 84, 11, the Lord God is a son and a shield. The Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing will he withhold from those who walk up rightly. And so God was right there to provide the shade. The sun shall not smite thee by day, it says, or notice the next phrase, or the moon by night. Now, we've heard of people getting sunburned, but not moonburn What is he talking about there? Well, did you know again and the ancient Near Eastern people believed that the moon could have a bad effect on a person? Uh they ancient Babylonian and Assyrian medical texts talk about people that were diagnosed by those ancient physicians as being affected by the moon. And there are people that still believe this today. You ever heard of a lunatic? That's someone who's affected by the lunar sun. Alright, stop looking around. There's none in here tonight. But you might have heard your your grandparents say, you know, it must be a full moon tonight. Anybody hear that People were acting kind of crazy. Must be a full moon. We still have that kind of idea in our mind. But that's an ancient idea that even the moon at night sometimes can have a bad effect. But I think what's going on here is what the psalmist is doing is using figurative language and he's basically saying God's not going to let anything harm you in the daytime and he's not going to let anything harm you at night time either. There's something about nighttime when it comes, our anxieties get a little bit more severe, right? We're kind of afraid of the night. When the night comes But here the psalmist says he's not going to let anything happen to you by day or by night. He will continue to watch Over you. Remember when Abraham defeated those Eastern kings and took back his nephew Lot? And he had just had a great military victory. It was at nighttime, and he was afraid. And God came to Abraham, and God said what to Abraham? Fear not, Abraham. Don't be afraid. I am thy shield. And thy exceeding great reward. In other words, God was saying, Abraham, I know it's nighttime, you're probably afraid of a counter-assault by those kings, but don't be afraid. I am your shield. I will protect you even in the dark times, in the night times. So how close is Your helper. Well, he guards your every step. He keeps you from slipping. He is at your right hand. He never sleeps. He's going to make sure that nothing happens to you by day. He's going to watch over you at night. That's a pretty good deal there. But let me give you the last thing. I said, remember the name of your help, recognize the nearness of your help. But here's the third thing I see in the psalm. Realize the nature of your help. What kind of help is this? It's so very comprehensive. Look at verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil. He shall preserve thy soul, the Lord shall preserve thy going out, thy coming in, from this time and even forevermore. Now that's an incredible, comprehensive statement. The nature of this help is so very thorough. You know, sometimes when people purchase insurance, they say, what all does this cover? Right? What does this cover? How comprehensive is this insurance? You want to know how comprehensive God's insurance is? This is pretty comprehensive. Notice it says, from all evil in verse 7. Wow, all evil. Now, obviously, this doesn't mean that the believer will never have bad things happen. It just means that God will preserve us during those times. So that while those things may come, they're not going to harm us. It might hurt us a little bit, but it won't ultimately harm us. He will preserve us through the difficult times, through the hard times. That come. Remember we preached on Joseph Sunday morning and we saw all the bad things that happened to Joseph And yet at the end, Joseph was able to say, Lord, you meant it all for good. You preserved me through all of this, from all evil. But notice in all circumstances, look in verse number eight For the Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in. Now that's just a Hebraic expression that means all circumstances, all the detailed activities of your life Going out and coming in, you know, leaving the house, coming back to the house. You know, we we all do this in the morning get up, leave, come back, then you leave again, go to church Wednesday night, come back home, next morning leave and come back, you know Uh Carol and I sometimes we laugh. We're kind of passing each other through the doors sometimes, you know. Going and coming, doing different things. All of us are like that You have to go out to the store, you have to pick up something, you have to go to the dry cleaners, you have to drop off your c car for an oil change, you have a doctor's appointment, you've got and you're going out and you're coming in, these are all the detailed things Did you ever stop to realize that many accidents take place during those times? A lot of accidents when you're really close to home. When, you know, and we hear about it all the time on the news, the person gets up, goes to work, they get into a terrible accident, sometimes fatal. They had no idea that that would be the last time they would leave their house And so God says here that I'm going to watch over your going out and your coming in, even in the very so-called Detailed things in life, the daily activities of life. Sometimes when we take those things for granted, God does it and he's watching over us. He's protecting us. And then also, not only from all circum all evil and all circumstances, but also finally for all time. Look again at verse 8. The Lord shall preserve thy going out, thy coming in from this time forth, and even for what? Forevermore. Wow, that's pretty comprehensive. From this time and on in the future and then on forevermore, he's going to be watching over me All the way into the future. Even into eternity. He is watching over me. He's keeping me. You know what? This is kind of an Old Testament Romans 8, isn't it? You know, there are some people that believe you can lose your salvation. How can you lose your salvation when God's the one constantly watching over you, keeping you, not allowing you to fall, or you know Even when, you know, there was a man by the name of Charles Finney, you probably heard that name. He uh sometimes is hailed as a great preacher. I think he was a heretic, frankly. And he preached that a person could lose their salvation even when they get to heaven, they could still lose their salvation. You could fall from heaven, is what he said. In fact, let me give you a quote here. It's not intended that saints are truly regenerate, cannot fall from grace, but finally be lost by natural possibility. He says it must be naturally possible for all moral agents To sin at any time. Saints fall on earth and in heaven and try can by natural possibility prostitize and fall. Hear what he said? Lucky when you get to heaven, you can still fall out of heaven. No guarantee that when you get to heaven you're not going to lose your salvation. I'm glad I don't believe that. I'm glad I don't believe that. Friend, you can't lose it. God's watching over you. From this time even forevermore, the Bible says. Again, this is an Old Testament Romans 8. 28 Where God is our helper. And from all evil and all circumstances, for all time And let me just close with the words of Isaac Watts, who wrote a beautiful hymn. Our O God, our help in ages past. He wrote the words, Our God, our help in ages pass. Our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blasts, and our eternal home. And he is, excuse me, he is our hope. And friendies, your help. So if you need help today, again, just remember these three steps. Remember the name of your help. He's the Lord. He's the creator. Recognize the nearness of your help. He is my security. He guards my steps. He's my sentry. He doesn't sleep. He's my shade. He won't let me anything harm me either day or night Realize the nature of your help from all evil and all circumstances for all time. God is your helper and he wants to help you. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I want you to take a minute. And I want you to ask God for the help that you need. It may be that you're here tonight. There's some special need that you have. Can I ask your friend, have you tried asking God for help? Have you gone to him and poured out your heart to him? Said, oh God, help me? From whence Come with my help. Lord, I've got these formidable hills in front of me. And I'm not going to be able to make this journey without you. So would you please help me, Lord? I need it. I know you are the Lord my creator. Would you guard my steps? And keep me from all evil and all circumstances for all time. Lord, give me the help that I need. Just take a minute right there and ask God for your help Father, bless these words to our hearts tonight. May we apply this truth and may it encourage every saint here, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.