It's good to see you here. Thank you all for coming and I invite you to take your Bibles and open please to the book of Psalms, chapter 129, as we continue our journey through these pilgrim psalms. We have this psalm tonight and then five more and we're done. This series through this these pilgrim psalms. And I pray that the Lord is using these chapters to encourage your heart. And tonight we deal with Psalm 129. And the title of my sermon is When You Are Treated Like Dirt. Yeah, it's a funny title. And we'll see why we title it that. But look at verse number one, Psalm 129. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, yet they have not prevailed against me. The plowers plowed deep upon my back, they made long their furrows. The Lord is righteous. He hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked. Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion. Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which wither afore it groweth up. Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand, nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom. Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. Now, near the end of the 19th century, Frederick the Great, who was the king of Prussia, was having a discussion with his chaplain regarding the truthfulness of the Bible The king who uh professed to be a Christian had kind of turned from that and was beginning to doubt the the reliability of the scripture, and this was due to the influence of Voltaire, the French atheist that uh he had on the king. And he said to the chaplain, he said, if your Bible is really true, it ought to be capable of very brief proof. He said, every time I ask for proof of the inspiration of the Bible, I'm given some enormous volume to read. He said, I have neither the time nor the disposition to read something that big. He said, if your Bible is really inspired and if it's really true, then you should be able to demonstrate it very quickly and very simply. Can you give me a word? to prove the inspiration of the Bible. Well the chaplain replied, Your Majesty, it is possible to answer your request literally. I can give you proof in a single word Well, King Frederick looked skeptically at his chaplain and he said, What is this magical word that uh has such a weight of proof? He said, Your Majesty, it's one word, and it is Israel. And to that, as the story goes, Frederick was silent and he simply turned and walked away. The chaplain had made his point And the point is is that the proof of b the validity of the Bible is in the fact that Israel is still here and Israel has survived. And that's really the point of Psalm 129. The survival of Israel. God's people, the Jews. They have survived for centuries. But protected by the presence of God. Have you ever heard of a Hittite? Anybody know a Hittite? Anybody know a Jebusite? Uh we don't uh the point is those ancient peoples are gone, but yes Israel is still Now that is the theme. And really, Psalm 129 is very parallel to Psalm 124. If you remember, look back at Psalm 124 where it says, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side, now may Israel say And then here in verse 1 of chapter 129, Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say. Many a time. And so the idea here is that God, his protecting presence over his people Now the question tonight is, how does this psalm speak to me today? What can it offer me? And this psalm really gives us some helpful advice when you're being wrongly or unjustly treated. We could literally say that they were treated like dirt. Look at verse number three, where it says, Again, the plowers plowed upon my back, they made long their furrows. Literally, Israel had been treated like dirt. He was saying that people have been plowing over us just like a farmer plows over the soil in his field. And so we've been treated that way. We've been treated, uh mistreated, we could say, and abused and walked upon and treated like dirt. Have you ever felt treated that way? Perhaps you're being treated that way right now. There may be some people here tonight and you feel that way, you feel perhaps where you work a boss is mistreating you, treating you like dirt, walking on you, taking advantage of you. Perhaps a spouse can say that, or a friend is treating you this way, a former friend, perhaps or maybe even an enemy that is treating you unjustly or wrongly. And so the question is, how do we respond when things like this come upon us? And that's what I want to show you tonight. I want to just give three basic responses when we are being mistreated. We learn from this chapter here how we can respond. And here's the first one. Number one, just expect it. Just expect it. Does that sound pessimistic? Do you expect to go through this world and not have conflict? Do you expect to go through this world and not have difficulty and be mistreated? Notice what it says in verse 1. Many a time they have afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say, and it gets repeated in verse 2. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth. Now notice that he's using here a literary device called personification. And here now Israel is personified. Israel is like a person. And the idea here in the Psalm is that this person, Israel, has been mistreated all of his life. Notice where it says he doesn't say in my youth, but it says from my youth. From my very beginning days. And so Israel is pictured as a baby that is uh where a mother has given birth And we know that in the history of Israel that happened in Egypt. Egypt gave birth to to Israel, and Israel came out of Egypt, and in its youth He continued to grow into adolescence and then into adulthood. And the whole idea is that from the very beginning of the concept of the nation of Israel then Israel has been mistreated, has been abused. Now that's nothing new then It's something that has been a part of its life. God warned that this would be the case. What did God say to Abraham? I will bless them who bless you and what? Curse them that curse you. And what does that imply? That they will be cursed. And so persecution is nothing new. And that is also true of all of the people of God, of the church. Are you actually surprised that you, as a believer in this hostile world, would suffer some persecution? Write down 1 Peter 4, verse 12. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. Jesus said, In this world ye shall have tribulation. Write down Matthew 10, verse 17. Listen to what Jesus said. He warned his disciples. He said, Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of what? In the midst of wolves. He said, But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to councils. They will scourge you in their synagogues, and ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake And he went on to say, and the brother shall deliver up brother, and the father the child, and so on. And then Jesus said, The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. And so don't be surprised That from time to time in your Christian life, you suffer some mistreatment or you suffer some persecution. You remember in Revelation chapter 12? Remember the imagery there? There's a great wonder in heaven, the Bible says a woman. And you remember who that woman represents? It represents Israel, right? And then there's a great dragon. And who does that dragon represent in Revelation 12? Represents Satan. And the woman gives birth to a child, which is who? The Lord Jesus Christ. Israel gave birth to Jesus. And who does the dragon go after? The dragon goes after the woman. Why? Because that's one of Satan's targets. Satan has always targeted Israel. The dragon goes after the child, the Lord Jesus Christ. Satan is out to blaspheme and bring down the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. He tried to prevent the coming of the Messiah. He tried to devour the child as soon as it was born, and we know those passages in Matthew that talk about that very thing. And then the Bible says in Revelation 12 and the uh about the brethren, how he was the accuser of the brethren. Who else does he go after? He goes after Christians, you and I. Those are his major targets, the Lord Jesus Christ, believers, and Israel That's who he targets. And so you should not be surprised that difficulty and mistreatment comes your way. Well, let me give you the second thing. Number one, expect it. But here's the next thing. Evaluate it. Look again in verse one. Many a time Have they afflicted me from my youth? May Israel now say. And here the psalmist is suggesting that you should look back thankfully and recall that although you've gone through sufferings, the Lord has been with you When you go through a time of mistreatment, you should think about it, you should evaluate it. Now this psalmist does that very thing, and what does he discover as he evaluates it? He makes three conclusions Based on his evaluation. Here's the first one. The enemy will not prevail. Look again in verse number two. Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, yet have they not prevailed against me. And so here's the first thing that he knows. They will not prevail. The enemy will not prevail. Look at verse number three. Look at the imagery. The plowers plowed upon my back. They made long their furrows. Now, we looked at this verse, but some scholars see the ploughing image used as a picture of prisoners who are being whipped. And when they're whipped on their back, what does that whip do? It cuts into the flesh and it leaves a long furrow in the back. Just like a plough would leave a furrow in a soiled field, even so the whip would leave a furrow in the back. And so they see the imagery there of people being whipped and flogged with these whips. And that's the idea there. People being persecuted. And so by the grace of God, however, no matter how much suffering has come about from the people of God, the enemy has not prevailed First of all, the enemies of Israel did not prevail against Israel. I mean we see that all through the Bible, right? Egypt couldn't uh kill God's people, couldn't stop God's people. They tried to. The Assyrians tried to starve them. They couldn't do it. The Babylonians, they tried to kill off the people of God. They couldn't do it. And on we could do all through history. And know that no matter what was done against God's people, they still prevailed. And Pastor, of course, our pastor has done a wonderful job preaching on this about the nation of Israel and the survival of the nation of Israel. And so we don't want to tarry long here because you already know that. I was reading one story this week about uh Richard Nixon when he was a boy. And uh his mother told him one day, she was a Christian woman, she was a Quaker who feared the Lord. And when he was a boy, she came to him and she said, One day, Richard, you're going to be in a position of power. And when Israel calls you, when Israel asks for your help, you better give them that help. And and sure enough On October day in 1973, the then president Richard Dixon received a phone call from the Israeli Prime Minister, Golda Maier. And what happened was Israel was in danger of being wiped out. Some of you know the history of that, the uh the war of the Yom Kippur when The Arabs attacked Israel on that most holy day, when Israel was completely vulnerable, on that holy day they would not uh go into work, they wouldn't use electronics They would be completely vulnerable on that day. And uh these Arab nations came down against Israel and threatened to wipe Israel out. 180 Israel Israeli tanks faced 1,400 Syrian tanks. And many of the infantrymen already started to get wiped out, and many thought that this was defeat for Israel. And so God to my ear called Henry Kissinger, the Secretary of State, and his response was, let Israel bleed a while And then so she bypassed Henry Kissinger and she called Richard Nixon at three o'clock in the morning. And when Richard Nixon picked up the phone, he said he heard Go to my ears, plea for help. But in when he heard her on the phone, he said he could hear the voice of his mother saying those prophetic words that one day when you're in a position of power, Israel is going to need your help. And you better give it to them And before she got off the phone, Israel had all the help that they needed because Richard Nixon said, get stuff to Israel now. That's not an accident. That's just a providential hand of God protecting his people. But friend, that's also true of the church. Enemies have tried to destroy and stamp out the church And they have failed. And we know this, the early church grew under the greatest force at that time, the Roman Empire, who tried to stamp them out. There were ten waves of persecution from Nero to Diocletian, all these ungodly attacks against Israel, Fox's Book of Martyrs The author writes this, whatsoever the cruelness of man's inventions could devise for the punishment of man's body was practiced against Christians. And he goes on to say, and yet, notwithstanding all these continual persecutions and horrible punishments, the church daily increased, deeply rooted in the doctrine of the apostles. And so the church just continued on. And later it was Tertillion who made that famous statement, the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church, because the church just continues to Spread. But do you think that that has happened just in ancient history? No, my friend. Did you know in the past decade there has been more martyrdom in the church than in the previous 1,000 years? It hasn't stopped. We here in America are safe, but all over the world there are Christians that are being persecuted. I love the story. of the missionaries that were sent into the Sudan uh or into an area near the Sudan and in the area of Ethiopia in 1927, they sent missionaries in the Sudan Interior Mission sent these missionaries into a certain tribe of people that were very pagan who were still sacrificing bulls to demons And these missionaries went in there and they spent several years with this group of people, and they, after a few years, had 48 believers in a church. But something happened, World War II, and Mussolini came into Ethiopia and he kicked all of those missionaries out, and the missionaries carefully left this little band of believers, 48 believers there in that region And they were wondering what was going to happen to that little church. And you know what happened after these the missionaries were kicked out? The soldiers, the Italian soldiers began to persecute This little group of believers viciously. They flogged them, they whipped them publicly. They did all kind of things to discourage this church But what happened was others in the tribe saw the courage of these Christians and they were converted. And six years later the missionaries were allowed to come back in, and when they came back into that area They found not 48 Christians, they found 18,000 Christians in that area. Why? Because you're not going to prevail against the people of God. And so that's the idea there. The enemy will not prevail. But here's another lesson he learned as he evaluated. Not only will the enemy not prevail, but the Lord will not forget. Look at verse 4. The Lord is righteous. I love that. Instead of blaming God on their sufferings and getting bitter and angry, here they confess the Lord is righteous. In what way is God's righteous? In this way, in that He will be faithful to His promises He will be faithful to his word. Derek Thomas writes this. God is righteous. This implies that he conforms to a standard, his own standard. He is trustworthy and dependable, and he keeps his covenant with his people. And there may be times when you're mistreated with it, you feel like perhaps the Lord has forgotten me. Maybe the Lord is not You know, watching over me. Sometimes you may be tempted to feel that way, but rest assured, God is righteous and he never forgets his people He never forgets his promises. God watches over his people and he is touched with the feelings of our infirmity. I don't know what you're going through tonight, I don't know what heartache, but I can tell you this, God knows. And he is touched with the feelings of your infirmity. He knows your sorrows and he's there with you. One day Charles Spurgeon was walking through the countryside with a friend of his, and they happened to look up at a barn and there was a weather vane, and on the weather vane it said, God is love. Kind of blowing around there on that vein as the wind was flowing is the message God is love. And Spurgeon said, you know, I don't like that those words on the weather vein, God is love. It kind of seems to imply that God's love is changing like the wind. And the friends said, I disagree with you, Mr. Spurgeon. That's not the message. The message is this, that no matter which way the wind blows, God is love That's the message. And it doesn't matter which way the wind is blowing in your life tonight. God is faithful and he hasn't forgotten you and he will not forget you God is love. He loves you. Now here's another thing he he realized by evaluating his their struggles. The enemy will not prevail, the Lord will not forget, but then the season is not going to last Because in verse 4 it says, He hath cut, that is, the Lord hath cut the cords of the wicked. That is, there's come a time when God cuts the cords and the trouble and the suffering. will not be long. It'll be over. He cuts the cords asunder. Peter said it like this in 1 Peter 1, 6, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season. If need be, you're in heaviness through manifold temptations. The sufferings, the abuse, perhaps the mistreatment is not for long. God's going to cut those cords But the suffering that God allows in your life is just for a time in order for him to accomplish the purpose that he has in your life, and that is the purpose of sanctification as he does in all of our lives. Andrew Murray had a fourfold reminder when he went through trials. He said, first I have to remember that God brought me here. He said, secondly, I have to remember that I am here in his love And he's given me grace as his child. And third, he said, he will make this trial a blessing. He will teach me through this trial. He intends good for me. And then last he said this, in God's time, he's going to bring me out of this. This is only for a little while. This is not for long. And so he says, I'm here by God's appointment. I'm here in his keeping. I'm here under his training, and I'm here for his time. And those are good things to remind ourselves of when we're going through difficulty. And so we expect it We evaluate this suffering it, but then here's the third thing. Notice, and trust it. Entrust it. Now from verses 5 on down to verse 8. The psalmist commits his enemies and his troubles to the Lord in prayer. Notice his prayer in verse 5. Let them all be confounded. And turn back that hate Zion. Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth before it groweth up, wherewith the mower filleth not his hand, nor he that bindeth his sheaves his bosom. Now notice this is what he's praying here, and this part of the psalm is called imprecatory, or what is called imprecatory prayers. You say, now what is that? And there are actually even psalms where the whole chapters are called imprecatory psalms. And perhaps you've read some of those from time to time. And that's where the psalmist is praying down God's judgment on his enemies. And some of those impregatory psalms are very severe in their prayers. Now I've got to be honest with you, some commentators when they get to some of these psalms, these imprecatory psalms or imprecatory prayers, they are a little bit uncomfortable. with what they say. And there are some commentators I notice that try to water them down and make them say something that they don't really say. No, these are psalms where the people are praying that God would seek vengeance, or God would perform vengeance, or be the revenge against their enemies. And so these are very strong prayers. Now you say, well, why should a person pray like this? Aren't we taught by the Lord Jesus to bless our enemies? Of course, we're taught that by the Lord Jesus, but that does not mean that there are times when we could not and should not pray for God's justice against his enemies. He's saying, now why would we do that? Because what is at stake is not ourselves, but the character and the nature and the honor of God. Or I should say the name of God is at stake. You see, because if God allows the wicked to go unpunished, then his character is brought into question by many in the world. And so when These imprecatory prayers are prayed. If you'll read them closely, you'll notice that they're focusing on God's honor. And God's name, God, you protect your honor and name, and you bring justice to this situation. Remember in Revelation chapter 6, when the martyred saints come to the Lord and they pray this in Revelation 6. 10, and they cried with a loud voice, saying, Oh Lord! How long, holy and true, does thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth? Now notice where it says, O Lord, holy and true. What are they appealing to? They're appealing to the nature, the holiness, and the faithfulness of God. And in a sense, what they're saying is, Lord, protect your holiness and your faithfulness and your name by avenging, by bringing justice on your enemies. And what was the response the Lord said, just wait a little. Just wait. That day is coming. God will defend his honor and defend his name. And so those are really the focus of in precatory prayers in the Bible. Now here the psalmist is not praying that these enemies would be sent to hell or that anything really uh like that would happen to them. Really all he's what he's praying is that they would not prosper in their plans. Whoever are doing these things against the people of God, he doesn't want them to prosper And basically he's praying, Lord, you give them the pain that they're dishing out to others. You bring justice. Now notice what he prays. First of all, he prays that they would be ashamed. Look in verse 5 again Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion. Confounded means to be disappointed or to be put to shame. Remember the story of Haman in the book of Esther? He wanted to destroy the people of God. He made a plan to do it, but it failed. And remember he built the gallows for Mordecai to be hung upon, and what happened in the end of the story? Haman was the one hung on the gallows. That's a perfect illustration of what this word here confounded means. Their evil plots, let them turn back on them. Let them be put to shame. Whatever they intend for others, let it happen to them. Be shame. But then There's another thing he prays. He says, Lord, let them be short-lived. Not only be shame, but short-lived. Look in verse 6. Let them be as grass upon the housetops. Which wither afore it groweth up. Now, the psalmist here is using another poetic metaphor to convey the idea of something that is short-lived. something that is useless. He said, Lord, let those who persecute the people of God let them be like grass on the housetops. Now to us here today, that's kind of a foreign concept. But back to In Israel's day, in the day when this psalm was written, the rooftops on houses were somewhat flat. And they were made of dirt. And every once in a while, wind-carried or wind-blown seeds would settle upon those dirt rooftops. And grass would begin to spring up on those rooftops. But because the the uh soil on the roof was so shallow The grass, when it sprung up, didn't have a lot of depth to it, and so no sooner would it spring up than it would begin to wither In fact, that's what he says. Look again in verse 6, where it says, which withereth afore it groweth up, the grass would not even get very high. It wouldn't even get very close to mature. And so it would begin to wither even before it was done springing up. Now even grass can be of some use in this day. You say what? High grass in the field, they would collect and they would bundle it together for what purpose? They would use it for fuel. They would use it for their fire. And so there would be people out cutting down high grass, bundling it up, and they would take it back, they would put it in their bosom and take it back. But here, this grass is not even good for that, because it's not high enough. It doesn't last long enough. Look at verse 7, wherewith the mower filleth not his hand, nor he that bindeth sheaves in his bosom. There isn't even enough to get a handful or to place in a bundle. And so the Lord is saying Or excuse me, the Psalm is just saying, Lord, let those who are plotting against or working against God's people, let them be like the grass on the housetops. Let it wither before it ever even comes to full fruition. Let it be useless. Grass upon the housetops was completely useless. It was short-lived. Let their plans be short-lived. And there may be even be an indication in here that he's praying that even those wicked people that are plotting those wicked things, let their life be short-lived. Lord, cut them off. Now the Bible teaches us very clearly that we are to put vengeance in God's hands. We're not to take it in our own hands, right? The idea is, Lord, you do this. And the Bible is clear that the Lord can do a better job than we can. God, you mow down the grass. God has a better mower than you and I when it comes to things like that. And so he prays, let them be shamed, let them be short-lived, but then notice also, let them be shunned. Look in verse number 8. Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you. in the name of the Lord. Now again, he's using an image here of those that are working in the field during the harvest time. This is the dominant image in this whole psalm. And do you know it was common practice when you were working in a field during harvest time that if you crossed path with a fellow worker, what would you do? You would bless them. If you're working in the field and you see another worker, you would say, Friend, I bless you in the name of the Lord. And they would respond back, the Lord bless you. And we see this happening in the book of Ruth, for example, in Ruth chapter 2 Verse 4, when Boaz arrives in his field, the first thing that he does is that he blesses the harvesters. He says, The Lord be with you. And those working in the field answered back, The Lord bless you. So that was common practice. But here the psalmist is praying that those who go against God's people, those who mistreat the people of God, let them not even be blessed. Don't even offer a blessing. Let them be shunned. Because no blessing can be given to those who are out to go against and harm the people of God. These are the enemies of God. And so he says, neither do they which go by, say the blessing of the Lord be upon you. We bless you in the name of the Lord. So he prays that they would be shunned. But here's the overall principle. What is he doing here in these verses? He's committing all this to the Lord. He's saying, Lord, I'm putting all of my persecutors, all those who mistreat me. I'm putting them all in your hands, Lord. He prays for them indeed, but he just commits it all to God. And friend, that's what we can learn from this. When you're being mistreated, when things are not going your way, when you feel like you're being walked upon like dirt, you're being plowed upon. It may not even be a person that's doing it. It may be a certain situation that has plowed you down And it's walking over you right now. You say, how do I respond to that? Friend number one, don't be surprised by it. You expect it when it comes. And then, friend, you evaluate it. And remember, the Lord hasn't forgotten you. He's with you. And then you entrust it, you give it to the Lord. You put it in God's hands. You know, what's interesting to me is that this is exactly what Peter tells us to do. Write down in your Bibles, 1 Peter 4, verse 19. He's telling believers who are being persecuted these very things. He's saying, beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial. Don't be surprised, just expect it. And then he says, evaluated. He says, let him not suffer as an evildoer, but as a Christian. When you're suffering, you better evaluate yourself, and you better make sure that you're not suffering for your own sins. But let him suffer as a Christian. And then he says, entrust it to the Lord. 1 Peter 4. 19. Wherefore, let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their soul to him in well-doing as unto a faithful creator And the word commit here means to deliver over, to entrust for safekeeping. This is a banking term. Like you would deposit money into a box or into a bank. Now, how many of you have a bank account? You don't have to raise your hand. We all have a bank account. What are you doing when you put money into that bank? Let me ask you a question. Do you trust your bank? You better trust them. If not, you better get the money out if you don't trust him. When you deposit money into that bank, what are you saying? We trust you with what we're giving to you, we know that you're going to keep it safely. And so we entrust that to you. We commit that to you. Every time a parent gets a babysitter and then they go out, do you understand what they're doing? They're entrusting to that babysitter the soul of their child. That's a big thing when you think about it. Now here, Peter is saying, along with the psalmists, that when you go through your troubles, what do you do about your soul? You entrust your soul to God. Let me ask you a question. Can God be trusted? Peter says he is a faithful. Commit your soul unto a faithful creator. He's the one who created your soul He's the one that created everything that is. And if he created it all, friend, he can sustain it. And you can certainly Entrust your soul to a faithful Creator in times of suffering. This is an act of faith on the believer's part. By faith, you entrust yourself to God I love what, and by the way, who's the greatest example of this? The greatest example, of course, is the Lord Jesus Christ Himself The Bible says in 1 Peter 2, that he committed himself to him who judges righteously. You talk about having plows upon the back of having deep furrows On the back, what did they do to our Lord Jesus? I mean, you think about the flogging that he received. And you know how they did that back in those days? They had two, not one, but two, with a cat of nine tails, a leather uh strip, and it had nine ends on it, sometimes Bone was sewn in to do the ripping of the flesh, and one started from the back, from the heel, and worked his way up, and one started from the front and worked from the neck all the way down And they said in Roman times that if you were flogged like that, rarely did you ever walk away. You normally crawled away. You talk about plowers plowing on the back. They did that to our Savior. And friend, I want to tell you, they did that. And God allowed that, suffering for His Son because of your sin and my sin. He suffered for us. But what does the Bible say? Peter said he committed himself, same exact word, he committed himself to him that judges righteously, while Jesus was being treated like dirt. and worse. He committed himself to him that judges righteously. Now again for us this is an act of faith on our part. But let me, in closing tonight Just read to you uh I think a really good word from Jerry Bridges about committing yourself and trusting yourself Listen to what he wrote. He said, to trust God in times of adversity is admittedly a hard thing to do. He said, trusting God is a matter of faith. And faith is the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Only the Holy Spirit can make his word come alive in our hearts and create faith. But listen to what he says, but we can choose to look to him to do that. Or we can choose to be ruled by our feelings of anxiety and resentment and grief. And he's exactly right. The Holy Spirit can create faith in our hearts, and it's that faith that causes us to entrust ourselves to God in times of adversity. But friend, you have to choose. You'll either choose to give in to resentment and to anger and to grief, or you choose to say, God, here I am. Help me, give me faith to entrust my soul to you. And again, John Newton The author of Amazing Grace watched cancer slowly and painfully kill his wife over a period of many months And in those days, John Newton said, this is what he said. He said, I believe it was about two or three months before her death when I was walking up and down the room offering disjointed prayers from a heart torn with distress. He said that I suddenly thought a thought struck me with unusual force, and it was to this effect. The promises of God must be true. Surely the Lord will help me if I'm willing to be helped. And then he says, It occurred to me that we are often led to indulge in that unprofitable grief which both our duty and peace require us to resist to our utmost power. And he's right. At that moment, he's talking about his grief. At that moment, he can either indulge in the grief or he can realize that God is there to help me. And make a conscious choice to say, God, be my help. Now there are some people here tonight, and perhaps you're at that crossroads where you've had bad things happen in your life. Adversity, mistreatment, heartache And you're at the crosswords roads where you can give in to those feelings of resentment, or you can give in to the grief And what John Newton calls the indulgent and unprofitable grief, or you can choose by faith to say, God, you please be my help. Be my help. And then Newton said this. I instantly said, Lord, I am helpless indeed in myself, but I hope I am willing without reserve that thou shouldest help me. Without reserve, that thou shouldest help me. And perhaps you need to prayer that I'll pray that prayer tonight. Lord, I am helpless indeed, but I am willing, Lord, that you would help me. Help me. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So what's the right response when you're treated like that? Well we expect it. We evaluated and we remember that the enemy's not going to prevail. And the Lord, he's not going to forget us. And this is not going to last. But then, friend, we by faith entrust it to God. We entrust it to God. And maybe there's some folks here tonight that need to do that very thing. Lord, I entrust myself to you. I'm willing to be helped. I'm helpless, but I am willing without reserve that you should help me. Would that be your prayer tonight to God with a hand lifted up? I am willing without reserve that thou should help me God should help me. Would that be your prayer? God bless you. God bless you. God knows your need. Father, we again come to you and thank you for the strength that only you can give. And we pray that strength for those of your children who need it tonight. So, Lord, we look to you. We ask you for your grace. And use your word to speak to the hearts of your people, we pray. In the matchless name of our Savior, we pray. Amen.