Take your Bibles tonight. I want you to open you uh to the book of Jeremiah. We are kind of doing a selective series through Jeremiah. It's a long book, and I know some of you probably when I announced it last week thought we'll we'll be in here a few years. But actually uh we're gonna be selective, which means I kinda jump hop through the book, you know, and and and uh do different passages. But tonight's Jeremiah chapter two, verse one And the title of my sermon tonight is When God Files for Divorce. Yeah, I can tell you you're thinking, uh, that doesn't sound like a very respectful title to a sermon. um kind of almost irreverent to say that God would file for a divorce. Would the eternal God, the God of love, the God of the covenant uh actually divorce his own people? Well the answer is yes he would. And uh actually the sermon I'm going to give you tonight is not my sermon. This is Jeremiah's sermon. This is actually the first sermon that he brings to Judah as a prophet, and it begins in chapter 2, verse 1, and it goes to chapter 4, verse 4. And uh so if you don't like the theme, you're gonna have to blame him. Talk to him about it when you see him. Um so I'm just but I'm gonna present to you what he has to say. Now this is a long section of scripture, obviously we won't go to every verse, but we'll kind of pick out what he's actually saying here. And uh really the this is the whole imagery here is that God is filing for divorce against Judah. I mean the chapter here is the imagery of divorce court. In essence, one writer says this, in essence, Jeremiah will function as God's prosecuting attorney, pressing his case. And Jeremiah does that from chapter 2 on to chapter 29. Jeremiah as an attorney of God will be pressing the case against Judah and their unfaithfulness to the Lord. Look in chapter 2 and look down at verse number 9, where it says, Wherefore I will plead with you, saith the Lord. Now look at the word pleague there. That is a legal term, and it has the idea of pleading a case against someone The word refers to bringing a covenant lawsuit against a party. You remember that in Exodus chapter 1 20 God entered into a covenant relationship with Israel at Mount Sinai. Just like marriage is a marriage covenant, God entered into a covenant relationship. But Israel broke their agreement. They breached the contract and so God is bringing his case against Judah uh to divorce court. God is filing divor for divorce. In fact, this is not the first time God filed for divorce. He divorced Israel when Israel backslid and committed adultery against the Lord. And look in chapter three, look down at verse number eight. Just look at that verse real quickly. And it says, and I saw when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed adultery, I had put her away. That is the technical term for divorce. I put her away and given her a bill of divorce. Yet her treacherous sister Judah feared not, but went and played the harlot also. You see, this happened first to Israel. Israel, the nation of Israel uh was unfaithful to the Lord, and because of that God said they committed spiritual adultery. And so you can see the imagery here is one of imagery, the imagery of marriage and faithfulness to a marriage covenant. But when Israel sinned against God and Israel committed uh spiritual adultery, God says, I gave her a bill of divorcement. Now her treacherous sister Judah is following the same path as Israel. And so God takes now Judah to divorce court. Now you might be thinking, now wait a minute, you said Israel on one hand and Judah on the other. Just understand this. You remember in the nation of Israel there was a time when the twelve tribes split. Actually I say split. It wasn't an even split. There was the ten tribes to the north and two tribes to the south. And this happened During the reign of Solomon, God sent a prophet to Jeroboam one day. Solomon sent Jeroboam, kind of a servant in the kingdom, out on an Aaron. And while he was out on this errand, he met up with a prophet by the name of Ahijah. Ahijah said, look, let me tell you something. God has said that there are going to be ten tribes that are going to split away from the kingdom. Two tribes will serve uh to the south, ten to the north The southern tribes will be Judah and Benjamin because God is going to preserve the throne of David for David's sake. But there's going to be a split, and you will have authority over the ten tribes to the north. And of course, when Jeroboam reported this back to Solomon, Solomon didn't like it so much, so he tried to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam fled and he escaped to Egypt. And he stayed there until Solomon died. And when Solomon died, Rehoboam, Solomon's son, became king over the twelve tribes. Jeroboam came back. And he with a group of men went to Rehaboam and said, Look, your father taxed us way too much. Let's ease, put an ease on the taxes. And you remember Ray Boom's response? He didn't listen to the older council. He listened to the younger men And he said, if you and this is kind of a Harmon paraphrase, if you think my father's taxes were bad, you hadn't seen anything yet. And so they said, fine, and they s and what happened was there was a split. Ten tribes to the north became Israel. The ten tribes of Israel, and then two tribes to the south became Judah. So that's why you have kings who reign over Israel and kings who reign over Judah And already Israel had committed spiritual adultery, and God divorced Israel for that because they were unfaithful to the marriage covenant. And again, we're we're talking figuratively here, obviously. We're talking in spiritual terms because God said basically we had a covenant, you broke that covenant like a marital relationship, you haven't been faithful, I divorced Israel And now God's about to do the same thing to Judah. Because Judah is following the same path of unfaithfulness to the Lord. And so God is bringing charges against Judah. Now, one of the key words that we see here in this section of Jeremiah from chapter 2 on to the beginning of chapter 4 is the word backslide. That's a key word. They're backsliding. We see it in chapter 2, verse 19. You might want to look there. Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, thy own backslidings. Shall reprove thee. And then we see it also in chapter 3, verse 6, and then chapter 3, verse 8, and then verse 11, and so on. It's used over and over again. And the problem is they had walked away from God. They had backslidden away from the Lord. Specifically, what was the issue? They were committing idolatry They were worshiping another God. They had replaced the God of Israel with the worship of Baal. By the way, the word Baal means master or lord. It could mean husband. or spouse or something like that. So there's kind of a wordplay there. But basically the idea here is they have turned from the Lord. They have abandoned God. And by doing that, God is portrayed here as a uh a jilted spouse, a brokenhearted husband who has been dutiful, who has been faithful, and yet now his love is unrequited. And his spouse has gone and plagued the harlot on him. And so brokenhearted, God now comes to divorce court and God says, I'm going to write her a bill of divorce. And so throughout this whole narrative then, there is this rich figurative, we call it anthropomorphic. You say, what does that mean? That's God portraying himself like a man using terms that we could understand. And he's actually showing that when God, his people are not faithful to him, it breaks his heart. It wounds him emotionally. Just like a a a spouse who has been faithful and their their their mate has gone out and played uh uh the harlot on them or they've been immoral. You can imagine the devastation that a spouse would feel if they've been faithful. That's the picture that we see here. Now you might be Thinking, well, that's Israel and Judah. We live in a different time. We, you know, surely we can't do the same thing. And if you think that, you would be wrong. You know why? Because God, when he entered into the relationship with Israel, it was a covenant relationship. Do you know what salvation is? Salvation is a covenant relationship That's what happened when you got saved. You entered into a covenant with the Lord Jesus Christ. You were espoused to Christ. You know what the Bible says the church is? The church is what? The bride of Christ And so it's possible for the church or for a Christian to do the same thing. We can backslide away from God if we're not careful. And we can wound the heart of God. Let me tell you something. If there was ever a time in your life where you love God more than you love Him now, my friend, that is backsliding. If there was ever a time in your life when you had more passion for the Lord to serve Him and to be faithful to Him than you have right now, that means you have backslid away from God It is possible for that to happen to a Christian. It's possible for that to happen to a church. Remember the church in the book of Revelation, the church at Laodicea? Remember what God said of them? They were what? They were lukewarm They had lost their passion and their love for the Lord. You can have an idol, remember I've told you before, an idol is anything that you depend on more than God. that you love more than God, that you find your security in more than God, whether it be a person, a job, a bank account, a thing, whatever it is, if you worship that or put that ahead of God in any way, that is an idol. And the mind of God, that's spiritual adultery. Write down James chapter 4, verse 4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? James compares flirting with the world or a Christian being seduced by the world to committing spiritual adultery. So it's very possible for us as Christians to commit the same thing. Now with all that in mind, I want you to see three parts to this case that God brings to court against Judah. I want you to see first of all the case presented. And this will be in chapter 2. God's going to present his case. And here's the first accusation that he makes against Judah. Here's, first of all, you have forgotten me. You've forgotten me. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. Moreover. The word of the Lord came unto me saying, Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth. The love of thine espouses when thou wentest after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown. Israel was holiness unto the Lord, and the first fruits of his increase And all that devour him shall offend and evil shall come upon them, says the Lord. Now here God is remembering the honeymoon period of his covenant relationship with Israel. And this was back during the Exodus, right after the Exodus in the wilderness at Mount Sinai when that relationship was sealed with that covenant there. And then that was kind of the honeymoon there. By the way, the you and the your pronouns in this section are all feminine. So he's picturing Israel as his bride and he being the husband. And he has a passion for his bride It says in verse 3, Israel was holy unto the Lord, that is, they were separated unto God. God says, You were holy unto me. You were the apple of mine eye. God protected his bride. Look again in verse 3. All who devour her, he's basically saying, um, all that devour him shall offend. Really, it's it's says him, but the pronoun is actually feminine. Anyone that devoured Israel were held guilty and disaster overtook them and so God is protecting Israel like a husband would protect a bride. God provided for Israel. If you look in verse 7, he says, I brought you into a plentiful country. to eat the fruit thereof and the goodness thereof. And so God gave Israel a beautiful home. He provided for them well. There was plenty of food in the fridge, mostly milk and honey. But he took care of Israel That was then, but this is now. It's time to wake up and smell the burnt toast. Because now the honeymoon is over. Something has happened. It was very short-lived. The honeymoon didn't last long. One couple wrote this. My wife and I decided our honeymoon was over when the no-stick frying pan we bought when we first got married started to stick. Something happens happens here in chapter two where the frying pan is starting to stick and it starts to go wrong. Look in verse four. Hear ye the word of the Lord, O house of Israel, and all the families of the house of Israel Thus saith the Lord, What iniquities have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me, and have walked after vanity, and are become vain. And so here again, God sounds like a wounded spouse saying, what sin did you find in me that would cause you to walk away from me? What iniquity did I commit? And then the worst of it is, look at verse 6. Neither said they, Where is the Lord that brought us out of the land of Egypt? Not only did you walk away from me, but God said, You didn't even miss me. You didn't even ask the question, where is the Lord? You know, for some Christians, getting away from God is one thing, but not even missing his fellowship, that's another I mean it's possible for a Christian to backslide and get away from the Lord, but it's even worse when in your spiritual life you have no desire to fellowship with the Lord, you have no desire to seek his face, you have no desire to please him. Man, that's a bad place to be. This is where Israel was. They they forgot the Lord. You can easily forget the Lord, and God is hurt here. Here's the next charge. You've forgotten me, but also the next one is you become mechanical in your devotion. Look in verse 8. The priest said not, where is the Lord? And they that handle the law knew me not. The pastors also transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied by Baal and walked after other things that do not prophet. Even those who were in charge of spiritual matters forgot God. You would think if anyone in Israel wouldn't forget the Lord, it would be the priests. It would be the pastors, who are actually really kings here, that would lead and feed the people, or the prophets You would think that they at least wouldn't forget God, but they forgot the Lord as well. They that handled the law knew me not. Do you know you can get to the place in your Christian life where everything gets mechanical, where you kind of check off these religious boxes, you know, where you know, yeah, I've read my Bible, checked, and I've prayed, checked, and I've done this, checked, and you do it all mechanical, and there's no passion for the Lord, there's no desire really with it. It's just very empty, it's very cold, it's very mechanical. And that's what was happening here. You see, God wants you to be obedient, but he wants more than just your outward ritual, mechanical, legalistic obedience. He wants your heart. He wants your passion. He wants your love. But what was happening? They were just becoming mechanical. But here's the next charge. You've left me for another Now we can go from verse 10 on down to the end of chapter 2, where God is really giving one evidence after another that they have left Dohem that they left God for another. This is a serious charge. God is charging Israel here with infidelity And basically what you see in the rest of chapter two, and again, we can only touch on these because it's so very long, but it's almost like a judicial slideshow Because what's going to happen here is that Jeremiah is going to present one picture after another, one portrait after another, of what it is like when God's people walk away from him. What it's like when God's people forsake him. And these are very descriptive pictures of infidelity. here. What's it like when God's people walk away from him? It's like a nation changing its gods. Look at verse ten. For pass over the eyes of of Chittim and see, and send to Kedar and consider diligently and see if there be such a thing. Hath a nation changed their gods, which are yet no gods, but my people have changed their glory for that which doth not profit? God says, Look, has there ever been anything like this? And that's rhetorical. Of course, the answer is no. Travel all over the world from the east to the west, and you'll find that a nation has never changed their gods. They may have changed their their um clothes, their clothing style, they may have changed their hairstyle, but they've never changed their gods. That's never happened. Even the pagans are loyal to their gods. They cart their gods around wherever they go. Did the Canaanites ever forsake Baal or Asheroth? Never. Did the Babylonians ever forsake Baal or Merodek? Never. And look in verse 12. God calls upon the heavens to testify. Be astonished, O heavens, at this. Be horribly afraid. In fact, God says later in verse 28, you have more gods than you have towns in Judah. You have traded me in. You have forsaken me. And and that's what it's like when you walk away from God. It's like basically changing God's. But here's number two. It's like leaving a spring of water Look in verse 13. For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and huge amounts, cisterns, broken cisterns that can hold no water. Just imagine living in a desert where it's always dry and hot. And the thing you always need is water, but it's never there. But just imagine one day you come upon a spring. This is spring of water. It's bubbling, it's flowing, it's cold, it's crystal clear, it's clean. And suppose you walk away from that spring to go and dig out a cistern that will catch rainwater You say that doesn't make any sense. You're right. Cisterns over there, the limestone a lot of times would crack and they would wouldn't even really hold the wrong rainwater. And sometimes the water they would find in those broken cisterns was very corrupt, it was very polluted. God says, by walking away from me, you have walked away from a spring of living water, and now you're drinking water out of a polluted cistern that's broken. What sense does that make? It doesn't make any sense whatsoever. It's very stupid for Israel to do that, especially in light of the fact that all these world powers were rising up around them. And yet they were depending on them for help instead of depending on God. It was like depending on a broken cistern instead of depending on the spring of living water. It's like breaking away from a yoke. Look at verse 20 For of old time I have broken thy yoke and burst thy bands. And this is the idea of a wild ox that has smashed its yoke against the barn and then run off into the field. It's a picture of stubbornness Like an animal that won't wear the yoke. You see, God's people were made to serve him, but they they weren't serving God. That's what it's like to walk away from God. It's like a soliciting prostitute. Look at the rest of verse 20 And thou say, I will not transgress when upon every high hill and under every green tree thou wanderest plain Notice he mentions the high hill there because in Canaanite religions they would worship on these hilltops. That's where they would have their pagan altars and sometimes as a part of that pagan ceremony there was ritualistic prostitution that went on and so really it's kind of a double metaphor that he's using there. And he said, Israel, that's what you're doing You're going up on these hilltops and you're committing this immorality. Derek Kidner explains it like this. He says Israel here is depicted as a restless wife To whom the bonds and burdens of true love were slavery, and the lure of the forbidden was irresistible. It was like also a wild vine. Walking away from God is like a wild vine. Look in verse 21. Yet I had planted thee a noble vine Holy a right seed, how then art thou turned into a degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me? Many times in the Old Testament Israel is compared to a vine. And here God has planted Israel in a choice place, an expected fruit. And what does he get? That this vine turns against him. It becomes wild. It goes back to its natural roots. And there's fruit that's wild. It's not good. God said, that's what it's like. When you walk away from God, it's like a wild vine going back against the Lord. But then also it's like a stain that can't be removed. Look at verse 22. For though thou wash thee with nitre and take thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me, says the Lord. When you walk away from God and you commit this sin, you backslide away from God, it's like a stain that just can't be removed. You ever have a stain like that on a garment? I remember um uh when I got married Uh I wore a a white tuxedo, um, which I didn't that wasn't my choice. I was just doing what I was told. And uh they put and I somehow I got a black mark right on the thigh of the pants. It was so you know, glaring. Um I don't know how I did that, but I was panicked because here we are gonna have the wedding in just a little bit and I got this black mark. And I nothing would work. I couldn't get it off. I tried to get it out and it got worse I just couldn't remove the stain until finally one lady, bless her heart, uh, she knew what she was doing and she had some kind of spot remover and she was able to get the stain out and save my marriage, at least for the first few months. But you know what? Here's a stain God says it can't be removed. No matter what kind of soap you use on this stain, you're not going to be able to move it or to cleanse it. This is what it's like. By the way, there's the only way these stains can be removed, there's no soap on earth that can do it, but only the blood of Christ. Only the blood of Jesus. And so to walk away from God is like changing God's, leaving the spring of living water, breaking away from the oak, is like solicitation, it's like a wild vine. It's like an indelible stain. It's like camels running loose. Look at verse 23. And how canst thou say I am not polluted I have not gone after Balaam. See thy way in the valley and know what thou hast done. Thou art a swift dromedary. That's a word that just simply means a camel. traversing her ways. You're like a camel running through the desert looking for an oasis and you can't find one and the least little thing spooks you and you're running around all around You know, and here they are, they're denying it. They say, Oh, we're we're not like this, and God says, Oh, yes, you are. In fact, let's check out what you do in the valley. And I think the valley that he's referring to there is the valley of Hinnan And what happened there in that valley? They were so given over to some of the worst idolatrous ritual practices that they were even passing their children through the fire. Horrendous. God says, look what you're doing in the valley. You're like camels running loose in the desert trying to find some kind of an oasis. You'll never find one. Look at verse 4. You're like A dunky in heat in verse twenty four, a wild ass used to the wilderness that snuffeth up the wind at her pleasure and her occasion, who can turn her away God says to forsake God is like is to behave like a donkey in heat running here and there looking for a mate trying to fulfill that urge Look at verse 25. Withhold thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from thirst. In other words, the Jews pursued false gods of pagan nations so much that they wore their shoes out looking. And their throat was burning with dry thirst. When they could have been drinking water, living water from the spring. They were running all around Looking for an answer. You know what that reminds me of? That reminds me of some Christians who come to church, they hear the word of God, they hear the gospel, and that for some reason they hear some crazy idea that there's truth to be found outside of that And they leave the spring of living water and they're all around searching in the world for truth and answers. And guess what? You walked away from the truth when you do that You're running around wearing out your shoes looking when you've already found it and you're not smart enough to know you've already found it That's what Israel is like right here, is what he's saying. It's like a disgraced thief in verse 26. As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel ashamed. They, their kings, their princes, their priests, their prophets. It's like a thief caught in the act. You can protest your innocence all you want to, but the evidence is there for all to see. Any visitor to the kingdom could see what God saw The people had turned their backs on God. They had given themselves over to death idols. And they were caught red-handed. And so what's the next thing God says? You have no defense. You have no defense. All the evidence has been heard. Is there enough for a verdict here in this? Of course Now the bride tries to mount a defense in verse 23. She tries to say she's not guilty, but she crumbles during cross-examination. And in verse 25, she has to admit That she has gone after other lovers. Look in verse 25. Withhold thy foot from being unshod, thy throat from thirst. But thou sayest, There is no hope. No, for I have loved strangers And after them will I go. She crumbles and she admits that she's loved strangers and she's going to continue to do that. And so God says, You're guilty And in verse 33, he brings a charge and says, You're so guilty of what you're doing, you can even teach the worst of sinners a thing or two. That's how bad you are. And so God's going to pass sentence. Look at verse 35. Yet thou sayest, Because I am innocent, surely his anger shall turn from me. Behold, I will plead with thee. And the word plead there again. is a legal term. It means to pass a sentence, to make a court ruling. Not only is God the spurned husband in this case, but he's also the righteous judge. And all the evidence is in. And the bride is guilty. In fact, in verse 32, he says, you have cast away your wedding ornaments. We would say it like this today, a bride, you've taken off your wedding ring and you've thrown it away. You've taken off your wedding garments and you've tossed them into The garbage. And the verdict is you are guilty. You're guilty. Of these things. You know, when I studied this, I couldn't help but say, you know what? This passage forces all of us to ask this question: Am I guilty of backsliding away from God? Is our church guilty of backsliding away from God? Is our nation, our country guilty? Of backsliding away from God. If forgetting God is the criteria here, and this is what God has proven, I would venture to say at least this that America is guilty. Of forgetting God. I don't want to be guilty of that. A passage like this convicts my own heart. How many times have I been so consumed with other things rather than the main thing, the most important thing? Which is my relationship to the Lord? How many times have I gotten mechanical in the things that I do without having the heart Without really seeking the face of God. How many times have I prepared a sermon without really seeking the Lord myself? We gotta watch ourselves. And so God says to Judah, you're guilty. All the evidence is in. But here's the second point. Not only the case presented, but the consequences paid. And again, in chapter three, we're just going to touch on what is mentioned as the consequences. You know, when something like this happens, there's going to be consequences. And what are they? Well you lose God's blessing. Look in chapter 3, verse 3. Therefore the showers have been withfolded, and there has been no latter rain. That's why there's no rain. And they needed rain for their crops to eat. And by the way, who was Baal? How was Baal depicted back then as the rider of the cloud, as the God of rain? He was the God of rain. He was the God of fertility. And so to show the people there that there's no such thing as Baal and that God is the only God, God says, I withheld your reign. And withheld your blessing. By the way, showers in the Bible are symbolic of the Holy Spirit God says, I will pour water on him that is thirsty. And that's the spirit of God. I will pour floods upon the dry ground. I will pour my spirit. And you see, as Christians, we can't function without the Spirit of God. But when we backslide away from the Lord, we lose God's blessing. We lose our sensitivity to sin. Look at the rest of verse 3. Therefore there has been no latter rain, and thou hast a hoarse forehead, thou refuses to be ashamed. That is, you lose your sensitivity to sin so much so that you're no longer able to blush And this process can take place in the life of a Christian where that there's a sin that you commit so much that it doesn't appear to be so sinful anymore. It's almost like when you walk into a dark room, you come out of the light, maybe you come out of the sunshine, you walk in a dark room, it's completely dark. But you stay there for a while in the dark, and you know what? The dark doesn't seem as dark because you get used to it. And that's a sense of what happens with sin. Sin is so insidious. Sin is so deceptive that the more you do it, the less sinful it becomes. And before you know it, you've hardened your heart, you lose your sensitivity, and then you lose God's guidance. Look in verse 4. Wilt thou not from this time cry to me, my father? Thou art the guide of my youth. And this verse pictures a backslider crying out to God for his direction. But God's not going to be there to give it because God doesn't reveal his will to someone who's disobedient. He's going to give it to someone who will do it. Then your reputation is damaged in verse 6. The Lord said also unto me in the days of Josiah the king, Hast thou not Hast thou seen that which backsliding Israel has done? She's gone up upon every high mountain under every green tree, and there has played the harlot You see, when Israel turned her back on God, her sin was noticed by others. And what God is saying is backsliding is a sin that you can't hide. Others will see it Sooner or later the real condition of your heart will go out or will come out. You know, a lot of times when a person backslides, they outwardly try to do all these things to try to cover it up, but eventually it's going to be known. And then you set a bad example for others. Because it says at the end of verse 7, her treacherous Sister, Judah saw it. Judah saw what Israel did, and Judah followed in the same path. I think sometimes we don't realize how many people are watching us. And that you're an example to somebody. You might not believe this, but somebody is looking up to you, probably a lot more than you think. You're somebody's hero. And when you backslide, you negatively influence Other people. That's the idea here. And then of course your fellowship with God is broken in verse 8 because again, God divorced Israel in verse 8, and God now has Judah On the same path. And in verse 10, you can become a hypocrite, and yet for all this, her treacherous sister, Judah, hath not turned unto me with her whole heart. But sanely, says the Lord, superficially. Judah looks like she may have turned to me, but she's putting on a pious mask, and she's really not turning to me. And so she's become very hypocritical. That's the consequences of backsliding. It's not pretty, is it? I don't want to be anything like that. Let me give you the third thing quickly. We just have a few minutes. We saw the case presented. We saw the consequences paid. But here's number three, the cure prescribed Now, God has every right to pursue a divorce. He has proven his case beyond any doubt. He has laid out the consequences. Of what Judah will have to pay for. But the question is, does God go through with this? I mean, here he is in this divorce court. All he has to do now is sign the papers, sign the bill of divorce. It seems like the marriage is beyond recovery, but actually it was not. Because despite all of Judah's backsliding, despite all of Judah's sin, what does God do? Look in chapter 3 and look in verse number 14. Look what he says. Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord, for I am married unto you. Isn't that something? That's the grace of God. Yet again, God calls out, even though he's proven his case. He doesn't want to go through with it, and so he cries out again, Turn to me, because I am married to you. One person writes this, it is a breathtaking command. It is God's grace for the ungracious. His faithfulness to the unfaithful. Even when God's love goes unrequited, he does not cease to love. Although his marriage is violated, he does not break covenant. He's still crying out. He's calling out, saying, come back. I don't know what your life is like. It may be that you're here tonight and you may have thought at times, man, I've done some so many Things against God. I failed God so many times that there's no way that I can have back what I once had with God. And if you think that, you're wrong. You can have, listen, you can be as close to God as you want to be. It doesn't matter what you've done. God is a God of love, and He's a God who refuses to let go. And He's ready to welcome you back. into his arms if you'll just turn back to him. And this is what he tells them. Return. This is the first thing. Go back to verse 12. Go and proclaim these words toward the north and say, return thou, backsliding Israel, saith the Lord. God says, turn back to me, return. And really there's a play on words here and I really don't have time. But look in chapter 4, verse 1 real quick. If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith the Lord, return unto me, and if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight, then thou shalt not be removed. There's a sense in which God is saying, if you put away your idols, I won't put you away. And if you return to me, I'll return to you. And we can have back what we originally had. It may be that you have slid away from God and thought, man, I'll never be as close to the Lord as I used to be. No, you can be as close to God. as the first day when you got saved and you had that honeymoon period with the Lord. You can be as close to God every day like that. If that's what your desire is. God says, if you turn to me, I'll turn to you. If you put away your idols, I won't put you away. And I'll be your God. God says return. And by the way, this isn't just an invitation. This is really a command. You know what God commands to people who have walked away? Return to me. Return. Admit you have sinned. Look at verse number thirteen. Only acknowledge thine iniquity. Sometimes it's hard for people. to re admit that we've been wrong, that we've sinned. God says, admit your sin. Repent. Turn to me. And then notice the last thing, and we'll have to close with this Where it says, look in verse 15, and I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you knowledge and understanding. So you know what God says? Return to me, admit you have sinned. Show real repentance. And by the way, repentance isn't just superficial. It's all of you with all your heart Your mind, your heart, repentance is something that where you have a change of attitude in your mind, you have a sorrow over sin, you have a commitment to turn from it, forsake it, and commit yourself to the Lord. That's real repentance So God says, return to me, acknowledge your sin, repent, and then put yourself under the ministry of the Word of God. I will give you pastors who will feed you according to your heart. Put yourself under the word of God. That's what will keep you where you need to be. And when he says pastors in verse 15. Really he's referring to kings after his own heart. David was like that, the king after his own heart. But really when you get into the New Testament, it's really a reference to pastors who will preach and teach his word, like the Old Testament kings pastored. God's flock, God's sheep. New Testament pastors are called the pastor God's flock and God's sheep. And you know why you're special people? Because you're God's sheep. And we're responsible to feed you the Word of God. Why? Because the Word of God will keep you on the right path. And hopefully, if you're here and you're receiving truth, you know what? It'll prevent you from backsliding away from God. God. As you learn God's word, as you grow, you'll be on the right path. And God says, I'll give you pastors that will feed you according to uh God's desire and God's goal. Let me just close with this. I was reading a story about uh a man who was going to marry his his bride on february twenty fifth uh twenty eleven he was going to marry his fiancee but she couldn't get to the church because on that day there was an earthquake And she was buried in the rubble of that earthquake. All she could do is just send out a text message to him saying that she was okay, but she There's no way for her to get out. She was buried. And he as quickly as he could, he raced to the scene of where she was, and he saw something that was just horrible. He said this was the worst day in his life He saw the whole building crumbled. He saw nothing but timbers and beams and stones. And his first thought was he doesn't see how that his wife could ever survive that. Or his future bride She must be dead. And how is he ever going to be able to get her out? But you know what he did? He just began to dig He began to pull one beam after another, throw stones. He was there hour upon hour upon hour, until finally after seven hours of digging and moving stones and beams, he was able to get to where she was And providentially she was there in a pocket that where she was unharmed. And he was able to pull her out of that rubble that was there. That's real love, isn't it? And when I read that, that reminds me about God. That's the kind of love that God has. It is a rescuing love, it is a restoring love. You might feel like, man, my whole world has crumbled on me. And I'm in a place where I don't want to be in my life. Well, let me tell you the kind of God that we serve. He's a God who wants to rescue you. And he will come after you. That's his desire. And friend, again, I say you're as close to God as you want to be. Because he wants to be close to you. And so this passage causes all of us to examine our own heart and ask, where am I spiritually before God? Let's bow for prayer together tonight. Lord, we pray that our heart will not never get to the place To where we're just mechanical. Where everything, Lord, is just an outward, superficial rote Going through the motion type of Christianity and worship, where we have lost our love for you. Although on the surface it looks like everything is fine, We're where we're supposed to be, we're doing what we're supposed to do. Yet inwardly we have idols in our heart. We have other things that we're looking to that we're depending on instead of you. And while outwardly it looks good, inwardly, Lord, we have left our first love. We have gone away from you. There were times that we may recognize in our life where we were closer. Lord, if that's our condition. We pray, Lord, that you'll forgive us. And Lord, that you'll give us the grace to follow your command to return to you with all our heart. To be, Lord, where we need to be spiritually in our love for you, in our walk with you. Lord, may it be so. Use these words, Lord, to draw us unto yourself. And Lord, forgive us for allowing the clutter of this world to make our hearts cold. Lord, draw us close to you. So that Lord, we can be a people pleasing in your sight. And with heads bowed, I'm going to say that's my prayer tonight to draw nearer to the Lord, nearer than I ever have been Forgive me, Lord, for not pursuing you as I should. Father, bless these hands, these things, Lord, that we've heard. Help us to receive them. and to make them a part of our life, we pray in Jesus' name, amen