Well, take your Bibles tonight, will you, and open to the book of Psalms, and I want you to go to Psalm chapter four tonight. Psalm chapter four. It has just eight verses in it, but it's a good psalm. for us. And the title of my sermon tonight is When You Can't Sleep. When you Can't Sleep. You ever have a Sleepless Night? You ever have trouble just going to sleep? Well, Psalm 4 really is a cure for insomnia. Now I'm not saying go to sleep right now when I'm preaching. But when you have a sleepless night, David has a little trouble sleeping. And the trouble that David has sleeping is not due to jet lag like I've had lately. Or because he spent too much time on his computer looking into the screen or looking at his mobile phone checking his social media. You all know that keeps you awake at night, right? Okay. And then his problem is not any of those things. His problem is circumstances. His troubles were increased. He was in distress. And most scholars agree that uh the situation of the writing of Psalm 4 is the same as Psalm 3. It's both the same background, uh both the things uh probably written in fact on the same day. And you can understand this when you kind of compare the wording of Psalm three to Psalm four. In fact, let's do that. Look in chapter three, verse one, where he says, Lord, how many are how are they that increase that trouble me? Many are they that rise up. against me. And so he mentions trouble in chapter 3, verse 1. And in chapter 4, verse 1, he mentions distress. In chapter 3, verses 1 and 2, he talks about the many. But if you go to chapter 4, verse 6, he says, there be many that say who will show us any good. And chapter 3, verse 2, it says that There's many that say there's no help for him in God. And you see the same thing in chapter 4, verse number 6. In chapter 3, verse 3, he speaks of my glory, and he uses the same expression in chapter 4. verse two. If you compare the two, you'll find out that in each case also God hears them when he calls. It also talks about laying down to sleep in chapter 3 verse 5, where he says, I lay down, lay me down and slept, I awake. For the Lord sustain me. And then we see the same thing in chapter four, verse eight. He lays down to sleep. Now Scholars think that Psalm 3 was written by David in the morning, and Psalm 4 was written by David in the evening. Therefore, Psalm 3 is called a morning psalm. Psalm 4 is called an evening psalm. This kind of gives us a clue about the spiritual life of David. He started his day out worshiping God. And he ended his day worshiping God. Morning and evening. That's a good pattern for us to follow, is it not? In fact, Charles Spurgeon wrote a devotional book called Morning and Evening, where he gives two devotionals, one for the morning, one for the evening. But the question is, what was causing David such distress? Again, this was a time when he was really under a lot of anxiety. And the situation behind this was simply that David's son Absalom had rebelled. Some of you might remember that story. Now, David was a great king, and God used him to accomplish great things. He made Jerusalem the capital of the of the nation of Israel. He made it the spiritual capital when he brought the ark back home. God just gave him one blessing after another, but he sinned with Bathsheba, and as a result of that, many terrible things happened in David's life And one of those things was there was conflict in his family. Two sons uh were in conflict because one of his sons, Amnon, raped his half-sister Tamar. Absalom took revenge and murdered Amnon, and then he fled. And because of that, David and he were basically at odds with one another. And so when Absalom did come home, David refused to see him. And this brought up resentment in Absalom's heart. And Absalom, who was a very popular young man and who began to win the hearts of the people of Israel, on a strategic moment, he basically got gathered all his supporters together and tried to depose his father as being king and David had to run. He had to run for his life. And I'm sure you remember that story. So the Bible says basically all of his servants with their little ones, they hastily left Jerusalem. David follows them weeping and walking barefooted with his head covered in shame. This was a very difficult uh situation for David and basically his whole world was coming apart. Now I'm sure we have not experienced something like that in our own life, but we have other heartaches that we've all experienced, have we not? difficulties in our life. You might be here tonight. You might have a financial difficulty. Maybe you lost a job or you're looking for one. Maybe a a medical issue in your life. You got a bad report. There could be a family issue going on. Many, many things. And David now is it's at nighttime, and all these things are swirling around in his head, and he's having trouble really sleeping. And again, some of us have been there. But when you read this psalm, when you get to the end of it, however, his insomnia is gone. And he says in verse 8, I will lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou Lord only makest me to dwell in safety. So I want you to see tonight just five steps to overcome insomnia in your life. Here's the first one. Number one, call upon the Lord. Call upon the Lord. Look at verse 1. Hear me when I call, O God, of my righteousness. Thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress. Have mercy upon me and hear my prayer Now, what's the world's wisdom when they when you have trouble sleeping the world basically says you should count sheep, right? Did you know that Harvard Psychologists did a study on that? Richard Davidson and Gary Schwartz, they conducted a study on insomnia and they concluded, this is a quote, Quote, visualizing sheet prevents the brain's right hemisphere from processing anxiety-provoking imagery, while the counting keeps the left hemisphere from straying into problematic thought. So basically they agree that counting sheep will really help you at night. But if you're a child of God, there's something better than counting sheep, right? What's the old saying, don't count sheep but talk to the shepherd, right? Well that's biblical because this is exactly what David did. In verse 1, two times he says, Hear me. to the Lord, hear my prayer. Look where he he's asking God for mercy. He's asking God to enlarge him. And the word enlarge here, Lord, means really make me bigger. And David is basically saying, help me, Lord, to be bigger. When my problems increase, help me to be big enough to deal with them. And that's a good prayer. You know, a lot of times when we pray over a problem, we ask God to take the problem away. But maybe God's will is not to take the problem away, but to make us bigger in dealing with that problem. He wants us to Grow. Remember Paul, three times he said, Lord, remove the thorn in the flesh. And what did the Lord say? No, my grace is sufficient for you. Paul, I want you to learn how to draw on my grace. And a lot of times God will leave the problem in our life because he wants us to learn to grow bigger in that problem. And that's what David's saying. Now look in chapter 3, verse 1, where he says, Lord, how are they increased that trouble me? His troubles were increased. See, but here in chapter 4, verse 1, he says, Lord, thou hast enlarged me. And the word distress there means to be pressed into a tight place, but God enlarges him. God helps him, even though the problems were difficult and the troubles increased. David said, God, you enlarged me. You've helped me. And that's a good thing to pray. Lord, make me bigger than my problems. Help me to draw upon your strength. In another place in Psalm 119, verse 32, the psalmist said, I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart. God, give me a bigger heart so that I can pursue your word. I love the story of Secretary at the Great Racehorse. uh that set all those records when that when Secretary finally died they did an autopsy and they found that his heart was twice the size of a normal horse. He had a bigger engine than all those other horses. That's why he could run so fast He had an enlarged heart. Ask God to give you an enlargement in your spiritual life to handle the problems. But here's number two. Number one, if you have trouble, call upon the Lord. But here's number two. Confront the problem by faith. Look at verse 2. O ye sons of men, how long will you turn my glory into shame? How long will you love vanity and seek after leasing? But know that the Lord has set apart him that is godly for himself. The Lord will hear me when I call unto him. Now the word the words of verses two and three are not words that David spoke to his enemies personally face to face. Remember, he's kind of thinking. He's thinking about that. These are words that he spoke in his heart as he's musing about his problem, as he's thinking about his problem. And he doesn't try to avoid the problem. He thinks right about it. He knows what the issue is. There are so many trying to depose him. He has so many enemies all around him. And so he confronts that problem, but he does it in faith. And he reminds himself that everyone, all those enemies, they're following after vanity. They're following after lies But David reminds himself that he is God's child. Look at verse 3 again. But know that the Lord has set apart him that is godly for himself, and he's referring to himself there. I'm God's servant. I'm God's child. And God's going to protect me. And so he confronts the problem by faith. A lot of times we just need to remind ourselves of that. You're a child of God You belong to him. And he's going to help you take care of this problem. So face confront the problem by faith. But now here's the third thing. Call upon the Lord, confront the problem by faith. But here's number three, commune with your heart. Look in verse four where it says, commune with your own heart. Stand in all sin, not commune with your own heart upon your bed. Now, so here he's saying, you know, basically, evaluate yourself. Talk to yourself. Now remember we've seen this dynamic in Psalms before. Remember there are other places in the Psalms where the psalmist addresses himself, where he kind of takes himself in hand? And uh he reminds himself of things. Remember that expression, O my soul. Uh we just sang a song, Bless the Lord, O my soul. Who are you talking to when you say that? You're talking to yourself. You're reminding yourself, hey, wake up, bless the Lord. We see this many times in the Psalms, in Psalm 116, verse 7. Rest, return unto thy rest, O my soul. For the Lord has dealt bountifully with things, reminding himself, hey, go back to resting in the Lord. God's with you Praise ye the Lord, O my soul, it says in Psalm 146, verse 1. So here David is com he's communing with himself. He's talking with himself. And he gives some several Things to talk to yourself about if you want to commune with your heart. He lists several things here. First of all, he says, be in awe, stand in awe of God. Look in verse 4. Stand in awe. Are you ever in all and wonder of God's greatness? You should focus on the greatness of God. You know what that is? That's basically getting our eyes off of our problems, putting our eyes on God. That's what it is. There's no problem too big for your God to handle. Now from your perspective, it might be a problem where you say, you know what, there's no hope. It's too far gone. But I want to tell you from God's perspective, there's no such thing as no hope. There's always hope with God. Do you know that one of the reasons Albert Einstein had no use for organized religion was because he heard Christians and preachers talk about God? And when he heard them talk about God, he felt as if they were blaspheming God. You know why? Because they were talking about God as if he were not big. And Albert Einstein was accustomed to studying the universe with all its millions of galaxies and stars. And he believed in a creator He knew that there was a creator. He saw all the order and design in the universe. He knew there was a creator. He knew there was a God, and he knew that this God was big. But when he heard Christians and preachers talk about God, he thought they were talking about someone else. And that's why he had no use for organized religion because uh they weren't talking about a big God. You understand how big God is? You serve a big God. Psalm 145, verse 3, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. You ever just think about how great God is? How big He is? We were flying into uh the US and uh every once in a while, you know, I could look out the window and see, you know, below. And you ever have those thoughts when you're flying on a plane, you see all these millions of of houses, it seems like, from where you're sitting. And you're flying over a city and you think that in those houses, God knows every person in those house houses He not only knows them, he knows their thoughts. In fact, he knows all the thoughts that they're going to think from the time they were born until the time they died. The very hairs of their head are numbered And not only that, God is on this plane with me. And not only is he on this plane with me, he's in every one of those houses with those people. Not a part of them, but he's fully there. He's fully there in each of those places, and he's also fully here. Explain that to me. And I just start getting one thought after another. And pretty soon, boom, my mind is blown about how great God is. We have a big God. And we should stand in all of Him. And so the next time you think that you have a problem too big, just remember how big God is. And stand in all of Him. Here's the next thing He says: when you commune with your own heart, Be in all of God, but also determine not to sin. Notice what he says in verse 4. Stand in all and sin not. In your time of distress, determine that you're not going to sin. It's very easy in a time of distress to get angry, to get angry at people, to get angry at circumstances. But the psalmist says very clearly, make a decision. You're not going to sin. Paul will quote this verse in Ephesians 4:26 when he says, be angry and sin not. And so determined not to sin. But here's the next thing. If you're communing with your own heart, not only be in all of God, determined not to sin, but along the same lines, be sorry for your sin. Look at verse 4 again Stand in all and sin not, commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Look at that phrase be still. That's from the Hebrew word which means lament or weep. The Amplified Bible translates it like this. Be sorry for the things you say in your heart. Another translation says this: Say so in your heart. And so this has the idea of being sorry for perhaps past sins when you're laying there and you're communing with your own heart. And you think about how great God is, and you determine you're not going to sin against this great God. But also remember, perhaps sins of the past. Sometimes a restless night might be a conscience that is that is not clean because of past sins. And so the Psalmist says here, commune with your heart, be sorry for your sins, confess your sins to God. You know, that's a good time just to go to the Lord in confession and use 1 John 1. 9. But here's the next thing. Be in all of God, determine not to sin, be sorry for your sins, but renew your commitment. Look in verse 5 again. Where it says, offer the sacrifices of righteousness and put your trust in the Lord. We could literally translate it like this, offer right sacrifices These are the sacrifices that a person would make when God has helped them and they're making a vow before the Lord. And along with that vow, there's a sacrifice that they give. Remember what Jonah prayed in Jonah 2. 9? He said, I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving. I will pay what I have vowed. And so here's Jonah in this difficult position. He was in the whale's belly when he prayed this. And he said, Lord, you get me out of this, and I'm going to sacrifice to you, and I'm going to make vows to you, and I'm going to pay my vow. I'm going to renew my commitment. And what he's talking about here, basically, is a renewal of obedience, a commitment of obedience to Almighty God. God, I'm going to Dedicate myself to you afresh and anew. I'm gonna make vows and I'm gonna pay my vows. Did you know that um God encourages that. God encourages us to make vows to Him. Listen to what it says in Psalm 50, verse 14 and 15: Offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. And so God encourages this. But listen, if you're going to make a vow to God, you better make sure you pay it. The Bible says that in Psalm 76, 11, make your vows for the Lord your God and perform them. And this is a good thing to do. A lot of times we have to take spiritual evaluation of our own life and ask ourselves, do I love the Lord this year as much as I did last year? Is my faithfulness and commitment to the Lord kind of getting weak? Because if we're not careful, that can happen to all of us. We can slip. And our commitment to the Lord. We can be uh cold in our passion, and we can allow things to get between us and God. And every once in a while it's good to go back and renew our commitment to the Lord And this is what David does when he's communing with his with his self as he's thinking at night in this evening psalm. The people that God have used greatly have been people who have made godly vows or godly resolutions. How many have made a New Year's resolution? Don't raise your hand. How many of you have broken it already? You know the Bible encourages godly resolutions with reference to serving the Lord. And so that's what he does. He determines to make his vows to the Lord and renew his commitment But then here's the next thing. If you're communing with your heart, you be in all of God, determined not to sin, be sorry for your sins, renew your commitment, but then just make a decision to trust God. Again in verse 5, offer the sacrifices of righteousness and put your trust in the Lord. This was a decision. Did you know trusting God is a decision that you make? A decision of the will. God, I'm going to trust you. Absalom was trying to depose his father. He was trusting in Counselors, he was trusting in military personnel around him. He was trusting in all these things, but he wasn't trusting in the Lord But David, however, in contrast to that, David makes a decision to trust God. He knew by experience, whenever he trusted in God, God is the one who gave him victory. So it's a choice that we make. Listen to Psalm or Isaiah 50, verse 10. Who is among you that feareth the Lord, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness and has no light? Listen to this. Let him trust in the name of the Lord and stay upon his God. Make the decision to trust in God. And so this is what's happening. He's communing with himself. He's determining to be in all of God, to not sin, to be sorry for his sins, to renew his commitment. to trust in the Lord. But let me give you the fourth step. We talked about calling upon the Lord, confronting your problem by faith. Commune with your heart. But here's number four. Conquer all negative thoughts. Look again in verse six of chapter four. There be many that say, Who will show us any good? Now again, there was a lot of negative talk going on about David and his situation. If you go back to chapter 3 and verse 2, again we see that many there be which say of my soul, there is no help for him in God You can just count on it whenever you're going through a very difficult time, you might have a lot of negative talk from people around you. And David had that. There were people saying, you know, how how's good going to come out of this? And verse number six. How's there going to be good out of this bad situation that he's in? And you know what? God specializes in bringing good out of bad. And so don't listen to the negative talk. Every once in a while you'll get that. And you have to you have to make a choice that you're gonna tune that out. And by the way, that's a that's what Paul said in Philippians chapter four. Remember he said Whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are virtuous, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, finish it. Think on what? These things. Don't think on the negative. Think upon the positive. And David does this. Look in verse number 6, where he says, Lord, lift up thou up the light of thy countenance upon us. And David is remembering the favor of God. He's comparing it to the sun, the light of the sun. Just like the light of the sun, the sun rays are constantly shining down upon us. Even so, God's favor is constantly smiling and shining down upon God's people. You realize that as a child of God, you are in great favor with the Lord? I had a Christian recently asked me and said, can you help me? Because I believe that God's put a curse on me. Now, this is a believer, a child of God. Let me just say this. If you're a child of God, God hasn't put a curse on you. God's put a blessing on you. The Bible says there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. You don't have a curse on you, dear friend. But you say, Well, look at my circumstances. Look at all these things that are happening to me. Remember Sunday morning I brought up a point and I said, Don't get your theology from your circumstances. Get your theology from the Bible. Joseph could have said that. Remember, Joseph was hated by his brothers He was thrown into a pit, sold into slavery. He was falsely accused and put in prison. If Joseph got his theology from the circumstances, you know what he would have concluded? God cursed me God doesn't love me. But we know that actually it was the favor of God that brought Joseph through all that, not the curse of God. So you can't judge the quality of your life and character by your circumstances. If you're a child of God, you just mark it down. God's favor is on you. Now if you get out of line, he's going to spank you. But friend, he's not going to turn his favor from you. His favor will always be upon you. This is what David is saying. Look at verse 7. Thou hast put gladness in my heart More than in the time that their corn and their wine increased. And he's comparing the harvest day when it's a time of great rejoicing. And people are rejoicing as they bring in the harvest. It's always a time of great celebration and joy. And David compares that to the joy that God has put in his heart, and he says, Lord, you've given me more joy than the happiest celebration that I know of. I've got more joy. I've got more blessing. God has blessed us. And so the way he combats negative thinking is he remembers God's favor on his life. He remembers the blessings that God has poured out. On him. But then here, let me give you the last thing tonight. Call upon the Lord, confront the problem by faith, commune with your heart, conquer all negative thoughts. But here's the last thing. Just claim a good night's sleep. Look at verse 8. I will both lay me down in peace and sleep. For thou, Lord, only maketh me dwell in safety. You see, when you call on God and you give your problems to Him and you examine your heart and you choose to trust Him, And you refuse to yield to the negative thoughts. You know what? You're ready for a good night's sleep. Just claim it. Did you know that's a gift from God? Psalm 127 verse 2, for he gives his beloved sleep. Something that God gives. Matthew Henry, the great commentator, said this: Bodily sleep is God's gift to his beloved. We owe it to his goodness that our sleep is safe, that it is sweet. And so just claim a good night's sleep from the Lord. Let me just end with this. Dr. Richard Dehan. was talking about something he had heard. And let me just read you what he says. He says, some time ago I read about a youngster who was rattling off the words of this bedtime prayer. Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. But then he says this, but when he came to the line, if I should die before I wake, he got mixed up and he said, If I should wake before I die. And Dr. Dahan said this. That started me thinking. Many people lay their heads on their pillows at night. without being sure of the destiny of their souls, should they die before they wake. And that's true. So I want to ask you tonight, if you lay your head on your pillow tonight, are you absolutely certain that if you died Before you wake, that your soul would be in heaven with God. That's the most important thing, knowing that. Because the honest truth, friend, is we don't know what a day is going to bring. A while back I had a professor that I learned under at in seminary. He was a friend, called me on my mobile phone. It's not unlike him to do that every once in a while, calling me to check up. And we were talking. And just a few days after that conversation, word came to me that he went to bed at night and he never woke up. He died in his sleep, a relatively young man. Which is shocking. And then of course I told you Um that yesterday I got the news that a man that was a friend of mine when I went to Israel to dig, I've got to know him through the years of doing this. Last year in Israel, we sat down and we talked for hours. Such a good and godly man, pastor of a church, just relatively young man. And yesterday morning he began to suffer a heart attack. He called he had enough time to call 911 and then call his wife and he died on the way to the hospital. Just a just a shocking death. Friend, we don't know what a day is going to bring. We just don't know. And the question is, is your soul ready? When you lay your head on your pillow tonight, are you absolutely certain that if you don't wake up, that your soul will be with the Lord in heaven? Friend, that's the most important thing. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And if you bow your heads, can I just say, if you haven't put your faith and trust in Jesus, will you do it right now? Will you just say, Lord, this very moment, I'm reaching out to you in faith. I'm asking you to be my salvation. Save me. Cleanse me from my sin. I believe you died to pay my sin debt. Save me, Lord Jesus. And if you reach out in faith, the Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Would you pray that and mean it and trust him? And if you do that, would you let us know? Because we want to encourage you in your new Christian life. We want to encourage you in your faith. Salvation is a gift received by faith. Just trust him, friend. Make the decision right now to trust the Lord Jesus. Trust Him. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. Maybe that there's some folks here that have they're they're so stressed out. They're so filled with anxiety. That when they lay down at night, they just can't sleep. Lord, I pray that we'll learn from David here to call upon you, to confront our problems with faith in you. To commune and examine our own heart before you. To cast out all these negative thoughts that come. And Lord, look to you for peace and rest. Father, may this word be an encouragement to those who need it tonight. And we pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.