Take your Bibles tonight, open to the book of Revelation, and we've been studying Revelation on Sunday night. Revelation chapter 10 is where we are now. We're going to look at these 11 verses here in Revelation. And the title of my sermon tonight is When Time Is No More. Or we could also call this No More Delay. Look in verse 1 of chapter ten. And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was upon his head. and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire. And he had in his hand a little book open, and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot upon the earth, and cried with a loud voice, When a lion roareth And when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices. Now, if you've been with us in the study of Revelation, you know that all the Revelation is about. Jesus Christ. In fact, the word, as we told you before, for Revelation is apocalypsis, which simply means an unveiling and an uncovering. And the book of Revelation is the uncovering of Jesus Christ in his glory. Now, the gospels uncovered Jesus Christ when he came to earth. All the these four gospel writers wrote about his earthly ministry, and there's a sense in which they uncovered Jesus. for us in the Gospels, but really what we see in the Gospels is the the humility of Christ because he had become a man. God became a man And so the glory of Jesus was really veiled during his earthly ministry. The book of Revelation it uncovers uh Jesus in all of his glory. It removes the veil. It is the unveiling, the uncovering of Jesus in his glory. And so we see this expression uh in the New Testament often the apocalypsis or the unveiling of Jesus Christ. Paul uses it in 1 Corinthians 1 7. We are waiting eagerly. the revelation or the apocalypsis of or the unveiling of Jesus Christ. In 2 Thessalonians chapter 1 verse 7, the Lord Jesus shall be revealed. Exact same word. So I hope that when we're studying Revelation together, that you see Jesus in all of his glory. That's what the whole book is about Uh if you all you see in the book of Revelation are you know uh these things about the end and the judgments and and all the things that are taking place, and you don't see Jesus, we're not studying the book of Revelation right. We want to see Jesus in all of his glory and his full glory. Now the Bible says here that this mighty angel will make him a declaration in verse number six. that there should be time no longer. There's going to come a time when God says, okay, that's it. Uh my, I'm, I'm now, there's no more delay. There's no more time. Um there'll be no more need of watches or clocks or calendars because time will be no more. As the poet wrote, when I was a child I laughed and wept, time crept When as a youth I dreamed and talked, time walked. When I became a full grown man, time ran. And when older still I grew, time flew, and soon I shall find in passing on time gone There'll be a time when time is no more. So what is the angel talking about here? Now let me just say this. When you come to Revelation 10, you come really, if you interpret the book chronologically, sequentially. You come really to the midway point of the tribulation period. You might remember if you've been with us in our study in Revelation chapter five Jesus takes the scroll out of the hand of the Father on the throne, and he begins to loosen the seals when you get to chapter 6. Every time a seal is loosened, a judgment breaks out. There are seven seals on the scroll, and Jesus has loosed each of those seven seals. And on the seventh seal, The Bible says, out of that seven seal there came seven trumpets. And with each one of these trumpet charges, there is a judgment We we've been studying this. We saw in chapter 9, there are actually in chapter 8 there are four trumpets of war. Then when the trumpet sounds, there'll be a judgment poured out upon the planet. And then there will be following that three what I call three trumpets of woe, where God judges the people. Now you get to chapter nine, we see the fifth trumpet sounded and the sixth trumpet sounded. But the seventh trumpet has not yet sounded. That will happen later. And so what we see here from chapter ten To chapter 14, we call this parenthetical. This is a long interlude. This is a pause before the actual seventh trumpet is going to sound. This is very important. Because Revelation chapter 10 to verse 14 will describe some important events that will happen at this time. And so this is a long interlude, and during this interlude, God will encourage his people in the midst of all of the horror that they will be experiencing, of all the divine judgments. During the interludes, God will comfort his people. With the knowledge that, you know what, God has not forgotten them, and that they will ultimately be victorious. Let me tell you something, dear friend, no matter what trial you go through, if you're a child of God, you're more than a conqueror. He'll bring you through it and he'll make you victorious. And that's really what the Lord is going to say here. This is a the longest of there are three interludes in the book of Revelation. This is the longest of the interludes. And And during this time, this will be God reassuring his people that he controls all things and that he's about to wrap up his plan. Now, with that in mind, I want you to see just three. Mysterious events here in chapter number ten. And if you're taking notes, here's the first one. Number one, write down a mighty angel. A mighty angel, because John sees and describes what he calls as a mighty angel. Now who is this mighty angel that John sees? That's the question. Look at verse 1. And I saw another Mighty angel come down from heaven. There's been a lot of debate by New Testament scholars and preachers as to who this angel is. Some say that this is just another angel in heaven, a angel that has a high position of authority is very strong. In fact, the word another is the Greek word alos, which simply means another of the same sort. This is just another angel from heaven, a strong angel that is unnamed here. And then the other view is that this angel is not just any angel, this angel is the Lord Jesus Christ. Now in fact, if you read 20 commentaries, what you'll probably find is that they're divided right down the middle as to who this angel is. Some say it's uh just another angel, some say it is the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to judge for yourself. Let's just look a little closer at the angel and you be the judge. Is this just another angel or is it Jesus? Well, first of all, notice his clothing in verse number one. I saw another muddy angel come down from heaven clothed with a cloud. Notice that he's clothed with a cloud. Now I believe that science has its explanation of clouds. Understand that, but I think clouds will be the the the clothing, the royal clothing of heaven. You say, what do you mean by that? Well, when the Bible mentions a cloud, a lot of times it's talking about the glory, a glory cloud. I think that's the clothing of heaven. I believe that believers one day will be clothed with the glory of God. I think Paul speaks about that in 1 Corinthians 15. When we get this brand new glorified body one day in heaven that we will shine with like stars will shine with the glory of God. But in scripture a cloud is sometimes used an association with deity and and it's used to speak about glory. God is often identified with clouds In the Old Testament, how did God lead Israel? He was a pillar of cloud by day, a pillar of fire by night. That was the Shekinah glory of God. That was the glory of God that led them through the wilderness. A cloud received Jesus when he ascended to heaven. When he returns, it will be with clouds. And so I think that the clothing of a cloud here to me speaks of glory. But then notice the second thing in verse number one, a rainbow on his head, and I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven clothed with a cloud, and a rainbow was upon his head. Now in Revelation, we first saw the rainbow, and where was it? If you remember in chapter 4, where was it? It was around the throne of God. And that, again, speaks of the multicolored splendor of the covenant-keeping God. A full rainbow around the throne Now, as we know, the rainbow was a sign that God gave to mankind that he would not judge the world with a flood ever again. Because even in wrath, God remembers mercy. And so the rainbow there, again, it it is associated with God and his faithfulness God and His mercy, God and His covenant keeping. Now, what's interesting, you might want to read in your margin, Ezekiel 1, 26 and 28, where it gives a description of the glory of God, and listen to what it says. And I saw something like fire. Here's Ezekiel, and he sees a vision. He says, I saw something like fire, again glory, and a radiance about him as the appearance of the rainbow when it is in the cloud. Again, you see the clothing of glory and you see a rainbow. And so I think this passage in Ezekiel is appropriate. Because I think it it draws again on this this idea of Jesus being the Son of Man, which comes out of uh the book of Daniel. And and so I think that there's a correlation here between Revelation chapter one And Revelation chapter 10, and we'll look at that as we go on. But just think about this. Whoever this angel is, he's clothed with the clothing of deity. He wears a multicolored A mantle of authority that goes around the throne of God. And notice his characteristics in verse number one. And it says, and his face was, as it were, the what? The sun Now, again, that sounds to me a lot like Revelation 116. Look at it in verse 16 of chapter 1. And he had in his right hand seven stars. Now this is John describing the glory of Christ. The glorified Christ when he appeared to him. Out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword, and his countenance was as the sun that shineth in his strength. That's a parallel here. Here's this angel. His face is like the sun. When John saw Jesus in Revelation 1, he saw Jesus, his face was like the sun. And so uh here again we see the parallel, the the correlation between the two. You remember at Mount Transfiguration, Peter, James, and John. When they saw Jesus with his glory, you remember what they said? They said his face did shine as the sun Now notice the next thing in verse one. Notice the latter latter part. And his feet were as pillars of fire. Again, you can go back to Revelation 1, the vision of Christ, where it says of him, and his feet was like unto fine brass, as if they were burned in a furnace. Christ is ascribed in Revelation 1. 15 as having feet like burning brass, and they glowed like fire. And so I think that there is here, in my opinion, a direct link between this angel here in chapter 10 and the glorified Christ in Revelation chapter 1. Not only his clothing, Not only his characteristics, but also notice his claim. Look in verse 2. And he had in his hand a little book opened And he set his right foot upon the sea and his left foot on the earth. Notice the posture of this angel. This is a posture that's an awesome This is a posture of authority. He's got his right hand on, or excuse me, right foot on the seas. His left foot is on the earth. Again, this gives you the posture of ownership, of sovereignty. This angel is laying claim to the earth, taking possession of the earth. Let me ask you a question. Who has the authority to do that? Only one. You remember when Joshua was going to enter into the promised land? Remember what God said to him, Joshua, every place that the solo of your foot. will tread upon. That I have given to you. In Scripture, a foot on the earth suggests ownership. Did you know that uh the uh William Penn, the founder of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, um was very well liked by the Indians and once they said, listen, we're gonna let you have as much land as you can walk across from the rising of the sun until the setting of the sun. As m as much land as your feet can walk on will give you that land. And one day William Penn went to the Indians early in the morning and he claimed That promise they gave him. They were actually surprised that he showed up. And he began to walk across uh the the the land, and much of what he walked across uh is Pennsylvania today. A large part of that is the city of Philadelphia. Here is this angel and he's got his one foot on the earth and he's got one foot on the sea. And this is the posture of ownership. But notice he also has a book in his hand This angel has a little book open. Now you say, What book is this? Beloved, I think this is the same book that Jesus took out of the hand of the Father. This is the scroll. And it's an open book because Jesus now has loosed The seven seals that had closed it. And now this scroll is open because the seals were broken. This is uh as some call it the title beat of the earth. But I think this contains the rest of the plan of God as he begins to consummate his redemptive plan for the ages. In other words, it's getting to the point now where the end is near. The book is open. And so therefore, I think again there's a correlation here between uh Revelation chapter 5 and here in Revelation chapter 10. The scroll here, again, I think is symbolic of God's plan of judgment and redemption. And this plan was inaugurated by the death of Christ on the cross and his resurrection. And when Jesus received the scroll out of the hand of the Father and opened it, remember there was no one worthy to open that Only Jesus could do that. You know why? He had the authority to do that. You know why? Because he died for our sins. He resurrected. He's the Son of God. And whereas Adam, who was given reign over the earth, failed, he forfeited that. Christ, the last Adam, now had the authority to inherit it. And now it's his. And so that's why he has this book. It's totally opened here. Now, I don't know who you think this angel is in your mind, but if this was not Jesus, whoever it is, he's trespassing. In my opinion, I think Jesus is the only one who has the right to make this claim that uh of the earth. Listen to Colossians 1:16 For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. And so, beloved, I it's obvious who I think this is. I think this is Jesus. Notice not only his clothing, his characteristics. And his claim, but notice his cry. Look in verse 3. And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth. And when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices. Well, I don't need to tell you that Jesus is compared to the Lion of the tribe of Judah. And when this angel speaks, it's as though a lion roars. Again, this is the voice of authority. You ever hear a lion roar? Hopefully it's a zoo when you hear it. When you hear a lion roar, it can strike terror into you. And there's only really, they say, I'm not an expert on this, but they tell us that a lion really only roars for two reasons. To freeze their prey in fear And after they have made a kill, or they have been victorious in a fight. Now Satan roars to provoke fear, but Jesus roars to announce victory. Beloved. David Jeremiah wrote this. He takes possession of heaven and earth, standing triumphantly astride the land and sea, and when he roars, it is so loud that Satan's roar seems like a whisper. I like that. Did you know what the prophet Joel said? Write down Joel 3, verse 16. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion and utter his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake. But the Lord will be the hope of his people and the strength of the children of Israel. That's a good verse. But then we see not only Do we see the the roar of a lion here, but also the voice of authority? Because again in verse number three it says, And when he cried, seven thunders Uttered their voices. This voice commands the seven thunders. The result of his voice was that they uttered their voices Now remember what we've seen in Revelation so far, there have been seven seals. Out of them came seven trumpets, and now here we see seven thunders that come. And out of the voice of command, out of the voice of authority, will come these seven thunders. And so he roars to pronounce victory, he roars to proclaim authority. He roars to present sovereignty. Again, friend, this is not just any angel. This is the Lord Jesus Christ. And don't be bothered that the Lord is compared here to an angel, because that happens many times in Scripture. Angel just simply means messenger of the Lord, and Jesus definitely is the messenger of the Lord. In fact, he's the messenger of the old covenant, he's the messenger of the new covenant. He is the messenger of the Lord. And so we see then, number one, a mighty angel. But now write down number two. Here's the second thing I want you to see here: a mysterious announcement. Not only a mighty angel, but a mysterious announcement. Look in verse number four. And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write, and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not. Now, when this angel utters his voice, he makes a solemn declaration. We're going to see this. This declaration fills us with awe, not only because of what the angel declares, but because of the way in which he Declares it. He takes an oath. This is a solemn scene. Look down in verse number five. And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven. So get this picture it in your mind. Here he is standing astride the land and the sea. He's got a book in one hand, and he raises his other hand, and he's going to take an oath. Here. This again is an incredible picture. And verse 6, and swear by him that liveth forever and ever, who created heaven and the things that are therein and the earth. And the things that are therein are, and the sea and the things which there are therein, that time shall be no more. Here's this angel in this solemn scene. He lifts his hand up to heaven, and he takes this oath Now, some of the commentaries that I've read say this is why this angel cannot be the Lord Jesus. Because this angel swears with his hand raised to heaven, he takes this oath And the argument is if Jesus is God, how could he raise his hand to heaven and swear? How could he do that? But let me just remind you that there are many times in Scripture, or a few times, well actually in the Old Testament, God will take an oath But did you know that the Bible says this in Hebrews chapter 6, verse 13? For when God made a promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he swear by himself. He swore according to his own character. And so, friend, this doesn't bother me that here's this angel and he he takes an oath because we see God doing that in scripture. God will take an oath. Now normally Jews in the uh in in that time, whenever they would take an oath, they would they would swear by uh something, you know, it would either be by the city of Jerusalem or something holy. you know, something that was sound or binding, and the reason you took an oath was to show the the the firmness of your word and what you were going to say. So you would swear by something. And normally that something would be higher than you. That was better than you. For friend, what's higher than God and what's better than God? Nothing And that's why God swears according to his own name. So when this angel lifts his hand to heaven, he's swearing by heaven. Which means by God, which is his own character and his own name. He swears by the character of God. So I want you to see then a message is sealed. Now, look again in verse 4. John says, when he heard these seven thunders, that utter voices, I was about to write. And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seventh unders, and write them not. Here's John, and he's about to write it down. But and by the way, the book of Revelation is what John wrote down. When John sees this vision, and you remember at the very beginning, remember what Jesus said to him, listen, John, what you see, you write in a book and you send it to the seven churches And so John has been writing all along, and John is just naturally going to take the pen and he's going to write. But He's told not to. He hears a voice that says, write them not. John, put your pen down, and I want you to seal up these things. God says, I don't want these things to be revealed just yet. This is another series of judgments that God is going to pour out on the earth. We know there are seven seals, seven trumpets. There's going to be seven bulls that are going to come. Here are seven thunders. And they're sealed up. God has sealed them Now, let me just make a request here tonight. Please, after the service, I normally get questions after the service. People ask me things, and I love that. I'm good with that. But please don't come to me and say, what are the seven thunders? I don't know what they are. And I don't want to speculate what they are. You know, normally when that happens, people have they'll come to me and they'll give all their specul. Let me tell you what I think it is. You know what? You don't know what it is Because God sealed it up. And I love answering questions, but I get frustrated when people ask me questions that God has made very clear He hasn't revealed. Uh I know you think I'm smart, I'm just not smarter than God, okay? If God seals up something, then I think it's best not to try to speculate. I think it's best just to rest in the fact that God will reveal it when He wants us to know. Faith is reason at rest in Almighty God. And so these here these things are sealed We don't know what it is. The Bible says in Deuteronomy 29, 29, the secret things belong unto the Lord our God. And again, there's just some things that God doesn't reveal to us. We can make an application of this, can't we? Don't raise your hand, but how many of you had things happen in 2022 and you go, man, I just don't know why that happened. I can understand what's going on. Well, God hasn't chosen to reveal that, but I tell you this, we can trust our sovereign God. We can trust our wise God. And that's what God says. When God chooses not to reveal something, God is saying, look, you just trust me because I know what I'm doing. How many of you believe that God knows what he's doing? So a message is sealed. But then here's the next thing I want you to see. A mystery is revealed. Because again, what we see here is what the angel says. In verse 6, that there should be time no longer. And look in verse 7. But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished. As he hath declared to his servants the prophets. There's going to be a time again when there's no longer uh a delay. In fact, look at the word time in verse number six, when there should be time no longer. The word for time here is the word chronos, where we get our word chronology. And this word can mean a period, but it can also mean delay. And I I think that seems to be the meaning here There will be a delay no longer. God is not going to delay his plan anymore. In other words, it's all going to come now. It's going to happen. And time will be no more. This thing called history will be history. God is going to wrap up his plan, the plan that he put it into place in the very beginning in Genesis. And that plan has progressively been unfolding, his plan of redemption, until finally it's going to consummate and it's all going to be fulfilled. And God says, that's it, I'm wrapping it all up right now. And God has, in some sense, been delaying, been waiting. How many of you are ready for Jesus' comeback? Say amen. Some people say, why has God delayed? And he has. Because look in 2 Peter chapter 3. Now we say from our perspective he's delayed, but you know what? God's never late. He has a perfect plan. But look at 2 Peter chapter 3. And look down at verse number 3. This is a good passage here. 2 Peter 3:3, knowing this first that there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lusts. And saying, where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continued as they were from the beginning of creation. Now, these are people scoffing and they're saying, Where is the promise of his coming? You preachers, you talk about the second coming. Where is it? When's it going to happen? And they use the argument in verse 7, all things continue just as they have from the beginning. And the argument they they use against the second coming is based on the theory of what is called uniformitarianism, which says that all natural phenomena have operated uh since the very beginning uniformly. They ha it has operated since the very beginning Things have not changed. There's been no break into this the natural world, this closed system. Uh there's been no real um uh uh catastrophic or big mirac miraculous things happening Instead, everything in the universe is stable, it's closed, it's fixed, it's governed by a pattern of laws that do not vary. You know what all that is? That's evolutionary thinking That's all humanistic thinking. That's all believing in just the natural realm. You have people out there and their worldview is this we're we just live in this box, this closed system. And God has never broken into this box, and he's not going to. Things just continue just as they are from the very beginning. Now, how does Peter respond to that kind of thinking? Well, look down at verse number five. For this they are willing willingly are ignorant of. Peter says, you know what? They're willingly ignorant. They don't see God for the same reason that a criminal is not looking for a policeman. They don't want to be under God's authority. They're not looking for God. They're looking for reasons not to believe in God. And Peter will answer that by saying: listen, there's been several times when God has broken into this world and has done something that has been incredible and miraculous. And he just gives two illustrations. He could give more. But what's the first one? Look in verse 5. For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old. And the earth standing out of water and in the water. What are they talking about there? One is creation. You ever hear of creation? You know, these scientists, they try to use natural laws today to describe creation. You just can't do that, beloved. Creation is a miracle of God. It was done by the power of God. You can't use science to try to give an explanation about creation. You either believe what the Bible says or you don't. There were no scientists back there making observation. There was only God and the angels. And when God created, they sang for joy at the power of God. There was creation, but then there's another thing that he mentions. Look down at verse 6. Whereby the world that then was being overflowed with water perished You know another event that was incredible where God just broke in? It was an event of judgment where God sent a universal flood to the world. And he flooded the world and uh judgment came. And you know, ironically, back in Noah's day, they were scoffing too. But judgment came. And the only ones that were saved were those that were in that ark. And so um But look down now in verse number seven, because there's going to be a time in the future, but the heavens and the earth which are now By the same word kept in store, reserved on the fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men. You know what There's going to come when Jesus comes back, you know what's going to happen? Part of what's going to happen as God consummates everything. There's going to be this the world, the earth, the universe that we know is going to be melted down And the same elements are going to be used to recreate a new heavens and a new earth. That's what Peter's talking about. All that's going to happen. It's part of the day of the Lord when Jesus will return. All these things are going to happen. We're going to see miraculous things again at the second coming of Christ. Well again you say, well, why has the Lord delayed then? Look down at verse number nine. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But is long suffering to what? Us were not willing that any should perish, but that all should what? Come to repent. Do you know why the Lord's waiting? He's waiting for people to get saved. He's waiting for you to get saved if you're not saved. He's long-suffering. He's waiting. God's not slack concerning his promises. You think God will make a promise and not fulfill it? Oh no, friend, he'll fulfill it. And you say, well, it's been so long. Well, God doesn't measure time the way you measure time. Look back up in verse number 8. But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day with the Lord is this a thousand years, and a thousand years is this one day. I mean it might seem like a long time to you, but not to the ancient of days. Everything is right on schedule with him. And so God is waiting because God wants to see people come to Christ. God's not willing that any should perish. But friend, I want to tell you one day, time will be no more. One day it'll all be over. One day it'll be it And it'll be finished. Go back to uh Revelation chapter ten and verse number seven. But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he has declared to his servants the prophets. The word finished telios, the same word that Jesus used on the cross when he said it is finished. This is the air is tense here. The indication of complete action, so that the reader is informed that the mystery known only to God and revealed to man through the revelation given by the apostles and prophets will now be brought to its conclusion. It's now going to end. Now, another question that comes up in this text is, what is this mystery? What is it? The Greek word for mystery here means to close. In the New Testament, a mystery we know is the truth that God concealed but has revealed through Christ and his prophets later. Let me just give you the different views. The predator's view is that this mystery is the Jewish nature of the church and will be ended with the destruction of the temple in seventy AD, and then the Gentiles can come into the church. That's the predator view that sees a lot of these events taking place in 70 A. D. The idealist view is that the mystery is the union of Jews and Gentiles in the church. This is the s essentially is the same mystery that Paul wrote about in the book of Ephesus and Colossians, or Ephesians and Colossians. Another view is the historicist view is said the mystery here is that the papal church has been given time to repent and return to God, and now time is no longer. But the future's view is that the mystery is the final consummation of all things When God's redemptive plan is brought to completion just as he declared to his servants the prophets. This mystery, though not fully revealed, was declared to the prophets. in the Old Testament. But there's going to come a time when God says, you know what? That's it. That's it. I'm going to bring it, no more delay. I'm bringing this all to a completion. This will be the final part, the final part of God's redemptive plan being put into place. And it'll all be done. It'll all be over. Now let me give you the third thing here with just a few minutes that we have left. That is a meaningful application. We saw a mighty angel. And then number two, we saw a mysterious announcement. Then number three, a meaningful application. Now, John is commanded to do something that would seem strange to us. Look down in verse number nine. And uh actually verse eight, and the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel, upon which standeth the sea, and upon the earth uh the the sea upon the earth. And I went unto the angel and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it and eat it up. And it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as in thy mouth sweet as honey. And so uh again, again, this is kind of funny to us. The voice tells John to take the book. John takes the book, and the angel says, here, eat the book. And when you do, it'll be sweet in your mouth, but it'll be bitter in your belly. And so John does that in verse twenty, verse ten, excuse me. And I took the little book out of the angel's hand and I ate it up, and it was in my mouth sweet as honey, and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter. Now, this is all symbolic, obviously, and it's really talking about the way we receive Bible prophecy, the way we receive the Word of God. Here, John is commanded to receive the book, to take it. This is what I call the appreciation of Bible prophecy or the word of God. We receive it. You know how you should receive the Word of God? As it is the Word of God. It's not the Word of Man. It is the Word of God. And then we must receive it as humble servants. Remember in the very beginning in Revelation where it says that Jesus would show his servants things. Which must come to pass, his servants, his doulash, his humble servants. If you want to understand the book of Revelation, you know what? You've got to humble yourself. And you've got to receive it as the word of God. And you know what? When we receive the Word of God and we and God gives us through His Holy Spirit understanding into the Word of God, you know what? It has a bitter, sweet, um, kind of uh um effect on us. It's sweet in that we see that God is in control, that God's plan is is taking place. That, you know, we have a lot of blessings in store for us as the children of God. That's sweet. But you know what's bitter about it? It's bitter in the fact that you know what, there's going to be a lot of judgment on this world. There's going to be a lot of people that are going to suffer the judgment of God. It's bitter to think of those who do not know Christ. And so this is how we assimilate. We appreciate Bible prophet prophecy. We assimilate it. We we digest it spiritually. We understand the message of what it is. And it's sweet because we see the blessings, but also it's bitter because we see the judgment that will come upon others. What's the application? Look at the final verse. Look at verse eleven. And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples. And nations and tongues and kings. Go and preach to others. Go out and tell others. Listen, I hope that's one way that we apply revelation. Because of God's future judgment, because of the coming of Christ, that we'll get out there and we'll tell as many people about Jesus as we can. That we'll just share the Word of God with all that the Lord brings to us. Let me tell you this story and I'll be done. You know, when I was As a teenager, first saved here at Grace, 15 years old. You know the first book I began to learn here at Grace, it was the book of Revelation. You know why Pastor Johnson at that time was teaching Revelation on Sunday nights. Just like we're doing here on a Sunday night service, he was preaching through the book of Revelation, and I was fascinated by it as a teenager. And I wrote down notes, I listened, I read the scripture, and you know what I did? I went around to all my friends in my neighborhood, and I began to share with them the book of Revelation. You know what? They were fascinated by it. I remember all of my friends, I had them all together. I lined them up on the on my porch stairs. Just right in front of me. Here I'm 15 years old. I got the Bible. That was my first preaching audience right there. I preached the book of Revelation to him. Scared them to death. And they wanted to come to know the Lord as their Savior. Some of them did pray. Just a few years ago Actually, just maybe two years ago, I was uh preaching here on a Sunday morning. There was a man that came into our church service. He had on a ball cap, he had on sunglasses, uh, he had a long white beard. And uh I noticed him in the service. And when I got done preaching, I was standing there in the back, and as he came out He said this to me. He said, um, do you know who I am? I hate when people do that. Especially when you're wearing a hat and sunglasses and you got a long white beard. And I I just looked at him for a minute and he said, um He said, you know, you used to preach to me when I was a teenager. You used to preach in the neighborhood. Do you remember that? And I remembered and I and God gave me a word of knowledge right there. I'm just kidding, not a word of knowledge, but I took a stab at it. I said, Is that you, Doug? And he said, I knew you would remember me. And I said, Thank God. I didn't tell him this, but thank God I got that name right. Is that you, Doug? He said, I knew you would remember me. He said, you know what happened, Doug? Doug, uh, later on, he got saved. And started faithfully attending a church in uh West Virginia. That's where he lives. But he said this, he said, you know, uh years ago I looked you up on the internet and he said, I I found your sermon site. He said, I've been listening to your sermons ever since And I thought I would just come in and say thank you for sharing the gospel with me. Thank you. And you know what? That's the best application of the book of Revelation we can all have. is to go out and tell others. Share Jesus with others because I want to tell you something, friend. There's going to come a time when God's going to wrap this whole thing up. And those who do not know Jesus will face severe judgment. That's why I pray that no one that I rub shoulders with or know rejects Jesus. I want people to know Christ. I want them to come to Christ. So let's make a commitment to point them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And with your heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to ask you a question. Would you just do me a favor and just examine your heart right now before God and say, you know, do I really know Christ? Am I truly a believer? And if you do and you know that you're trusting in Jesus and Jesus alone for your salvation, your whole faith is in the finished work of Christ, just take a moment and give a w a a word of thanksgiving to our Lord for his grace. That God in His grace saved you. And praise His name. And if you're here and you say, you know what, I I can't say for sure. That I'm putting my full faith in Christ. Well you know what? You can do that right now. Right now. You know the Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. Right now Jesus is standing, he's holding out his arms. He's saying, Come unto me, come. Are you tired? Come and find rest. Are you thirsty, friend? Come to the water of life. He'll quench that thirst. I'm talking spiritually here. Spiritually, you're you're been carrying this load of sin. You know, just drop it at the cross. Come to Jesus. If you're hungry, spiritually hungry, he's the bread of life. The table is fully loaded. Just come. Come. Come just as you are, right where you are. Reach out in your heart and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Forgive me for my sin. You don't have to use my exact words. You can use your own words, but just go run to Jesus and tell him, Jesus, save me. Forgive me, I'm a sinner. I need you. You're my Savior. I know you died for my sins on the cross. Please, Lord Jesus. I turn to you with all my heart. Save me. And friend, if you pray that and you mean it, you know what the Bible says? Him that comes to me. I will in no wise cast out. You have a desire to come to Jesus, you just come. He'll not turn you away. Father, thank you again for the grace that we have. Thank you for all that we have to look forward to in Christ. Thank you, Lord, that we know you're not finished. You're working still, you're building your church. You're waiting for people to repent. But we know there's going to come a time when it's all over. When time shall be no more. But Lord, until then, help us to be faithful, steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.