All right. Thank you. Would you take God's word tonight? And I want you to open to the Old Testament Book of Psalms and find chapter thirteen tonight. We're going to look at this chapter here and study one of the Psalms. And tonight, Psalm chapter 13 is just six verses, but this is a wonderful Psalm with a great message to us here tonight. And what I want to speak about tonight is when God seems distant. When God seems distant. Psalm 13, verse 1. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, forever? How long would thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? A pre-kindergartner teacher found an exciting new thing for the Sunday school class. The teacher wrote a song about popcorn and taught it to the children. She had them crouch down on the floor to sing, and at appropriate points in the song all the children would pop up. The teacher soon had all of them popping all over the room. And one day she was singing the popcorn song with all her students and she looked around and noticed that there was one child that wasn't popping up. And she went over to the little boy and she said, How come you're not popping up like the rest of the students? And he said, Well, he said, I'm burning in the bottom of the pan. You ever feel that way? Ever feel like you've lost your pop and you're burning at the bottom of the pen? Well this is kind of probably the way that David felt somewhat when he wrote Psalm 13. David is going through a trial. It seems to drag on and on. And it seemed like God was nowhere in his life or that God seemed so distant from him. Have you ever felt that way? Like you're in the midst of a trial and you can't seem to locate God If we're honest, I think all of us will say there's times when we've been in a a dark tunnel and when we really can't see the light, when we've had frustrate frustrating moments in our life, and we we need to hear from the Lord. And uh In that desperation, it just seems like God is so distant from us. If you've ever felt that way, you're not alone. Other believers have gone through similar spiritual experiences. In fact, if you ever read the biographies of great Christians, you'll find out that all of them went through similar type of experiences in their Christian life. And certainly when you read the psalms, you get the idea that the psalmist has gone through things like this. For example, in Psalm 6, verse 2, he prays and says, Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I am weak. And then he says in verse 3, My soul is sore vexed. But thou, O Lord, how long? Lord, I'm here, my soul is vexed, but I'm waiting on you. How long before you answer me? And there are many verses in the Psalms that That seem to echo those very same things. Even in Psalm 22, verse 1, where it says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because those are the words that our Lord Jesus quoted when he was on the cross. He felt as if he had himself had been abandoned by God the Father. Well all that is to let us know that this is a spiritual experience that all of us need to go through. God hasn't abandoned us, even though you might feel like He has. But we need to go through these trials and these difficulties because all of that is part of the maturing process that God has for all of us. Now other believers have gone through these things and they have walked through these dark paths successfully, and so can you Now David is a prime example of this in Psalm 13. Let me give you the background of the writing of the Psalm. Anytime you read a psalm, it's good to get the background and find out why, what were the circumstances that caused David to write Well, the circumstance is very simple here. David is a hero in Israel. We all know that. David is the sweet psalmist of Israel. He's the man who defeated the giant Goliath. All the women sang about David. They said Saul has slain a thousand, but David is ten thousand. And you remember that Saul didn't appreciate that song very much. The Bible says that he was very angry at that saying, that song. And the Bible says that Saul eyed David from then on out, that is, he looked at him with a green-eyed monster of jealousy. And as a result, Saul became the enemy of David, and David had to run for his life. Now he's the anointed king of Israel. He's going to be the next king. But now Saul's looking at looking at him as a threat. And so David has to live as a fugitive for many years in his life. In fact, for eight to nine years, did you know that David had to flee and run? He lived in the wilderness, he lived in caves, uh wherever he could to flee from Saul, that's where he went. He even went to a place, uh, you know, now if you go over to Israel and go to visit a place called Masada, a high uh fortress, uh mountain fortress, huge rock. And at one point in 1 Samuel, David refers to hiding at, and the Hebrew word there is Masada, and Engedi in the wilderness of Ngedi. So he's hiding all over, remaining on the move so that Saul cannot get him And one day at a moment of real discouragement, David says to himself, You know, I'm going to die at the hands of Saul. He said, It's just better for me that I should escape into the land of the Philistines. This is 1 Samuel 27-1 You know, so he leaves the coast of Israel, he goes into the land of the Philistines, the an uh land of the enemies, by the way, and he settled in a place called Ziklag, and he managed to live at Ziklag for sixteen months in relative peace. But one day David went out on a military mission, and when he returned home, he found the city of Ziklag burning with fire. His wives were kidnapped, all of his children were gone, as well as all of the wives and the children of all the soldiers that were there. And David's men were not merely grief-stricken, but they were filled with anger and fury against David. They thought it was all David's fault. And so they were ready to stone David at that time. And in desperation, out of the pain of his heart, David cries out to the Lord. And this is where we get this psalm right here. Psalm 13, in a time when David is going through a deep dark trial, and it's a very painful time in his life. Out of the furnace of his desperation comes these incredible words here of Psalm 13. Now the Psalm really is divided into three stands. Those are two verses each. In verses one and two he states the problem. In verses three and four he kind of gives the petition And in verses five and six, it kind of ends up on a on a note of praise to God. But what this psalm really does for us is it teaches us what we should do when we feel like God is distant Or when we feel like God has abandoned us in some way. Again, have you ever felt that way? Well David kind of gives us a guide on how we should pray when we are feeling the same thing that David felt in his time of despair. What I see here are just three steps that David takes. And here's the first one. If you're taking notes, write down, express your feelings to the Lord. Just express your feelings to the Lord. What we find out here in this psalm is that David comes to God with his honest feelings. Now there's nothing wrong with doing that. We can pour our heart out before the Lord. The Psalms are great illustrations of that very thing. You read the Psalms, you'll find out that the Psalmist is honest before God about how he's feeling. And let me be quick to say that we don't do this in an irreverent way. There's never a reason to be irreverent in the way that we approach God or that we talk to God. But I'm not talking about kind of a careless, irreverent approach to God. I'm talking about just expressing your honest feelings to God in prayer. And David does this, and he does it in the form of a question, really, with two words. He says, How long? Notice how many times he says it. Four times in two verses, David asks the question, how long? Two times in verse 1 and two times in verse number 2, David asked that question. David had been praying and waiting, and it seems as if God had forgotten David. Waiting is one I've said before and I'll say it again, waiting is one of the most difficult things to do in the Christian life. Someone said the hard thing about waiting is you have to wait. Don't you hate waiting? I mean, I I do. I've got to be honest with you. Patience is not one of my better virtues. Waiting is especially hard if you really don't have a whole lot to do while you wait. Now remember, this song was written when David was being pursued by Saul. He had a lot of time on his hand, him and his men. You know, the their whole day was really All about trying to survive in a desolate wilderness. It was all about finding daily provisions and keeping watch The hours, the days, and the weeks and even the months seemed to drag on as David was waiting for God to act on his behalf. Remember, David is the anointed king. God, when are you going to put me on the throne? When are you going to get me out of this wilderness? But David had to wait for God to act. Sometimes it seems as if God moves so slow. We live in a day when it's all about hurry, hurry, hurry, hurry. We want things instantly You know, but God so often says, wait, wait, wait. Reminds me of Philip Brooks, the great preacher. He was pacing the floor like a caged lion. A friend said, What's the trouble? And Brooks said, you know, the trouble is I'm in a hurry, but God is not And this is how David feels here. He's saying, Lord, how long? Notice three things. First of all, how long are you going to abandon me in verse number one? David says, Lord, how long will you forget me? Forever? David probably felt that way because the trial he had been going through, again, this was a trial that dragged on for eight and nine years. It's one thing to go through a trial that lasts, you know, a few months or maybe even a year But to go through the same trial that lasts eight or nine years, that's a long time for a trial. Sometimes trials don't go away quickly. Sometimes they last for years. And David was wondering, when is this trial ever going to end? It did come to an end, but only when God was finished. doing what he wanted to do in the life of David. And there's a principle that we learn here, and it's simply this. The greater the task God wants to accomplish with you, the greater the trial he will put you through to make you ready to do his will. David was ready for it to be over. But God said, no, not yet. There's still more that needs to happen. You ever notice there's a difference between God's timetable and our timetable? You know, we think in terms of hours, days, but God thinks in terms of years and sometimes even decades We see this in the life of Joseph. God wanted to bring Joseph down to Egypt, put him in a position of influence so he could save a lot of people. How did God do that? Well, first we know the story. He sold into slavery, and then he's put in a uh made a servant in Potiphar's house, falsely accused and then put into prison. And while he was in prison, don't you think he prayed many times, Lord, please get me out of here, how long do I have to be in here? And finally an opportunity came when the Pharaoh's butler and Baker were put into prison and they had uh dreams and and Joseph was able to interpret those dreams. And he told them, You're going to be released and go back to Pharaoh. When you do, please remember me. And they said, Oh, sure, Joseph, we'll remember you. And the next verse in that story says in in in Genesis 41, verse 1, now it happened at the end of two full years. Two years? I thought you were going to remember me. You know, Joseph is still in prison two years later. Think about the last two years of your life. And Joseph was there in that prison waiting for another two years. Couldn't God move faster and get Joseph out of that prison sooner? Well, God wasn't done doing what he had to do yet. And then think about the Apostle Paul. His greatest preacher and apostle was Paul, God's greatest preacher and apostle There was so much work to do for the Lord and so little time to do it. Paul wanted to go to Rome, and then from there he wanted to go to Spain. He had so many plans. You know how God got on the Rome? Paul was sent to Rome because he was falsely accused. And he was imprisoned in Caesarea by the sea. And he stayed there for two years while Felix the governor kind of held him there because he knew Paul had influential friends And he was going to use Paul to kind of bribe his friends for money. And after two years another governor came named Festus, and then Paul was finally released to go to Rome, but you know he stayed in the prison in Rome for two more years Think about that. God's greatest apostle is hemmed up in prison for all those years. Wasn't Paul walking by faith? Yeah. Wasn't he praying? Of course he was. Why do you have to sit there for all those years? By the way, did you know that some of the greatest epistles we have in the New Testament are called prison epistles? These are the epistles that Paul wrote during that time that instruct us, that encourage us. God's timing is different than our timing. And that's what David is going through. Again, he is anointed king. He was anointed as a teenager. By the prophet Samuel, but now Saul is pursuing him like a partridge in the mountains. David is just trying to save his own life by fleeing. And David is now in his twenties. And he'd been this had been going on for years. We could say it like this: that David spent the better part of his twenties simply running from Saul. Eight or nine years of his life running. And David prays, Lord, how long? How long are you going to abandon me? But then also, how long do I have to bear this inner turmoil? Look in verse number two. How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? Now the idea of the Hebrew in verse 2 is that of adding one thought to another and attempt to get out of the difficulty, but they all fail and just add sorrow to sorrow. It's just David in inwardly he's being bombarded with thoughts. He's playing mental ping pong He's thinking about what to do. And you know, he's just filled with anxiety here. He wants rest in his soul. He was in inner tur turmoil, and he wanted this turmoil to stop. And again, you might be able to relate to that. Your heart filled with anxiety. There seems to be no rest in your soul. How long are you going to abandon me, O Lord? How long do I have to bear this inner turmoil? And then how long are my enemies going to win over me? Look in verse 2 at the end. How long shall my enemies be exalted over me? To put it in athletic terms, David has zero wins. He was the captain of a losing team. His enemies were winning. I remember one time when I played baseball, I was 16 years old. We went one full season without winning one game. Not one game. We were oh and twenty something. Think about that. Everyone wanted to play us because it was a guaranteed win. You know, David has been on a losing team for years. Saul was still the king. Saul's enjoying the comforts of the palace while David is sleeping in caves. And what made it worse is David, he's the good guy in the story. Saul is the bad guy. Saul wasn't seeking the Lord, but David was. Saul was trying to kill David without cause. Even though David had spared Saul's life, didn't God know what was happening? Couldn't he do something? Had he forgotten totally about David here? Sooner or later, we're going to be in that position. We're wondering, God, where are you? You call out to God and He doesn't seem to answer. You try to figure out how to get out of your circumstance, but nothing works. You go from the heights of hope to the depths of despair. So many times you kind of go through that emotional roller coaster that you can't seem to take much more. And David's going through that. But in that time, David is honest. With the Lord, he expresses his feelings to the Lord in that time. But here's the second thing he does. Express your fears to the Lord. Not only express your feelings, but express your fears. In verses 3 and 4, David expresses his inward fears. And these are expressed in his prayer. There's the fear of abandonment. Look at verse 3. Consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Word consider here actually means look on me, please don't turn away from me. Or we could say, Lord, please don't abandon me. You know, this is one of the biggest fears that people have is the fear of abandonment. Did you know that The worst judgment in Scripture mentioned, I think, is when God abandons someone. This is the wrath of abandonment, we call it, in Hosea 4. 17. Ephraim has joined the idols, leave him alone God said, you know, leave Ephraim around. I'm not dealing with Ephraim anymore. I'm going to saturate Ephraim with my absence. I'm abandoning them. That's the worst judgment. that you can have is God's abandonment. Jesus said to the Pharisees, let them alone. Talking to the disciples about the Pharisees, I should say, let them alone. They be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. You know, sometimes I hear people say, I just don't want God in my life. I wish He would leave me alone. You better be careful what you ask for. Because the worst thing that could happen to you is if God would leave you alone. And David's saying, Lord, please Don't leave me alone. Don't abandon me. There was a fear of abandonment, the fear of apathy. Look in verse 3 where he says, Lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. When he says lest I sleep the sleep of death, it means lest I get so depressed and discouraged I don't care anymore. Just one day I just don't want to get out of bed. I I sleep the sleep of death. I don't want to get out. I don't want to go any place You just get to the point to where you just don't do want anything anymore. You're completely, totally in despair and apathetic, where you just quit in your heart. That's what David means when he says, you know, lighten mine eyes. The phrase means, Lord, put the light back in my eyes. Isn't that a fascinating thing to pray? You can easily see a person who is broken in their spirit and in depression. You can see the light gone from their eyes. You can almost see it in their face. And David is saying, Lord Light, put the light back in my eyes. I don't want to grow apathetic. And then there's the fear of his adversaries. Look at verse number four. Lest my enemies say I have prevailed against him. And those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved. David didn't want the enemies of God rejoicing. David wasn't just praying for deliverance so that he could escape from his problems and be happy. His fear was that the enemies would rejoice. And since David is God's anointed king, if he died at the hand of the enemies, it would make God look bad God's honor was tied up in David's deliverance. If you profess as David did to trust in God alone, then your defeat becomes God's defeat. So in a time of crisis, you can call out to God to rescue you, not just for your own relief, but for God's glory. And that's what David was concerned about here. He was concerned ultimately about God's glory. So when you feel like God is distant, express your feelings to the Lord. Express your fears to the Lord. And here's the third thing. Express your faith to the Lord Because I love the way this psalm ends in verses 5 and 6. Notice what he says here, but I have trusted in thy mercy. And David here expresses his trust and confidence in God despite his circumstances. He has not yet been delivered. But he trusts in God's promise. David makes a choice to put his trust in God at that very moment. And this, I think, is something that David learned to do because we see it in many Psalms where David will describe a bitter circumstance that he's in. A deep dark trial that he's in. But he always seems to revert back to, but God, I will trust in you. Even in my circumstances that don't look good, I make a conscious choice to put my trust in you This is a deliberate choice to trust in God and not give in to the fears, not give in to the circumstances. I I think that David learned to do this as a young shepherd boy, facing real danger in his life. You know, these were f real fears that David had to overcome even as a shepherd. One time a bear came to take one of his lambs. David had to fight off the bear with just a sling and a stone. You think that's easy? I dare you to try it. See a bear, just fight him off with just a stone in his fling. David did that. But not only a bear, but also a lion. A lion came to take one of his lands, and again David had to face off with the lion and scare it off with just a sling and a stone. And then of course later on David faced the heavyweight champion of the Philistines, Goliath, you know, ten foot tall guy. And David again defeated him with just a sling and a stone. And now Saul is jealous of David, and he's trying to kill him. And David now is running for his life. He's being hunted. And he's in all kind of difficulty because of Saul. He had to live in a cave like an animal. His human emotions and circumstances are all telling him that God has abandoned him. God's anointed him with kin as king, but now here he is for all these years, living in the wilderness, and all these circumstances and all these inward emotions and fears are all saying to David, God's forgotten you. He's abandoned you. But what does David do? He makes a deliberate choice not to listen to those negative thoughts He makes a deliberate choice not to give in to what he sees by sight. We're not to walk by sight, we're to walk by what? By faith. So David doesn't give in to the what he sees. He doesn't give in to what he feels. He makes a deliberate choice to say, you know what? I choose to trust in God. Yeah, I'm afraid Yeah, I'm filled with anxiety at times, but I make a deliberate conscious choice that I will trust in the Lord. Write down Psalm 56, verse 3. At what time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. That's a great verse. Whenever fear comes, whenever circumstances make you afraid, you need to make a conscious choice at that time to put your trust in the Lord. And so David learned not to give in to the negative emotions, not to give in to his uh his feelings, not to give in to the circumstances. David would not allow fear to stay in his heart. When fear came, he replaced it by declaring his faith in God. And he's doing the same thing here in verse 5. But I have trusted in thy mercy. The but I is emphatic in the Hebrew. It points to a deliberate choice to rely on God. Mercy is Kesed. It means God's loyal, unfailing love. David says, God, I'm going to put my trust in your mercy, your unfailing, loyal love to me. Even though the circumstances look like God abandoned him. Deep down, David knew that's not the case, that God loved him. that God had a loyal love for David and that God was going to deliver David His circumstances have not changed one bit from the start of this psalm when he felt confused, depressed, forsaken. So what changed? David made a choice. I'm going to trust in God's mercy. I'm going to trust in his mercy. And then he says this, my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I love that. David is not yet delivered, but he knows he will be. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. A calm assurance comes over him. His heart was filled with joy as he thinks about the deliverance which God will give him. By faith, David counts God's future deliverance as past. And he says, I will sing to the Lord. Look at verse 6. I will sing unto the Lord because he hath dealt bountifully with me. David's focus changed. He's no longer focusing on the problem. But rather he's focusing on God. He's focusing on the Lord God, not the problem. You see, David chose to interpret his circumstances by God's love rather than interpret God's love by a circumstance. And he's trusting in God. And so there's two vital lessons that we need to remember when we're having these feelings. Like David, number one, God has not forgotten you. He has not forgotten you. God has an unfailing loyal love to you, his child. Isaiah 49, verse 14. But Zion said, The Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me God's response, can a woman forget her suckling child that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Yea, they may forget, but I will not forget thee, says God God said, you know, a mom might forget her child. That's possible from eternal love, sometimes to fail. But let me tell you one love that doesn't fail. It's the love of God. God's love doesn't fail. It might seem like God has forgotten you, but he hasn't. And there's a second thing. There's no such thing as instant godliness We have instant everything in our society, but there's no instant godliness. David was anointed to be king in his teens. He had a strong faith at that time. But David needed to grow in his godliness before God put him on the throne. Did God put him on the throne when he turned twenty-one? No. Did he put him on the throne when he turned twenty-five? No. Twenty-seven, no, twenty-nine, no, twenty, thirty, no, not yet. Through all those years, running from Saul, living in caves, David learned to wait upon God. God was developing in him an inner character, a man after his own heart. But that's how God works. If God's got you in a circumstance where you feel frustrated and you feel like you can't get out, And you know, it feels like God's not answering your prayer. That's not by accident. Let God do his perfect work in you. He hasn't forgotten you, and you need to learn to wait on him. Let me give you in closing here just a few reasons of why we need to learn to wait and trust in the Lord at these times. First of all, it makes you more obedient. It makes you more obedient to God. Psalm 119, verse 67, before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. You know, God, before you put me in that trial, before you afflicted me, I would go astray a lot, but now not now, after the trial is over, Lord. I have learned consistently to keep your word. Number two, to deepen your insight into God's word. I'm convinced that there are certain things you'll never learn from the Scripture until you go through a trial. Psalm 119, verse 71, it is good for me that I have been afflicted. Why? That I might learn thy statutes I went through this trial and this affliction, and it taught me more of the Word of God. But here's number three, to increase your compassion and effectiveness in ministry. No one can have compassion on others in a trial like those who have gone through trials and those same trials. God comforts us. God puts us in a trial and then he comforts us. Why? So that we might be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. 2 Corinthians 1:4 But then here's number four. God is teaching you to wait patiently on him. To teach you to wait patiently on God. Psalm twenty seven verse fourteen. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. But here's number five, and I really like this one. To make your joy less dependent on circumstances and on God, more on God. Is your joy dependent on outward circumstances? We're to wean you off of that so that your joy comes from just knowing God and fellowshipping with God. God puts you through these trials. So that your joy is not dependent on outward circumstances. Habakkuk 317. Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall the fruit be in the vines. The labor of the olive oil shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat, the flocks shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls, yet will I rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation The Lord is God is my strength. I love that. His joy is not dependent on these outward circumstances now. His joy is dependent on God. His joy is in God Himself. But then here's number six. To make you appreciate God all the more when He restores you. You know, I think Job went through a dark trial, but in the end, Job was blessed more than his beginning. And it made him love God all the more. So allow all those things, all those principles to mold you. And learn to respond biblically. Learn to respond biblically, not Troubles. So what did David do? Number one, he expressed his feelings to the Lord, express your feelings to the Lord. Number two, express your fears to the Lord. And number three, express your faith. to the Lord. The famous preacher Charles Furgeon was walking through the English countryside with a friend and he noticed a barn that had a weather vane and on the top of the weather vane were the words God is love. And Spurgeon said, you know, this was an inappropriate place for such a message because weather vanes are changeable, but God's love is constant And the friend said this Virginia says, no, that's not what that means. He said, what he's saying is that the weather vane is saying the truth that no matter which way the wind blows, God is love. And that's the message. No matter which way the winds might blow in your life, God is love. And He has not forgotten you. And remember this, if it seems as if if God has abandoned you, then join it, David, in trusting in God's mercy. Make a choice to trust in God's mercy. And remember also that even our Lord Jesus on the cross felt abandoned. But you know why he was there, of course, on the cross? Because he was taking all of our sins upon himself. And when he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? At that moment, Jesus, who was the sinless one, became, the Bible says, the sin bearer for us. And he took all of our sins upon himself. And over the and uh and in that time when Jesus felt abandonment is when God was doing his greatest work. In our lives, because of what Christ did. The greatest blessings to this world came at a time when Jesus felt abandoned And when we feel abandoned, God is doing great works. And he wants to bless others through us. And so remember that. Flee to him for refuge. Let's bow for prayer together. tonight. And so Lord, thank you for this wonderful psalm. Thank you for all the psalms, Lord. They so minister. And it seems like whatever someone's going through, whatever spiritual trial or experience or emotional trouble, that we can pick up the Psalms and read where the Psalms went through the same thing. And we also have spiritual encouragement from whatever difficulty or trial or trauma or anxiety. That a person might have, Lord, we find comfort, we find strength in the Psalms in your word, and we thank you for that. Thank you, Lord, for what David went through so that he could teach us. What we do in times when we feel like, Lord, you're distant. And Lord, we confess and we know, Lord, that in those times we know that you haven't moved. We know that you're there. And we know that like the sun, your love is always shining. Even though the circumstances might cloud it up at times. We confess, Lord, that you are always there and your love is always shining. And Lord, may we like David make a deliberate choice in times like that to put our trust in your mercy, to hope in your mercy. And Lord, may it be so, for all these we pray in Jesus' name