You know here on Wednesday night we're studying this this Old Testament prophet and he is a minor prophet, as they say, a minor prophet with a major message And look in Malachi chapter 2, and we're going to look at verse 17, and then into chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. This is one section together here. I think chapter 2, verse 17 is meant to be with this particular argument that's given in the first six verses here in chapter three. The title of the sermon tonight is Where is the God of Justice? Look in chapter 2, verse 17. Ye have wearied the Lord with your words, yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delighteth in them, or where is the God of judgment, or we could say justice? Now, when you come to these verses, you might want to picture in your mind a courtroom scene. This would probably help you to understand what's going on here. Because for all practical purposes, God is being placed on trial here in this passage in Malachi. The people in Malachi's day are making accusations against God, if you can imagine that. By the way, that's not uh you know something that's just that day, people still do that today. People still make accusations against God And it really is summed up in the last question in verse 17. Where is the God of judgment? The people in Malachi's Day were saying, if you're a just God, why are you allowing such injustice in the world? Have you ever put God on trial in your heart? You know what people do when they put God on trial? They take him off the throne, essentially, and they put him on the defense stand. And they ask God to give an answer for his actions or his lack of actions, his inaction. And essentially what people do is they challenge God with their questions. That's what they're doing here. Who is puny man to challenge God? Heard one time about a Hollywood actor, Burt Reynolds He was being interviewed and somehow it got onto uh questions about God. And he said this about God. God, you blew it. You're wrong. Who is this sinful carnal man to say that to God that you blew it? I say Burt Reynolds, you blew it many times. And yet this is what's going on here. No one should ever say that to God, and yet, in a sense, this is what the people in Malachi And that that they are doing. And sometimes people again still do this today. When they see war going on, when they see starvation, when they see famine in the world, when they see homeless people, they had a tendency to say, where is the God of justice? Now this is what they were doing, and Malachi doesn't like it. In verse 17, he says, Ye have wearied the Lord with your words. The word wearied here is a word that describes to be annoyed. It's used sometimes to talk about physical exhaustion, but you can't make God tired. Obviously he's using something we can understand. Essentially what he's saying is you have aggravated God. You've annoyed God. How is it that dust should challenge or judge deity? Something wrong about that. I heard about a family who ha who bought a little puppy and they brought it home. Their six year old son said, Man, I wanna paint a sign. To let all the neighbors know that we have a dog. And the father said, go ahead. And so he painted a sign, put it on the gate. Then he brought his dad out and said, Dad, what do you think about the sign? The mom and dad looked at the sign. It said, beware of doggy. The Father said, somehow that sign lacks authority. Beware of doggy. Somehow man placing God on trial lacks authority. But Malachi says, you've wearied God with your words. And notice their response. Yet ye say, wherein have we wearied him? That is, they are defensive. They answer back. How have we wearied God? Now remember, if if you've been with us in the study of the book of Malachi. This book is written kind of as a disputation. They were constantly disputing the words of God. They were constantly asking these questions back to God. Wherein? How have we done this? And here we see the same cynical response. How have we wearied God? And Malachi reminds them in verse 17, when ye say everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. And Malachi then responded by reminding them of the accusations they have made against Almighty God. And again, in essence, they're saying, God, why are things the way they are? Why is there injustice? Why do the wicked prosper? In essence, they're saying God is not a just God. And so really this whole passage is divided into two arguments or two sections. First of all, the accusations of the people We see this in chapter 2, verse 17. And then we see, secondly, the answers of the Lord. That's in chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. So what I want us to do is look a little closer at these two sections. First of all, if you're taking notes, the accusations of the people Let's look a little closer. What are they actually accusing God of? Well, first of all, they're saying God is good to bad people. He's good to evil people. Again, verse 17 Wherein ye say, everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of the Lord. And again, it looks like the wicked are made to prosper, is what they're saying. They were actually dealing with the age-old question, why do the wicked prosper, why do the righteous suffer? I mean, when Malachi wrote this, the people of that day were under the thumb of the wicked Medo-Persian Empire. This was a godless empire, and yet this godless empire was prospering. Meanwhile, the people of God were very disappointed. All the promises that the prophets had made had not yet come to fruition. One hundred years previous to this, Zechariah promised all these wonderful blessings, and none of these things had come to pass. Israel was still under foreign domination. She was not the center of the earth. The nations were not flocking to Jerusalem with their wealth. The old folks were not sitting in the streets watching children play securely The the land was not yielding abundant fruit. And yet all these things were promised. And then look add to that the temple when it was rebuilt was a disappointment. It didn't look like much. Haggai said that the latter temple would be greater than the former, but it sure didn't seem that way. And so it seemed like the ungodly were prospering and God's people were struggling. And so they say in verse 17, everyone that doeth evil is good in the sight of God. That's one accusation. God, you treat the wicked better than you treat your own people. Second accusation. Again, look at verse 17. It says, and he delighteth in them. Notice that next phrase right after the one we just read. And he delighteth in them in them. That is, that is, they're saying God delights in the wicked. That's what they're saying. Or he delights in their transgression. Wow, they've gone beyond just plain accusation. It's a blasphemy. God likes the wicked. He delights in the wicked? I mean, if God had a defense attorney, surely at this point he would say, I object. Hold on here. You've crossed the line. And yet the people in Malachi's day could call some witnesses to testify. You say, who could they call? This isn't the first time that this issue has been questioned. or dealt with in the Old Testament. Others have dealt with it. For example, they could call Job to the stand. Just write in your margin, Job 21 Verse 7 to 17. Job said this, why do the wicked live and reach old age and grow mighty in power? Their offspring are established in their presence and their descendants before their eyes, their houses are safe from fear, and no rod of God is upon them. And on and on he goes. Talks about the benefits they have. And then he says, What is the Almighty that we should serve them? That is, the wicked say in return to all this, who's God that we should serve them? And Job says, Boy, it seems like the ungodly prosper They could also call to the witness stand Jeremiah. Write down Jeremiah chapter 12, verses 1 through 4. This is what Jeremiah said. Righteous are you, O Lord! Yet I would plead my case again before you. God, I know you're righteous, and yet I have a case I'd like to bring to you. And then he goes on to say, why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive? You plant them and they take root. They grow and produce fruit. You are near in their mouth, far from their hearts. And then you could also bring into the witness the end Asaph in Psalm 73, he makes the same complaint. He said, I was envious at the wicked, the prosperity of the wicked. Then I saw all the benefits they had, and I was actually envious towards them. And then he goes on to talk about all of the seeming benefits they have, and then he comes to this conclusion He says, in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. He said, you know, what good does it do to live a holy life? If it seems like we're constantly struggling, and those who are wicked seem to prosper. Now, maybe you've had some of those same thoughts. Maybe there's some people here and you thought, man, I thought when I got saved and I came to Jesus that everything was going to be easier. And when you got saved, things got harder. Whereas before you could do whatever you want. You never felt the sting of conscience. But now that you're a Christian, you have the Holy Spirit And you have to walk with God. You have to walk a godly life. And so the Holy Spirit's constantly convicting. And we're constantly dealing with these things and we're constantly confronting problems in the world. You know why it was easier before? We were going the same direction as we were. When you got saved, you turn and you're going against the flow of the world. You're going in the opposite direction. And so maybe some people wonder, what difference does it make if I follow the Lord? Where is the God of judgment or justice? Now there's a third accusation. that they make here in verse 17. God seems to bless evil people. He seems to delight in evil people a strong accusation. But the third one is in the last question that we already saw. Or where is the God of judgment? That is, where is his justice? It seems like people are just getting away with murder. Man, it sure seems that way. According to the NPR News, one-third of the murder cases in America go unsolved. And uh one criminologist estimates that at least 200,000 murders have gone unsolved since the 1960s. Man, people just seem to be getting away with so much. Not too long ago, just a few weeks back here in uh August, a friend of mine called me. He's uh he was a lieutenant in the Memphis Police Department And he was in charge of training police officers there in Memphis. He was a member of my church down there. And I used to speak for him at these police banquets where they would award police officers. And he called me, he said, now I'm here in Baltimore. I'm up here training officers, meeting with the Baltimore police. He said, what are you doing? I said, I'm serving. He said, let's do something. I said, let's go to a nose game. He said, let's do it. We got together and I started talking to him. I said, so how's our Baltimore police doing? He said, they're demoralized. He said, 600 officers have walked away. He said there are more people getting away with crime in your city right now than ever because of what's going on. People just seem to be getting away with things. That's the condition. And so the question that people ask sometimes is, where is the God of justice? Now these are the accusations of the people. Now I want you to see the second part. Write down number two the answers of the Lord. How does God answer this? Does God have an answer? Oh yes. He has an answer. And notice what he says. Look in chapter 3 and look at verse number 1. Behold, I have sent my messenger And he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant whom ye delight in, behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of hosts. In essence, what God is saying here is the God that you seek is coming. You ask, where is the God of judgment? The God that you seek, he's coming. This is the answer of God. He's going to come, and he's going to come suddenly to his temple. And you know what? He's going to make all things right. But to add to that, you better be careful what you ask for. This is what Malachi is saying. Are you sure you want him to come? You better be careful what she asks for. Because when he comes, he's coming in judgment. And then he says this and look at verse 2. But who may abide? The day of his coming. Or who shall stand when he appears? So what's God's answer? Write down, first of all, the promise of a reconciler. God promises to send someone who's going to reconcile everything. You see, that's God's plan. God has always had a plan. He's always had a plan to right every wrong, and this plan to make right every injustice ever committed is centered in his Messiah In his Messiah that is coming, all things will be reconciled. In fact, the Bible says that Jesus Christ is going to reconcile all things unto himself. Everything. Now notice some things about this coming Messiah. First of all, a messenger is going to prepare his way. Look again in verse 1. Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before mean. Now Malachi here is referring to Isaiah's prophecy, the voice crying in the wilderness, make the way for our God. This is a prophecy about John the Baptist. And God used the ministry of John the Baptist to prepare the way for Jesus Christ. In fact, Jesus applied this very prophecy To John, write down Matthew 11. 10. This is what Jesus said in Matthew 11, 10. This is he talking about John the Baptist. This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face. who will prepare your way before me. So this is referring to John the Baptist, the messenger. Now also remember, look in Malachi chapter 4, look in verse number 5, where it says that That God, or verse 5 where it says, Behold, I will send you Elijah, the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Now remember the Lord predicts that Elijah will come before the coming of the day of the Lord. Remember the disciples asked Jesus in Matthew 17. They said, why then do the scribes say Elijah must first come? Remember what Jesus said there? Jesus answered, he said, Elijah is coming, and he will restore all things. But then he says this, but I say unto you that Elijah already came, and they did not recognize him. And Matthew adds this, then the disciples understood that he spoke to them about John the Baptist. Say, what are you saying? This prophecy has a dual fulfillment. It was fulfilled once in Jesus' day in the person of John the Baptist at the first coming of Jesus, and it's going to be fulfilled again at the second coming of Jesus. You know why? Because before Jesus comes again, Elijah will appear. We see that in Revelation chapter 11. He's one of the witnesses that will appear. And so this has a dual fulfillment. But here Malachi is saying, listen, before that messenger of the covenant, before the Messiah comes, people have to get ready. They have to be prepared. Now the imagery he uses here is the custom that was used back in that day. Whenever a visiting king would come to a town, the people of that town would have to be prepared for his coming But they didn't have any road crews out there to uh make the roads good, and so it was up to the people to go out and to make the road level. All the pip potholes had to be filled in All the rocks had to be, you know, cluttered the road, had to clear them out, clear out all the debris. They had to get everything ready for the coming king, because his coming was announced. And by the way, friend, that's true about Jesus when he comes again. You better get ready for his coming. You better fill in the potholes of sin in your life. You better clear out the debris of your of your life. You better be ready and meet him in the right way. I'm no John the Baptist or where I do. I'm certainly not even close. But I tell you this, the king is coming. He's coming. You better get ready for it. The Bible says every man who has this hope, what, the hope of his coming, purifies himself. So get ready. He's gonna come And his messenger is going to prepare the way, but not also this, he will come when you least expect it. Look again in verse 1. Behold, I will send my messenger, he shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come. to his temple. Notice suddenly, that doesn't mean quickly, but really it means when least expected. When you least expect it, he's going to come. You got all kind of scoffers out here saying, Oh, you talk about the coming of the Lord. You've been talking about that for two thousand years. When's he coming? Right when you least expect it. He's going to come. He's going to make everything right. But also he will be God in human flesh. So where does it say that? You know, sometimes critics say the Bible never claims that Jesus was God. That's utter nonsense. Look in verse 1. This is one of the clearest claims on the deity of Christ. Look again in verse 1. Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me. Look at that verse. Think about it. Who's doing the talking there? The speaker is the Lord of hosts, God. And he says he's going to send his messenger. He's going to prepare the way before me. Now, who was the messenger? John the Baptist. Who did he prepare the way for? Jesus. And here it says, who'll prepare the way for me? Who's speaking here? God. And so Jesus is the speaker, and Jesus is God right here. He's going to prepare the way for me. And so this is a clear verse on the deity of Christ He's also called the messenger of the covenant in verse number one. This phrase only occurs here. It's called the messenger of the covenant because it was a covenant of the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed on the cross that secured our salvation. The blood of the covenant. But he's also called the Lord, whom you seek in verse 1. There's the definite article, the Lord. Anytime you see that, that's always speaking about God. And it also says he's going to come to his temple. Who does the temple belong to? It doesn't belong to any man. It belongs to God All this shows that this Messiah, this great reconciler that's going to come is none other than Jesus Christ. And who is he? He's God in the flesh. who's come to reconcile all things to himself. He's the great reconciler. But also write down this number two. He's the purifying the the purifying of a refiner, not only the promise of a reconciler. But we see here the purifying of a refiner Look in verse number two again. But who shall abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire, and like a fuller's soap Notice, God is going to purify his own people. Malachi says he's like a refiner's fire. He's like a fire. fuller soap. We see here the process of purification. These are not instruments of judgment. These are instruments of cleansing and purifying. God said, I will wash my people like a launderer washes dirty clothes. God says, I will purify my people the same way a jeweler will purify precious metal. That's what God is doing right now. This is the work that God does with his people. Are you a Christian? You know what he's doing with you? He's purifying you. He's doing the work of a refiner. So to answer the question of why does it seem like God's people are having a difficult time, and why does it seem like the ungodly are prospering, here's the answer, because God is doing a process with his own beloved covenant people that he's not doing with the ungodly. You say, what's he doing with his people? He's purifying you. Now God will get to the ungodly later. He's got a plan for them as well. But right now, he's purifying his people. And this process of purifying is often painful. He will use trials. He will use heartache. He'll use difficulty. He'll use adversity. But he's purifying. Trials for a believer are a smelting furnace that God uses. To purify. Job said it like this: He knows the way that I take, and when he has tried me, I shall come forth like gold. Now the silversmith, the oriental silversmith of that day, he would often sit and wait. He would heat up the precious metal and the impurities would rise and he would skim off the impurities. He would keep doing that and purifying that metal. That's what God is doing. Years ago, a woman's Bible study studied Malachi 3. 3. They were particularly interested where it says he shall sit as a refiner. He's watching over And they went to a silversmith and they said, tell us the process. He says, I heat up the metal and I sit and I watch it very closely. They said, Do you ever take your eyes off? He said, Oh no, I keep watching it. I know exactly how hot to make it And when I see the impurity, I skim it off. He said, I don't let it go any longer than it should, because if I do, it'll damage the metal So I keep my eye on the sil on the silver all the time. I know exactly how hot to make it. I know exactly how long to keep it in that condition. And they said, well how long do you skim? He says, I keep skimming until I see my own image in the silver. And immediately they understood, you know what God does when he puts you through a trial? He knows exactly how long to keep you in that trial. He knows exactly how hot to make the trial. And when the impurities rise, he skims it off. You see, how long does he keep me in that trial until he can see his own image in you? He's a refiner. That's what God's doing in this process. God, you see, what's his purpose? Why does he do it? He does it. What's the purpose of it? Look again in verse 3. At the end of it, it says, that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness. Then shall the offering of Judah in Jerusalem be pleasant unto the Lord, as in the days of old. God says, I want to make I want it to be so that when you make an offering, it's an offering of righteousness. Now remember the context The priests at Malachi's time they were offering unacceptable sacrifices. And their whole life was unacceptable. And so God says, I'm going to purify you until you can offer to me an acceptable sacrifice. And what is that? That's the sacrifice of a righteous life A practical righteousness. God's goal is holiness. Now let me give you the third answer. God answers with the promise of a reconciler. God answers these accusations with the purging of a refiner, but write down number three, the punishment of a revenger. Look down in verse number five. And I will come near to you to judgment This is what God says. You see, here's the other side of it. With the ungodly, those who have rejected the gospel, the purpose of fire in their case is not to refine, but to destroy. God says, I'm going to judge. Now, here at this point in the story, you know what happens? God leaves the defense stand and he sits on the judgment seat. He takes his rightful place. So we see here, first of all, God the righteous judge. God says, I will come near to you to judgment. God says, you ask, where is the God of justice? God says, I'm right here and I'm coming. I'm coming. I will come near to you in judgment. So God turns the tables. And what he's saying is, look, when I come, I'm going to clean house. You better be ready for that. You sure you were ready? Again, chapter 3, verse 2. Who shall abide the day of his coming? You better be careful what you ask for. Some people say, oh, the Lord's coming back. Are you ready? Are you ready for that? Now there are skeptical agnostic people here in our country that ask this question in a sneering way. Where is the God of justice? They see atrocities and they say, Where is your God of justice? People will see the atrocities of ISIS. They'll see people being beheaded. They'll see children being beheaded. They'll say, where is your God of justice? And the answer is, He's coming, sir, and He's going to judge you. We better be careful. We better make sure that your own house is ready for it. We like to point the finger at other pl places, but you know what? Here in America, we have a president and a government that approves abortion. Yes. You talk about the slaughter of the innocent. We we we it's an atrocity when we hear of a child being beheaded by ISIS, but somehow here in America it's okay to behead a child while it's still in the mother's womb. God says you better you better take care of your own iniquity. You better clean house first. You better examine your own heart. He is the righteous judge. God says, I'm going to come and I'm going to judge All ungodliness. But then notice the next thing. He's not only the righteous judge, he's the returning witness Look in chapter 5, again, or chapter 3, verse number 5. I will come near to you to judgment, and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers and against the adulterers. Here he's the returning witness. God says, I'm going to be a swift witness. It says God's saying, look, you took the opportunity to point at me. Now let me get let me tell you where you're wrong. And so here in verse 5, he points back to the Israelites. One commentator writes this, the Israelites point the finger at God when they should have pointed it back to themselves. By provoking an interrogation of God, the people open the door for God to critique their lives and their lifestyles. And so Malachi, he lists the sins of that day. What is it? Look in verse 5. Sorcerers This is anyone who's looking to other places, to foreign gods, to occultic activity, to some kind of power other than Almighty God, sorcerers. Then adulterers, he says in verse 5. Jesus said if you simply lust after a woman, you're already guilty of it. False swearers. In verse number five, look at that. This describes people who commit perjury by lying under oath. Sound familiar? And then oppression to the poor. Again in verse number five. And those that oppress the the hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless. These were people that oppressed they simply oppressed the poor. A man who was working, at the end of the day he got his wages, that was the way it was back then. Whenever A hireling wanted his wages and the employer refused to give them to him at the end of the day. He was doing it out of oppression, not giving what he should And God says, I see all these things. And finally, in verse number 5, he says, those and fear me not, those who fear me not. I want to tell you, we're living in a day when there's no longer a healthy fear of the Lord. People don't fear God. This is a sin on God's list. The very fact that people would bring God into their court to judge God shows there was no fear of God You don't put God on your courtstand. You don't judge the Almighty. And the reason all these social abuses were taking place is because there was no fear of God. But I want you to see the next thing. God is the reliable Lord. Look in verse 6. I, for I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. You say, how does this fit in with a text? God doesn't change in regard to his person, his purposes, or his promises. Listen, we better thank God that he's an unchanging God. You say, why does God waited so long? Because let me tell you who he is. He is a patient and merciful God. It's not because he's an unjust. Our God is a God of justice. But I thank God that He's a patient God. You say, what's God waiting for? He's waiting for you to repent. Amen. He's waiting for people to repent. Because when the day finally comes, he's coming. And like the text says, he's going to come in judgment. But he's waiting because he's a God of mercy. And that's why he says in verse 6, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. You know the reason we're even here today and we're not consumed? It's because God is a patient God. And He is a God of mercy. And He's waiting. And thank God that He is. And we should be grateful for that. So how does God answer the question, where is the God of justice This is how he answers it. God promises he's going to send his Messiah. He's going to reconcile all things through his Messiah. He promises that he will judge the wicked. He promises that the trials of the righteous are purifying fires designed to develop holiness in them for his glory and for our good. And he promises that he's going to come. And he basically says, you better be ready. And so I want to ask you tonight, are you ready? If the Lord should end this service tonight, would you be ready? When he comes. Let me close with this. Some of you recall when Mount St. Helens blew up in 1980. You know, geologists, when they were studying that, they knew that something was wrong. They saw the signs. That this was going to happen. They could see a bulge in the side of the mountain. And they could measure the increasing tremors. They were coming with greater frequency. And so they began to warn the local residents, you better get out of there. You better leave And some people left, but some didn't. And there was one man who lived there on the mountain. His name was Harry Truman, not the president. And he had lived there for decades and he didn't leave. And when the newscasters interviewed him, he said, you know, that mountain has been there for centuries. And he said, I don't believe it's going to blow up, so I'm not going to move. And they would say, yeah, but the signs, the signs are all around. He ignored all those signs. Then one morning, you know the story, suddenly destruction came. And he was consumed. And you know what I say to this world? The signs are all around us. He's gonna come. People can mock, they can scoff. You don't you don't have to believe if you don't want to. But the signs are there. You remember that the Lord is going to come like a thief in the night. And Malachi asked the question: who will be able to stand? Will you be ready when the Lord comes? Martin Luther said it like this: There are only two days on my calendar, this day and that day. And that should be true of all believers. The only two days that matter to us are today and that day. When the Lord comes again. And friend, there's only one way to be ready, and that is through God's Messiah, Jesus Christ. He is the reconciler of all things, and he can reconcile you to God. Through his death on the cross, through shedding his blood for your sin, you can be reconciled to God and have peace and have forgiveness of sins. That is the only way. To be ready. He is the only one that can make right all of the wrongs that are in this world. Thank God for Jesus. The reconciler. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this warning that Malachi gives us. And many people were asking the question: where is the God of justice? Lord, we know that you're a God of judgment and justice. We know that you're a holy God and you never ever do wrong. You always do right. And Lord, we thank you for these answers that we hear. We thank you that in Christ all things. Will be reconciled. And Lord, that you don't live by man's calendar or man's schedule. You have your own timing. And we thank you, God, that you're a God of patience. You're a God of mercy. And you wait for even the vilest sinner to come to Christ. We thank you for that. And Lord, I pray that if there's someone here tonight that's not absolutely certain That they had been reconciled through faith in Jesus Christ, that tonight would be the night that they come to Christ. And they find peace. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give an invitation. Maybe you're here and you're not absolutely sure that you're a child of God. Friend, don't leave here without making that sure in your life. Because I want to tell you something, the king is going to come. He is coming. And Malachi asked the question, who's going to be able to stand? Friend, the only ones that will be able to stand in that day are the ones who have already knelt at the cross. So I'm asking you to come by faith and kneel at the cross and look to Jesus Christ, who is your only way of salvation. He is your only hope. All of your sins were placed on him at Calvary. He died to pay the penalty for your sin. And now he offers you forgiveness. And friend, if you'll reach out and say to Christ, you can be saved right there where you are. In fact, right now, would you pray? I challenge you to pray right now, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Reconcile me today. Forgive me. Cleanse me. Give me peace. Give me eternal life. I recognize that it's only your death on the cross That can purchase my salvation. Save me, Lord Jesus. And friend, if you'll pray that and mean it in your heart, God will save you. And if you've prayed that prayer, why don't you let us know after the service? Come up to Pastor Earl or Pastor Johnson or myself. And let us know that you prayed that prayer. Father, bless these words to the hearts of your people. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.