I I want you to stand and honor the scripture this morning. We're going to read Luke chapter eighteen, verse nine down to verse fourteen I want you to follow along as I read this short passage here with us this morning. Luke chapter 18, verse 9 to 14. And he that is Jesus spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as dispublican I fast twice in the week. I give of tithes of all that I possess. And the publican standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote himself upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalts himself shall be abased, and he that humbles himself shall be exalted. Let's bow for prayer together. This is God's word. Thank God for his inspired, authoritative word. So, Father, as we come before you today, we thank you for your word. Lord, give us ears to hear what the Spirit says through the Word to the church. And help me, Lord, your servant, to make your word clear to everyone that's here. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, you may be seated. Several years ago, research surveyed 7,000 Protestant youths from many different denominations, and they were asked whether they agreed with the following statements. Here's the first statement. The way to be accepted by God is to try sincerely to live a good life. More than 60% agreed. Here's the next statement. God is satisfied if a person lives the best life he can. Almost 70% again agreed with that statement. And then here's the third statement. The main emphasis of the gospel is on God's rules for right living. More than half of these Protestants agree. Now my own experience in talking with people kind of bears out these findings. There have been times when I have been out uh sharing the gospel with others and I've asked this question if you were to die and stand before God and he were to ask you, why should I let you into heaven? What would your response be? And the most frequent answer I hear is this. Well, I'm basically a good person. I try the best that I can I've never really intentionally hurt anyone, and I always try to do good to others. Even most people today in the church that call themselves Christians think that this is the right way to heaven This is the right approach to God. That when they present themselves at the pearly gates and God asks that question, why should I let you into heaven? That somehow if they've done enough good things, they've had enough merit that God will find them acceptable in his sight. Did you know that all the world's religions except for biblical Christianity, all the other world religions teach that W we approach God through good works. And really, and by the way, that's the main issue that split the uh the reformers away from the Roman Catholic Church. That's why we even have a Protestant movement because people protested away from the Roman Catholic Church. You know why? Because Rome taught that in order to be accepted by God In order to make it to heaven, then you can believe in Jesus, but that's not enough. You can believe in Jesus, but faith in him is not enough. You also have to have good works to accompany that. And there are still people that believe that to some extent today. They think that if they just do enough good things That somehow their merits, their religious works, their deeds before God will be acceptable, and one day God will let them into heaven because of that. Now the reason Jesus gave this parable is because of people like that. It's because of people that are trusting in their good works. They would say, Oh, I trust in God, but I also trust in the things that I have done, my own works that will get me into heaven. But notice what Jesus look in verse number nine again of chapter eighteen, and he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. The whole reason for this parable is for people like that. People who think that their religious merits, their goodness, their moral acts their generosity, that somehow all these things will make them acceptable to God. And so they're trusting in their own Righteousness. And by the way, people like this have the have the tendency to be very proud about their religious works. And what does that cause them to do? Look down on others. And that's what Jesus said. This parable is for those who trust in their own righteousness, their own works, and they despise others. Now, very possible Jesus was pointing this parable to some of the Pharisees that were there listening to him that day as he gave this story. And so what we see here in this story is really the wrong way to approach God, which is by your good works, and the right way to approach God, which is as a Sinner, pleading for mercy. These are really the two ways to approach God. And so the question is this: this parable begs the question: which one are you? Which one represents you? On what basis do you approach God? What are you trusting in to get you into Are you trusting in your own righteousness, your own good works, or are you trusting in the gift of God? H. A. Ironside said there's only two religions in the world. There is due religion and there's done religion. Do religion is what I must do to get me to heaven. Done religion is putting faith in what Christ has already done for me. Those are the only two religions in the world. So are you trusting in what you must do? Or are you trusting in what Christ has already done? Now, again, this parable here is going to teach us To ask the question, which one am I? What am I trusting in? These are the two approaches. And I want you to see four contrasts in the parable. Jesus is going to present a contrast And by the way, Jesus would often do that in his parables. In Matthew 7, he presented a narrow gate and a broad gate, which led to a narrow road and a broad road. And it's forced you're forced again to ask the question there, am I on the narrow road which leads to everlasting life, or am I on the broad road that leads to destruction? Jesus talked about in Luke 16 two men, a rich man who trusted in his riches, and a poor man who was a beggar, who had nothing. The rich man died, he went to hell. The beggar died, he went to heaven. So they switched roles. The rich man becomes poor, the poor man becomes rich. The question again is, which one am I? And here Jesus is doing the same thing. Notice there's a contrast. in people. Look in verse 10. Two men went into the temple to pray. One a Pharisee, the other a publican. By the way, this happened twice a day. Basically in that time at the temple, once at 9 a. m. , once at 3 p. m. at the morning and evening sacrifice, they would go in, make a sacrifice. This is according to Leviticus chapter 1. Once the sacrifice was made, then they are made acceptable to God. They are able to offer prayer. And so here we see a Pharisee. He comes first into the temple And what is a Pharisee? Well, the word Pharisee actually means someone who is separated. And this speaks about someone who was very religious. That's what the Hebrew word here means. They live separated lives, they would say, from sinners around them. In the New Testament, they're characterized as being very spiritually elite. They consider themselves better than everyone else Because they were the ones among the Jews that was protecting the law by obeying the law. And they were very proud of all of their religious works. You know, the law was they never really treated the law the way it was intended. The law was supposed to be a mirror to show us who we really are, to show us that we are sinners. The law should have caused repentance and contrition But that's not the way the Pharisees saw it. When they looked at themselves, they thought themselves righteous because they were able to obey the laws, at least they thought so, and so they were very proud of their self-righteousness But of course, later on, John the Baptist exposed them. He called them a brood of vipers. He said, bring forth fruits me for repentance. Later on, Jesus pronounced woes upon them. But you have to understand this. Back in that day, now today we look at Pharisees as being spiritual hypocrites, but back in that day, they were the elite of society. They were looked upon in a very positive way. In fact, Josephus, the Jewish historian, said this. He wrote that they were a body of Jews known for surpassing the others in the observance of piety and the exact interpretations of the law. And so they were very highly esteemed in Jesus' day. This is part of the contrast that Jesus is giving. Here comes a Pharisee into the temple. He's viewed as the good guy. He's viewed as the religious guy. He's viewed positively. I mean, these Pharisees, they knew the scriptures. They were phylacteries. They were so obsessed about the Bible that they wore it on them. They wore little boxes on their head and on their right wrist. Inside those boxes were pieces of scripture. They were committed to memorizing the scripture. They did all these religious deeds. So here we have a very religious man coming into the temple. But then we also have a publican. It says in verse 10, a Pharisee and the other a publican. What was a publican Well, just as the Jews were viewed as being positive uh people of society, as being the elite On the other end of the spectrum, those who were viewed negatively were the publicans. They were tax collectors. They were considered the scum of Jewish society. They were considered to be uh traitors to the Jews. Why? Well because they were the IRS. They were the Israeli Revenue Service. And their job was to get taxes from the people. Rome collected three kinds of taxes from the people She conquered. There was a land tax, there was a head tax, there was a custom tax, there was a three-tiered system. Rome exacted their taxes from the people by, first of all, hiring a chief tax collector Who would be given responsibility over certain region, and under him he hired local tax collectors. The chief tax collector paid Rome their taxes. Whatever was left over, he got to keep So he would always overcharge the people because he got the excess. And then the local tax collectors, he contracted out to them. They also had their own rates because whatever uh they paid the chief tax collector, whatever was left over, they got to keep So they were literally taxing the people to death. They laid upon the people this heavy, heavy burden. And many tax collectors were known to be dishonest, they were greedy, they taxed the people too much. And they would hire thugs to collect the taxes when people were reluctant to give. And so the Jewish people hated and despised them. People would cross the street to pass on the other side rather than pass by a tax collector or a publican. In today's culture, they would be probably equivalent to a mob boss that would extort and brutalize people or a drug pusher. They were just out and out sinners to the people of Israel. And so you see a big contrast here. There's a contrast in people. Two men come to the temple to pray: a Pharisee and a publican, but also there's a contrast in prayer Both men come to pray. And notice the prayer of the Pharisee. Look in verse number 11. And the Pharisee stood Notice, first of all, he stands up. He wants to be seen. The sense of the phrase here is that he came to the front of the court, perhaps as close to the altar where they had the burnt offerings on, as close as he could. No doubt he was wearing his religious garb, his phylacteries for all to see. He was in the most visible location, and he begins to pray. And his prayer is loud enough, no doubt, for everyone to hear what he says He was like the American preacher whose prayer was described as the most eloquent prayer ever offered to an audience. But that's not what prayer is about. Prayer is not offered to an audience. Prayers offered to God. But notice in verse 11 where it says, And the Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself. Interesting phrase there. With himself. This is pros-heton in the Greek. Literally, prayed to himself, we could say, or prayed about himself. There's really two ways to interpret this. It could mean that he prayed to himself, that is, he prayed silently, just to himself. Where no one else can hear. That's very unlikely. You don't go to the front of the building to pray to yourself. You don't stand and go to the front of the building just to be heard by yourself. So really it was more about himself. This was a self-congratulatory prayer about himself to himself, we could say He never meant this prayer to really go to God, although he mentions God. Really, he's talking about himself. And you'll notice the time how many times does he use I, I, I, five times he uses I. This guy had an eye problem. It was all about him. It was all about his religious works that he performed. And he's informing God about it. In verse eleven he says, I thank thee, but I am not as other men, Lord, I'm grateful I'm not like some of these other people here Can you imagine somebody coming to church and saying, brother, would you lead in prayer? Sure. God, I thank you that I'm not like the rest of the people in this church Kind of self-righteous, isn't it? This is the way he's praying. I thank you that I'm not like other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers. Now he probably was a relatively moral person. He was probably honest in business and not a swindler. He was probably a decent man, not greedy, and all this, if what he is saying is true. But all this he does to impress the people. And notice again what he does. He mentions his works. Verse 12, I fast twice in the week. Even though the Old Testament law only requires me to fast once a year, Jews were required to fast once a year on the Day of Atonement. And Pharisees normally fasted once a week. But here he fasts twice a week. He's more religious than all of the rest. He said, I fast twice a week. I give tithes in verse 12 of all that I possess. The Old Testament tithe was imposed on all a person's income in the Old Testament. He doesn't tithe just on his income. He tithes on everything he possesses. In Matthew 23, it says some Pharisees even tithe their spices and herbs from their garden. They tithe their mint and their anise and their cumming. They were radical in their ties. He did more than the law required. And he was very proud of it. And he wanted other people to know. But again, you get the idea that he's really praying not to God, but he's letting everyone else know. You know, don't you think God is omniscient? He knows everything. Don't you think that God already knew all this? Why is this necessary to remind God about all of this? But he's not really talking to God, is he? He's talking to others around him And he's letting them know how much better in his mind that he is. He's proud of his religious deeds. And here's the problem: he was trusting in them for his redemption He was trusting in them for his salvation to get him into the kingdom of God. This guy had a worked view of justification of being saved. He thought that this would save him, but it wouldn't. This is not how a person approaches God. But notice the prayer of the publican by contrast. Look at verse 13. And the publican. Standing up for off would not so much as lift up his eyes on the heaven, but smote his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. This is just six words. You can see the contrast here. The Pharisees' prayer is loaded with words. It's verbose. It's bombastic. It's loquacious, but here this publican's prayer is only six words. It is very short, it is to the point. Whereas the Pharisee presented himself as a very religious person, the publican refers to himself as a great sinner. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And literally in the Greek, the article is there, so we could say it like this: God be merciful to me, the sinner. Not just a sinner. I am the sinner. He saw himself as the cheapest of sinners. He saw himself as the worst While the Pharisee was proclaiming his righteousness before God, the publican was proclaiming his sinfulness before God. Whereas the Pharisee takes full credit for his religious deeds, the publican takes full responsibility for the guilt. He offers no excuses for himself. He offers no explanations or self-justification. He has no illusions about himself. He sees himself for who he is, not just a sinner, but the sinner. And by the way, when people are convicted of their sin, that's how they see themselves. They don't see anyone else, they see just themselves. As a sinner, a great sinner before God. He has no desire to compare himself with others in their good deeds. He sees himself as absolutely bankrupt before God Nothing but a sinner. There's a sense of desperation in the prayer of the publican. So we see a contrast in people. We see a contrast in prayer. But here's the third thing. We see a contrast in imposture, don't we? Because again in verse 13, we see the Pharisee came close, the publicans stood afar off Look again in verse thirteen. The publican standing afar off, that is from the Greek word makro at a great distance, whereas the Pharisee king close Standing up in front of the altar, perhaps as close as he could get to the holy place, after all, he felt like he deserved to be there, the holy place, representing the presence of God. He was as close as he could be To the to the presence of God. He was showing others he's close to the Lord. That's what he thought. On the other hand, here is this publican, and he's standing afar off, he's in the fringes on the outer edge Why? Because he knows he doesn't deserve to be in the presence of God, or even in the presence of those who are righteous, because again he realizes he is a sinner. This is humility, beloved. This is being poor in spirit. The Pharisee stood up. The publican looked down and beat on his chest again in verse 13. He would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. But smote upon his breast. Again, he's humbled at his own unworthiness. He wouldn't lift up his head. By the way, that was one posture of prayer. There were several postures of prayer for Jews who prayed. One was to lift up your head when you prayed. In the Old Testament, we see this, Psalm 123, verse 1, I will lift up mine eyes unto thee that dwells in the heavens. So they would lift up their head and pray. Sometimes we see Jesus doing this in the Gospels where he would lift up his head and say, Father, I know that you always hear me. But when a Jew would put down his head, that meant that there was contrition. That meant that there was a sense of shame. And then also notice where he smote upon his breast. If you study Jewish behavior in ancient times. One of the ways that people would pray, another way they would pray, is sometimes they would cross their hands over their chest and keep their head down as a way of Showing humility, but this man goes the beyond that. He does something unusual. He begins to hit himself in his chest. Why? That was a gesture again to express extreme sorrow, extreme anguish. There's only one other place where this takes place in the whole New Testament. That's in Luke chapter 23. This was aft after Jesus died. There were people around the cross who loved Jesus who at the sight of his death began to hit themselves in the chest because it expressed incredible sorrow. But it's mentioned right here. Again, this is the idea of incredible sorrow. And here's a question. Why pound yourself on the chest? Why not some other place on your body? Well, an old Jewish commentary says this, and I quote, Why do the righteous beat on the heart as though to say all there is? The righteous beat their heart because the heart is the source of all evil. This is where evil comes from. It comes from our heart. Didn't Jesus say that? Out of the heart precedes evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts. And so on. He said, it's not the things on the outside that defile a man, it's his heart. It's what's on the inside that defiles a man. They hit themselves on their chest because that was the source of their sin. And they and he realizes it. And so the Pharisee came to God based on his own merits. The publican comes to God based on God's mercy. Because notice what he says in verse 13. Again, he says he standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. By the way, the word mercy here, it's a word that means to propitiate, to appease. This is a word that was used in the uh in the temple when the priests would sprinkle the blood. You know how they would take an animal. spotless lamb. They would take the blood of that lamb, sprinkle it on the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies, and that appease the wrath of God. When God saw that innocent animal, the blood of that animal, that appeased God's wrath. And that animal couldn't really appease God's wrath. What it basically did is it pointed to the one who would come and pay for sin Jesus Christ. So actually, when God looked upon the blood of that animal, he was thinking about what? The blood of his son Jesus Christ, who would die for sin on the cross. And that's the word that's used here. When the blood was sprinkled and God's wrath was satisfied, the word is uh teloskome. And that is what is used here for mercy. And actually he's saying this, God propitiate me. God Apply the atonement to me. God forgive me for my sins. Because again he saw himself as a sinner. Cover my sins. Remove your divine wrath from me and forgive me for my sins. You see, because this man knew that God was a holy God and that God's wrath was on him because of his sin, but he knew that God was also a merciful God. And if he would come and ask, that God would forgive him. And so this is his prayer, God Propitiate me, God, remove your wrath from me. God, apply the atonement to me because of my sin. And so we see then the Pharisee approaches with God with boldness. The publican he approaches God with total brokenness, asking for forgiveness because he could feel The weight of his sin, and he was convicted over that sin. Now, let me show you the last thing. There's not only a contrast in prayer, and there's a contrast in posture. Uh uh uh excuse me, a contrast in people first, and then a contrast in prayer and then posture, but then here's number four. There's a contrast in pardon. Look in verse 14. And here's Jesus. Listen to what he says. I tell you, that's very strong there. Remember, Jesus' teaching was different from the rabbis. Why? Because he spake with one of his authority And here Jesus is speaking with authority. He's not quoting a rabbi. He's saying, here's what I tell you. I tell you that this man, this publican, went down to his house justified. You know what the problem with a lot of people is when they come to church they leave the same way as when they came. There's no real change. This man didn't leave the same way. Because in response to his contrite confession and prayer for mercy, Jesus said, I tell you, this man left He went down to his house. He went home justified. Notice the rest of it rather than the other. The Pharisee wasn't justified, but the publican was. The Pharisees thought that his good works could make them acceptable to God, and they did not. Because God demands absolute perfection. If you want to go that route, okay, but you better be perfect. And as righteous as that Pharisee thought he was, he wasn't perfect. And no amount of works would be acceptable in God's sight unless you were perfect before God. And he wasn't. But this other man, the publican, he left justified. By the way, that's one of the great words in the Bible. What does justified mean? It means that God Throws down the gavel in the courtroom and says, not guilty. Wait a minute, you say, this publican that committed all these sins, how could God declare him not guilty? I'll tell you how, because God Justified him. He declared unrighteous based on what Jesus did for him on the cross. You know what happens when a person is justified? When we come to God broken over our sin and say, God, be merciful to me and forgive me. God basically forgives all of our sins. He takes all the sins that we've ever committed. He lays them on his son, Jesus Christ, on the cross. And then all the righteousness that Jesus has, He puts on our account. He lays it on us. That's called the imputed righteousness of Christ. He takes all of our sin, and we take all of his righteousness. And now God, based on that, legally declares you forgiven, not guilty, justified. You now stand in the righteousness of Christ. This is not my own righteousness. If I trusted in my own righteousness to get me to heaven, I would fail. But friend, now that I have been given the righteousness of Jesus, I'm righteous in God's eyes. You know what that means when he looks at me? He sees the righteousness of Christ. That's what happens when you come to God and you say, God, I'm a sinner. I've sinned against your law. I've broken it in every way. I'm nothing but the sinner. Be merciful to me And in response, you know what God does? He declares you righteous. That's incredible, beloved. What an incredible thing. That a person can come and have all of their sins forgiven. That's called the grace of God. It's because of what Jesus did for us on the cross. Salvation is not by works. It's a gift that God gives us because of Jesus. Listen to Romans 3. 24, being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. We are justified freely. We're justified by God's grace. We're justified because of the redemption of Jesus Christ on the cross. And so Jesus presents in this parable a perfect contrast between two approaches to God. One approach is based on good works, merit, self-righteousness. That's the wrong way. The other approach is based on mercy, realizing that you're a sinner, broken and contrite over your sins Pleading for the mercy of God based upon the work of Jesus Christ for you on the cross. One is due religion, the other is done religion. Which one are you? There's only one way that works. Only one. Which one are you? I'll close with this illustration. Years ago, a man was about to make a purchase in a drugstore when a detective laid his hand on him. And he said, You're under arrest, sir. Come with me. Stunned, the man responded by saying, What did I do? The detective calmly replied, You know what you did. You escaped from the Albany penitentiary several years ago. You went west, you got married, then you came back to live. We've been watching you ever since you returned. Quietly, the man admitted, that's true. I was sure that you would never find me. And then he said, This, before you take me in, could we stop by my house so I can talk to my family? And the officer agreed. And when they got home, the man looked at his wife and asked, Haven't I been a kind husband and a good father? Haven't I worked hard to make a living? His wife answered, Of course you have. Why are you asking me these questions? He then began to proceed to explain what happened and how that he was now under arrest. But he apparently apparently he had hoped that his record as a good father and a good husband would impress the officer. But in fact, he was an escaped criminal and he had to return to prison All the good things that he did did not erase all of his crimes that he had committed against the law. You might be a good person, you might be a faithful churchgoer, a decent citizen in the community, but God knows the sins. of the heart. All the good deeds in the world cannot pay for the law, the holy law of God. That we have broken. If you come to God's court on judgment day and present all of your good works to God, you'll be condemned. You'll be condemned. But if you come as an unworthy sinner who has pleaded for mercy, Based on Jesus Christ, who shed his blood for your sins, to pay the penalty for your sins. If you come to God that way, he will declare you not guilty. Not guilty. Make sure you understand that. And if you understand it, make sure You clearly communicate this to others. This, friend, is the way of salvation. Nothing less than yours and theirs eternity is at stake. Let's bow for prayer together Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And so with heads bowed and eyes closed, again, friend, I'll ask you, which one are you? Which one are you? Have you approached God based on the work of Christ, what He has done for you? Have you prayed this prayer in some form or fashion? God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Or are you trying to approach God based on your own good works? Friend, that will never work. The Bible is very clear. There's one way, it's through the cross, it's through what Christ has done for you. And friend, here's what I want you to do. I want you to just pray quietly. If you've never prayed this prayer here this morning, you've never approached God based on mercy. I just want to encourage you to do this right there where you are. You can pray quietly. God will hear you. He knows your thoughts. Would you just say the words that this publican said and mean it in your heart if you've never done it? Would you just say this, God, be merciful to me a sinner? Save me. God be merciful to me, a sinner. And friend, if you pray that Based on the authority of God's word, he will save you. He will declare you not guilty. And you know what? You can go home today justified. Justified before God. I don't want to embarrass you, friend. I want to pray for you, but if you just prayed that prayer with me, God, be merciful to me a sinner. Can I pray for you this morning, friend? Would you just lift your hand and just let me pray for you? You say, that's what I pray. God bless you, dear friend. Anyone else? God bless you. God be merciful to me, a sinner. God bless you, friend. God be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. God bless you, dear friend. Anyone else? I want to pray for you. God bless you, dear lady. God bless you. Anyone else? Here's what I'm going to ask you to do, friend. We just want to pray for you. We want to know that you're this is settled in your heart. We're going to have a time of invitation. We're going to have people here that can pray with you. If you have any spiritual need, we want to help you. So I'm just going to ask you Just to slip out. Come up here and let us pray for you if you have any spiritual need whatsoever. Can we all stand together? Can we stand together this morning? And we're going to sing that invitation hymn just as I am And friend, if any spiritual need, if you want to make this right here this morning, we have people here ready to pray with you. Let's just sing together just as I am and you follow the leading of God this morning. Just as I am without wonderful, but that five love Washing for me, and that thou bidst me come To the old land of God I come Sing that second stanza through, friend. We're here for you if you have any need. Just I am an wavy to rid my soul Of blood art blood to thee Whose blood can flee Each of God All right. Thank you, dear friend. Let me just remind you that we are here, and if you w ra raise that hand this morning about salvation, just let one of us know, or maybe the person that brought you to church Just let them know, hey, you know what? I prayed this morning. I asked God to cleanse me of my sin. Friend, we want to rejoice with you. We want to encourage you in the things of the Lord. Amen.