Your Bibles, will you? Open please to the Gospel of Mark, chapter 9. We are going through this Gospel on Sunday mornings. The Gospel of Mark, and I want you to look at verse number 30, Mark chapter 9, verse 30. And I want to read this verse with you. And they departed thence and passed through Galilee. And he would not that any man should know it. For he taught his disciples and said unto them, The Son of Man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him, and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But they understood not that that saying, and were afraid to ask him. And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? But they held their peace, for by the way they had disputed among themselves who should be the greatest. Who is the greatest? That is a question that we hear argued constantly, do we not? Who's the greatest baseball player? Who is the greatest quarterback? Who is the greatest NFL team? Or who is the greatest coach? Or we even made an acrostic which is GOAT, greatest of all time. Who is the greatest of all time? Muhammad Ali in his prime let everyone know that he was the greatest of all time. One time in his heyday he was on a plane bragging and uh stewardess said to him calmly, would you please sit down and buckle your seatbelt. He said, Superman don't need no seatbelt. She said, Superman don't need no airplane. Sit down and buckle your belt. There is in the heart of everyone a desire to be the greatest in something or in some respect. And this is born of the heart of man, pro the pride of man's heart. ambition we could say, but the desire for greatness and recognition has really no place in the kingdom of heaven. In fact, whenever this kind of selfish ambition or attitude gets into the church, it normally wreaks havoc. It causes a lot of division A lot of collateral damage. It's what splits the church. In fact, this was the issue that Paul was dealing with at the church at Corinth, because they were uh they were um there was contention, they were divided about who was the greatest. I am of Paul, I am of Apollos, I am of Peter. And so this spirit was destroying that church. Yet we see this spirit in the church and we see it in Christians, we see it in pastors In fact, we have Christian periodicals that use adjectives like the largest, the best, the fastest growing, the greatest, the most influential, the best-selling, or the top ten, or the top twenty There are books with titles like the Top Ten Largest Churches, and we place in the newspaper statistics on Attendance and statistics on giving. This seems to be what concerns pastors, nickels and noses. How many did you have there at your church? How much did they give? We judge pastors by the size of their congregations, by the articles that they've written, by the books that they've written, and on we could go. Uh not too long ago I picked up a book that was written sometime back about the top pastors and churches in America. It was written, I think, back in the middle 70s. Now many of those pastors are no longer even in the ministry. Some had to decide uh to resign in disgrace, and some of their churches are no longer even in existence, and yet they were considered to be the greatest Of pastors and churches. Shows you how much we know. The way that God determines greatness and the way the world determines greatness is exactly the opposite. It has nothing to do, the way the world determines greatness has nothing to do with the kingdom of heaven. And this is what Jesus is going to teach his disciples. I want to remind you that in Mark chapter 9 and 10, this is what we call the instructional period of Jesus' ministry. He's no longer preaching publicly to the masses. He did that in the earlier part of his ministry. He's not doing that now. What he's doing is he's preparing the disciples for his impending death. He's getting them ready for the time that he will no longer be there. And he's teaching them privately as he's making his journey into Jerusalem from Mark chapter 9 and 10 and on, he's making that final pilgrimage into Jerusalem. And he's giving them a series of lessons. One lesson he gave him was uh glory follows suffering. First there's suffering, then there's glory. You have to first Pick up your cross before you get your crown. The second lesson he gave them was the importance of faith, and we looked at that last week. The next lesson that he's going to give them is the importance of humility. Humility was not considered a virtue in that world in which Jesus lived. It's still not considered a virtue today. Aristotle, one of the most influential philosophers of the ancient world, described pride as the crown of virtues. But here Jesus is going to say the opposite. Humility is the crown of virtues. So what I want you to see from our narrative today are four Crucial lessons we have to learn about pride and humility. Here's the first lesson. Number one, pride is fed by competition. Humility is fed by cooperation. Again, look in Mark chapter 9, and look at verse 30. And they departed thence and passed through Galilee, and he would not that any man should know it. Again, they were traveling back to Jerusalem. He was on his way to the cross, but they traveled through Galilee, and Jesus didn't want anyone to know about it. His public ministry there was over. He had taught there, he had performed miracles there. In fact, he set up his shop there. Really, that was That was uh home base for him. But when he preached there and he did miracles there, there were many people that didn't believe on him. And the last time that Jesus was in Galilee, he basically pronounced woe against many of those villages and cities nestled around the Sea of Galilee because they did not believe on Jesus. He set up his base of operations in the village of Capernaum. What Jesus was doing is he was teaching his disciples about his death. Look at verse 31. For he taught his disciples and said unto them, The Son of Man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him And after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. This was the primary truth they needed to understand. And yet they seemed unwilling to accept it. They seemed unwilling to grasp it Jesus said it like this in Luke's gospel in Luke 9. 44. He said to his disciples, let these sayings sink down into your ears. For the Son of Man shall be delivered into the hands of men. Let this sink down in, guys. You don't seem to be getting this. Think about it. Let it sink in. The Son of Man is going to be delivered. The word delivered paradidomai, which means to uh uh to hand over a in a legal sense to be handed over for judgment, for punishment. And of course Jesus was speaking about the cross. He was about to be handed over. To the religious leaders and to the Romans for crucifixion. But again, the disciples, they were afraid to ask about it. Look at verse 33. And he came to Capernaum And being in the house, he asked them, What is it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? As they were traveling back down from Caesarea Philippiap, remember they were north of Galilee. They're traveling back down. They're headed down into Judea into Jerusalem. He passes through Galilee. As they pass through Galilee, they go back to Capernaum to the house where Jesus would stay during his earthly ministry there in Galilee. Whose house was that? It was Peter's house. That's where Peter would stay. Notice it says the house, not just any house. They went to the in the house. And again, there's every reason to believe that this was Peter's house. I've been to uh Capernaum several times, and uh archaeologists years ago they found a house there, a very simple first century house. that was built underneath, uh uh actually a Byzantine church had built over this house. And the Byzantines were always building churches on holy sites. And the archaeologists found this simple first century house and they dug it out, an octagon-shaped house, and they had all kind of circumstantial evidence to believe that this was Peter's house. This was the very house where Jesus stayed with Peter. And you can go there and see that house. to date, so Jesus is there in the house, and he asked him the question, What were you talking about on the way? What were you disputing about? What were you debating about? Now that's a long walk from Caesarea Philippi down to Capernaum. They had a lot of time to talk, and the subject was something that they were not proud about. Jesus asked them. Now he asked them not because he didn't know, but because I think he wants to teach them a lesson. Notice the response of verse 34. But they held their peace For by the way, they had disputed among themselves who should be the greatest. So they didn't say anything. When Jesus asked the question, there was stunned silence. And I think the silence was because they were embarrassed. And well they should be embarrassed, because Jesus had just spoken to them about his own suffering. and death in Jerusalem. And here they were on the way to Galilee debating in a childish debate who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom. And this dispute was just another episode in the long-running debate about who was the greatest. They were always debating this, it seems like. You read through the Gospels, this keeps coming up again and again. In fact They're still debating this topic when you come to the Lord's Supper, the Last Supper, I should say, right on the night before Jesus is crucified. They're still debating who is the greatest And the kingdom. Boy, that shows you how the human heart is, how pride is so deeply ingrained in the human heart. And Jesus wants to change the way they're thinking. He wants to change their mindset and show how what real greatness is in the kingdom. So look at verse number 35. And he sat down. And called the twelve and said unto them, so get the picture. He asked the question. There's no response. They're silent. So Jesus sits down. And says, come here, guys, come to me. And listen. Now, it's important to me when it says he sits down. Why? Because sitting was the usual posture of a Jewish rabbi. Today when we get ready to teach or preach, we stand up. You get to sit down. Back in Jesus' day, the teacher, the rabbi, got to sit down. One of these days I'm going to be more Christ-like and put a stool up here And sit down when I begin to teach, because that's the way they did it back in Jesus' day. In fact, in the synagogues, if you visit some of those synagogues, first century synagogues, and I've done that as well, you'll see they have a little seat there, and it's called the The seat of Moses. Because when the rabbi was ready to teach, he would sit down in that seat. It was the seat of authority And everyone in there knew that when the rabbi sat down in that chair, he was getting ready to teach with authority. I'm sure you've heard of the expression when the Pope speaks its ex cathedral. What is ex cathedral? That's Latin for out of the chair. He's speaking out of his chair. In other words, he's speaking with authority. That goes all the way back here to this Jewish practice of a rabbi sitting down And Jesus sat down. He calls the disciples around him because he's getting ready to teach them something very important. Very, very important. And they know this. So they gather around them. And notice what Jesus said again in verse 35. And he said unto them, If any man desire to be first, The same shall be last of all and servant of all. This is a very, very important expression that Jesus just gave them If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all and servant of all. Now Jesus is using here a rhetorical tool called paradox And he uses this often in his teaching with the disciples to show that the way of the world is opposite of the way of the kingdom. If you want to live, you have to die. If you want to save your life, you have to lose it. If you want glory, you have to suffer first. The last shall be first, the first shall be last. The way of greatness is the way of service. And if you want to come in first in the kingdom, you have to make yourself This absolutely totally went against the grain of the way the disciples were thinking. In fact, it goes against the grain of the way we think today. Every one of us is born with some aspiration for significance. We want our lives to count. We don't want to fail to achieve our goals. The last thing we want to do is come in last. Who wants to come in last? I remember one time I played on a baseball team where we didn't win one single game the whole season. We were very Christ-like. We came in absolutely last, dead last. I I I didn't know I wasn't a Christian now. I didn't know how great we were actually were. This goes totally against the grain of the way the world thinks. We think the way to greatness is competition and winning. Jesus said the way to true greatness is making yourself last. It's not trying to get ahead of others. It is putting others in front of you. It's not competition. It's cooperation. It's it he just took totally turns it all upside down. By the way, the Apostle Paul later was teaching the same thing to the church at Corinth because this spirit of competition had invaded the church. Why? Because back in that day they had these all around Corinth where these teachers of wisdom, these sophists who were competing with one another to get students more students more tuition, more money. There was this constant competition And and they were, if you went to Corinth back in Paul's day, you would hear them in the streets competing with one another, shouting against one another And this whole spirit of competition had invaded the church to where there were some in the church saying, I am of Paul, and another said, I am of Apollos, and another says, I am of Peter, and the real spiritual one said, I am of Jesus. But this whole spirit of competition was destroying that church. And Paul came along and said, Look, this is how you should regard us. You don't regard us that way. That's not the way you should think of us. You should regard us as Servants of Christ, Greek word, huperatas, third-level galley slaves. We are the lowest of servants. We are servants of Christ. That's the way you are to regard us. We're not competing with one another. Paul may plant, Apollos may water, but it's God who gives the increase. We're all on the same team. We're not competing. We're simply servants of Christ. I read about a missionary. and to the Philippines who is trying to teach this remote native tribe how to play how to play croquet. Or cro how to hate how do you call that croquet, right? Is that the way this you say that? I've never played it. You can tell I don't even know how to say it. But he was explaining the rules, I was reading the story, and he showed them how he could you could knock your opponent's ball away, but these people lived in a culture that survived through cooperation, not competition. And they were confused. They would say, Well, why are you trying to to knock your opponent's ball out of the court? Why are you trying to knock it away? And the missionaries tried to say, explain, so you can win. That's why But these primitive tribesmen playing in their loincloths wouldn't do it. And after the first man got his ball through the wickets, he went back and he coached all the others on how to do it. And when all of them finally got their last ball through the wickets, they all jumped together and said, we won, we won, we won. There was no competition there whatsoever, just simply cooperation. This is what we need. This is the spirit we need if we are to avoid pride and promote humility. But let me give you the second lesson. Pride is fed by our association with the important Humility is fed by our association with the lowly. Look at verse 36. And he took a child. And set him in the midst of them. And when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them, Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name receiveth me, and whosoever shall receive me receiveth not me, but him that Sent me. Again, in this culture, a person's importance was determined by their association. If you associate with important people, if you associate with great people, that makes you important. That makes you great. If you rub shoulders with the powerful, that means you are important. And again, the same is still true today. We have this idea that if we associate with the powerful, with the famous, with the rich with the important that makes us significant. That makes us important. We still practice this. You ever heard of name dropping? You know, in a conversation you happen to be talking and you happen to mention how that you were just with someone who was very, very important. Well, I was in Annapolis the other day and the governor happened to ask me, Dr. Harmon, what do you think about the present crisis? Now that didn't happen. He didn't ask me. But that's that's name-dropping. And that's what people do. We we want to feel important Now, Jesus at this present time in his ministry was riding a wave of popularity, and so the disciples they wanted to be associated with Jesus. I mean, wherever Jesus went, the crowds they would throng around him And so the disciples uh they were arguing over who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom because they in their mind thought the kingdom was was coming. They didn't seem to really understand and hear what Jesus was saying, that he was about to be crucified. That he was about to die. He was about to suffer. One thing you don't read is after his arrest and trial, the disciples arguing about who's going to be the great Oh, who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom then? They're not arguing about it after his trial. In fact, what did they do? They they ran They got away from them. They wanted to be around them as long as it meant greatness. But if it meant suffering, you want us to suffer with you, they ran. And so again, Jesus wants to correct their thinking. And so in verse 37, uh he said he after he puts a little child in their midst, And many scholars believe this was Peter's child. After all, they were in Peter's house. So he takes one of Peter's little sons, or or one of his children, puts him right there in his midst And by the way, in Jewish culture, children were not considered socially important. They had no status. They were completely overlooked. According to the law, they had no rights. In fact, certain Jewish writings speak despairingly of children. The Talmud writes regarding spending time with children to be a waste of time. Since a child has not yet accomplished anything, really done anything, they have no power, no honor, they're absolutely dependent. Then keeping company with children added nothing to a man, and so they were considered unimportant. But Jesus takes a little child, sets them in his midst, Look again at verse 37. Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name receiveth me. And whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me. And so Jesus is telling us that how you treat the unimportant is a test of your greatness. The child here symbolizes those that may be considered lowly. Those that may be considered quote unquote unimportant. And by the way, let me just say that no one is unimportant with God. Everyone is important with God. But in society back then they were considered that. They were the rejected. They were considered the insignificant people. But Jesus tells us how you treat A child or those that are deemed unimportant really is a test of your greatness. The proud have no time for people like that, but the humble they will receive them. They will accept them. Let me give you the third lesson. Pride creates an atmosphere of exclusivism. Humility creates an atmosphere of acceptance. Look down at verse 38. And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and he followed not us, and we forbade him, because he followed not us. Now, at this point, evidently the disciple John was troubled in his conscience. So he speaks out, and really it's a confession. He's kind of convicted by his pride. And he confesses to Jesus something that he and the rest of the disciples did. He talks about an incident that's not really recorded anywhere else in Scripture. One day the disciples saw an unnamed man casting out demons, performing an exorcism. This man was obviously a true believer. We don't know who he is again because his name is not given, but he was doing the Lord's work. And he was successful in doing it. Remember, we just read the disciples. They had failed at this. And here this man, he was doing it. And when the disciples saw this, they tried to stop him. Why? Because again in verse 38, because he followed not us. In other words, he was not part of their group. He was not in the club called the Twelve or Jesus Disciples. And so they were like, hey, wait a minute, what are you doing? You're not part of our club. You're not officially licensed and sanctioned by the twelve. They were accusing his men of the unauthorized use of Jesus' name. How dare you cast out demons in Jesus' name when you're not part of our club? You can't do that. And the implication of this is the disciples thought they were better than other servants of God. Pride had kind of created this elitist attitude in their heart. So in their own way, they were looking down on this man. And by the way, again, this still happens today. I've heard expressions like, well, he's not part of our denomination. Or, you know, I never even heard of that seminary that he graduated from. That's an unknown seminary. Or, you know, I I remember when I was in an independent Baptist college, I didn't I I wasn't quite sh conservative enough Or I could say legalistic enough for some there. And when I was pastoring a Southern Baptist denomination, I wasn't really received by the ecclesiastical brethren because I came from an independent Baptist church So I wasn't really in the group. By the way, I'm not suffering any effects from it, so just know that. I'm okay. No emotional effects from it But that's just the way people think. God hates this kind of pride that looks down on fellow servants of Christ just because you're not part of an elite group. Or you have it measured up to these certain things. Notice how Jesus responded to verse 39. But Jesus said, forbid him not. For there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name that can lightly speak evil of me. So Jesus rebukes them, says, don't hinder him. What does he mean by that second expression? For there's no man which shall do a miracle in my name that can speak lightly speak evil of me. In other words, since he's a true follower and doing miracles in my name, he's not going to then turn around and speak against my name. You see, if someone is working for Jesus in his name, he's not at the same time going to speak against Jesus, the name of Jesus. So Jesus was saying, look, he's on our side And then he says, he gives this maxim to reinforce that in verse number 40, for he that is not against us is on our part. That is, he's on our side. And so Jesus is telling the disciples they have to guard against these building of walls between believers and recognizes the things that unite us, the things that bring us together. That's what you have to focus on. When the fundament fundamentalist movement began in the early part of the 20th century, it was a group of men, pastors and scholars and theologians, they came from various denominations, but what they had in common was they believed the core beliefs of the gospel These non-negotiables that we all have to believe if we're going to hold to the faith, things like the inspiration of Scripture and the Trinity and the Deity of Christ and the Virgin Birth. Substitutionary atonement, bodily resurrection, salvation by grace through faith. These are the non-negotiables. If you change any of these things, you change the gospel And so we have to hold to these, these core beliefs. And do you know that there are people that hold to these core beliefs from different denominations? Now they may hold other secondary doctrines differently than We do or I do. They're wrong on all those other little things. Yeah, you say, wait a minute, Pastor Harmony, you're preaching about pride here. What I'm trying to say simply is this that look we may disagree on secondary issues like spiritual gifts, second coming. When is it you historic premillennial, dispensational premillennial, pre-wrath, and on we could go? Mode of baptism, manner of church government Now I'm not saying these aren't important. These are important issues, but they're secondary to the nature of the gospel. And I can fellowship with someone as long as they have the same core beliefs that I have in the gospel. There's no reason not to fellowship with them, but unfortunately fundamentalism became filled with a spiritual pride and devolved into this kind of spiritual elitism where you could not be a part of the group unless you agreed on every minor issue How you wear your clothes, how you wear your hair, what version of the English, what English version of the Bible you use. If you didn't dot your eyes and cross your T's exactly the same, then you couldn't be part of this group. Believe as I believe, no more, no less. That I am right and no one else confess. Feel as I feel, think as I think, eat what I eat, and drink what I drink Look as I look, do always as I do, then and only then will I fellowship with you. And that really is kind of the attitude that we have to guard against, and that's what Jesus is saying to his disciples here. We have to guard against this kind of pride. But let me give you the last thing here. Pride grows by ignoring the cross. Humility grows by focusing on the cross. Now, if you're one who struggles with pride, like I do. And I think all of us would have to admit that we all struggle with it to some degree. I would like to suggest that there's nothing that kills pride like focusing on the cross of Christ. The cross of Christ has a pride-killing effect. It's not an accident that the disciples just completely ignored what Jesus said about his death. I mean they completely ignored it. Again, look at verse thirty one. For he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of Man is delivered into the hands of men And they shall kill him, and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But look at verse 32. But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him. They really didn't want to talk about this subject. They didn't really want to talk about suffering Or picking up their cross and following him, as Jesus had said earlier, they weren't interested. They wanted to know about glory. They wanted to know about where their throne was going to be. Was it going to be next to Jesus? How close? They didn't want to talk about a cross. And in theology, we make a distinction between theologia gloria and theologia crucis. That is the the the theology of glory and the theology of the cross, but we want glory without the cross. We don't want to talk about the theology of Crucis. We don't want to talk about the cross But I want to tell you, friend, when you ignore the cross, pride grows strong. When you focus on the cross, it has a pride-killing effect to it. How can you look at the cross of Christ? And it not kill the pride that is in your heart. This is exactly what Paul was trying to get the ch the church at Philippi to do was to focus on the cross. And you know why? Because there was a dispute that had come up and the that wonderful little church of Philippi that Paul loved so well, that helped him so much. He heard about in the church there were two women that couldn't get along. They were competing against each other. They were selfish. They were filled with pride. And the Bible even names them in Philippians 4 2. I beseech Yodius, I beseech Sinache, that they be of the same mind. As I told you before, one preacher pronounced her name U me and so touch ye. They just couldn't seem to get along. And Paul identifies the reason for it. It was their pride. So, what was Paul's solution to this? He says, Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, and made himself of no reputation. And became obedient unto death. Actually, let me read verse 8. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. You know what Paul's cure was to the pride that these folks had that was causing contention? It was to focus on the cross. Look at the cross. Look at what Jesus did. No one ever humbled themselves like Christ did. No one. He became obedient unto death. And when it says even the death of the cross, he's calling attention to the most shocking feature of Christ's humiliation. He didn't just die, but he died the most excruciating humiliating, degrading, painful way that anyone could ever die. And he didn't have to. He did it for you. It was my sin, it was my pride, it was my selfishness that put Christ there on the cross. To die for my sins. And when we focus on that cross, when we think about what Jesus did for us and all he went through for us. It kills our pride. I think of the words of the great hymn by Isaac Watts. When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, My riches gain I count but loss and for contempt on all my pride. It causes us to pour contempt on our pride. So to grow in usefulness to the Savior, we must grow in humility and we must judge our pride. So, in closing, let me just summarize the lessons. Number one, pride is fed by competition. Humility is fed by cooperation. Number two, pride is fed by our association with the important Humility is fed by our association with the lowly. Number three, pride creates an atmosphere of exclusivism. Humility creates an atmosphere of acceptance. Number four, pride grows by ignoring the cross. Humility grows by focusing on the cross. When the great king of France, King Louis, died after reigning for 72 years, He was called the Great Monarch. His body laid in a golden coffin. The chapel was dimly lit, and a little candle symbolizing his greatness was lit. And when the bishop got up to speak at his funeral, the first thing he did was he reached down and he put out the light of the candle. And then he said, Only God is great. Only God is great. You know who the greatest in the kingdom is? It's Jesus Christ. And if you want to share in any of that greatness, then you have to follow his example. Only when we follow his example of humility can we truly be called in the kingdom great. Let's bow for prayer together And so, Lord, we thank you again for your word and how clear it is for us. We thank you for our Savior, and we are constantly in all of his life. The way he lived, the example he set for us And what he teaches us here about greatness in the kingdom. Lord, as we read this, we cannot help but be convicted about our own pride. Father, forgive us. For the proud look. Forgive us for competing instead of just humbly serving. Forgive us for thinking that in some way if we associate with the important, that it makes us important. But that our greatest association is with you. And that should be enough. Forgive us, Lord, for excluding others instead of accepting others. Most of all, Lord, forgive us for ignoring the cross. Help us, Lord, to focus on it each day of our life. May we say like the Apostle Paul, God forbid that I should glory Save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord, to boast to glory in the cross and nothing else. Nothing else. And Lord, save souls for those who don't know Christ. Maybe you're here today with heads bowed and eyes closed. I want to just give you a brief invitation. Friend, are you absolutely certain that Jesus is your Savior? When Jesus humbled himself, he did it for you. Just know that. Just know that he came to this earth. He laid aside his glory. He laid aside his his privileges. And he came to earth. He humbled himself to die the way he did for you, for your sins. That you might have salvation. And friend, if you've never confessed Christ, if you never turned to him and asked for his forgiveness, then I encourage you to do it right now. Would you just pray in your heart, say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner, save me, make me your child. Forgive me for my sin. And friend, if you pray that and you mean it, let us know. Talk to me after the service, and we want to help you in your new Christian life to encourage you along. Father, again, thank you for your word. Speak to hearts for your glory's sake. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.