The book of Ephesians. The book of Ephesians, chapter 5, and a very familiar passage of scripture that you know and I know, but we all need to go to again and remind ourselves about this needful truth regarding the fullness of the Holy Spirit. Ephesians chapter 5. And I want you to look in verse number 18. And be not drunk with wine. Wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. So I want to talk tonight about the spirit-controlled life. I heard of a woman who was uh had damaged her automobile car, and in order to collect the insurance, she had to fill out a report to talk about what happened. And so this is what she wrote on the report. She said I was backing my car out of the garage and I lost sight of the driveway and got on the lawn. She said I went across the lawn, through the hedge, knocked over the garage uh the the garbage can, then knocked over the mailbox. And then she said, and then I lost control. There are a lot of Christians who uh have lost control and they don't even know it They don't know really who is in control, so I want to ask you tonight who is in control of your life? Someone or something is in control. And the question is, what is it? Who or what? Now we want to be people who are spirit controlled. We want to be people who are under the influence and power of the Holy Spirit in our life. And so tonight I want to talk about spirit-controlled Christians and how to make sure that we are living a spirit-controlled life. Because very frankly, beloved, we can't live this Christian life without the help and power of the Holy Spirit, right? So we need his help. So let's let's go through this again. Let's remind ourselves again of something that's so very basic and yet so very needful for us. And so I want to show you four factors tonight. So if you're taking notes, write down number one, the contrast. For the spirit controlled life. Look again in verse eighteen. But be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess, but be filled Notice where Paul says, be not drunk with wine. Now Paul's point here, again, is you're being controlled by someone or something. The question is, what? Now you may have remembered that we studied this principle before. You are a slave to whomever you yield yourselves to. You're under the control of whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. Write down Romans 6. 16, know ye not that to whom you yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants you are to whom you obey. whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness. And there Paul is laying down that same principle. You are a slave to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. And so some people are controlled by self. They're controlled by the flesh. And friend, that's not a good thing. Uh hold your place here. Just flip back, I think, probably one or two pages to Galatians 5. Flip to the left a few pages. And look at Galatians 5 and look at verse 19. Let me show you the dirty laundry list of of things that are characteristic of the one who is controlled by the flesh. And you know this passage as well. Now the works of the flesh are manifest which are these adultery, fornication uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variants, emulations, wrath, seditions strife, seditions, heresies, endings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such like And so here's this list. Of course, we know what these things are. Adultery. We know that that's uh uh immorality outside of marriage, fornication is a General word for sexual sin, pornea. Now we were living in an X-rated society today where all these immoral things are being pushed down people's throat. And then he says, uncleanness, this is a filthiness of mind, an inward uncleanness, lasciviousness, living by your fleshly appetites, idolatry, anything that I serve, love, or fear more than God Witchcraft is an interesting word, pharmacaia, is where we get the word pharmacy from, and it could refer to the use of drugs. Um people who use drugs. They're living according to the flesh. Hatred and variance and so on. Variance is just someone who just uh ha uh has a contentious spirit, they love to argue They just can't seem to get along with anyone. You ever meet people like that? They're like a porcupine. They have a lot of good points. You just can't get close to them because they want to point those things out constantly. That's variance. And then emulations, it's jealousies, wrath. And then on down the list it goes. And you say, well, I don't see my my weakness on here. Well he says and such like at the bottom. So you fill in the rest Whatever else. This is an incomplete list, but this is what the flesh brings. And beloved, if if any of these things characterize your life. You need to examine your life because the flesh is in control when these things are characteristic. And so some are controlled by the flesh, or self we could say. Some are controlled by a substance. Go back to Ephesians 5. eighteen where again Paul makes this statement, be not drunk with wine wherein is excess. Now Paul mentions being drunk. in connection to being uh filled with the Holy Spirit. Did you ever wonder why Paul makes this connection? That's always been interesting to me until I studied in the background of some of the Greek and mystery religions that were characteristic of Ephesus and places like Corinth and other places that Paul visited. Did you know that Drunkenness was related to religious pagan worship. That on the Greek pantheon of gods And of course, this is all Greek mythology. The chief on the Pantheon was Zeus. Zeus had a son by the name of Dionysius. Dionysius was the god of wine. In Rome, or in according to Roman religion, his name is Bacchus. You may have heard of a Bacchanellian Feast. This is nothing but just drunkenness and of and associated with this Dionysian religion was for people just to get in an ecstasy, to get filled with emotion, and and and according to them, that was being connected to the gods. The more out of control you were, the more connected you were to the deities. And a big part of all of this mystery religion, this Greek pagan religion, was drunkenness. People got drunk and they thought that the the more inebriated they were, the more connected they were to the higher level. And so drunkenness was such a part of that religion. And no doubt this was something that was going on in Ephesus. And Paul was saying to the Ephesian church, your background was communing with the gods in a state of drunkenness. But if you want to communicate with God, if you want to really be connected, if you want to really be on a high spiritual plane, it's not through drunkenness, it's through being filled with the Holy Spirit of God. It's by knowing the Lord Jesus and allowing the Spirit of God to live in you and to indwell you and to fill you, that is true spirituality. And so that's why Paul makes this contrast here. Drunkenness was being controlled by a substance. So Paul says, be not drunk with wine. That's excess. And the word excess here refers to just dissipation, debauchery, things that are bad. Paul said, when a man is drunk, he's under the control of another power. And that's what drunkenness is, isn't it? Someone said the devil uh liquor is the devil in liquid form. And I agree with that Satan will take over a man's life through that, his walk, his talk, his thoughts, and so on. And so there are some who are controlled by a substance Some are controlled by self and they live according to the flesh. Some are controlled by a substance and they're out of control But then Paul says the best way to live is to be controlled by the Spirit. Are you controlled by the Spirit? And being spirit-filled and being spirit-controlled is essentially the same thing. And so Paul's making this contrast, but also, we also see in the scripture also a comparison He's also speaking by way of comparison because being spirit-filled can be compared to being drunk in the sense that you are under the power of something other than yourself. You remember in Acts chapter 2 on the day of Pentecost when the Bible says so the Spirit of the Lord came upon them and they were filled with the Holy Spirit? And then they accused them of being what? They said to those disciples, you're drunk with what? New wine. And how did Peter respond? This is what Peter said. Peter said, they are not drunk as you suppose Now, Peter didn't say they weren't drunk, he said they're not drunk the way you think they're drunk. Basically what he was saying is they are under the control of something, but it's not wine. They are being influenced by the Spirit of God. You see, because just like alcohol dominates a drunken man, the Spirit of God dominates a spirit-controlled person or a spirit-filled person. And friend, that's what we want. I don't know about you, but I want to be filled with a spirit I want to walk in the Spirit. I want to be controlled by the Spirit. That should be the desire of every Christian. So we see number one the contrast. of a spirit-controlled life. But then I want you to write down a second thought, number two, write this down, the command. The command for a spirit-filled life or spirit-controlled life. Again, in verse 18, be not drunk with wine wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. Now notice several things about this verb be filled. The first thing I want you to see here is that this is an imperative. An imperative verb in the Greek. You know what that is? That's a command. This is not a suggestion. This is not a request. This is not a maybe. This is a command. And so to be fail to fail to be filled with the Spirit is to live in disobedience to God. Isn't that right? I mean when God commands you to do something and you don't do it, what is that? That's disobedience. And so this is a command. Now most Christians don't believe it is a sin not to be filled with the Spirit. But friend, if you're disobeying a command, if I'm disobeying a command, isn't that a sin against God? So we say like this, it's a sin for us not to be controlled by the Spirit. Now think about that. You see what we see here is a negative command and a positive command. In verse 18, negative command, be not drunk of wine Is it then a sin to be drunk with wine? Yes. We would all agree to that. Here's the positive command, but be filled with the Spirit. Is it then a sin not to be filled with the Spirit? If you said yes to the first question, you have to say yes to the second. You see, it's a sin. What if a preacher one Sunday got up on Sunday morning? What if a preacher went to preach in his church and and he staggered to the pulpit? He had bloodshot eyes. He had a thick tongue. He slurred his words. He couldn't get it out. And someone got close to him and it was obvious this this preacher was drunk. How how the church would react to that? Man, how people would talk, oh the the preacher that priests that morning he was drunk, man, how tongues would wag. What if the music leader got up and he tried to lead music and and he was inebriated And he couldn't do his job because of that. Man, you would call a meeting and you would say that person is fired. We can't have this. This is wrong. This is a sin. And guess what? You would be right. But friend, I want to tell you something. It's just the biggest sin for a preacher to try to preach without the control of the Holy Spirit as it is for him to be up there and be drunk. And that applies not only to me, it applies to every servant of the Lord. If you're serving the Lord and you're trying to do it in your own flesh, and you're not filled with the Holy Spirit or controlled by the Holy Spirit, when you're doing that, guess what? That is a sin. Some of our service can be a sin in the eyes of God if we try to do that service in the flesh. And so this is a command It's an imperative. Be filled with the Spirit. But also I want you to think about this. This verb, it is a present tense verb. And so literally this is a continual action, which means this isn't just a one-time thing. This is a daily thing. This is a constant thing. It is a day-by-day continual filling. Now someone says, well, I I was filled with the Holy Spirit last week. Well, that's good for last week. What about today? It's a continual thing. You see? How does a drunk man get drunk? He drinks. How does he stay drunk? He keeps drinking How does a spirit-filled Christian get spirit-filled? He yields totally. He's under the control of the Holy Spirit. How does he stay spirit-filled? He is constantly yielding. to the power and presence of the Holy Spirit. It is a continual thing. So this is a command. This is present tense constantly, but also it's plural in number. It's all of us. This is not just for one person, this is for everyone. Now sometimes people come to church and say, well, it's the pastor's job and the pastoral staff's job and the deacon's job to be filled with the Holy Spirit, but I'm just a layperson Well friend, you're it's just as big a responsibility for you as it is for me. Because this is all of us. This is plural in number. All of God's people, all born-again believers, listen, this is your birthright to be filled with the Holy Spirit. But also this is passive in voice. This verb is passive in voice. You know what that means? That means this is something that God has to do for us and in us I can't fill myself with the Holy Spirit. That's something that God must do in us and to us and for us. And so that's why we pray and we say, oh God, here I am. I'm your vessel. Fill me. I can't do it myself. All I can do is just empty myself of self and pray that the Holy Spirit would fill me. So our obedience Demands this. This is a command. But secondly, the next sub point is are obligations demanded. Or obligations. Do you realize as a Christian you have obligations? And you can't fulfill those obligations by yourself. We can't do what God calls us to do unless we are controlled by the Spirit. Now we might try to. But we're going to fail if we do. And by the way, I have failed at times when I've tried to do things on my own. And so you say, what are our obligations? Well, first of all, there's our worship life. Look in chapter 5 of Ephesians, look in verse 19. Singing to yourselves in Psalms and hymns, spiritual psalms, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, giving thanks always for all things unto God the Father, name of our Lord. What is this? This is Saul speaking about our worship All of our worship. You know, most of us we go through the motions of worship a lot of times, never really enjoying the worship. And don't raise your hand, but have you ever done that? Just come to church and You know, you're just kind of going through the motions. You're not really worshiping. Friend, let me tell you something. When we come to church, it's our obligation to worship the Lord. And I can't do that on my own. I have to have the Holy Spirit of God to help me worship God the way God is worthy of worship. Sometimes our worship is a sin. The way we worship. Because our hearts aren't in it. We're going through the motions. We're not really thinking about God. God deserves better. He deserves for us to worship Him in a manner that is worthy of Him. And friend, when we come to God's house, you don't come to get worship, you come to do the worship. Some people say, well, I I just come to church because I want to get worship. Listen, you bring your worship to church You say, I didn't like the worship this morning. Neither did I. I didn't like the way you did it. Sometimes you want to direct it to the pulpit. Like this is a spectator sport. Listen, worship involves all of God's people. And in order for us to worship the in a way that is worthy of God, we have to be filled with the Spirit. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever before you came to church said, Holy Spirit, please fill me and control me so that I can worship? The way that I should worship. Because we need the Holy Spirit to help us. The Bible says that the Father is looking for those who worship in spirit and in truth. Now, it's our worship life, but also our wedded life. Look in chapter 5, look at verse 22. Why submit yourselves on your own husbands as unto the Lord? So here's uh obligation for wives. Wives, you are to submit yourselves unto your own husbands as unto the Lord. And guess what, ladies, you can't do that unless the Holy Spirit fills you. You can't be submissive the way you should. Um I remember one time a couple wanted me, not here but another place, a couple wanted me to do the wedding and And uh when I was going over the vows with the bride, there's a part where it says to love, honor, and obey. And she said, you're gonna have to take out that phrase obey. She said, I want you to take that out of the vows. And I said, Excuse me? And the husband was sitting right there. I'm like, uh, are you okay with this? Well sure he was. He was uh hand-packed as you can be. And uh The truth of the matter is, uh, you may as well take it out if you're not going to obey. I know that's pretty harsh. I'm sorry. I need to back up a little bit. I mean, I'm going to preach that to men here in just a minute, ladies. But you know what? We can't do what we need to do in our wedded life unless the Holy Spirit helps us. Women are to submit, but men your job is even harder. Look at verse twenty-three, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church He is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wise be to their own husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives. How? Even as Christ also loved the church Now, it's let me preach it myself for a minute. And and and and and preach it to other men. You know what? I can't do that. I can't love my wife the way Christ loved the church. In and of myself, Jerry Harmony can't do that. And I dare say there's not a man here that can of himself. But friend, that's why we need the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit helps me to love my wife and my family, the way Christ loved the church. And uh you say, well, you know, that is a tall order. It is a tall order. And this is not pick or choose. This is something that God demands of us. And by the way, you know what love is? Love is isn't just a feeling. Love is self-sacrificial acts towards another. And that's why he says we're to love sacrificially, we're to be willing to die for her, we're to love sanctifyingly, in verse twenty-six, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of the water by the word As a husband, you need to make your wife a more beautiful, radiant Christian because of your walk with the Lord. You have to love her s steadfastly. In verses 28 and verse 29, so ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. And so there's a tall order here. that we can't do on our own. I can't do that. I need the help of the Holy Spirit. And by the way, the main the main thrust of Ephesians 5 and 6 is spirit-filled relationships. That's really what it's all about. A lot of times when we preach this, we We've directed more to evangelism and soul winning and preaching and all that. We need the sphere for that. But the major thrust of Ephesians 5 and 6 is talking about the home. It's talking about relationships, spirit-filled relationships. We can't have the right relationships with anyone unless we're filled with the Spirit. Go on. Our work life. Look in chapter 6 and look down at verse number 5. Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh. With fear and trembling, and singleness of your heart is under the Lord. This is the same context, same train of thought. You're to work for your employer as if you were Jesus, not with eye service. This is your best opportunity to be a Christian and be a witness there on the job. You're to work for your employer as if it were the Lord Jesus. Now again, you can't do that by yourself. You have to have the power of the Holy Spirit. As a Christian on the job, you ought to be so honest and diligent and respectful that the next time they're looking for someone to fill the position, the boss should say, I want a Christian. I want someone just like so-and-so because of the way they work and how honest they are. That's the way the testimony should be. Now, also another thing is our war life. Our war life. Look in chapter 6, look in verse 10. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Now, we need the filling and the power of the Spirit for our war life. You say, I'm not at warfare. Oh yes, you are. If you're a Christian, you're at war with the kingdom of darkness. And if the devil doesn't come after you, you need to get busy and start doing something. Because if he's not coming after you, it's because you're not a factor. But if you seek to live for Christ. And you want to be a force for God, you will be attacked. But let me tell you something, friend, Satan fear is a spirit-filled Christian He fears the spirit-filled Christian. And so our obedience demands it. Our obligations demand it. Our worship life, our wedded life, our work life, our war life. We can't do those things Without the help of the Holy Spirit. But here's a third thought. Are opportunities demanded? Opportunities. Look in chapter 5. Look in verse number 16, where it says, Redeeming the time. Because the days are evil. Did you know all around you you have opportunities that God gives you? And you might not ever see those opportunities again. Just things that the Lord might put in your path. Where it says redeeming the time, the word redeem means to buy back. And when it uses the word time here, it's not viewed as extended time, but rather opportunities. Redeem the opportunities, we could say. Because all around you there are opportunities that you need to grab hold of. And these are opportunities to serve the Lord. These are opportunities for the kingdom. And we have to be alert to those purposes and be ready to grab those things. when they surface and when they come along and when God places them in front of us. You know why? Because, listen, the normal The normal life for a person who doesn't know the Lord is subject to futility. They're in bondage to futility. That is, it's just kind of a meaningless Existence if they don't know the Lord. Look, look back in chapter 4 of Ephesians. Look at verse 17 and verse 19. Just a few verses here. This I say, therefore, and testifying the Lord. That ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, listen to this, in the vanity of their mind, having their understanding darkened Being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them because of the blindness of their heart. And you know what Paul's describing there? He's describing the life of an unbeliever. And it's a life that is in darkness. It's a life that's in futility. It is a life that is in bondage to meaninglessness. Here's a man he goes through school, he gets a job. And when he gets a job, he starts a family, he raises that family, and then he retires from that job and he hopes that his health lasts long enough to cruise through all the national parks and catch a lot of fish. When he retires. And all during that process, he spends years and years watching television shows, mindless television shows. What's the point? He's in bondage to futility. None of those things have any eternal significance to them. But when you become a child of God, you know what God does? He gives you opportunities to redeem the time. To take all of the time that God has given you and to use it for the kingdom of God. Listen, every day God gives you opportunities to serve Him You need to be alert. You need to have your eyes open to that. A person who's a Christian, he rears his children to know and follow the Lord. He witnesses to others. He's constantly about the the the business of the kingdom and God. You know, just yesterday uh I went to uh The mall. Now I don't normally do this. I don't really like to shop. But my daughter Abby and her husband Will have been here and I was just killing spending time with them, redeeming the time I guess you could say, before she goes back to London Before Will takes her back over to the shore over there. And um pray pray I'm gonna try to move that guy over here to make him American. All right, y'all pray with me about that. But I wanted to spend some time with her. And Abby wanted to go and she she wanted to get a dress for a wedding she's going to be in over there in London. And so I I just tagged along with with them, went to the mall. And there's only so much tagging along I can do in a mall. So I went into a little shop and I was looking around. I really wasn't shopping, but the man behind the counter, I s I there was no one else in there, and I struck up a conversation with him. And he ended up being an Orthodox Jewish man. And I began to tell him about the Messiah, Jesus Christ. I began to witness to him. And we had a long long conversation. Uh his father left Germany under what he called the madman Hitler. He he le he fled Germany and this man joined the army and he fought for our country in the Air Force and He was a brilliant man, a PhD man. And I began to talk to him about Jesus being the Messiah and trying to share with him from the scripture. about Jesus being the Messiah. Now I wish I could tell you that he got saved, but he didn't. But friend, I want to tell you I did the best I could to share the word of God with this brilliant man. And I and before I left, he didn't want me to leave. I was ready to go. Five times he came around the counter and shook my hand, shook my hand. And and said, I hope I see you again. I hope I see you again But friend, that's just an opportunity, just to share Christ. Now listen, everywhere you go, the Lord gives you opportunities to share Jesus. That's redeeming the time. But I want to tell you, we can't redeem the time unless we're filled with the Holy Spirit. The Bible says in the book of Acts, chapter 1, the Christians were spread abroad And they were sharing Christ. They were spread out all over. And so, friend, that's what we need to be doing. Now, let me give you the third point here. Number one, I said the contrast of the spirit-controlled life. Number two, the command. But I want you to see number three, the conditions. The conditions for the spirit-filled life. You say, I want to make sure that I'm spirit-filled. Well, what are the conditions? Well, there has to be, first of all, this, a complete commitment Notice it says be filled with the Spirit. It doesn't say be filled by the Spirit. See, to be filled with the Spirit means it's something that the Spirit does inside. To be filled by the Spirit is something that is outward. If I'm filled by the Spirit, he could be on the outside filling me with something. But if he's on the inside, That's what it's talking about here. Be filled with the Spirit. You see, the power is on the inside. It comes from Him. You see the Holy Spirit Is not some kind of a force or energy? The Holy Spirit is a person. He is the third member of the Trinity. He is God of very gods And he lives inside of us. He's a person with a mind, a heart, a will, a personality. And that person lives in us And friend, if I could use an analogy, it's kind of like a person living in your home. The Bible says, know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit? Now the Holy Spirit lives inside of this temple. He lives inside of you. It is a person. He is a person. And not just any person. He is God living inside of you. Now So what do we do? We allow him to have full control of this house. What if, let me give you an example. What if I had a guest staying in my home and brought him in and said, look, make yourself at home. Whatever is mine is yours. This is not just my house. This is your house. You be at home here. This is your house. He says, okay, thank you. I go upstairs, go to bed. I come down in the middle of the night. I see him in my study, rifling through all of my personal letters, reading in my journal. Reading personal letters. And I say, hey, wait a minute, what are you doing? That's my well you said make yourself at home. So I'm making myself at home. Well that's not what I meant. I don't want you going through my personal stuff. You say, what's the point? That's what we do to the Holy Spirit a lot of times You see, when the Holy Spirit comes to live inside of us, we say, Holy Spirit, I want you to have complete control. This is your house. This is not my house. You have the key to every drawer You have the key to every door in my heart. And when the Holy Spirit starts to touch on some sensitive areas, you know what we say? Wait a minute, that's that's that's mine, that's not yours. We might not say that audibly But there's a part of us where we resist, we don't yield. Listen, to be filled with the Holy Spirit means that the Holy Spirit is not just resident in us. He is president. He's got the key to every drawer in our heart, every door in our soul. And there's nothing hidden. It's all his. He doesn't come just to abide. He comes to preside. And so the question is, does he have complete control? Of every part of you. Have you yielded all of it? Years ago, some ministers were planning a evangelistic crusade, and they got together and they said, We want to select the right evangelists. And so they decided the majority wanted D. L. Moody. He was a gifted evangelist, a man filled with the Holy Spirit, and they wanted this man to come. And one minister on the committee disagreed with that, and he tried to put up someone else and he was holding out for another evangelist and in exasperation he said Moody, Moody, Moody, he said, the way you men talk, it seems like uh Moody is the biggest thing. Does Moody have a monopoly on the Holy Spirit? And the men said, no, but the Holy Spirit has a monopoly on Moody, and that's why we want them. So the question is, does the Holy Spirit have a monopoly on you? Have you given all? Have you yielded completely? So there's a complete commitment, but then a continuous control, and I've already made this point so I won't dwell here long. Be filled means be being filled. It is a continuous Control. It is constantly yielding to the Holy Spirit, day by day, moment by moment, yielding to the Holy Spirit. And then here's the third thing. What I call a conscious claiming. That is, there are times when you must consciously claim and pray for the filling of the Holy Spirit or the control of the Holy Spirit. Write down Luke 11 3. If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? There are times when I must consciously claim the power of the Holy Spirit. I have to consciously say, Holy Spirit, I want you to have every part of me. Fill me. Every part of my mind, my heart, my tongue, my being, before a service, before a special task, before some special meeting perhaps, or whatever. Now let me give you the the last point quickly. I said there's the contrast of the spirit-controlled life, then the command, then the conditions, but here's the last point. Write down the consequences. Of a spirit-controlled life. You say, what are the consequences? How will I know? Well, look again in chapter 5, look in verse 19. Speaking to yourselves in Psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms. Singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord. Here's the first thing, speaking. You know what? When you get filled with the Spirit, you will have a boldness in your speech that you never had before. There'll be there'll be a courage there that you're not sure where it's from. But there'll be a boldness. Acts 4. 13. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. There'll be a boldness. Not only speaking, but singing. Again, we see singing here in verse 19 and 20. And then submitting, verse 21, submitting yourselves one to another. You'll be submissive to others. You'll put others before you. And then serving, look in chapter 6, verse 7. With goodwill doing service as to the Lord and not unto men. We will serve God willingly from our hearts. We won't do it to be seen of men. We'll do it as unto the Lord. That's a characteristic of someone under the control of the Spirit, not caring who gets the credit. And then standing. Look at verse 11. Put on the whole armor of God that you might be able to stand. Wouldn't you like to be victorious and stand firm? Well, you can't do that without the Holy Spirit, but friend, when you're spirit-controlled, The Holy Spirit helps you to stand. But then supplicating, look in verse 18. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints. When we pray with the help of the Spirit, uh, we will pray with power. And friend, we will want to pray. You know, there are times, I I'm embarrassed to say, there are times in my Christian life when I'm not up to praying as I should. I may not feel like it. I might have something else pulling me down. But I want to tell you, friend, that's not the Holy Spirit. Because when you're under the control of the Spirit, you're going to want to pray. You're going to want to go to the Father. Why? Because God sends forth the Spirit into our hearts and we naturally cry out what? Add the Father. That's going to be a natural thing that we want to do. And so these are all evidences of someone who is controlled by the Spirit. So again, I want to ask you, who's controlling you? Who has the control? And let me close with this. This is a a story that really blesses my heart when I Think about it. How many have ever read the devotional, My Utmost for His Highest? Oswald Chambers wrote that. It's a wonderful devotional book. Did you know that there was a time in his life when he felt barren? There was kind of a persistent barrenness. in his life. And he and he wrote about it. He said I was getting desperate. He said I knew no one had what I wanted. In fact I did not know what I did want. But I knew that if what I had was all the Christianity there was, the thing was a fraud. That is, he was so barren It seemed like it was so tedious that he said, I was wondering if I had the real thing. It gotten so burdensome, the Christian life. And then he says, one day when he was reading Luke 11, 3. It got a hold of them. That's the verse we just read. If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? Now keep in mind This is a verse to God's children. Are you a child of God? You say I already have the Holy Spirit. This is talking about something even more, a fullness. God will give you the Holy Spirit. And he began to meditate on that verse. And he says that one day, after a sermon, after a meeting, there was a kind of a follow-up study and there was a lady that led that study and uh he said this she did not speak but set us to pray And then saying, Touch me again, Lord. And this is what he said. He said, I felt nothing, but I knew emphatically my time had come. I rose to my feet. Then and there I claimed. The gift of the Spirit, as spoken in Luke 11, 13. And he said that moment he sensed. That the Holy Spirit had taken control. He said, I I had no vision of heaven or of angels. I had nothing. He said, but then I was asked to speak at a meeting. And forty souls came to the altar. I came to realize that God intended me, having asked uh To simply take it by faith and that power would be there. And the point he's making is very simple. He said, I simply claimed it by faith. There was nothing magical that happened. Nothing knocked him over. But he could see the evidence of it. He had a sense of the peace of God and he had an evidence by what was going on in his life. And I want to tell you that the fullness of the Holy Spirit is available for every Christian here in this room. But you have to ask word by faith. Holy Spirit, fill me. I claim this by faith that I might be a worthy servant of God. And friend, I don't care who you are, if you're a child of God and you want the fullness of the Holy Spirit in your life, it is available to you. And the truth of the matter is there's no excuse for us not to walk in the Spirit. God has given us this wonderful blessing, not as a reward for our faithfulness, but as a gift for our weakness. We need the Holy Spirit in our life. And so are you willing to be like Oswald Chambers and just claim it by faith? Take it by faith. Let's let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we thank you for this wonderful promise. And Lord, we cry out in desperation. We need the fullness of the Spirit in our life. Forgive us for the times where when we've tried to do things on our own. Forgive us for the times when we have been controlled by something other than the Spirit, maybe by self. Perhaps in our own folly, we've assumed that we can do things on our own. Forgive us for all these things, Lord. Help us to be Christians who are consciously claiming the fullness of the Spirit of God in our life. Because you've commanded that for us. May we walk under the Spirit's control and power. May we claim it by faith. And how many here will say today, that's my prayer. I claim by faith. This fullness that God has for me. I want to walk in the Spirit, and I want to pray right now with an upraised hand. I'm claiming this fullness in my life God bless you. Father, may we be a spirit-filled church doing your work for your glory. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.