Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 21? I know we've been in 2 Thessalonians. We're going to depart from that for a few weeks while we talk about The Passion Week and the beginning of it. Matthew chapter 21 and verse number 1. And would you stand please for the reading of God's Word? I want to read a few verses together with you. Matthew chapter 21, verse number 1. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethegye, some people pronounce that Bethage or Bethegy. unto the Mount of Olives, then sent Jesus to disciples, saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her Loose them and bring them unto me, and if any man say aught unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them, and straightway he will send them All this was done that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, saying, Tell ye the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and the coal the fowl of an ass And the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and brought the ass and the cold, and put them on on them their clothes, and they sat him thereon, and a very great multitude spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches from the trees. and strawled them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna, son of David Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, thank you for your precious word and this beautiful narrative that reminds us of what took place on this day so very many years ago. Lord, help us to understand the importance of this event and what it means for our lives today. And I pray, Lord, that Jesus Christ the King will reign as King in the hearts of every person here. If there's someone here that doesn't know Christ, that today would be the day of salvation. Bless this word, Lord. Help me, your servant, make it clear. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This is one of the most important days in redemptive history. This, of course, is a day that we call Palm Sunday Now, why is this day so important? And you might ask the question, what does it have to do with me? What is it, how does it change my life? Well, this was a day that Jesus officially presented himself as Messiah. to Israel and to the world. And it begins the most important day in redemptive history, or I should say the most important week of redemptive history. This inaugurates that week. The week that we call the Passion Week. It was Jesus' actions, his dramatic actions on this day that began the week that actually ultimately led to his crucifixion at the end of the week. So just to kind of give you this week in review on Sunday is the triumphal entry when he presents himself as the official Messiah. On Monday, Jesus comes back to Jerusalem, he cleanses the temple, he curses the fig tree. Then on Tuesday he goes back to the temple and there's the controversy that he has with the religious leaders where Jesus gives them several parables. that really talk about what what he's going to do. And then on Wednesday, as apparently that's a day of rest for him, on Thursday is the preparation for the Passover. On Friday is his trial and crucifixion that began early in the early morning hours of Friday. And then of course his crucifixion and then on Sunday Jesus will come out of the grave. He will rise again from today, from the dead. Today we focus on this one important event that initiates Holy Week, the triumphal entry into Jerusalem. We could also call this the tragic entry. into Jerusalem. And why is that? Well, because when Jesus entered Jerusalem on this day so vent so so vent uh very many years ago The vast majority of people did not understand the significance of this day, and they didn't understand who he was, and this was tragic for their own soul. You say, now wait a minute, didn't the people cry out Hosanna when Jesus came in? Yes. But just a few days later they cried out, Crucify Him. They were kind of caught up in the hysteria of the moment, but they didn't truly understand the significance of what Jesus was offering to them on that day. Luke tells us that when Jesus wrote into Jerusalem, that he actually wept. And why did he weep? Well, because Jesus knew that the people didn't understand and that they would end up rejecting him to the destruction of their soul. In Luke chapter 19, verse forty one it says this, and when he was come near he beheld the city, and he wept over it, saying, If thou hast known, even thou at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace But now they are hid from thine eyes. Again, they really didn't understand what Jesus was offering They didn't really understand who he was when he wrote in to Jerusalem on that day. In fact, in chapter 21, down at verse number 10, They're asking a question. Look at verse 10. And when he was coming into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? This is the most crucial question in the world. Who is this? Who is Jesus? That is an important question. That is the most profound question that a person could ever ask, and again the most important question, because how you answer that question will determine your eternal destiny. Now some people here today may be wondering, what does all this have to do with me? What does Palm Sunday have to do with me? I mean I'm just trying to survive, I'm just trying to make it through the week. Why should I be worried about what happened in Jerusalem on this day so many, many years ago? Because, my friend, it's a matter of life and death. Either Jesus is who he presented himself to be, or he's not. Either is the Messiah, the Son of God, the Savior, or He's not. And the question is, is Jesus all that he claimed to be? The witness of the scripture and the gospel of Matthew all say yes. Yes, he is indeed all he claimed to be. But this is a matter that every person has to settle in their own heart. You have to settle this in your heart. You have to get this straight. Because if he is who he claimed to be, that means that everything Jesus said was true. And if everything he said was true, that means that there's only one way Of salvation, there's only one way to heaven, and that's through Jesus Christ. Because Jesus said, What? I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes unto the Father except through me. There are many people today that can't accept the fact that Jesus Christ is the only way of salvation. They want to believe there are many ways. You know, it's that old mountaintop theory, you know. There are many paths that lead to the same mountaintop. There are many ways that a person can make it up to heaven. There's the Buddha way, there's the Islam way, there is the The Hindu way, and so on. But if Jesus is all that he claimed to be, then there's only one way. And every other way is a false way. This is what we call the exclusive nature of the gospel. That's why this is so very important. If Jesus indeed is the Messiah, the Son of God. The son of David, the king, that everything he said was true, and that means there's only one way to heaven, that's through Christ. And that means you have to settle this in your own heart. Do you believe or not? So there, as we look at this narrative today, there are three things I want you to see with me. First of all, the final preparation of the king. We see this in verses one through three. Jesus is preparing himself to present himself officially as the king. Now this is the major theme of the Gospel of Matthew Matthew wrote his gospel primarily to Jewish people, but his aim is to prove beyond any doubt that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of David. And so that's why in Matthew's gospel, he kind of compiles the evidence, just like a lawyer would compile evidence so that people would come to the right verdict. In chapter 1, there's the testimony of history. That's why Matthew starts out with the genealogy of Jesus proving that he is the only one who has their credentials to be the Messiah. He also proves in chapter one that he was the virgin-born son of God. In chapter two, there's a testimony of prophecy. Matthew will point out the prophecies that Jesus fulfilled. In fact, he'll do that throughout the whole gospel. Then there's the testimony of John the Baptist. Who said, Behold the Lamb of God, and there's the testimony of God the Father, who when Jesus was baptized, there was a voice from heaven that said, This is my beloved Son, and whom I am well pleased. And then in chapter 4, there's the testimony of Jesus' own power. In chapter 5 through 7, there's the testimony of Jesus' words, where he gives the Sermon on the Mount, the greatest sermon ever preached. And then chapters 8 and 9, there's the testimony of his works and his miracles. Matthew just gives a few miracles that Jesus did that shows that he had the absolute authority as the Messiah. And then you get to chapter 10. There's the testimony of the disciples themselves. After bearing witness and seeing Jesus, hearing his words and watching his miracles, the disciples themselves bear witness that he is. The Messiah, the Son of God. And Matthew compiles all this evidence. Why? Because he wants a verdict from the crowd. He wants the people to see that Jesus is indeed all he claimed to be. But by the time you get to Matthew chapter 11 and 12 What you see are a series of negative responses to Christ. And this was really the turning point of Christ's whole ministry. As it was as he pres presented it. To put it another way, the revelation of the king, chapters 1 to 10, was now complete. Now, in chapters 11 through 13, what we see is the rebellion against the king. The people begin to rebel. The religious leaders begin to rebel against the evidence that they were g given about the Messiah. And then you have in chapter 14 to 17, the retirement of the king. Why? What happens in chapter 14? Well, John the Baptist is beheaded. And Jesus then withdraws. If they behead the forerunner, what are they going to do to the king? And so Jesus withdraws from the crowd. He stops preaching the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He begins to focus on the disciples. He begins to prepare the disciples for what is going to happen. He begins to prepare them for his death and then his resurrection. He reveals to them that he will be betrayed into the hands of sinners. And he'll be crucified and he will rise again. And then we see the resolve of the king. Jesus sets his face to go to Jerusalem. All along the way, there's been all this evidence that Matthew has been presenting with regard to Jesus Christ as the Messiah. And then you get here to chapter 21, and Matthew gives yet more evidence that he is the true Messiah, and yet we still see the spiritual blindness of the people of Israel. Specifically Jerusalem. And so in Matthew chapter 21, this is the triumphal entry into Jerusalem. This is where Jesus presents himself to the people. as the king. This is the only time in Jesus' public ministry that he actually planned for a public demonstration of who he is. Up until this time, Jesus would say, you know, my time has not yet come. My time has not yet come. He would do a miracle. People want to talk about it. He'd say, No, my time hasn't come. This isn't a time for me to present myself. All along the way he's ministering, he's helping people, but he would not show himself until finally you get here to this event. And in John chapter 12, verse 23, Jesus says this, the hour has come. That the Son of Man should be glorified. These were the words that Jesus spoke on Palm Sunday when he wrote into Jerusalem. Now is the time to be presented. And so notice the plan for his disciples in verse 1. Again he says, and when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem and were come to Bethegy, unto the Mount of Olives, and then sent Jesus to disciples. Bethegye was a little village between Jerusalem and Bethany and then house of figs, because of the abundance of figs in that region. A person traveling to Jerusalem heading east would have to first come to Bethany and then pass through Bethage on the slope to the Mount of Olives. And Jesus stopped first in Bethany on his journey into Jerusalem. He spent the night there with Mary and Martha and Lazarus. Remember Lazarus? That's the one that Jesus resurrected from the dead. John chapter 12 says that it was no secret that Jesus was in Bethany. People heard about it. Many people came to see him, and they also came to see Lazarus, the one who was resurrected from the dead. How would you like to talk to someone like that? People came to see that. But also there was a lot of tension in the air. Many of the people believed, but other of the religious leaders were enraged. And so as Jesus begins his journey to Jerusalem, he sends two of his disciples ahead to Bethegy And notice in verse two and three, saying go unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied and a colt with her, loose them and bring them unto me Jesus said to the disciples, go to this village, you'll find a colt tied there. This will be a colt that never a man has sat on. Loose them and bring them to me. If anyone says, What are you doing? Just say the Lord has need of him. And so Matthew says, you know, you're going to find a cold and the mother of a cold a donkey, and this one little foal has never been ridden on. It's as if the whole purpose of this animal was to carry and bear the one rider, the King of Kings, into Jerusalem on this day. Jesus was carried in the womb of a woman who never knew a man, who'll ride on the back of a colt that has never been ridden on He'll be buried in a tomb where no one had ever been laid. All of this speaks of sacred use. And then there's the proof of his deity. He's omniscient. How did he know that that animal would be there? How did he know all that? How did he know that someone would ask, you know, what are you doing there? And all of that. This is omniscience. Because the Lord knows everything. And in fact, Mark's gospel says that's exactly what happened. People ask, you know, what are you doing? Why are you untying this cold? And the disciples said, Well, the Lord has need of them, and that ended the matter. But again, this all shows the Lord's omniscience. He knows everything about you. Everything. He tracks all of your thoughts. He knows everything there is. And this shows him as God. Then we see, secondly, the fulfilled prophecy. of the king. Notice verse number four. All this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, verse 5 Tell ye the daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a cult, the foal of an ass. And Matthew is consistent all throughout his gospel to point to times when Jesus specifically fulfilled Old Testament prophecy. This is what is called Matthew's fulfillment citations. And we find throughout the Gospel of Matthew there are 68 references where he will point to the Old Testament, and Matthew will say, Jesus did this in fulfillment of this Old Testament prophecy 68 times. Matthew says, this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. There's no better way. To show that Jesus was the Messiah than to show how he fulfilled the Scripture. He fulfilled the Word of God. And here's just another, yet another one of these prophecies. We were talking about this in our discipleship class, but Matthew Stoner, excuse me, Peter Stoner was a scientist, and he came up with the principle of probability. And he looked at some of these prophecies in the Bible. And he said this, he said the the po the probability of one man fulfilling eight prophecies of the Old Testament. to for the for the Messiah or to be the Messiah, the chance of him fulfilling eight of those prophecies would be one in ten to the seventeenth power. to cover the state of Texas two feet deep. That's how big this number is. And let's just say that we took one of those silver dollars, put a red X on it, threw it into the heat, mixed it all up Then we would blindfold a person and tell them to just start walking across the state of Texas and then just pick reach down and pick up one of the silver dollars. The chance of that person picking up that marked silver dollar is the same odds of Jesus fulfilling eight prophecies, eight Old Testament prophecies as the Messiah. That's what the odds were. So that goes against the argument that some liberal scholars give about Jesus. They said, oh, he came and he purposely tried to fulfill these prophecies. No. This was all the providence of God. This was all the Father working all these things out. Jesus was just fulfilling his earthly ministry, and God the Father was working out all of this on his divine providential scale. But then think about it, Jesus fulfilled not just eight of these prophecies, he fulfilled sixty-eight of them according to the Gospel of Matthew. What are the odds of that happening by chance? There are there are no odds to that. It's just impossible. And Matthew points out that Jesus fulfilled all of these. He was the Messiah. Think about the particulars of this prophecy. Again, he's quoting from Zechariah 9:9. We saw here in verse number five. Tell ye the daughter of Zion, behold, thy king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass. This is Zechariah 9. 9 was what he's referring to This prophecy refers especially to the Messiah in his humiliation. Daughter of Zion, that refers to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, sometimes refers that to as Zion, because that was the highest hill in that city. And this prophecy was given five hundred years before Jesus fulfilled it. Think about that. And yet Jesus fulfilled this prophecy. And the purpose of this prophecy Again, was to show that Jesus was God's the Father's choice. He was the Messiah. And it's so fitting that he would come into Jerusalem riding on a beast of burden Because it all represents the fact that Jesus Himself would be carrying the sins of the world upon himself on the cross. By riding a donkey, Jesus was showing himself To not only be the king, but also the Savior that would bear the sins of the world. He would be the suffering Messiah who would bear all of our sins upon himself. And then I want you to see the third thing. We see the final preparation of the king, the fulfilled prophecy of the king, but also the formal presentation of the king. Look at verse number six. And as the disciples went and did as Jesus commanded them, and brought the ass in the cold and put on them their clothes, And they sent him thereon, and a very great multitude spread their garments in the way, and others cut down branches from the trees, and straw them in the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. And so here Jesus officially presents himself as the king. Notice the play I call this the placement in verse number seven where they kind of make a saddle from their garments and they place Jesus on the colt. This is the humble coronation of Jesus the King. And all the coronations that had ever happened throughout the history of the world, none was as humble as this one, and yet No king was ever so great as Jesus. No one was more magnificent, so majestic, so powerful, so worthy as the Lord Jesus Christ. And yet here is this humble coronation. And it doesn't look like much, but I think it reveals him as the creator because here this unbroken cult receives Jesus. In total submission. Without bucking, he receives the Lord of Glory. And The Bible says Jesus came unto his own, and his own received him not, but here this cult receives him, receives him completely as who he is. And then we see the parade in verse number eight. where the multitude spread their garments in the way. Why did they do that? Well, you know, spreading your garments was a symbol really of submission. So think about this in your mind. Jesus is basically, he begins to Descend down the western slope into the city of Jerusalem. And as he's coming, there are multitudes that are spreading their garments. In fact the Bible says in John twelve, people on the inside of the city are hearing what's happening, they all come out. There's people that have been with with Jesus. Maybe people that he healed, all the disciples were there. Mary, Martha, and Lazarus were there. People that uh he had blessed with his teaching were there. And so you have people Following Jesus, you have people coming out of the city of Jerusalem. They're laying their garments before the animal, which was a sign of submission. Matthew also says that people are cutting down branches uh palm branches um and they were also laying them down before the Lord Jesus. Why were they doing that? Because again, that that is a symbol really of glory. Um you remember in the Old Testament the feast of uh Sukkot or the Feast of Tabernacles where they would take a tabernacle, dress it up with palm branches, all that was symbolic of the glory of God in the Old Testament, the glory that followed the Jewish people around in the wilderness So they would make these tabernacles and put the palm leaves on and decorate them like kind of like we decorate a Christmas tree because it was all to symbolize the glory of God And all this is tied in. When they lay down the palm branches, in a sense they're saying, This is the King of Glory. This is the Messiah. And so they're following this Old Testament custom, and they all begin to praise them, saying, Hosanna in the highest. And they're quoting Psalm 118, verses 22, down to verse number 27. And so it's estimated that in this crowd of people, it's about 200,000 people. So kind of picture this in your mind. This this gathering of people. that are crying out saying Hosanna to the son of David. Hosanna basically means save now. Save now But also notice the people in verse number ten. Again, and when he was coming to Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? And the multitude said, This is Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee. Now some might think that since the people are shouting Hosanna, son of David, they must be accepting Jesus as their Messiah, right? Well, no. They were kind of like a lot of professing Christians today. They kind of had a shallow, superficial faith that is caught up in the emotional the moment instead of truly repenting. And and they're asking who is this, which gives you the idea that they really don't comprehend how important this day was in redemptive history and that and who he really was. They say he's the prophet from Nazareth. They're they're not they're no longer calling him the son of David here. And later they'll cry out, Crucify him. Why? Because they were spiritually blind. Again, they were caught up with the moment, but In their heart of hearts, they did not really fully understand who Jesus was, and they did not embrace him. They did not understand that this day was set. on God's prophetic calendar. This was a day that Daniel prophesied about in the book of Daniel, that this would happen on this specific day when he rode into Jerusalem. And they're saying, who is this? Interesting, did you know that in the temple, now people on the outside are asking the question, who is this? But did you know That it was the first day of the week, and according to the ancient rabbis, the priests inside the temple would quote from Psalm 24. Verse number seven, lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? On the inside of the temple, the priests are quoting this psalm. Who is this king of glory? I just find it incredible that on the outside people were asking the question, who is this? And the priests on the inside of the temple are quoting from Psalm 24, Who is this King of Glory? It's all happening there at the same time. They're asking that question. He is the Son of God, the Savior of the world. That's who he is. And they seem to miss that. Many miss that. But in closing, I want to quote to you from Luke 19, verse 39. Again, this shows Some the what the Lord his perspective of this day. It says in verse 39, and some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. And when he was come near, he beheld the city and he wept over it. saying, if thou hast known even thou, at least in this thy day the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemy shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee on every side. And shall lay thee even with the ground and thy children with within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knew not the time of thy visitation. This is from Jesus' perspective. He knows that the people really don't comprehend what's going on, that they were blind, that they didn't see. And what we see here first is the rage of the Pharisees. The Pharisees could not stand the fact that Jesus was being praised. So in the midst of all this parade of people crying out and praising the Lord Jesus, the Pharisees come and say, Lord, silence them. Silence them. And what did Jesus say? You know, if they hold their peace, the stones will cry out. By the way, that's all future indicative in the Greek. We can really say it like this. They will become silent and the stones will, when they do the stones will cry out. Because that's exactly what happened. The people did grow silent. They stopped praising Jesus. And the stones cried out. You say, how did they cry out? They cried out when Jesus died. You know what the Bible says there was a great earthquake and the stones were rent. They were cracked. And they were crying out. That Jesus indeed was the Son of God. And by the way, the stones will also cry out later on in 70 AD when the city of Jerusalem will be destroyed. It will destroy. But from the time of Jesus' prophecy, forty years later the city would be destroyed. The Romans would come in and they would destroy the temple. They would set it on fire. The gold from the dome would melt down and come in between the rocks of the stones in the temple and the Roman soldiers anxious to get at that gold would literally tear the stones apart. And Jesus said, not one stone will be left upon another. You see, this was God's judgment upon Jerusalem and that generation of Jewish people that rejected their Messiah. The stones literally did cry out later on. And Again, this is just a terrible, terrible time that would come upon the Jewish people. This is why Jesus wept. This is why Jesus. Wept and when the Bible uses the word weep there, it's the it's the weeping that would take place at a funeral. The judgment that would come Would bring such misery that the city had never seen anything like it. It took five months when the Romans came into Jerusalem and overpowered the city and basically um destroyed the city. Why? Because again in verse 44, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. You know what all this tells us? It's a serious thing to refuse Jesus Christ. It's a serious judgment to refuse him. That's why I say, that's why this is so important. And you know what? Jesus still presents himself to the world as the Messiah, the Savior, the King. The question is, what will you do about that? Have you put your faith in him? Have you trusted him as your Savior and Lord? And if not, why not? What are you waiting for? It's time for you to make a decision. Now there may be some people here that say, man, I wish I was there that day to see Jesus come into Jerusalem. That would be wonderful. But let me roll you one better than that. He's coming again. And guess what? If you know Jesus, you get to be there. He will come again to Jerusalem. And when he comes again this time, he will not come as Savior. He'll come as judge. You see, the Bible says the same Zachariah that prophesied Jesus would come to Jerusalem at his first advent also prophesied that he would come again at his second advent. And the Bible says this in Zechariah 14, 4. On that day his feet shall stand on the Mount of Olives that lies before Jerusalem on the east. And the Mount of Olive shall be split in two from east to west by a very wide valley so that one half of the mountain shall move northward and the other half southward. So when Jesus comes again, he's going to come back to Jerusalem again. And guess what? If you're a child of God, we will be there with him at his second coming. When he comes back in judgment. Now, I know there are some people out there that say, well, that's not literal. We can't literally believe this. You know. This is not literal what's going to happen here. Really? Well, when Zechariah prophesied that Jesus would come into Jerusalem the first time on a colt, did that literally get fulfilled? Then why should I not believe that the second coming would not be literal? By the same prophet Zechariah. Now he's coming again, beloved. He's going to touch down on the Mount of Olives. It's going to split in half. He will reign from Jerusalem. And so, as surely as he rode into Jerusalem the first time, he's going to come back the second time. The question is, will you be ready? Have you accepted him as your Savior? That's the only way to be ready. To call him Lord and Savior. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for this beautiful narrative. That reminds us of the momentous event that took place on this day over 2,000 years ago, and how significant it is for us today. This is this is the monumental question. Who is this? Who is he? And Father, I confess with all of my heart and soul that Jesus is Lord. He's the Savior, the Son of God. Who will come again one day, the King of Glory, and he'll come in judgment and judge all those that have rejected him and have not repented, have not obeyed the command of the gospel to repent. And Father, I pray that no one here under the sound of my voice is in that category. But that every person has bowed the knee to Jesus as Savior and Lord. They've come with a repentant heart and had their sins forgiven. And they have the absolute assurance that Jesus is their Lord and Savior. And Father, if there's someone here today that has not made that confession, I pray that the Holy Spirit would so move in their hearts. That they'll say with all sincerity, Hosanna, to the son of David, save now. Save me right now, Lord. I call upon you. Save me right now. How many with heads bowed and eyes closed to say, preacher, that's my prayer. I'm not saved, but I want to be saved right now. I want to call upon Christ I want to confess I'm as Savior and Lord. Is there anyone here like that? Anyone? God loves you. He wants to save you, friend. All right, Father, we wait with anticipation the second coming of our King And like the parable says, Lord, help us to occupy until I come. Help us to be busy, Lord, doing your work until our Savior comes again. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name.