Uh we're studying on Wednesday night the Pilgrim Psalms, and tonight we're at Psalm 121. Psalm 121. She'll just turn there and then follow along as I read this psalm. Not new to us, we know it very well. Verse 1. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand, the sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil, he shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth and even forevermore. A beautiful, beautiful psalm. Well, one of the most powerful words in the English language is the word help. This is a word that admits our desperation and our humility. Help is someone said is the cry of a mother with four children, three dogs, two cats, and after a week at home while the husband is away on a business trip, that's the cry of a mother. Someone said, help is the cry of a man sitting at a table surrounded by a stack of unpaid bills, hungry children, an empty bank account with no job in sight. Help is the cry of a woman who has poured her life into a marriage only to hear her husband come home and say, I don't love you anymore. I found someone else I want out of this marriage. I don't know about you, but I found myself in a position many times where I needed help. And not only that I've been in a place where the only possible help that could uh come would be from the Lord. No one else could help me but Him. You ever feel like that? You ever feel like, man, I I I just need the help of the Lord. I I can't make it another day. I've got to have the help of God. The strongest saints realize their utter weakness. That's one of the keys of living a Christian life is we have to realize our utter weakness. One Sunday morning, the great preacher Charles Spurgeon was. Getting up to the pulpit, he went through the back of the door of the tabernacle to come up to the pulpit. And when he saw the crowd, someone overheard him saying, Oh God, please help. Even though he was such a strong man and a strong preacher, he realized his utter insufficiency and how he needed the help of God. Now this is why this psalm has been a favorite psalm for many Christians through the years. This psalm has been greatly used to minister to the people of God. I was reading about David Livingston, the famous Scottish missionary from the 19th century. who you know went to Africa and basically opened up the interior of Africa for the gospel. On the morning before he was to leave Scotland and go to Africa, he called all of his family together And he read Psalm 121 and they pray together. His mother-in-law said to him that this would be the Psalm That is before her eyes every day as she would pray for David Livingston there in Africa And that's just one example of many that I could give of people who have found strength and help in this psalm. This is called the Traveler's Psalm. Now, this psalm is written really to encourage and to strengthen. Now remember, these psalms that we're studying from Psalm 120 to Psalm 134 are called Pilgrim Psalms. And the reason they're called that is because pilgrim worshippers would leave whatever country they were living in and they would ascend, as it were, to Jerusalem because Jerusalem was located geographically and on a hill or in a mountainous area. And so travelers from all over would literally ascend. And these Jewish pilgrims would sing as they go. Now this was a long journey. This was a difficult journey. And so these psalms were designed to encourage them in their pilgrimage. Now we're much like they are. We are on a pilgrimage, whether you realize it or not. Our pilgrimage is more spiritual and figurative. We are all pilgrims traveling to our heavenly city. You realize this world is not our home, right? Don't get so discouraged over the news. This is not our home here. We're just passing through. And sometimes the journey is very difficult for us. And sometimes we need help on the journey. Now the good news is God is your helper. In fact, look again in verse 1. The word help, we see it there in verse 1, from whence cometh my help, and then verse 2 again, the word help. We see it two times there. The word help easer in the Hebrew simply means that God refers to military assistance. Not too long ago I preached a sermon on the stone of Ebenezer. Eben is the word for stone, ezer, help, the stone of help. And we see this word here, Easer, used again. And it has the idea of a military might, a military assistance. It's used to speak of one large, mighty country coming to the aid of someone or some people group. And this is the idea here. God is the one who is our helper and he preserves us. Look at the word keep there in verse number three. This is another key word that we see here. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee See the word keep there, we see that word used several times in verse 4 and in verse 5, and then the word preserve that we saw in verse 7 and in verse 8. Now this is actually the same Hebrew word in each instance. Rendered keith in 3 through 5 and preserve in 7 through 8. It's the word shamar, and it simply means God hedges us about. He surrounds us. He protects us. That's what he's talking about here. God is our helper. Now the way this psalm is arranged, it's really seems like it's designed to just answer some basic questions. About your help. Now the good news is tonight, listen folks, your help is God, okay? And so it's designed to tell us who is our helper. Verses 1 and 2, it's the Lord. How close is our help? It kind of answers that question in verses 3 through 5. And then from what does our helper protect us? He answers that in verses 5 and 6. And then what are the limits of our Helper. Is there any limits to the help that he gives? And so that that's really what we want to deal with tonight. I want you to notice your help. And so write down number one, notice the name of my help. These are encouraging things for us. The name of my help. Again, in verse 1, I would lift up mine eyes into the hills. From whence cometh my help? Now the very first thing that we see here is danger. You say, now wait a minute, I don't see any danger in verse number one. Well notice where he says, I lift up mine eyes until the what? The hills. Now some commentators translate this as if the psalmist is looking to the hills as his source of help. But that's not the right way to translate this or to interpret it. The hills were not a source of help. They were the source of danger. We need to understand that. The psalmist is looking at the hills, or we could say mountains, with anxiety. He's looking at them with fear. Why? Well, because those who traveled in that day, especially if you're traveling to Jerusalem, knew that in those hills, in those mountains. There were people hiding, thieves and murderers and bandits and idolaters. And so these hills presented many dangers. You remember the story of the Good Samaritan? Jesus told this story. He said there was a man who went down from Jerusalem to Jericho. Remember that? And what happened to him? He fell among the thieves. Now the people listening to that story, they would have understood that completely because that happened all the time. This was one of the roads that a Traveler would take into Jerusalem. And here was a man coming down from Jerusalem. Perhaps he had already been there on a feast day, and he was returning home. And he fell among thieves. And you know the story. They left him for dead And again, the people hearing that, they would understand that because they knew that the hills presented dangers for the people. And so the hills were not a source of comfort. The hills were a source of fear. But then there's another reason why the hills didn't really render any comfort, and that is, did you know that the hills in these high places were places of idolatry? This is where people would go and they would sacrifice unto false gods. In fact, this is mentioned often in the Old Testament. The high places are mentioned 78 times In fact, one of the mistakes the Jews made when they went into the promised land, God told them to drive out all of the Canaanites and drive out all those high places. And they failed to do that. And so these high places became a place of idolatry. In fact, many of the kings of Judah and Israel were graded based on what they did to the high places. Did they leave the high places or did they utterly remove the high places? They were judged based on that. And so these hills were not a source of comfort. But notice the next part of this verse 1. I will lift up my eyes unto the hills. Notice the next part. From whence cometh my help? Now again, the psalmist is not saying I'm looking to the hills for where my help comes from. No. He is asking a question now based on the fact that he's filled with fear because of these hills. From where will my help come from? I'm looking at these hills, I'm taking this journey And these hills and these mountains are very formidable and they present many dangers. Where is my help going to come from? In fact, the Hebrew here, ma'in, is always an interrogative. It's not relative. It's always in the form of a question. And so that's how we need to render this. Where Is my help going to come from on this journey? In fact, there are some translators and Hebrew scholars who kind of render it like that. Here's what one man wrote. He goes, I look to the mountains. Does my help come from there? Which is answered by this declaration, not from the hills or the creation, but from the God of creation. And so he's asking a question here. His heart is filled with fear. He's facing a mountain or hills of fear and anxiety and difficulty. And he asked the question, where is my help going to come from? Maybe that's you tonight. Maybe you have a hill in front of you, a mountain in front of you, something that's causing you great anxiety, great fear. And you're asking the question, where am I going to get my help? Where does my help come from? And notice the answer of verse 2. My help comes from the Lord. Now again, commentators debate how this is to be interpreted. Some think that this song was written with kind of an antiphonal idea where you have singers on one side and singers on the other and some singers Ask the question, where would where does from whence cometh my help? And then the other singers say, My help comes from the Lord, and some interpret it to be a dialogue between two groups. Some interpret this to be between a dialogue between two travelers And they fancy it like this, there are two travelers and they're walking together in this pilgrimage, and the one is young and inexperienced, and he asks the question, uh, where is our help going to come from? Uh look at these hills. And the older traveler answers and says, my help comes from the Lord. But then there's another way to look at this, and this is the right way, I think. This is an internal dialogue. This is a single voice here in this psalm, and he's talking to himself. He's having an internal dialogue with himself. You ever do that? You can do that and not be crazy, you know. You can talk to yourself. And that's what he's doing here. In fact, we see the same dynamic in Psalm 42, where the psalmist was talking to himself and he says, Why art thou cast down, O my soul? He's talking to himself here. And then he says, Hope thou in God. You know what's happening there in Psalm 42? He's wrestling with depression. He's wrestling with his emotions. And he's refusing to give in. And so he talks to himself. This is what Martin Lloyd-Jones called taking yourself by the hand. He says we have to talk to ourselves instead of listening to ourselves. You say what's the difference? We listen to negative emotions, we listen to negative thoughts. There are fears that come and sometimes we listen to those fears. And we give in to those emotions. We give in to those fears. And Martin Lily Jones says in his book, Spiritual Depression, stop listening to yourself and start talking to yourself. Start preaching to yourself. You ever preach yourself a sermon? You say I don't like your sermon in church. Well good, preach your own sermon. Preach a sermon to yourself. Talk to yourself. That's what the psalmist is doing here. So he's not giving in. Sometimes I'll complain and my wife will say, I wish you would listen to what you preach. And she's right. I need to preach to myself at times. And so do we all. And so what's happening here is the Psalmist, he is entertaining a fear, look at those hills. Where is my help going to come from? And then he grabs himself, his emotions, he masters his fear, and he begins to preach to himself, and the whole rest of this psalm is a sermon that he preaches to himself. And what a good sermon it is. Because he answers the question, he says, my help comes from who? The Lord. He gives the name. And notice it's all capitals. That is the divine name, the sacred name. This is the name that God gave to Moses at the burning bush. When Moses said, You just tell them I am that I am The I am has sent you. And the I am in the Hebrew is just the to be verb. And literally it just talks about God's continual presence among many things. It conveys a whole lot, but one of the things that it conveys is that I'm going to be with you. The I am. Not I was or I will be, but I am. It's not that God was with me or he will be. He is with me. Present, tense. The I am is with you. Now what could be more assuring than that? And Jesus is the fulfillment of that. He was Emmanuel, God, with us. And so you can go through anything knowing that God, the Lord, is with you. You can go through anything. Again, we were talking about David Livingston at one time when he was in Africa, a place where no white man had been into that time. trying to open it up and take the gospel. On one evening he was surrounded by hostile natives, and he wrote in his journal on January 14, 1856, surrounded by hostiles in the darkest of Africa, with the war drums beating. He wrote this, felt much turmoil of spirit in the prospect of having all my plans for the welfare of this great region gone. And and will be knocked on the head by savages tomorrow. Sitting in his campfire, he's thinking about all this. But then he wrote this, But I read that Jesus said, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations And lo, I am with you always to the end of the world. And then he wrote this. He said, This is the word of a gentleman of the most strict and sacred honor. And so there it is. Jesus has said it, I'll never leave you. And so I believe it. And right there he was filled with strength, knowing that the Lord was with him. And he refused to flee. That's the presence of God. The Lord is your helper. But not only the Lord, the Creator. Look again in verse 2. But he says, for my help comes from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. And the idea here is that I need to look not just at the hills at creation, I need to lift up my eyes higher, and I need to look beyond the hills. To the Creator. In other words, I'm not going to look at my problems. They're right there in front of me. This anxiety and fear is staring me in the face with these mountains. I need to get my eyes off the hills and look above the hills, look beyond the hills To my creator. And that's what we need to do tonight. Take your eyes off your problems. Look at the Creator who made all of those mountains. The one who keeps you is the one who has the power of creation. Think about this. Whenever we try to depend upon things in this world, anything other than God, we're depending upon the creation when we could have the Creator. Why would you want to depend upon anything in creation? When you can have the creator of it all as your help. And so he says, I'm looking beyond all of that. I'm looking to the creator, the great I am. I read about a woman who was having difficulty because in her job she had to constantly read, and so she went to a physician And the physician examined her and he said, ma'am, your problem is your eyes are just tired. He said, You need to rest your eyes. And she said, How can I do that? My whole job is using my eyes to read. I'm constantly reading and He said, Was there a window at your office? She said yes. He said, Well, what can you see if you look at? She goes, Oh, I have a beautiful scene. I can look out and see mountains. He said, That's perfect He said, I want you to take a half hour every day, and I want you to look at look out the window and don't look at the mountains, but look way beyond them. You see, the far look will rest your eyes, he said The distant look will rest your eyes. And what's true in the physical realm is also true in the spiritual realm. Sometimes the eyes of our soul are often tired and weary. You know why? Because we're looking nearsighted at our problems. And you know what we need to do every day? We need to get our eyes off of our problems and look beyond the far look. Look to the Creator. That's the helper. And so we see the name of our help, and that is the Lord, the creator. But then I want you to see a second thing. Notice also the nearness. of my help, the nearness of my help. You see, these verses, verses 3 and 4, answer the question, how close is my helper to me? It's one thing to have a helper, but if he's not near, well what good is that? But the good news is your helper is very near. How near? Look in verse 3. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. You know how near your helper is? He's watching over your every step. Every step, no matter how big or how small. He's watching your next step. We could say this, God is my security. Where it says he will not suffer thy foot to be moved. The word moved here means to slip or to slide or to stagger or to be shaken. One fear on a long journey, especially when someone is traveling through rough terrain, is that they could trip, they could easily misstep, they could slip. A person's foot could slide on unstable ground, and they could break a leg or they could sprain an ankle. There could be some serious injury that could take place on a long pilgrimage And that was a concern. I remember um two years ago I was asked with answers in Genesis to go to the Grand Canyon with a group of guys to look around for fossils and such. If you like that kind of thing, I went, you know. And uh part of the part of the trip was to uh hike up into the rim, to go up high, to look for I didn't know that part about it. I probably wouldn't have gone if I'd known that. Because I'm afraid of heights. I don't like climbing heights. But we had to climb up into the upper rims. And I want to tell you it got dangerous at points. I remember at one point we were on a very narrow path which dropped off two hundred feet. And we had to turn and face the wall of the cliff and hold onto a ledge up as we eased our way along. I promise you you don't want to slip in that situation. You don't want to take a misstep. I remember on one occasion there was a a British professor who was on this trip and he was right in front of me And he got a little careless and he stepped in a very unstable place and his foot just slipped, and when he did, he fell, and he had a terrible, terrible injury. They had to get them first aid as fast as they could. But it was just one little slip, one little careless move. And that's what the pilgrims were afraid of as they traveled. And really in that day and age, if you something like that happened, you were in big trouble. Well, the good news is that on our pilgrimage, figuratively speaking, did you know that God is looking over your every step? So that you don't misstep? He is so close to us that he monitors every little step. Psalm 37, verse 23, the steps of a good man are what? Ordered by the Lord. Verse 31 says, the law of God is in his heart and none of his steps shall slide. Your feet aren't going to slide. God's going to watch your steps. Psalm 3831 verse 8 rather, where it says, You have set my feet in a broad place. God, you've put my feet in a broad place. Psalm 56 verse 13 You have kept my feet from falling. Psalm 66, verse 9. You have kept my soul among the living and has not let our feet fall slip. In 1 Samuel 2. 9 it says he will guard the feet of his faithful ones. And so God will, he's so near that he guards our steps. But not only is he my security, he is my sentry. Look again in verse number three. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Look in verse four. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Now two times it's emphasized here. And you know, when a preacher repeats something, sometimes it's because he runs out of things to say. But when God repeats something, it's because he wants to emphasize it. He's not running out of things to say. Two times it says God does not slumber And he does not sleep. Now you say, why this emphasis here? This is a given for us. We know that. We know that God is omnipotent. He doesn't need to sleep. But people in the ancient Near East didn't have that understanding of God. In fact, the gods that they worshipped Which were no gods. We know that they were gods of their vain imaginations. They weren't real. And yet the gods that they worshiped were gods who needed to sleep. They were not omnipotent. There's a sense in which maybe the psalmist is taking a shot at these people who worship God in those mountains, in those high places. Your gods might need to sleep But the God of Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps. You know, for example, I was studying this, you know, in Greek, they had several gods. They had one God called hypnos. That's where we get the word hypnotic or hypnosis, and he was the god of sleep. And he lived in a cave, and he slept on a couch in the cave, and he didn't like to be disturbed. And so Greeks got frustrated with hypnose because they couldn't ever get his attention. I'm not making this up. They did, but I'm I'm not. And then the Romans had an equival equivalent God, Somnas, where we get the word Somnia. Insomnia, of course, is sleeplessness. Somnia means sleep. That was their God of sleep. And you remember in the Bible when Elijah was on Mount Carmel with the prophets of Baal, and they were crying out for their God Baal, and nothing was happening. What did Elijah say? He was taunting them. He said, you need to cry louder because perhaps he's asleep. He needs to be awakened Your God sleeps. But the God of Israel, he doesn't sleep. He doesn't even get drowsy. That's the idea behind the word slumber, to be drowsy. God is ever vigilant. He watches over us continually. He never takes his eyes off of us. How often have we heard stories of sentries who have fallen asleep because they failed to be vigilant? Friend, that's never God. God is always watching. He's watching over us. Back in the days of World War II in London, when the Germans were bombing London mercilessly each night. After one terrible attack, the people of London began to search through the rubble and look for the dead and injured. And on one particular occasion, everyone was accounted for except one old grandmother, an old grandmother by the name of Mrs. Smith, and they searched everywhere. And finally they found her in her bedroom asleep in her bed. And they went in, they woke her up. They said, How could you sleep through this bombing? And her answer was priceless. She said, well the Bible says he who keeps Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps, so I thought it wasn't any use for both of us to stay up. So I just put the matter in God's hand and I went to sleep. And friend, that's what we can do. We can rest well knowing that God doesn't sleep. He watches over us. But not only is God my security and God's my century, but God is my shade. Look in verse number five. Where he says, the Lord is thy keeper, the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. How close is God? Well, he's close enough to protect your shade. He shades you because he's right there at your right hand. Sometimes when a wealthy traveler would travel, his servant would always be at his side on the trip. And sometimes he would block out the sun. And this is what God is here. God is the He's our master, but yet He is like a servant to us because He loves us and He's right there at our right hand. How close is He? Right there where your right hand is. He's right there. And he will be your shade. And again, this is another very real threat for any pilgrim traveler. The sun could be unbearable. In fact, people often died of heat stroke. Remember the story of Jonah where he sat out on the edge of a hill at the end of the story and the sun was beating down on him and he said, Let me die here. I'm just going to die right here, God. He was pouting because things didn't work out the way he wanted. And he knew that if you just stay on the side of the hill and let the sun beat down on you, you would die in that climate. And what did God do? God miraculously shaded his his area there by growing a weed. And he was protected. Literally, God there was his shade. But God is our shade. He keeps us protected. The Bible says in Psalm 84, 11: the Lord God is a son and a shield. He'll shield us. I think of the Israel traveling through the wilderness. He was a pillar of cloud by day. And we know that that speaks of his Shekinah glory, but I think there's a sense in which his own presence protected them from the sun He was a shade for them as they traveled. But not only the sun by day, but notice also it says, very interesting, verse 6, the sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. Why does it mention the moon? I've never met anybody that got moon burned, did you? Why does it mention the moon? Did you know that Ancient Near Eastern people believe that the moonlight could somehow have a bad effect on people. They believe that. In fact There's some ancient medical texts from Babylon and Assyria where ancient physicians listed medical disorders. and medical conditions and they diagnosed it like this. They said it was the hand of sin or the moon god or the moon. It was the moon, in other words, they were saying. The moon was causing this. What were the problems? Grinding their teeth. Trembling of hands and feet, symptoms of epilepsy. In fact, the word epileptic is a Greek verb that literally means moonstruck. And of course, some people still believe the moon has effect on people today. We get the word lunatic from the word lunar, which means moon. So now you say, was this real? Maybe not. This may have been imaginary. But they believed that there was an effect on it. And so maybe this is the psalmist way of saying that God will protect us from all fears, even the ones that we imagine. Or perhaps he's just simply saying that even in in day and in night, God is going to constantly watch over us. James Montgomery Boy said this, what the psalmist really means through the figurative language is that nothing either of the day or night can harm us. if God is keeping guard. God is our covering against every calamity. He is our shade against every visible pearl in the day as well as the hidden pearls at night. And so he's very, very near. Now let me give you the third thing. We see the name of my help, the Lord, the Creator, the nearness of my help. He's my security. He's going to keep my foot from slipping. He's going to watch over me as a sentry. He doesn't ever sleep. And he's going to shade me. He's right there at my right hand. But notice thirdly the nature of my help. Here's the next question the psalmist really deals with. Is there any limit? To God's protection. Any limit to God's help. Does he protect me just from the big things? The big circumstances and leave me to the little things myself. How comprehensive Is my health. How much am I covered? You know, you ask that question when you want to buy insurance, right? What does this cover? What all does this cover? Well, let me tell you what this covers. This is a good insurance policy. Look in look in verse 7. The Lord shall preserve thee from what? All evil. All evil. You know what the word all there means in Hebrew? It means all. Call. In total, everything. What is evil? Ra, that's really we could say harm. God will preserve us from all harm. Now let me tell you what this doesn't mean. This obviously doesn't mean that the believer will never have bad things happen. It doesn't mean that we'll never go through hurtful circumstances or difficulties. Or valleys we will evidently do that. He doesn't mean we'll never have emotional pain. What it means is that although things in this life and on the journey may hurt us, they will never harm us. That will not harm us. In fact, God will use those things for our good, to make us better, to make us stronger. Think about David. David went through many hurtful experiences, but he wrote about it. He sought the Lord and he wrote psalms about it, and now those psalms blessed us. All the hurt he went through is helping us. It helped him and it's helping us. Think about Joseph. Think about all the bad things that happened to Joseph. Was he hurt? Oh yes. He was betrayed by his brothers He was removed from his family for thirteen years, lied about in Egypt, put in a prison, and yet later on Joseph said, You may have meant this for evil, but God meant this for good. What happened may have hurt him, but it didn't harm him Right. It made them better. And so God says, I'm going to protect you from all harm. But then here's the next thing. Not only from all harm, but in all circumstances. Look in verse 8 again. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in. That's interesting. This is a Hebraic expression that simply means all circumstances, all occupations in life. It refers to daily activities. The little mundane things we have to do. We're out of milk and bread. I've got to run to the store. Where are the keys? Or you gotta run to the store to pick up stuff from the cleaners. Or I've got you gotta go to the bank or go to the post office or the dog's sick and we gotta go to the vet. I I don't go to the vet, but my life Don't do it. I'm just kidding. I love my dog, right? You name it. Anything on your schedule. Any little mundane thing. And that is the scenario. You're going out and you're coming in. Now it may not seem like to us that these things need the protection of God, but friend, they do. We take this for granted. We take just going out and doing something really small and mundane like running to the 7-Eleven. As a little thing. But did you know that many bad accidents and many tragedies happen to people that are doing the routine thing, mundane things of life We hear it on the news all the time. Someone in the parking lot gets mugged and murdered. Five minutes away from their home. Or an accident happens on the street that they live, a tragic accident. Even in these mundane things, we have a God who is so concerned about us that He's going to watch over us and our going out and then our coming in. Even in the small detail, mundane things. Did you know that Jews took Deuteronomy 6. 9, literally Deuteronomy 6. 9 says, you shall write them, talking about the scripture, you shall write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates Orthodox Jews took Deuteronomy 6. 9 literally and they took these little metal boxes, they put scripture in those little metal boxes, little pieces of scripture, and they put it on the right doorpost. And every time they would leave the house, they would just touch that little box. It was called a mezuzah, after the word for doorpost. They would just touch that little box whenever they would go out or whatever they would come in, and it was kind of a little thing of reverence And what were they doing when they touched that box? They were saying that they realized that God was the one who was watching over them and they're going out and coming in. And also that they needed to obey the scripture. Wherever they went, whether going out or coming in. In fact, some Jews put the mezuza, that little metal box, on every doorpost in their house. So that whatever room they left to go into another room, they would touch that and realize the Lord is watching over me, going out and coming in. And friend, that's what he does for us. Even in the detailed things. So are there any limits to his protection? Well, he protects us from all harm. In all circumstances, going out and coming in. But here's the last thing. Notice again in verse 8, the last phrase. From this time forth and even what? Forevermore. This is for all time. This is all the way into eternity. You know, even in heaven, God's going to be watching over me. I I'm he's going to be t protecting me there. You know, many preach people today look at Charles Finney as a great preacher and And he was indeed a wonderful man. But there were some areas in his theology that where he had some serious errors. And one of those was in the area of eternal security. He believed that believers were responsible to keep themselves. And if a believer didn't keep himself, then he could lose his salvation. In fact, this is what he wrote in his systematic theology, and I'm quoting from him. He said, It is not intended that saints cannot fall from grace. He said it was never intended that you could never lose your salvation. Then he says this. It must be naturally possible for all agents to sin at any time And then he says this saints on earth and in heaven can by natural possibility apostasize and fall and be lost. No he's saying he's saying even if you're in heaven, you could still sin and then you could fall from heaven. Well friend, don't believe that. You know why? Because I'm not the one holding on to God. God's the one holding on to me. And He's going to guard me even when I'm there in heaven. Because what does it say in verse 8? From this time forth and even forevermore. Even while I'm there in heaven, God is going to be my help. He's going to be watching over me. He is the one. He is my keeper. He's holding on to me. He is keeping me. He's helping me. It's like Isaac Watts wrote the great hymn that we sing sometimes. Our God, O God, our help in ages past. Our hope for years to come, our shelter from the stormy blasts, and our eternal home. God is our eternal helper. And so let me ask you a question, what does this leave out? It doesn't leave anything out. What are the limits to God's help? There are no limits. He's constantly helping us. James Montgomery Boyce called these verses an Old Testament Romans 8. You know, in Romans 8 where it says, What shall separate us from the love of Christ? And then you know that passage where Paul goes through a litany of things, and then Paul says, Nothing, nothing in all creation can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. What a comfort this is. And so the next time you need help, remember the name of your helper is the Lord, the Creator. Remember the nearness of your helper. He's your security. He's your century. He's your shade. Remember the nature of your help. He will protect you from all harm. In all circumstances, for all time, he's going to watch over you. I'll close with this story. There was a Story of a crossing on a boat in the nineteenth century. Group of people were trying to get from England to New York. And they went through a terrible storm one night. People were asleep and the storm was so violent. that it almost capsized this huge boat. Everyone that was asleep were awakened by the storm. including a little girl who was in her room and an adult came in to check on her and everyone started getting dressed because they were afraid of the worst. They were all terrified. And an adult said to this little girl, get ready, get dressed We're gonna it's it's very dangerous. And the little girl looked and said, Is my father on deck? And the adult said, Yes, he's up there. And so she crawled back into bed and went to sleep. That was it. That's the trust, confidence of a child in their father. And friend, that's the confidence we're to have in God. Tonight you might say, I I need help. Well just rest. Trust in the Lord, give it to the Lord, and then rest, because guess what? Your father's on deck. And he's going to watch over you. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you for these promises. Thank you for this encouraging word. On this pilgrim journey, Lord, we are all going to go through difficulty, but we know, Lord, that you'll not let anything harm us. And we're grateful, Lord, that you are our protector, our keeper, our helper. And Lord, I pray for those who are here tonight who need your help, even now. Some are here and they're in the middle of a crisis or a storm. And they need to know, Lord, that you're near. And I pray, Lord, that you would grant them your grace, your assurance, comfort, and peace that you're with them, that you're watching over them. How many are just here tonight, heads bowed and eyes closed, and say, you know what, I just need the help of God. Would you lift your hand and say, pray for me? I'm claiming God's help in my life. Tonight. I need the help of God. Father, we cast ourselves on you. You are helper. I pray for all these who lifted their hands For a special measure of grace to comfort them and help them and remind them of these promises in this great psalm. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.