Thank you so much, Pastor. I think all of us here would confess that our pastor is a very special, anointed, chosen servant of God. And so whenever called upon to stand here and preach the word, which he has been doing so faithfully for over 43 years here. That is a huge responsibility and one that I do not take lightly. So thank you, Pastor. Would you take your Bibles, please, and open to the book of Matthew 21, to the passage we read just a moment ago The title of my sermon today is Who Owns the Vineyard? Who Owns the Vineyard? I was reading a story about something that happened a few years ago. A family living in a beautiful home in West Palm Beach, Florida. Told a film crew that they could film uh using their front lawn as a set for a TV series. They knew that there was a possibility that there could be some damage to the home. There would be Cars crashing violently in the front of the house. And something could get destroyed, but that didn't seem to bother them. They gave them permission to use their house. While they were filming, the real owner of the house was tipped off and called from New York. He was demanding to know what was happening to his house. It seems that the people that were living in the house were only tenants They had no right to allow the property to be destroyed while the cameras was rolling. It wasn't their house. They didn't own it. Some awful mistakes can be made by those who begin to act as if they own something when they're only tenants of it. And that's really what this whole parable is about in Matthew twenty-one, verse thirty-three on down to verse th forty. The more valuable the property people occupy, the more responsibility to treat it carefully when it's not theirs. Can you imagine tenants of a beautiful mansion? Living in that beautiful place, refusing to pay rent, and threatening to beat up those whom the owner sends to collect the rent And they stay in that house, they say, well, this is ours now. We're here. This is ours. We own it. No one can make that claim. No one could actually have that stand up in the court of law. The owner has the right to receive the rent, and the owner has the right to make sure that his property is treated in a responsible way. And that's really again the purpose of the parable. And really this parable is given by the Lord Jesus to answer a question that is posed to him. I want you to look in chapter 21, and I want you to look down at verse number 23. And when he was come, that is Jesus, he's teaching in the temple. And when he was coming to the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching and said, By what authority dost thou these things? And who gave thee this authority? Jesus, by what authority are you doing what you're doing? What was he doing? Well, this was the last week of his life before he would be crucified. This is the Passion Week. Jesus had presented himself as the King on Sunday the Sunday we know is Palm Sunday. He cursed the fig tree after that. And then you know he cleansed the temple on Monday. And then he took possession of the temple on Tuesday. And now he's in the temple and he's teaching people. And people from all over have come to hear him teach. He's teaching with authority. But now he's being confronted by some of the Jewish leaders. And they challenge him. They say, who gave you the authority to do all of these things that you're doing? To put it in today's words, who died and left you, boss? Where do you get off doing this? And so they were challenging Jesus' source of authority. In response To the challenge and the question that they pose to Jesus. Jesus gives three parables in chapter 21. There's the parable of the two sons from verses 28 down to verse 32. Later on In chapter 22, there will be the parable of the wedding banquet. But I want to focus on this middle parable from verses 33 on down. This is the parable of the vineyard. This is one of only three parables that is recorded in the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. The same parable is there. This parable is designed to answer that one question. By whose authority do you do this? Now in this parable, Jesus does a masterful job showing that the owner of the vineyard is God. And Jesus is the Son and therefore the rightful heir to the vineyard. And as the rightful heir, he is acting under God's authority. The Jewish leaders, on the other hand, have wrongly usurped the authority of God as the rightful owner. They're only tenants. It doesn't belong to them. They assumed they were the owners. They forgot they were only tenants. They were acting as if they owned the vineyard. And so thus the fundamental question That only these Jewish leaders, not only these Jewish leaders, but all who hear this parable need to answer is, who owns the vineyard? And we need to answer that question as well because how we answer that question will determine how we live. If you believe that God is the source of authority in your life, it will affect how you live. If you believe that God is the one who owns the vineyard and that we are to be responsible tenants, it will affect our lives. So what I want us to do here in this parable today is just really just look at the parable. I want to talk about the content of the parable and then the characters of the parable, and then finally the conclusion of the parable, and I want us to see how this applies to our life today. How does it affect us? So number one, notice the content of the parable. Remember, this is Tuesday. In just three days, Jesus will be crucified. He's in the temple teaching. This delegation comes to him and poses him this question. And the multitudes, the Bible says, are there. And so they're hearing all this. They're hearing this exchange. Luke says that the crowd is hanging on every word that Jesus says. So notice the parable. Notice the planting. Look in verse 33. Here another parable. There was a certain householder which planted a vineyard and hedged it round about and digged a winepress in it And built a tower and led it out to husbandmen and went into a far country. Now this is a very common occurrence in Israel. Israel was divided into two two kinds of lands. There was the flat land where they planted for grain. There was the hilly part of Palestine that was normally used to plant vineyards. In this day a wealthy man could buy a piece of that hilly property, make a vineyard, And then lease it out to tenant farmers, and he could go a long way away and and let them work the land and he could get a percentage of it Normally they would build a wall to protect it from animals and thieves. They would build a winepress. Sometimes they would use some of the bedrock that may be there in those hills to build a winepress. And from that they would squeeze grapes and get juice and sell it and so on. He would build a tower, which would be kind of a lookout post to look out over the vineyard. And this is what the owner does. Here's this wealthy landowner, and he builds a vineyard. But notice the partnership. Look at the end of verse 33, and let it out to husbandmen. That is, he leased it to the tenants. And again, this was very common. Much of the rural uh area of Palestine was controlled by these wealthy landowners. Their income would be would come from leasing out their land. They could live in leisure and let others do the work and get a percentage of it. This would be an absentee landlord. He's the owner, but he's not there. He owns the land, but he's not pre- a present And these are tenant farmers, that what we would call them today. They're contract workers. They're given the benefit of working the land. And they don't own the land, they're just custodians of the land, and the owner living far away. And so these workers would have the freedom to work that land however they wanted All they had to do was to give back to the owner the fruit that he demanded. What a wonderful opportunity this was. This was a great privilege. This was a great responsibility to have all of this and to work it. They can work hard. They can produce a crop. They can make good for themselves and give back to the owner. Usually it was twenty-five percent that was due at harvest time. And so this is exactly what the owner does. Notice at the end of verse 33 He let it out to the husband. Notice the last phrase and went into a far country. He lent it out to them, and then he went to his place. Everyone hearing this parable would understand this because this happened all the time in Palestine. But notice the produce. Look at verse 34. And when the time of the fruits drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen that they might receive the fruits of it. So the harvest time had come It's time for the owner to collect what is his. The owner expects the fruit. He expects a good harvest. Again, he's provided all of the resource, he's provided all the tools, he's spared no expense in making sure that these farmers had all that they needed. He was very thorough in preparing the vineyard, building a wall, putting in a tower, putting in a wine press. And it would have been agreed upon in the contract that the owner would get his percentage of the fruit. So what does the owner do? He sends a slave or a servant to get his fruit. Verse 34, he sent his servants, the word dulas. And this servant is the authorized representative of the landowner. So far everything in this parable is very normal. Everyone in that crowd in the temple that day listening to what Jesus is saying, they understand completely the whole scene because this happens all the time. But what they hear next, I think, shocks them to their very core What's next? Notice the persecution. Look at verse 35. And the husband took his servants and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another. These tenant farmers did what was unthinkable. They beat the servants of the owner after being treated so well. After being given such privileges, after being given a good living, a wonderful opportunity, they do this thing that is unthinkable. Instead of giving to the owner the fruit that was rightfully his What do they do? They beat his servants. The word for beat here means to flog, to whip, literally means to flay or to remove the skin. Many times in this day a person was beaten with forty stripes, which literally would remove the skin from their back. That's what they do. They beat the servant. Why? Because he was an official representative of the owner. And so who is this directed to? It's directed to the owner. The listeners who listen to this parable would see this as shameful. This is wicked. This is criminal. In Luke's account, when he records this, it says this, he proceeded to send another slave, and they beat him, and they treated him shamefully from the word where we get the word, to traumatize. And then in verse 35, they killed, which means to someone who dies in pain. This is a cruel death. And then in verse 36, they stone another. End of verse 35. And so, and by the way, stoning was capital punishment in Jewish law. That's how they punish someone with capital punishment. Now at this point, what would most owners do? They would call the authorities, they would have these farmers arrested, put in jail for murder, they would say this is enough. But that's not what this owner does. This owner exercises incredible patience, superhuman patience. He keeps giving these men a chance. He keeps giving them the opportunity to give back to him the fruit that they rightfully owe. Look at verse 36. Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they did unto them likewise. Wow. Mark 12, 5 adds, beating some and killing others. Now, we would say this owner is not a very good businessman. Keeps sending servants. However, he's very, very patient. Incredibly patient. So then notice the plot. Look in verse 37. But last of all, he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son Right? Last of all means this is the last person I'm going to send. This is the last opportunity for them to receive an official representative of me. I'll send them my son. Notice where it says they they will reverence my son. The word here actually means to be ashamed and to respect. Maybe when they see my son come They'll be ashamed of all the things that they had done before. And finally they'll reverence them, and finally they'll give back to me the fruit that I rightfully deserve. Perhaps they just don't respect my servants, my doulas. So if I send my son, they'll surely treat him differently. Well look at verse 38. But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, this is the heir. Come let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. So what happens? They saw him coming. They knew who it was. They knew it was the heir, the sun. So they get into a group discussion and they say, look, this is the heir. If we kill him We can seize this vineyard for ourselves. We can be the owners of it. Under Jewish law, property not claimed within uh by an heir within a certain period of time can be claimed by the first person who goes So they thought if we kill them and then we allow time to go by and then we can go and claim this inheritance if we're the first ones there. So we can get rid of the sun and the property can be ours Wow, incredible. Here these tenant farmers are given this marvelous opportunity, opportunity to have a good living. They had an excellent vineyard. They were given complete trust to operate it, but they were not content just to have that. They weren't content just to have a good living. They wanted the whole harvest for themselves. And they were merciless in achieving that end. And so what does the Bible say? In verse number 39, and they caught him and cast him out of the vineyard, and they slew him. They killed him. Again, this wasn't a case of mistaken identity. They didn't say, oh, we didn't know who this was. No, they knew it was the Son. They knew who he was. They killed the son precisely because they recognized who he was They wanted the inheritance for himself. So the issue is who owns the vineyard? They didn't want to just submit themselves to the rightful ownership of God. They wanted to take control. Now the crowd listening to this would be just shocked To hear this. They would be shocked. And so notice the punishment. Look in verse 40. When the Lord therefore of the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen? By this time Jesus has the crowd and the religious leaders on the edge of their seat, as he's telling this parable. And then he draws them in. He pulls them in the parable how. He involves them. He asks them a question. When the Lord of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those husbandmen? And those that are listening, they give an answer. Look at their answer in verse 41. And they said unto him, he will miserably destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen which shall render him the fruits in their due season. He will miserably destroy those wicked men. There's a play on words here in the Greek, the word for wicked, kachos. And so it reads like this, he will Caicos destroy those Caicos men. Or we can say it like this, he will badly destroy those bad men. He will wickedly destroy those wicked men. That's exactly right. This is the only reasonable answer. Judgment. You have to give these men their appropriate judgment. But what these religious leaders don't realize is by answering that question, they were administering their own judgment. Because they were the ones that Jesus was referring to. He will judge them, and what else will he do? He's going to give his vineyard out to others Who will actually give the fruits in their due season? And so this is the content of the parable. Now, let's talk about the second part. Let's talk about the characters. It's not hard to figure this out. Who's the owner of the vineyard? God, right? God owns it all. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. It's all his Who is the vineyard? The vineyard is Israel. Any Jew listening would make this mental leap. Why? Because in the Old Testament, the metaphor that's used for Israel more than any others is that of a vineyard. It's used in many places. Psalm 80, verse 8. You brought a vine out of Egypt, talking about Israel. In Isaiah 5, let me sing my well-beloved song concerning his vineyard. My beloved has a vineyard on a very fruitful hill, and he dug it out, and he cleared the stones, and he planted a choice vine. All of that is in reference to Israel, God taking them out of Egypt and putting them in the land of Canaan in a very fruitful place. Jeremiah 2 also mentions this. And so this is a no-brainer. The vineyard is Israel. Well, who are the tenant farmers? They're the religious leaders, right? The leaders in Jesus' day. They were the ones given charge over God's vineyard. They were to be the custodians They were to lead the people spiritually. They were to take care of the nation. They were not the owners. They were simply the stewards Of God's vineyard. God put his hands on certain men, priests, rulers And then he went on a long journey. What is that? That's Old Testament history. This is God. He's the owner. He goes on a long journey. I think that's in reference to the 2,000 years of Old Testament history. You have all these things going on in the Old Testament. God gave the religious and spiritual leaders of Israel the care of the nation. And during that time, what happened? They were not very responsible. In Jesus' time, the Stuarts are the high priests, the chief priests, the scribes the Sadducees and so on. They had spiritual stewardship of the nation. What about the servants of the owner? Who are the servants of the owner that he sends to collect the fruit? That's the prophets in the Old Testament, right? That's his servants Those who preach and proclaim the word, what did Israel do to them? Israel persecuted them. Beat them, stoned them, killed them. According to Jewish tradition, Isaiah was put in a hollow log and stalled in two. Jeremiah was beaten thirty-nine times with stripes. He was put in stocks. At the gate of Benjamin. Ezekiel was rejected. Elijah and Amos had to run for their lives. Micah was smashed in the face by those who refused to hear his message. Zachariah was murdered in God's own temple. All of the Old Testament bears witness to the harsh, ungodly treatment that many of these prophets had received. And then, well then the Pharisees, they tried to distance themselves from that. They tried to say, oh, that's not us. Look at Matthew 23 real quick. Look in verse 29. Let me just show you this. Here's Jesus is pronouncing woe to these leaders. Look in 2329. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees and hypocrites, because ye built the tombs of the prophets and garnished the sepulchres of the righteous And say if we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. They said, Oh, we wouldn't have done that. If we were there, we would have never mistreated the prophets. Well, Jesus didn't see it that way. Look at verse 33. You serpents, that's pretty strong. You generation of vipers, how can you escape the damnation of hell? Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets and wise men and scribes, and some of them ye shall kill and crucify, and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues and persecute them from city to city That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth. Jesus said, look, you're hypocrites because I am going to send more prophets and servants, and guess what you're going to do to them? You're going to persecute them and you're going to kill them. And so you're in the same situation. You're as blasphemous and as rebellious as your father's. Now, next, the son. Who's the son? Who's the heir of the of the owner? That's Jesus, right? In this parable, the son is Jesus? This is so obvious. He is the rightful heir. All that belongs to the Father belongs to him. And Jesus has all of the authority of the Father. He had the right to come into Jerusalem and declare himself as the rightful king. He had the right to go in and cleanse that filthy temple that was filled with greed. He had the right to curse the fig tree. He had the authority to do all of these things. In a sense, Jesus is saying, this is where my authority comes from. I am the owner's son. I am the rightful heir. In this parable, this is one of the strongest claims to deity, I think, in all of the New Testament. Jesus saying, I'm the heir. And by the way, this parable is prophetic because in just three days from the time he's giving this parable, what will they do to the Son? They will kill him, they will crucify him. Just like the men in the parable, the husband took the owner's son outside the vineyard and slew him, the religious leaders will take Jesus outside of Jerusalem and they will kill him. This is prophetic. And they killed him not because they didn't recognize who he was. They killed him precisely because they knew who he was. Why? Because they didn't want his authority in his life. And by the way, Jesus then quotes, look in look in verse uh 42. And Jesus said to them, Did ye never read in the scriptures the stone which the builders rejected, the same has become the head of the corner? This is the Lord's doing, and it's marvelous in our eyes Jesus here is quoting from Psalm 118 verse 22 about the chief cornerstone. We know in building, the chief cornerstone is the foundation stone upon which all of the other stones are basically aligned. That cornerstone is so important. It has to be right. And many times builders would cut many stones before they got the stone exactly right. And he gives another little parable and a parable here talking about a cornerstone that was rejected, but later on that same cornerstone that was rejected became the foundation stone. And that spoke of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was the cornerstone that was rejected, but yet was made the chief foundation stone. And it's this stone upon which all of the kingdom will be built. And look at verse 43. Therefore I say unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given to a nation, bringing forth the fruits thereof. Look at verse 44. And whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken. But whose whomsoever it shall fall upon, it will grind them to powder. Again, Jesus is referring to himself. He will be crucified, but he will rise again, and anyone who tries to fall upon that stone will break themselves He is the chief cornerstone. You can't destroy Christ. You can't. Now, who are the future tenants? Notice where he says it's going to be taken from you and given to another Who is that? This is where you say, well, now this is all good, Brother Jerry, but how does this apply to me? Well here I'm getting ready to tell you how it applies to you. You say, who are the future tenants? In this vineyard? Who are they? That's you. That's you. That's me. That's the church. And this is the conclusion of the parable. The conclusion of the parable is that the vineyard belongs to the owner, God, and his son. And now Since Israel has rejected the Savior, all those who come after that receive Jesus, that is the church, we now are the rightful tenets. God's leased it out to us. God punished those who rejected his son. He punished Jerusalem. You know that happened at 70 AD. I don't want to get into all of that. But now we are the tenants. You understand that? The church You understand that it's his vineyard? And now we're the laborers in that vineyard. We get the privilege of laboring in his vineyard. Isn't that a wonderful thing? But now here's the thing, and here's the application. Let me just give you a few thoughts in concluding. Number one, God expects fruit from us. You understand that? He expects fruit from us. Why bother to plant a vineyard if you're not going to expect fruit? And just as God had provided for Israel all the need of the needed resources, all the things that they needed to bear fruit, God was gracious in giving them all of that. Now God provides all of that for us. You understand we have all the resources that we need to be what God has called us to be, to be the church that God wants us to be, to be the people of God that He expects of us to be He has given us his word. Do you know that you have in the scriptures all things that pertain unto life and godliness? You have all the resources that you need in the Word of God. He's given us His Spirit. You know you have the Spirit of God, the same Spirit that created this world lives in you. And that Spirit gives you what you need to serve Him. To bear the fruit of Christ's likeness in our life, to bear fruit unto others. You know, I think we who live here in America, we have even greater privileges than others. We have God's word in our language. We have an endless supply of resources. I mean we have this technology, we have phones now that we can have fifty different versions of the Bible on our phone. And we don't have to read it. It'll read it to us. It'll tell us. I mean some of you out there right now, you're you're double checking my my sermon by looking into the Greek on your phone. Stop that. Pay attention. I'm right. Don't worry about it. I mean we have all these resources. We have more leisure. than anyone in any other nation to pursue spiritual things. We are blessed with financial resources to do the work of God Look, here's the bottom line. Everyone in this room, we're either living for ourselves or we're living for his kingdom. That's it. You can divide it up, whatever you are. We're either laboring for what we can get. Or we're laboring for his kingdom. What about the tenants in this parable? Who were they laboring for? They were laboring for themselves. They weren't laboring for the owner And so we now, we need to labor for the owner. And you know what? You know what you're going to find? That when you labor for the kingdom and you labor for him and you labor for others, there's more joy and pleasure in that than laboring for yourself. There's more fulfillment in that. I read of a young man who was always filled with excuses to turn down the request of his pastor. The pastor was constantly asking him to serve. And here was a gifted young man and had so much he could offer. But whenever the pastor asked him to do something, he always had a reason why he couldn't do it. And finally, the pastor said, would you take a class of teenage boys and would you kind of just disciple these boys? And at first the young man turned it down. It would cut into his golf time if he did. And so finally he realized how self-centered that was. And then he repented and he went to the pastor and he said, Pastor, you know what, I'm going to take this class. And within a few months, he had led six of those young men to Christ. And then he began to disciple them. He worked hard. And one Sunday the pastor bumped into him. This guy had a huge smile on his face, and the pastor said, Well, how's it going? And he's saying, Pastor, I am loving this. I'm so much filled with joy. The pastor said, has it been worth it to give up golf to do this? He said, I'm just sorry that I waited so long to invest my life into someone else. The joy that I have doing this far outsees any other joys that I've ever had. Why? He was working in the vineyard. He was being a good steward. And he was using what God had given him. Here's another lesson we learned. God's great patience should motivate us to submit to Him. You notice in this parable how patient God is? He just keeps sending messengers You know what convicts me? Sometimes I'm stubborn when God sends a message or a messenger to me. Sometimes my first response is to buck up against that. And not submit to it. Just like some of these in the parable, God is so patient with me, and you know what? He's patient with you. And he's going to keep on sending messengers. He's going to keep on sending you people that will give you the message. But you know what? We also need to learn in this parable that there's a time where God just draws a line and he says, That's enough. You've had your message. It's enough. But God's great patience should cause us to want to submit to who He is But then let me give you a third point real quickly, an application. God's great love in sending his son should motivate us to submit to him. What we see in this parable, again, is the amazing, not only patience of this owner, but the love that he would send his son. To these people that rejected him? If we could only grasp the infinite love of God, it's beyond our grasp. Think about what God has to see every day. You know, our law enforcement officers, they see more the seamy side of life. Bless them for what they do. They deal with rape and assault and murder and all this other thing. But let me tell you something, God, He sees everything all the time. Not only does He see the outward actions of everyone in all locations, but He even sees the inward heart of people. And he sees the sin of this world. And Martin Luther once said this. He said, If I were God and the world treated me as it treated him, I would kick the wretched thing to pieces. We could all relate to that. But how did God respond? Listen, God demonstrated his love towards us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. It's like the song that we sing, Charles Wesley, Amazing Love. How can it be that thou, my God, shouldest die for me? And then finally, God's great judgment should motivate us to submit to him. Let me just look at verse 45 and 46 and we're done. And when the chief priests and Pharisees heard this parable, someone may ask, well, did they know Jesus was referring to them? Look at verse 45. They perceived that he spake of them. Oh yeah, they got the message. They understood. You know, the sad part is they didn't repent. They didn't receive what he said. You see, when you receive the truth, you either get right with God or you're going to want to hurt the messenger. And that's what they did. And so they rejected the salvation that was yet extended to them yet again. And in closing this message, I just want to say this. God again is reaching out to you. And he's saying to you, come to me. I have given you my son. I have been patient with you. I have waited. I've sent out my messengers. And you've refused them. And now I'm asking you yet again. I've demonstrated my love in sending my son to die for you. What will you do? A Welsh minister began a sermon by leaning over the pulpit, and he said these solemn words. Friends, I have a question to ask. And he said, I cannot answer it. And you cannot answer it. And if you were an angel from heaven, you couldn't answer it. And if a devil from hell were here, he couldn't answer it. And by that time the eyes of everyone was fixed on him, they were wondering, what's this question? And he said, the question is this, how shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Let's bow for prayer together today. So Lord, help us to realize all that we have in you. May we realize that you're the owner of the vineyard. We're just the tenant farmers, but you've given us such a wonderful privilege. May we be faithful. May we receive your message and your messengers. May we render unto you the fruit that you rightfully expect from us in our own Christian walk. And Lord, we pray for those who may be here today who may not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior. We pray for their soul salvation. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give this invitation before we Close our service today. Friend, do you know absolutely beyond any shadow of a doubt that if you were to die today, you'd go to heaven? Because that is available to you. Eternal life is available to you. In fact, that's why the owner of the vineyard sent his son. And that's why Jesus died on the cross. It was so that you could have eternal life. And so I ask you today, do you know him? Have you received the sun or have you pushed him away And God is again this morning in this service is reaching out to you. And He's calling you unto Himself. He's calling you unto salvation And if you haven't trusted Christ, I want you to pray right there where you are. I want you to reach out in faith. Would you pray this prayer to mean it and say, Lord Jesus, I'm a sinner. Save me, Lord Jesus. Make me your child. Give me eternal life. Is that your prayer? Would you, with every head bowed and every eye closed, and I won't embarrass you, but if that's your prayer, would you just lift your hand to God and say, Yes, that's me. I am trusting Christ today. is my only means of salvation. I'm trusting him. Would you raise your hand? How many here today can raise your hand and say, I've already done that and I know. Would you raise your hand? I know that I've trusted Jesus. Put your hands down. Could you Raise your hand, friend. Hands all over this house went up, but could you raise yours and know it? Yet again, God is reaching out to you, friend. Don't Don't let this opportunity pass. And for us who are believers, let's be responsible stewards in the vineyard. Realizing we have a great account.