Would you take God's word this morning and open to the book of Leviticus, or excuse me, Luke. We'll get to Leviticus later, but uh Luke chapter nineteen. And uh I want you to look at verse twenty-eight. Let's all stand for the reading of God's Word. The book of Luke, chapter nineteen. Verse 28. And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem. And it came to pass that when he was come nigh to Bethage and Bethany, at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go ye into the village over against you, into which at your entering ye shall find a cold tide, whereon ye never sat wherein ye yet never sat a man. Loose him and bring him hither And if any man ask you, why do you lose him, thus shalt ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them. And as they were loosening the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of them And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they sat Jesus thereon. And as he went, they spread their clothes and away. And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. This is God's word. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Don't you pray with me today? Father, we uh we thank you again for the Word of God that teaches us about our Savior Jesus Christ. And Lord, today as we look into this passage that reminds us of this monumental day in redemptive history. Lord, would you please give us understanding and open our eyes and help Lord me, your servant, to make this clear so that Christ will be exalted for who he is. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As I said before, this is this day is one of the most important days in the history of redemption. This is the day that we celebrate the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem that is traditionally called Palm Sunday. Now why is this day so very important? And some of you may be asking, what does this have to do with me? Well, this was the day that Jesus officially presented himself as the Messiah to Israel and to the world. And it demonstrated that Jesus had come to be the King. It began the most important week in all of redemptive history. This is the beginning of the Passion Week. Um one week from Sunday, Jesus will come out of that grave, but This begins this dramatic week of so many things that were so important on Sunday. He'll enter into Jerusalem, present himself as king on Monday. He will cleanse the temple and he will curse the fig tree On Tuesday he will have debates with the religious leaders in the temple. On Thursday, Jesus will have the Last Supper meal with his disciples and then on Friday of course is the trial and the crucifixion of Jesus and then of course on Sunday Jesus will r rise from the grave triumphantly showing that he is the Savior the Lord. And so we've we focus on this one event here that begins this holy week, the triumphal entry into Jerusalem. We could also call this the tragic entrance of Jesus into Jerusalem. Why? Well, because when Jesus entered into Jerusalem on that day, so many years ago, on that day, the people did not really understand the significance of what took place. The majority of people really didn't know who he really was. A lot of them were lost in the hysteria of the day and they really didn't understand the significance of it. You say, well wait a minute, the people there, they were shouting, Hosanna. Yeah, and just a few days later they would shout, Crucify Him. And the Bible tells us that when Luke, uh that, excuse me, when Jesus wrote into Jerusalem, it tells us here in Luke that That uh Jesus wept. Look at verse number 41. And when he was come near, he beheld the city and he wept over it, saying, If thou hast known Even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace But now they are hid from thine eyes. Here Jesus says they really don't comprehend it. They really don't get it. This is one of the few occasions when the Bible records that Jesus wept. And again he wept because they really didn't understand the significance of what was taking place. In fact, in Matthew's parallel account, in Matthew 21, they're asking the question, who is this? When Jesus wrote into Jerusalem that day they were asking the question, who is this? Who is this? This is the most crucial question in all the world. And by the way, did you know that when Jesus was riding into Jerusalem on his triumphal entry, the priests were in the temple And uh tradition tells us that on this day, the first day of the week, the ancient rabbis, the priests, uh the ancient rabbis tell us that the priests were reciting Psalm 24 Verse uh seven to ten, lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lifted up, ye everlasting doors, and the king of glory shall come in. Who is this king of glory? And it goes on to ask that question again in verse ten. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory. And so this poem speaks prophetically of when the Messiah would come to the temple, and Jesus did that very day. And while they were singing this psalm, they still did not fully realize who Jesus was. And so kind of in a in a way here, Luke is going to answer this question, who is this king of glory? Who is this king of glory? And Luke will answer this question by telling us exactly who this King of Glory is. Now again, some people may here be here today and you might be saying, What does this have to do with me? What does Palm Sunday have to do with my life? I'm just trying to make it through the present crisis that I'm in, or I'm just trying to make it through this week. Why should I be worried about what happened in Jerusalem on this day so many years ago? Well, I'll tell you why, dear friend, because it's a matter of life and death. It's a matter of your eternity. Either Jesus was who he claimed to be or he was not. It's as simple as that. Either Jesus was the Messiah, the King, the Son of David, or he was not. So the question is Is he who he claimed to be? And the witness of Scripture and the Gospel of Luke here particularly answers with a resounding yes. But this is the matter that every person has to settle in their own heart. Because if he was who he claimed to be, that means that everything that Jesus said was true. And if everything that Jesus said was true This gets back to something that you've heard me preach on before, and that is the exclusive nature of the gospel. This means that if Jesus was indeed The Son of David, the Messiah, the Son of God. Everything he said was true. And that means there's only one way to heaven because Jesus said, I am the way. the truth and the life. And no man comes under the Father but by me. So this means that Christ is the only salvation. And so we have to answer this question. And so Luke will here in this narrative here, as we look at this story, and so I want you to see here four powerful ways in which Luke will answer the question, who is this King of glory? Who is he? Well, number one, he's the king of providential circumstances. Look again at verse number twenty-eight of chapter nineteen. And when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. What I want you to see here in this narrative first is that it reveals that Jesus was in absolute control over all the circumstances. It's absolutely sovereign. Everything is in his control. He was not deluded by the cheering crowd. That didn't fool him. He knew their hearts. He was not intimidated by the threats of the Pharisees. He lived under the precise timetable of the Heavenly Father. And Jesus knew that his time was approaching. Look in Luke chapter 9, just kind of give you an idea here, because In Luke chapter 9, verse 51, Jesus begins his pilgrimage, his final journey to Jerusalem. Luke chapter 9, verse 51. And it came to pass When the time was come that he should be received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. Notice where it says he should be received up. In other words, it was time for him to go to heaven. His earthly ministry was coming to an end. And so he steadfastly sets his face towards Jerusalem. And he begins to make a journey that began nine months prior to this day of Palm Sunday. And what he'll do is he'll purposely zigzag through Galilee and he'll go to Samaria and then Perea and then through Ju Judea. And he's he's making a final journey. He he visits about thirty-five localities there at that time. And he and he times it so that he'll end up just at the right time there in Jerusalem for the Passover. This was the time of the Passover. In this narrative of the triumphal entry of Christ, we see really some natural divisions. Go back to chapter 19. Again in verse 28, we see, and he went and when excuse me, and when he had thus spoken, he went before Again in verse 36. And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way. Verse 41 again. And when he was come near, he beheld the city and wept over it. So These expressions describe his journey to Jerusalem. He's ending the journey that began nine months prior. uh in Samaria and he's moving ever closer, ever closer to the holy city. He's drawing near. And now in verse 28 we see he begins his ascent. to Jerusalem. That is, he had been in Jericho. If you look at the beginning of chapter 19, he's in Jericho. Um and now he geographically he's ascending upward into Jerusalem. If you've ever been to the Holy Land, you'll know that geo geographically Jericho is 800 feet below sea level. Jerusalem is 2,500 feet above sea level. And so you're going up constantly for miles. You're going up into Jerusalem. And this is what he's doing. But he's in Jericho, he was there, he went to the home of Zacchaeus, he brought salvation to the most hated man in Jericho. He was a tax collector, an IRS agent, the Israeli Revenue Service. And uh he heals two blind men there, but also he forgives their sin. And then Jesus begins this journey into Jerusalem, and he's not by himself. This is a parade of people. This is the time of the Passover, so you have pilgrims that are going up into Jerusalem. There are crowds of people that are going up, and Jesus is going, and you have to picture it. There's multitudes of people around him. In that crowd, there are people that he healed, people that believe who he is Some scholars believe that the uh population um flowing into the city of Jerusalem about this time reached about two million people. So he's going to Jerusalem because this was the place where he would die. This was the place that was prophesied in Scripture. We see this in Genesis 22. Where Abraham took Isaac to Mount Moriah to sacrifice him. That's where the temple would be. The place of Moriah would be the same place later where the Son of God in that approximate area would die for the sins of the world. And this is the right time. Jesus knows that this is the time that has been spoken of all throughout redemptive history. He knows he's on God's clock. Prior to this, we hear Jesus say many times, mine hour is not yet come. My time is not yet come. We see him say this several times. in the gospels, but in John 12, 23 he says, The hour is come that the Son of Man should be glorified. He said that on this day on Palm Sunday when he rode in Jerusalem. Jesus knew this is the time. It was time now to initiate the week where the Son of God would die for our sins. And this day when he would ride into Jerusalem, He would be recognized officially as the Messiah, and some would recognize him, but many would not. And so what we see here then is that Jesus is in absolute control, complete control of all that is going on here. The death of Jesus is not going to be an accident. The death of Jesus is not going to be some well-meaning reformer who was tragically murdered because he made some mistakes. No, none of that as some people try to describe this. No, this was the the event that God had planned all the way back in eternity past where the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ, would come to die for man's sin. And the Bible tells us in Acts 4, 27, for truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed Both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. What took place when Jesus died on the cross was not an accident. It was what God the Father predetermined, predestined would happen to his son, Jesus Christ. And the Bible says it was wicked hands that did it. Yeah. They did what they wanted to do of their own free agency, and yet what they chose to do, these wicked men, was exactly what God forordained would happen. That Christ would be the Savior for our sins. And what you see there is concurrence. You see both things happening. You see divine sovereignty. You see human responsibility. God divinely, sovereignly planned the death of his son, who would be the propitiation for the sins of the world. And yet what those men did there with their own wicked hands, they were judged for. And yet what they chose to do was according to God's eternal plan. The Bible says that God established this. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens. You can't thwart the purposes of God. So we see here, he's the king of providential circumstances, but number two. Who is this king of glory? Well, he's the king of physical creation. Look at verse 29. And it came to pass when he was come nigh to Bethage and Bethany. at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples saying, Go ye into the village over against you in which at the entering ye shall find a cold side. Whereon yet never man sat, loose him and bring him hither. And if any man ask you, why do you lose him, thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord has need of him. And what this part here reveals is the fact that Jesus is the Lord over creation. This is evident from the fact that he rode on an unbroken colt into Jerusalem. Now I'm no horseman, but I know that you don't climb one to an unbroken colt and expect a gentle ride. Unless, of course, you're the savior and the creator of the world. Because that's what happens here. So we see the preparation of verse 29. He was come nigh to Bethage and Bethany Bethage is a little village uh between Jerusalem and Bethany. It means house of figs. Bethany means house of dates. That's because of they were They would grow those uh those fruits there in that region. And a traveler approaching Jerusalem headed east would come to Bethany first. That was about two miles outside of Jerusalem, and then he would pass through Bethage On the slope of the Mount Olives in his way to Jerusalem, so you're coming up the slope on one side, and then he'll get to the top and he'll go down into Jerusalem. He c he comes up first. He comes to Bethany, Bethany. And by the way, this is the place where Jesus resurrected Lazarus from the dead. You might remember that story. And John 12 tells us it was no secret that Jesus was in Bethany. They remember what Jesus did with Lazarus and there was this enthusiasm all that was uh all the people were c uh excited the with the fact that Jesus was there in that little village. There was Uh it was a highly charged atmosphere there at that time. And so what's Jesus' next move? Jesus tells his disciples, the village against you. Since they're in Bethany, this is Bethage, he says, go to this village and you'll find this cold in verse 29, verse 30. And this will be a code that where a man has never sat on this animal. Loose him and bring him. And if any man says to you, what are you doing? Just say the Lord has need of him. This is one little foal that has never been ridden, and this speaks of sacred use. In the Old Testament, when an animal is put to sacred use, it had to be one which had never been used before. And so that's exactly what happened. By the way, how did Jesus know that the donkey would be there? That no one had ever ridden on this cold? How did he know that? How did he know that someone might ask, you know, you know, what's gonna what are you gonna do with this? And if they ask, just say the Lord has needed them. That would be typically normal, but how did he know these other things? This reveals to me divine omniscience He knows everything that's going on. And Jesus said, if anyone comes and asks, you just say the Lord has need of them. And that's exactly what happened. In verse 32. And they that were sent went their way, and they found even as he had said unto them in verse 33, and as they were loosening the cold, the owners thereof said unto unto them, Why lose he the cold? And they said the Lord has need of them. They didn't need to explain anymore because the people there in that area, they knew who was in town. They knew Jesus was in Bethany. They knew what was going on And so when they said to them, the Lord has need of them, I kind of imagine in my heart, maybe they were a bit excited thinking the Master himself is going to be using our little colt here. They understood the events that were taking place that Jesus was going to go into Jerusalem. And then we see what I call the placement in verse 35. And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they sat Jesus thereon. They used garments for a saddle. And this is the humble coronation of Jesus the King. And all the coronations that have ever been held in the world's history to honor a mark a monarch, no monarch even comes close to what Jesus deserved by way of honor. He was so supreme, so magnificent, so majestic, so sovereign, so powerful, so worthy. No one even comes close to him. And yet here's this humble coronation. It doesn't look like much But what this does is it reveals that he's the divine creator over all of his creation. This unbroken cult receives Jesus. He knows who he is. As like many other stories in the Bible, the donkey was smarter than the people. Just like Balaam's donkey, who began to speak when God touched him. This animal understood who Jesus was, and he received him. His own people would receive him. The Bible says he came unto his own, but his own received him not. But here he's received, and here he's is seen as the Creator. Who is this King of glory, he's the king of providential circumstances. He is the king of physical creation. But also, number three, he's the king of what I call prophetic calendars because this is a very special day. This was huge on God's prophetic calendar. In fact, look at verse 42 again where Jesus says saying, If thou This know, even thou, at least in this thy day. Notice he emphasizes this thy day. Again, this was an incredible day, an important day, pre-written in God's prophetic calendar. The day that Jesus would ride into Jerusalem, many prophecies were fulfilled on this day. 36 and as he went they spread their clothes in the way. And uh by doing this they were uh recognizing that Jesus was the king. As he begins to go in. Now remember that Jesus never allowed himself to be honored or exalted in his earthly ministry. Never before did Jesus do anything to prom promote public demonstration. But here he knew he was fulfilling prophecy. And here he understands what's taking place. And it's the fulfillment of Zechariah 9:9. You might want to write that in your margin. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you. He is just and endowed with salvation, humble and mounted on a donkey, even on a colt, the foal of a donkey. And this prophecy refers especially to the Messiah and his humiliation. He would be right in on just a humble beast of burden, which is appropriate for Jesus, who would bear the burden of sin himself. But showing him to be the Messiah. This was the fulfillment of Zechariah 9 9. And the people, the Bible says they spread their clothes in the way. This was an ancient custom. And what does it symbolize? It symbolizes submission. Because normally you would kneel before a king, but you know, when one was riding an animal, you wouldn't kneel yourself or you would get hurt. They would throw their They're their garments on in the way symbolizing their absolute submission to authority. And then there's the prophecy of the song. Look at verse number thirty-seven. And as he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. So notice it's near the descent as he comes to the crest of the hill and he begins to descend really into uh down the other side of the Mount of Olives toward the city of Jerusalem. And the crowd, I think, gets bigger on this side. The Bible says that they began to sing this psalm. What psalm was it? They're quoting Psalm 118, verse 22 down to verse 27. This is a messianic psalm. And they were addressing Jesus as the Messiah, as the King. This was a song that was sung by pilgrims going up to Jerusalem for the feast days. And notice they said, blessed be the king who comes in the name of the Lord. And so Uh again, this crowd is getting bigger. The Bible tells us that there are people that came that that hear the commotion. They come out of the city of Jerusalem to kind of meet them there and welcome them. as he's going down the slope into towards closer towards the city of Jerusalem. They're singing this psalm. And again, this was all prophesied. in the Old Testament. This is all the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. And the Bible also says that they begin to cut down palm leaves or palm branches from the trees. This is why we call it of course Palm Sunday. And they cut them and they down and they lay them at his feet. And why palm branches? Because these were symbols of joy. I also think symbols of glory in the Old Testament Feast of Tabernacles, they would use palm branches to decorate their booth. that was out in the field, just like we kind of decorate a Christmas tree, they would decorate a booth. And the palm branches spoke of glory. So there's joy here. And they probably don't even perhaps understand that they're really talking about the glory of God. Jesus Christ was the glory of God returning to Jerusalem that had departed so many years ago. And so there's the prophecy of the ride on a cult. There's a prophecy of this song. They're praising God. They're singing the messianic psalm that again fulfills prophecy. The third prophecy that's fulfilled here is a prophecy of the very day. Another prophecy is from Daniel 9, 24 to 27. This specific day was predicted by Daniel. The day that the Messiah would come and present himself. That's why Jesus says, this thy day. Right in your margin, Daniel 9. 26, it says, after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off. Now Daniel prophesied that from the decree of Artax Xerxes to the time the Messiah would come to Jerusalem and be cut off would be a total of 69 weeks, or we could say 69 seven-year periods. Meaning this, meaning from the time of the decrees uh to the m to the Messiah would be four hundred and uh 83 years. So from the time of the decree of Araxerxes to the Messiah, 483 years. Now remember a Jewish year was 360 days. And so the total number of days involved, and I did the math on this, you might want to check me out because I'm not good at math, but it's 173,880 days So from the time of the decree of Artaxerxes, there would be 173,880 days until the Messiah. would come to Jerusalem. So if you count these days, the decree was on March 14, 446 BC. And you count those days, you come to April 6th. A. D. 32, the very day that Jesus rode into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday, that fulfilled Scripture. Before this time, Jesus would not allow his followers to proclaim it as Messiah. Now he accepts their acclaim because the day had come, the day that was prophesied. Now the Pharisees didn't like this. Look at verse 39. And some of the Pharisees from among the multitudes said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. They didn't like to hear Jesus being praised. They hated Jesus. They were disgruntled To them this was blasphemy. So they said, Silence your disciples. Look at verse 40. And he answered, and he said unto them, I tell you that if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. Stones would cry out at it. If I silence them, the stones will cry out. Jesus knew that the worship and praise he was receiving from the people was was superficial. He knew it wasn't sincere. Again, these very people would later want him crucified And when you look at this, what did he mean when he says the stones will cry out? I think what this means is this is in the Greek the verb is future indicative. We could say it like this. Jesus said, This this multitude, they will grow silent. And in time the stones will cry out. What does that mean? The stones will cry out. Again, Some people look at this differently. Some say all this means that all nature will praise if the people are silent. Well, beloved, all of creation is already crying out. All of creation does bear witness as to who Jesus is. I think this the stones that he's talking about here, I think are the stones of the temple. And that temple will be destroyed. And they will be the stones that will be bearing witness to that Jesus is the mess the Messiah. One day those stones would cry out. That Jesus would be the Messiah. Again, this is future indicative. The stones will one day bear witness that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of David. And this will happen. And this is this is the last point here that I would give you today. Who is this king of glory? He's the king of providential circumstances. He's the king of physical creation. He's the king of the prophetic calendar, but also he's the king of promised condemnation, because look what happens now in verse number forty one. And when he was come near he beheld the city and he wept over it. saying, if thou hast known, even now, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace, but now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another. because thou knew not the time of thy visitation. This is really the turning point of the whole story. Jesus predicts a terrible judgment. That's why in verse forty one, as he comes close to the city, he weeps. I think at this point he has the whole city in full view as he's coming down over The man of Olives, he sees the whole city. He sees a multitude of people there, and he weeps. This is the strongest word in the Bible for weep. This is this is like weeping over the death of a loved one. This is incredible emotion. It's a it's a loud lamentation, an expression of great grief because Jesus knew the judgment that was going to come upon the people that did not receive him for who he was. And here's the message that we need to receive today. If you don't receive Jesus for who he is, you have to bear the consequences of that decision. There's either salvation or judgment. There's no middle ground. The people who acknowledge who Jesus is receive salvation. Those who do not will receive judgment. And that's what we see here. In verse 42, when he talks about peace, he's not talking about peace with Rome, political peace. He's talking about peace with God. This is your day to get peace with God. This is your day to receive forgiveness of sins. But he says, but now they are hid from thine eyes. He's talking about their own hardness, their own unbelief, despite the fact that he did all these miracles and he spoke truth. There were still people that were blind about him, that were hardened in their heart. And because of their own belief, these things were hid. And so therefore there will be no salvation. There's going to be judgment. And this would be fulfilled. After Jesus dies in 70 A. D. , he's predicting how what's going to happen to this whole city. And this is a monumental uh event in the the uh history of jerusalem when later on it'll be surrounded by the Roman army and the whole city will be destroyed. Notice where he says they'll cast a trench about the In verse number 43. In ancient times, when you wanted to conquer a city, you would build a barrack around the city to starve the people. That's exactly what happened in 70 A. D. when the Roman army came to Jerusalem It says they they they kept the city shut up. It was sealed off. And notice in verse 44 where it says, they shall not leave one stone upon another. Those are the stones that cried out. Because when they burned the temple, the gold from the the top of it melted and it it kind of flowed down in between the rocks there. at the temple and the Roman soldiers in an effort to get at those at the gold that was between the rocks literally tore those stones apart to get at the gold. And not one stone was left upon another, just as Jesus had prophesied. That whole place was destroyed. And so and Jesus said they will level you to the ground. It literally means to shatter against the ground, to smash against the ground. That is to say, this city when when it sacked, it will be flattened. Absolutely flattened. And that's what happened. The Romans overpowered the Jews, the weakened, starving Jews that were in that city. And Josephus writes this, he said, while the sanctuary was burning, the temple Neither pity for age nor request for rank was shown. On the contrary, children and old people, lady and priests alike, were massacred. The emperor ordered the entire city and temple to be razed to the ground, leaving only the highest towers and the portion of the wall on the west All the rest of the wall was so completely raised as to leave future visitors to the spot. No reason to believe that the city had ever been inhabited. Those with the stone is crying out, they're at that time, cried out of judgment. Why? Again, because in verse forty four Where he says, because at the end of verse 44, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation, you didn't know, you didn't see that your opportunity for salvation was right there. It was right there. And they missed it. Was he the Son of God? Absolutely. Was he Messiah? Absolutely. The Savior that would bear the sin of the world, he absolutely was all he claimed to be, and they missed it. They wouldn't believe in their heart. The visitation had come and they just they they were hardened. I say that to everyone here today. Listen, you know what the Bible says about now, now is the accepted time? Now is the day of salvation. For anyone who wants salvation, you can have it. The Bible says, Him that comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Friend, if you want salvation, you can have it. If you turn your heart to Jesus, you'll have your sins forgiven. You'll be saved. You'll be a part of the family of God. You'll have eternal life. You'll have heaven. But if you don't recognize who Jesus is If you don't confess him as Lord and repent of your sin, you yourself will bear the consequences of that. This is what happened here. This is why this is important to us. And this is why you should follow Jesus. You know, we hear people say, well, you know, I want to try Jesus out because I want joy, I want peace, I want all the good things. Well, you might not get those things if you trust Jesus. That's not the reason to follow Jesus. You might trust Jesus and you might get persecution. You might trust Jesus and things go berserk in your life. Your friends will walk away. Your family may disown you. Those are not the reasons to come to Jesus. You know, we have preachers today that preach salvation almost like it's the American dream. You know, come to Jesus, he'll give you all that you wish. That's not the gospel, beloved. Jesus didn't come here to give you the American dream. He didn't come here to make you rich. He came here to forgive you for your sin and give you salvation. The most important thing that you need to do is to make sure you're right with God and that your sins are forgiven. That's the most important thing. You know why we follow Jesus? Because he is the King of providential circumstances. He's sovereign. Because he's the King of creation. He's the King of all the things that take place over all the days on the calendar. And he's the judge. The Bible says the Father put all judgment into his hands. And if you don't trust him today as Savior, you will stand before him as your judge. He's the king of promised condemnation. We suffer or we follow Jesus even though we may have to suffer for it. Because that doesn't matter. We follow Jesus because of who he is, not because of what we can supposedly get. But by the way, let me just say this. You see first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, you know what? All these other things will be added unto you He'll take care of you for all these things. We don't follow him for that. We don't worry about that. We follow the king because he is the king. We put his kingdom first. And he blesses us with so many blessings. And so, friend, if you want a faith that perseveres, a faith that's not superficial, like we saw here with some of these people. When Jesus wrote in that day. If you want a faith that's deep, you must recognize who Jesus is. And you must confess him as Savior and Lord. Let's bow for prayer together today. Yeah, yeah. Father, how we thank you again for this beautiful narrative by Luke, the meticulous historian who wrote down the events that took place on this momentous day. in redemptive history, when Jesus rode into Jerusalem, his humble coronation, on a beast of burden, presenting himself as the Messiah, this day that was prophesied so many years ago in biblical history. And yet, Lord, there were some there that didn't recognize it, didn't see it. We thank you that this was recorded for us. Because, Lord, this is your inspired word, and we believe this, and we trust what your word says. And because of that, we put our full faith in who Jesus is, and we thank you for the salvation that we have in Christ. And Father, if there's someone here that's never done that, I pray for them. Lord, please do for them what no man can do. I don't have the power, Lord, to draw them Only you can, Father. And Lord, would you please give them eyes to see? May they be not blinded like some Give them eyes to see who Jesus is, that they may trust him with all their heart. Find salvation in Christ. Proclaim him as Lord and joyfully serve Christ, even though it may cost us, even though it may bring persecution and suffering and hardship We know that we have this wonderful salvation in Christ. Sins forgiven in a home in heaven. Thank you for this wonderful gift of salvation through Christ. And Lord, may you again just speak to hearts. And heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I'm wondering, friend, would you just search your heart right now? Do you know Christ? I, as just a simple servant of God, just would plead with you to search your heart and ask yourself this question: have I ever truly put my Full faith in the finished work of Christ. What he did for me is Savior on the cross. You can get saved right there. Reach out in faith Just say, Jesus, here I am. I'm a sinner. I believe in all that you claim to be. I believe you were and are the Messiah, the Savior. Forgive me and save me, Lord Jesus. I bow to you as Lord. Not in a superficial way like the people did back in that day, but in a very real way. I bow to you as Lord and King. Save me. Friend, if you'll pray that and mean it, he will save you. Please let us know. We want to encourage you in your Christian walk. Father, again, give ears to hear, Lord, I pray that they they who have received this, Lord, that you'll do a new work in their heart, that others will see it, and that you'll be glorified. And we pray in Jesus' name, Amen.