I want to uh invite you to take your Bibles tonight, please, and open to the book of Genesis, uh chapter uh six. Genesis chapter six. Now this morning I spoke on the first promise of Christmas, and I gave a quick summary of how Satan sought to prevent the coming of the Messiah, the seed of the woman. that there has been a perpetual enmity between the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman. And I briefly mentioned Genesis chapter 6. And whenever I go to that passage, I always have people asking me questions afterwards about that passage. And so I I thought I would just take time to explain it a little bit more tonight to hopefully answer some of that questions. I'm not even sure the people who ask me those questions are even here tonight. But uh nevertheless it could be recorded and put on YouTube and played, I guess. But um so I wanted to take time to just explain this passage of Scripture. And um and so first of all I want to kind of give the context of Genesis. Such an important book of the Bible. In Genesis chapter 1, we have creation in six literal days. And then in chapter 2, we have a detailed account of the creation of man and the institution of marriage. And then when you come to Genesis chapter three, we examine the fall of man and the curse that God placed upon all creation because of man's sin. It was a fourfold curse. He placed the curse upon the ground, he placed the curse upon man. God placed the curse upon woman, and then he also placed a curse upon the serpent. And then of course, as we saw this morning, he made a promise of a deliverer who would come and crush the head of the serpent. and it would be f the from the seed of the woman. And then when you get to Genesis chapter four, what we begin to see is the devastating effects of man's sin and depravity. Cain kills Abel and God places a curse upon Cain. And then after that we see the development of civilization in the line of Cain. God is gracious to Cain and his descendants, and yet they are a secular and ungodly people. And the poster child for this kind of people, this rebellion and defiance against God, is a man in the mentioned there in that chapter by the name of uh Lamech. who basically killed a boy and then he sang about it. You might could say this is the first gangster rap in the o in the Bible. He was a violent murderer. And then you come to Genesis chapter five, and we see the uh we see the birth of another son of Adam. This is the the son Seth, a godly man named Seth, and it was his children, the Bible says, that began to worship God And man began to call upon the Lord. And this is the line, or we could say the Son, through whom God would accomplish his promise to send the mess the m the the Messiah. That was the line through Adam, the descendants of Seth. And so what we see if you compare the two there are the descendants of Seth are polar opposites from the descendants of Cain. And the poster child for the descendants of Seth is a man by the name of Enoch. You might know that name Enoch Just as uh Lamech was the seventh from from Cain, or excuse me, the se uh in the line of Cain, he was the seventh from Adam, even so Enoch is the seventh uh from Adam in the line of Seth. Um and and so he walked with God and God took him to heaven one day. We we we know that where the Bible says and he was not for God took him. That is to say, one day they just couldn't find Enoch And it was discovered that God just simply took him to heaven. And that is a foreshadowing of the rapture when God will take his godly people with him out of this sinful world. of sin. And how to have eternal life and not die. And how is it? It's by walking with God, by putting your faith in God, in the Word of God, and the plan that God had for redemption. And it's important because when you come to chapter 5 in Genesis, the expression that you see over and over again is, and he died, and he died, and he died. We see that over and over again in chapter 5. And we're seeing the devastating effects of Adam's sin. As recorded here in Genesis. Adam lived nine generations. He saw firsthand what the curse of sin did to his descendants He must have been a man of sorrows. Can you imagine Adam going from the Garden of Eden to seeing the effects of his sin upon his descendants in the world? One of the themes running through these chapters, chapters four through six, then, is the effects of the curse of sin We read about selfishness, we read about pride, we read about anger and murder and lying and rebellion and false worship and polygamy and violence and hatred of God. You see all of that in these chapters. And since Adam's sin, man continues to spiral downward And that brings us to Genesis chapter 6, where we see uh the end of this downward spiral, where we see God say, okay, that's enough. I've had enough of the sin of man. The whole earth has become totally corrupt. Even the godly descendants of Seth have been corrupted to the point to where God sees only one family in the earth that is righteous that is trying to walk with God. Look in chapter six, verse number eight, we see this expression, but Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. Noah, like his great grandfather Enoch, walked with the Lord. But the whole point of the opening verses of chapter 6 is to point out how incredibly wicked the earth had become during that time. Now keep in mind Moses is the writer of Genesis, and he is writing about history in six chapters. He covers a large span of history. In fact, there's about 1700 years covered in six chapters And so basically he doesn't give much details. He only gives the things that are very important for us to understand. And so he summarizes a lot in his writing here in the book of Genesis. And to show just how incredibly corrupt the earth had become, he simply points to one example. What's the one example that Moses points to as an indicator of the moral corruption of that civilization? If you want to know the moral condition of any civilization, this is a true sign or a true indicator. What is it? It is sexual perversion. Unbridled lust, immorality that almost defies the imagination. And by the way, we see this indicator in other places in Scripture as well. You remember when Paul was writing his great thesis of the gospel And he was talking about God's wrath. He said that God's wrath is continually expressed or revealed upon man because of their suppression of the truth, and so much so that God simply turns them over to their own lusts And what happens is we see this down roll downward spiral of perversion where God gave them up to the uncleanness, to the lusts of their own bodies. and to their own hearts to dishonor their bodies between themselves. Where else do you see this indicator? Well you can go on in Genesis and look in Genesis 19 and we see the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. The Bible says in Genesis 18, 20, the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous. That God was basically going to destroy this this these cities. And then we have that scene where Abraham is bartering with God. God, would you destroy Uh the cities for fifty righteous. God said, you know, no, I wouldn't for fifty if you could find fifty righteous there. And you remember how Abraham kind of barters down. He gets all the way down to ten. God, will you destroy for ten righteous? If you can find and God says basically if you can find ten righteous there, I won't destroy it. Now Abraham stopped barding with God at that point because he knew that his nephew Lot was there. Lot was married, he had children. I guess they figured the whole family was enough to spare the city from judgment, but That was not the case. Lot was the only righteous person in that city, and he himself had compromised himself. Uh the Bible says uh that his righteous soul was vexed living in that corrupt environment. But it was the sexual perversion of that that culture, those cities that brought God's judgment down upon Sodom and Gomorrah. Now we can't help but look at our country today. I hate to tell you, beloved, this is where we are today in our country. You know, sexual perversion is now considered normal. Uh it's being paraded in front of us. And and we have a whole culture and society out there that are trying to convert our young people into this type of perversion. Remember what Jesus said in Luke chapter 17 when he talked about his coming again. It would be just like it was in the days of Noah. And then he goes on to say that his coming would be uh as in the days of Lot, verse twenty-eight, likewise also as it was in the days of Lot, they did eat and they drank and they bought and they sold, they planted, they builded. But the same day the lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed. Jesus said, this is what it's going to be like when the Son of Man comes, when he's revealed, the moral condition of the people on the earth will be just like it was in the days of Noah and in the days of Lot. And I'm telling you, as I'm looking out, I see a lot of parallels. We're living just like the days of Noah and the days of Lot. Now, the whole point of this passage is to show the same indicator of moral corruption in the earth. We're going to see that there was such unbelievable perversion that God said, okay, that's enough. That's enough. So I want you to see this as it unfolds in three acts, basically number one, the provocation. You take notes, you just write down the provocation Notice verse 1 of chapter 6. It came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair, and they took them wise, all of which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh, yet his days shall be a hundred and twenty years. Verse 3, I think, is the key. This is where God said, I've had enough. My spirit shall not always strive with flesh. Now what does he mean by that? There are three basic interpretations of this. When God says, My spirit shall not strive with man or with man or because he's flesh, some say this means that God will withdraw his spirit, the principle of life, the life-giving power that he gave to man. That is, you know, God breathed into man the breath of life in Genesis 2. 7. And God is going to refuse to continue to preserve man's life. They say back in that day man lived for a long time. And now it It's going to come where God says, you know what, I'm not going to continue to preserve man. Let him live long. He'll live about 120 years. God is going to cut down the length of man's life. And they say that's what this means. I don't think that this is what this means because after the flood we still see men living for a long time. Um not past one hundred and twenty years. In fact, the sons of Shem live longer. uh than 120 years. Abraham himself lived 175 years. So now man's years are drastically reduced after the flood. But I don't think that this is what this is talking about here. Secondly, there's another interpretation that says, you know, man is trying to live forever by divine human marriages, and um, you know, despite the acquisition of this power, man will die anyway. That's another interpretation. I don't think that again that's what it's talking about. I think the best way to see this is that God declares his long suffering with sinful humanity is going to come to an end. He will no longer suspend judgment. God is going to give man a hundred and twenty years, and after that judgment will come. And I think this interpretation best fits the context because right after God says that Who are we introduced to in Genesis chapter 6? We're introduced to Noah, right? And he is God's servant. He's going to build the ark. And guess what? It's going to take some time for him to do that. And the Bible says, by the way, that Noah was a preacher of righteousness, right down 2 Peter 2. 5, where it says that Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness. um bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. So not only did he build the ark, but he preached repentance, he preached a message of salvation to that generation. Now the word for flesh here, bizarre in the Old Testament Hebrew, can mean mortal, and so Um, but it also is a met could it could be a metaphorical expression that can be used to speak of man's sinfulness, just like Paul uses the word flesh in the New Testament to talk about our depravity. I think that's the way it's used here in the Old Testament. Bazar can also mean uh your man's depravity, man's flesh. So I don't think what God is saying is, you know, I'm not going to continue to be long-suffering with man because he's made of fle of flesh and blood. Well, no, because God is the one who made him of flesh and blood, right? But I think God is saying, my spirit is not going to continue to be long-suffering with man because he is depraved. Now God did not make man sinful. That was something that came in through Adam. And so I think this is what is in view here. Because of man's depravity, because of his sin, God was going to judge the world. And notice what it says in verse 5. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only what? Only evil continually. And so God is saying that his long suffering is coming to an end because man is so depraved. He has reached the bottom. And so God will give man another hundred and twenty years, and after that judgment is going to come. Now, what was it that brought God to this point? What was it that caused God to say, enough, enough? And so we get to number two here. We see provocation, but number two, perversion. Just write down perversion. It was a sexual perversion of that pre-flood civilization that ultimately brought God to this point. Now look down in verse, again, verse 1 and 2, it says that man began to multiply, but in verse 2, the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair, and they took them wise, all of which they chose. And then drop down to verse number four, where it says, There were giants in the earth in those days, also after that when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men, which were of old, men of renown. So the question is, what's going on here in these verses? And as I said this morning, these are verses that are, you know, debated. I think I said that. Um a lot of different ways that people approach this. But the big question is, who are the sons of God? That's the big question here. And uh so this causes a lot of lively debate among uh interpreters. So let me give you the different understandings of how people interpret this. Number one, they say, Well, the sons of God were dynastic rulers in the line of Cain. They say they were descendants of king and they were rulers. They were administrators of justice. They were called the Elohim. Kings often were referred to in the ancient Near Eastern literature as Elohim or sons of deity. That's one view on this, but the problem with that is there's no evidence that a monarchial system of rulers was established in the line of Cain. I don't see any evidence for that in scripture anywhere Why is something so familiar, such as kingship, addressed so indirectly and obscurely? That's another problem that I have with this. No writer of scripture ever considered kings to be deities or sons of deities Which would be another problem I have with this. But there's another interpretation. The sons of God were the godly line of Seth. According to this view, the sin of these men was not polygamy, but marriage to unbelievers, resulting in an unholy alliance. And so we what you have here is the concept of a godly line trying to be established. Warnings against marriage between believers and unbelievers. That is a theme in the entire Pentateuch. But again, the problem with this view is that it fails to come to grips with the technical use of the expression sons of God. Now, as I said this morning, sons of God in the Old Testament, the Hebrew is it from that is Bene Elohim, or technically Bene Ha Elohim. But it always is sons of God. It always always means angels when it's when it's given. And so That's that's the problem with this. Every time this is used in the Old Testament, it's always this expression, it's always referring to angels. If the if Moses wanted to refer to the to the line of Seth or uh the daughters of Cain. He could have just simply said that. The sons of Seth married the daughters of Cain. I mean he could have just simply said that. That would have been easy. And by the way, if these guys really are the sons of Seth, they were not godly. The Bible describes them as men who were lustful, men striving for power and fame. So again, I don't see that that's the view, uh that's the correct interpretation here to say that the sons of God are sons of Seth. No, the sons of God are angels. And this is describing an ungodly cohabitation between fallen angels and women. Again, sons of God always refers to angels in the Old Testament. We see this in Job chapter 1, verse 6. We see this in Job chapter 2, verse 1, we see this in Job chapter 38, verse 7. This is the oldest view of this passage. We could say that this was a view that has been held for centuries And I say, as I said this morning, this was a view held by Philo Josephus, the Jewish historian. He wrote, Many angels accompanied with women and begets sons that proved unjust. And then he later on said, This is the common opinion of antiquity. This is the view of all the rabbinic writers, uh the oldest church fathers. The early church held this view. It wasn't until the fourth century of the Christian era that any other view was even considered. There was a man later named Julius uh who gave the Sethite view and he wrote, What is meant by the Spirit, in my opinion, is that the descendants of Seth are called the sons of God And that's really what started even another interpretation to this whole passage. Eusebius, the great church historian, insisted that the original view of the church was the correct view. And he compared the stories in Genesis 6 with stories of titans and of giants that are mentioned in Greek mythology. And as I said already as well this morning, the writers of the Septuagint, the seventy scholars who translated the Old Testament into Greek, when they came to this expression, the Bene Elohim, what they they translated that with the with the Greek uh uh word for angels, angelos. Angels. So they believe that these were angels here in Genesis chapter 6. Other Jewish writers prior to the time of Christ also believed this to be angels. For example, in 1 Enoch, now this is a pseudopigraphal writing. uh that is to say a right a work that is written by another person and given another name. But some of these pseudopigraphal writings, even though they were not inspired scripture, And and doubtless they were wrong in some places. They still had some historical value to them. And how do we know that? Because we know of two New Testament writers that actually quoted from this pseudopigraphal work, first Enoch. One was Peter and the other was Jude. They actually quoted from this. And let me let me quote to you what first Enoch says about Genesis six. And it came to pass when the children of men had multiplied in those days, they were born unto them um beautiful and comely daughters, and the angels, the children of heaven, saw and lusted after them, and said one to another, Come, let us choose wise from among the children of men, and begat us children And they were in all two hundred. They took unto themselves wives, and each chose for himself one, and they began to go in unto them and defile themselves with them, and they taught them charms and enchantments. And they became pregnant, and they bare great giants, and there arose much godlessness, and they committed fornication, and they were led astray, and they became corrupt in all of their ways. Now again, this is not inspired scripture that I'm quoting here. This is a pseudo-epigraphal writing. Um, but again, this is quoted by Jude. This this work here, first Enoch, is quoted by Jude and it is quoted by Peter. For example, it's quoted in Jude in verses 14 and 15. And Enoch also, the seventh from Abraham, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. Where did Jude learn this about, Enoch? This is a quote From the book of 1 Enoch, chapter 60, verse number 8. He uses the word ungodly four times. He's speaking of that generation of ungodly pre-flood people. And so, now you say, well, that doesn't convince me. All right. Go to the book of Jude here. Because I think that New Testament writers make reference to this event. Look in Jude chapter, no chapter, just verses, Jude verse number five, and notice what Jude says here. Jude verse 5, and I will put you in remembrance, I will therefore put you in remembrance, although you once knew this, how that the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not Look at verse 6. And the angels, which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved an everlasting chains under darkness under the judgment of the great day. Verse 7. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire. Now, just as we look at this, just note that this is something that Judah is reminding the readers of. And you only have to remind people of something that they already know pretty well, right? In fact, you know, Jude doesn't elaborate on anything. This short book only has like twenty-five verses in it. And what he's doing, he's warning about apostasy He's reminding them about apostasy that took place in the Old Testament. So he gives three quickfire references. He says, remember this and do you remember this and do you remember this? He's just goggling their memory If I said to you, remember the Alamo, how many of you would know what that means? If I said, remember Pearl Harbor, how many of you know what that means? I don't have to go into detail. Or remember 9-11. You all know what that means. That's exactly what Jude is doing right here. He's only simply reminding these people of things that they already know. And Judas basically saying, look, watch out for apostasy. And he gives three illustrations of apostasy, one from the Hebrew race, remember the Jews in the wilderness, one from the heavenly race, remember the angels that sinned. And then one from the human race remembers Sodom and Gomorrah. And so, now someone might say that, well, verse 6, when it's referring to the angels, is referring to Satan's original fall from heaven. This is the fall of Satan and his demons from heaven. Now, if you take that view, if you say, well, what Judah is talking about is when they fell from heaven, if you take that view, you have a big problem. You say, what's the problem? Well, look again in verse 6 what it says about these angels. The angels who kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved an everlasting chains under darkness under the judgment of the great day. What's the problem? If you believe this is referring to the original fall of Satan from heaven, you then have to believe that Satan and his demons are all in chains. Alright? Now I don't know about you. But as I look out in this world, I don't think Satan is chained up. If he is chained up, he's got a very long chain. I don't believe that this is referring to the original fall of Satan from heaven because these angels that committed a sin, the Bible says they are reserved under everlasting chains, under darkness, until the judgment of the great day. Now someone else would say, well, this is talking about something that that happened that is obscure. We really don't know much about it. Well, again, there's a problem there because Judah is reminding people of things that they know really well. Right? It in verse 5 When he says, remember the Jews in the wilderness, is that recorded in the Old Testament? Yes or no? Yes. Verse 7, remember Sodom and Gomorrah? Is that recorded in the Old Testament? Yes. Then it's not a big leak to say that whatever he's referring to in verse 6 is something that must be recorded in the Old Testament, something that they knew well. And if that's the case, there's only one place in the Old Testament that records angels that left their dominion. Their normal place, their normal sphere of living, their normal sphere of existence came down to men, they left their heavenly abode, they began to live among men, they began to cohabitate with men. Alright? And that's mentioned in Genesis chapter 6. But we also, another piece of evidence I would give to you, another argument, is verse number seven. Notice how verse seven starts. Whatever these angels did, it was also like something that happened in Sodom and Gomorrah, even as, notice how it starts out, even as or just as, or we could say in a similar way That's a key transitional statement. What happened in verse 6 also happened in verse 7. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah and the cities about them in like manner giving themselves over to fornication Sodom and Gomorrah. What happened to Sodom and Gomorrah that is similar to what these angels did? And if you ever read Genesis chapter 19, you'll see that The men of Sodom, when when the Mulat had these heavenly visitors visit him, they lusted after strange flesh. If you look in Genesis 19, it's there. They understood after a while that these were not just men, but they knew that they were angels. And so they were giving themselves over to fornication, going after strange flesh, the Bible says. Now the word for fornication here, you know, the normal general word is uh porneo, used a lot in the New Testament, but this word here is ek porneo, it has a prefix in front of it, which basically intensifies it. This is not just any normal kind of sexual sin. This was something that was really bad. This was something that was extra sinful. This was something that was really abominable in the sight of God. It was a sexual perversion of a particular kind, going after strange flesh, sarcas heteros, really here, a different sort, flesh of a different sort. And again, if you look at Sodom and Gomorrah in Genesis 19, you see the same thing of these men lusting after strange flesh. And so I think that this again is referring to what took place there in Genesis chapter 6 with this unholy marriage and cohabitation between the daughters of men and these fallen angels of God. But let me give you another New Testament passage. Look at 2 Peter chapter 2. Go to 2 Peter chapter 2 and look at verse number 4. Because I think it's referenced there as well. 2 Peter chapter 2 and look at verse number 4 For if God spared not the angels that sinned, does that sound familiar? Here's some angels that sinned. God didn't spare them, but cast them down to what? Hell. And that is to say, God already did this. Here are some angels that sin, and what did God do? He cast them down to what? Hell. This has already taken place. And delivered them into what? Chains of darkness to be reserved unto what? Judgment. Again, that all sounds really familiar, doesn't it? It's just exactly what Jude said. But then look at the time frame mentioned in verse 5. And spared not the old world But save Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. So we have the same time frame there, don't we? Here are these angels that sin. God judged them. He cast them to hell. He put them in prison, but he spared the old world. Or excuse me, he spared not the old world, but saved Noah and his family. A preacher of righteousness. So we see the same time frame here. Angels that sinned. They were cast down to hell. They're reserved in chains of darkness unto judgment. That all sounds familiar. And again, in the days of Noah, I think he's referencing the book of first Enoch just like Jude did. Now, by the way, the word for hell here is not the word Hades. Or it's not the word gehenna. Those are the normal words used for hell in the New Testament. We have a word here in the Greek that's used only here, it's used nowhere else. And it's the word Tartarus. Tartarus. So whatever this was, it's not like Hades and it's not like Gehenna. This was a special hell, a special place that God put these angels that sinned. And in Greek literature, Tartarus was a place where the Titans were sent. Titans were the Greek gods. They were sent to a place of punishment because of their evil deeds. Mythology of Greek gods were not all good, some of them were bad. And because they were bad they were sent to uh Tartarus And in Greek literature, this was a subterranean abyss lower than even Hades, lower than the lowest hell First Enoch mentions Tartarus as the place where these angels were sent, and I think that Peter here is referencing that book. He offers no other explanation, that is to say, Peter offers no other explanation. to tell his readers anything else because his readers already understood exactly what he was talking about. They already knew So this was a special place that God sent these angels that sent. And I'll give you one more New Testament passage. Look in 1 Peter chapter 3 and look at verse number 18. 1 Peter 3, 18. Again, 1 Peter 3. 18, for Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust. In a way, bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh. but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. That's very interesting. When Jesus died By the way, God didn't die. The human nature, the human, the man Jesus died. God can't die, okay? If God died, everything would come to nothing. It was the humanity of Christ, the man Christ who died on the cross. While his body died, his spirit was very much alive. And what was he doing with when he was alive? As he was alive, after his as the man Jesus died, his body died, his humanity died, but his deity, his spirit, what was he doing? Look in verse again, verse um 19. By which also he was quickened by the Spirit, as by that same spirit that he also went and he preached unto the spirits in prison. Now who were these spirits that were in prison? Well look at the next verse. Which sometime were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waded into what? days of Noah. While the Ark wasn't preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. Whatever whoever these spirits are, they did something really bad during the days of Noah. And they were kept in a prison. And Jesus went and he preached to these spirits in prison. Now, I I've read some really bizarre interpretations of this as well. Uh different guys saying, well, no, this is referring to the gospel. After a person dies, they'll have an opportunity to hear the gospel. Jesus will preach the gospel to them. And it's a post-mortem kind of evangelism going on here. I wish that were true. I wish a person could hear the gospel after they die, but the Bible doesn't say that. The Bible says it is appointed unto men once to die, and after that what? A revival meeting? No, after that the judgment. You better get saved right now before you die, because after you die it's going to be too late. This is not some kind of postmortem evangelism going on here The spirits are not the spirits of men. The spirits are those that committed a sin during the days of Noah. And the word for preach here is not The word uangelion, which is the word for preaching the gospel, the word here, the Greek word is koruso, which means to proclaim victory. It's the idea of proclaiming victory. This is the word that was used. Whenever a Roman general had a victory on the on a foreign soil, he would send a messenger back who would go to Rome and he would proclaim this herald, he would proclaim Caruso, he would proclaim victory. And that's the word that's used here. And so what happened, I think, is that when Jesus died on the cross, maybe uh this part of hell had a little bit of a holiday thinking they were going to be freed because the Savior, the Redeemer, died. But Jesus went there and he said, guess what, guys? You lost, I won. He proclaimed victory to the spirits that were in prison there, in that place where they were held. And so, again, this all, I think if you hold all these verses together, I think you see that the sons of God were angels They were fallen angels. They lusted after women. They made a plan to cohabitate with them. And the next question we would ask is, you know, some people ask me on this, is how can there be a union between the spirit world and the physical world? I mean, doesn't the Bible say Matthew 22, 30, that the angels are sexless? No, it doesn't say that at all. It just says that the angels in heaven neither marry or given in marriage. Or there's not marriage in heaven, but there there's, you know, but in heaven we're going to be like the angel of God in that we're not married or given in marriage. That's the whole point there. The whole point, otherwise, is that there's no marriage in heaven. Angels aren't married, and neither will we be there in heaven. This is not talking about angels on earth, fallen angels, it's talking about holy angels in heaven. So you can't really use that verse to say there can't be any cohabitation between the physical world and the spiritual world. And another thing to consider is that, you know, angels have the ability to take on a physical body. We see that in the Old Testament, right? They can go back and forth from the spirit world to the physical world. Sometimes when an angel would visit Abraham, he didn't even know it was an angel. He thought it was just a normal person until later it was revealed that it was not. We see that in Genesis chapter 18. When the Lord himself appeared with two angels to Abraham in physical form. And the Bible also warns us in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 2, to do uh don't be forgetful that you entertain sometimes uh strangers um and that s some b some b thereby have entertained what angels unawares. So when a stranger comes, don't be forgetful to entertain them because you know what? It could be a what It could be an angel. You might entertain an angel unaware. That's what the New Testament writer of Hebrews warns us Which means that angels, of course, can appear in a physical body because you can entertain an angel and not even know it But I think another thing to think about is that demons can possess a human body. And we see this also throughout the New Testament. In fact, fallen angels crave a physical body to dwell in. And this is a view that R. Kent Hughes takes when he wrote, The picture is one of unmitigated lust. What would give a fallen spirit more pleasure than fulfilling a perverted lust through the body of a demonized human And he goes on to say, I wonder if we have here the beginning of demonic harems. And by the way, the scripture indicates in Genesis 6, this was a marriage. between these women and angels. This was not a rape, this was a marriage. This is th this was a willingness on the part of women to be engaged in this kind of perversion. So the next question that people ask is why would demons want to do this? Why would he want to do this? Why would the devil want to do this? Well, it's not hard to figure out. The big reason I would say, one reason, is deception. And this is the same lie that the devil gave Eve in the Garden of Eden. You will be like what? God. You know what, you're not going to die because you can be like God. You can know good and evil. And here I think the devil is deceiving the human race at that time, saying, you don't have to die. You can become immortal, and here's the way you could do it I can imagine that lie being given by Satan. All of you humans here, you're under the curse of sin. You're going to die, but you don't have to die. You can become just like us. You can become just as God. And it was a way to bypass death that he was peddling there. And by the way, it's not any different today than some of the false religions that we see in the world. I mean it's Mormonism at at the beginning, really. All it is is just Mormonism. You know, you can you can uh you can become like a God, and you can have your own planet, you can have many wives, and you can have all of your descendants there on that planet, and you can live forever here in this place It's the same line. Same exact thing. And by the way, in some of the Greco-Roman religions in Corinth, it was the same idea of That, you know, that's why they sent out that prostitution was part of the rituals of those pagan religions. And the idea was that it was a way of salvation, it was a way of eternal life. That you are you were cohabitating with not just a person, but something above that. A person that was possessed by a deity. And so This is what Satan sells. He's a deceiver. But let me give you the third part, and I mentioned this this morning. All that to get back to what I said this morning. Which was prevention. We see provocation, perversion. Why would the devil do this prevention? He wanted to prevent the Messiah. And remember, I mentioned this in Genesis 3. 15. God promised that Satan's demise would be through the seed of what? The seed of a woman. A Messiah would come through a woman. And Satan knew this and therefore tried to corrupt the human race to prevent the coming of the Messiah. Uh he uh he turned Cain into a murderer because Eve thought this was the deliverer to come. You know, she said, I've gotten a man even the Lord. Satan evidently thought that too, and he must have thought that because he Plotted to turn Cain into a murderer and corrupted him, and he he did exactly that. But then Satan hatched a plan to bring corruption to the whole human race, to corrupt the godly seed of the woman. Through this kind of perversion, and that was his goal. And as I said this morning, there's a sense in which when God said sent the flood to the world, even though it was a serious judgment to an ungodly world and ungodly people, it was also a way of prov of preserving the promise that he made to send a messiah. that would bring redemption to the human race. If Satan had succeeded in doing what he did, then there could could not have been the Messiah, the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so And so we see then that this narrative is played out in three acts: provocation, perversion, and prevention. But thank God there was nothing that Satan could do to prevent the coming of Christ. Nothing he could do. And the same Savior that came the first time, guess what, beloved? He's coming again. And you know what? Satan couldn't prevent him from coming the first time, and he won't be able to prevent him from coming the second time. In fact, when Jesus comes again, and this war of this enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent, it's still going on The Bible says that we are living in a spirit of Antichrist. An Antichrist will come. That's all the seed of the serpent. And all the hostility against the church and the people of God, that's all part of the enity that exists between the kingdom of darkness and the kingdom of light. Between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. And and beloved, we're living in the days of Noah again. We're living in the days of Lot. But just as surely as the Messiah came the first time, he's going to come again. You know what we need to do? We need to be like Enoch. We need to walk with God. We need to be ready. Who knows? Maybe the Lord Jesus will come. You know, I believe he can come at any moment, friend. I believe Jesus can come and take us home to be with him. But until that time, we need to be a witness to a watching world of what it means to know the Lord Jesus Christ. We're out of time. Let's let's bow for prayer together. So Father, we again just thank and praise you for our Messiah, Jesus Christ. Thank you, Father, that in your sovereign plan, in the fullness of time, you sent forth your Son. Your son who is eternal, who is eternal, the eternal son of God. And And to the womb of the Virgin Mary, to come to be our Savior, to be our deliverer, to give us hope, to give us life. Lord, this is the most important thing. We know that when we die, we'll have everlasting life because of what Christ did as our Savior on the cross. And so, Father, we we just thank you and we praise you for that. And I pray, Father, that if there's someone here that's not made that decision to trust Christ, if they've not settled it, Lord, that That they'll make the greatest decision of their life to trust Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, to realize that He is the only way of salvation There is no other way. There is no other name given among men whereby you must be saved. So, Father, I pray. For salvation of those that are lost. I pray, Lord, for those that are believers, that, Lord, we would love and cherish our Savior all the more for what He's done for us. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name. Amen.