Well it's good to be in the Lord's house tonight, and I encourage you to take your Bibles and open to the book of Revelation, chapter thirteen We're going to pick up our study where we left off, and we are going through this book here, the The Revelation of Jesus Christ. And we're considering things that must come to pass as John said. Now tonight we come to a very interesting chapter in Revelation, Revelation chapter 13. And uh look at verse number one. And I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast Rise up out of the sea. So here in Revelation 13, we see the rise to power of one who is referred to symbolically as the beast. Now you might remember in our study that the book of Revelation is a book that's filled with symbols and symbolism. But behind every symbol there is a literal truth and a literal meaning. And part of the challenge of the book of Revelation is trying to understand the symbol and what the literal meaning behind that symbol is. And therein is the challenge. And so here in chapter 13, what we find is one of the great symbols in the book of Revelation. It is the symbol of the beast. And the question that people ask Uh legitimate question when you come to this, of course, is who is this beast? Now there have been several interpretations as you can imagine. You probably Remember me saying that a lot throughout our study of Revelation. There's several interpretations, but let me give you the right one. You hear me say that often. I I say that with a great deal of humility I just try to understand the scripture the best I can under the help of the Holy Spirit. Amen, all of us. And so I uh let me just give you what I think this is referring to here And let me talk about some uh one interpretation uh that is held to on this, held by those who hold to more of a historical interpretation of Revelation. You remember that there are some who look at the book of Revelation as if it's past history. that uh uh most if not all of the things written in Revelation have already come to pass. Now from the time that John wrote it, uh from that perspective, uh it was it was prophecy when John wrote it, but Now they say we look back on it. And the term that was used is preterism or partial preterism Which is a word that basically has the idea of the past, which says that a lot of what happened has already been fulfilled in 70 A. D. Um, when Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans in seventy AD. This is the fulfillment of what took place in the Book of Revelation. And so because some people look at the Book of Revelation as history, uh they see that the beast here they interpret as being a person out of history, not someone that is yet to come into the future, but someone that has already existed in history. And they use the the idea of it being a Roman emperor, namely that the beast that is spoken of here in Romans 13 is Nero. Perhaps the worst, most wicked ruler of the Roman Empire. We know the name Nero because we hear it so often. It's a name that is associated with the vilest kind of leadership and tyranny and crime. And so they say this beast that is written of here in Revelation 13 is none other than Nero. In fact, those who hold to this historical view will basically use this passage as an internal evidence for the early date of the writing of Revelation. Now you might remember in our study that I said one of the big issues when we come to Revelation is the time of the writing. Because whatever Position you take with respect to the writing, the time that the book was written, will determine a lot of your interpretive views of the book of Revelation Those who t hold to an early date believe it was written in the mid-60s, maybe sixty-five A. D. That was right around the time when Nero was on the throne. And so therefore they say that this reference to the beasts is internal evidence of an early date of the book of Revelation because the person here who is the beast can be none other than Nero. And in fact, what they do is they take the number that is attributed, the mark of the beast, and they use it and they align it to the name of Nero. In fact, look in chapter 13, look down at verse number 18. Here is wisdom. Let him that understanding Count the number of the beast, for it is a number of a man. His number is 6036. So they look at this verse 18 and they say, ha ha, there it is. This is referring to Nero here. This is proof that the book was written during the Reign of Nero, that holds an early day of the book of Revelation before the destruction of Jerusalem. It was all fulfilled in 70 AD, and here is some internal evidence. And so what they do is they take the number, 666, and they say that this is the numerical value of Nero's name. The idea that is if, again, this number 666 is referring to Nero, then the writing of Revelation must have been written during his reign. Now, to arrive at this conclusion, one must use the mystical approach to interpretation. This is a hermeneutically unsound way of handling the scripture Just know this that nowhere in Scripture is any number given any theological meaning. We don't see that in Scripture anywhere. After analyzing this, John J. Davis concluded, he wrote this quote The exegetical method of ascribing theological values to numbers is of Greek origin and finds its development primarily among the Gnostics and the Neo-Pythagoreans and Jewish allegorists, end quote. Now this approach of of uh this what he just spoke about, this exegetical method of uh numbers and attributing theological value to numbers, found its way into Christianity by means of the early church fathers who were clearly influenced by uh the Greek thinking. Now, we have to admit that in Revelation chapter 13, verse 18, we are exhorted to consider this number. We are exhorted to have wisdom and understand this number. And uh So the Bible does tell us to do that. And in fact, over the years, many people have tried have looked at this number and they've tried to attribute this number to many people. trying to identify who the Antichrist is. And we still play that game today. One of the biggest questions or most asked questions I get all the time is, Dr. Harmon, who is the Antichrist? Let me just tell you, save you some time after church. I don't know who the Antichrist is. Okay? Uh I don't know that. And neither do the preterists who think it's Nero, by the way. And we're gonna we're gonna find that out as we go here. So over the years, attempts have been made to try to find out who the Antichrist is, and they use number mysticism, also called gomatria, by its proponents. And but when the time comes, uh of course this number is going to be important in identifying the the Antichrist in some way. But I think those who take a historical view of Revelation and use number mysticism to try to uh say that this is Nero, I think it puts them on very shaky ground. Now here's how they do that. They use the Hebrew spelling of Nero's name, Nero Caesar They use the Hebrew spelling, and in order to l make it add up to the name to the number 666, they have to basically transliterate the Hebrew letters into uh into uh Greek. Uh which would be a rather strange way for uh to of John uh to speak to his Greek audience to transliterate um sorry, not n not into Greek, but into num numerical values, excuse me They take the Hebrew letters which have numerical values, and they attribute to that letter the number value to it. And so they are very literal in this sense. Now that also raises a question, you know, some who are preterists, they none of the numbers in the book of Revelation do they look at as literal except this one number right here. Kind of selective to me if you ask me. Um Andy Woods observes this, the problems of doing this, of trying to take this number and attributing it to Nero, using the Hebrew letters and giving numerical value. Number one, he says, Pretis must resort to shifting to Hebrew letters from the original Greek. This was written in original Greek, but they use Hebrew letters. Why would you do that to a Greek audience? Number two, Nero had numerous names, he says, and there is no conclusive evidence that the title Nero Caesar would be the proper one. Why do you just use Nero Caesar? Um that seems a bit subjective there. Because he had many names. Number three, he says the preterist calculations are built upon a defective spelling of the word Caesar. Gotta spell the word Caesar right, okay? You can't just spell it on a different way. And then number four, he says there are actually three possible Hebrew equivalents to one of the Greek letters in question. And so all of this calls into question this whole uh confusing approach to trying to see this number and applying it to Nero and seeing him as the Antichrist of history, not an Antichrist that is yet to come in the future. And also it should be noted that the use of number mysticism to arrive at Nero as the Antichrist was never seen in the history of the church until the middle of the nineteenth century. Over the years, dozens of people have been identified as the Antichrist using the method of number mysticism. And you probably have had some people come up to you and tell you that, you know, they look at a person's name, he has six letters in his first name, he has six letters in his middle name, he has six letters in his last name, therefore he must be the Antichrist. 666. We've we've heard about all of this and people doing all those sorts of things. But again, this alone demonstrates the highly subjective nature um of the approach and why as Bible students we have to really be leery of this. And I would also say that those who Try to hold to an early date of revelation and use this as internal evidence for an early date are again on awful shaky ground. To me, that is very, very weak evidence. And the other thing I would say about this is that if you if you look at the the the characteristics of the beast and we'll do that, and you look at the life of Nero, it just does just doesn't really line up. The description and character and the career of the Antichrist found here in Revelation 13, uh it just doesn't really line up and you have to kind of force this into making it fit to a man like Nero. Now all of that having been said, obviously I don't hold to this historical approach. And I don't think that the Antichrist was a man in the past like Nero, I think that I take the futurist view of Revelation that this Antichrist is someone who is yet to come that he's mentioned in other places in Scripture in 2 Thessalonians 2. 4, he is the one who will oppose and will exalt himself over everything that is called God. and is worshiped, and he'll set himself up in the temple of God, declaring himself, proclaiming himself to be God. He is called the man of lawlessness. This is, I think, in Daniel's vision, the Antichrist is a little horn that rises up from the head of the terrifying beast that is mentioned in Daniel chapter 7, verse 8. And when the Lord returns in judgment, the Antichrist will be defeated, and his empire that he attempts to build will be destroyed, and the beast will be cast into the lake of fire. Now the identity of the individual who will become the beast or the Antichrist in Revelation, we still do not yet know. When the Bible speaks about the beast, it's not talking about his appearance. I think that whoever this person comes is going to be very um eloquent in his speech. He's going to be very attractive in appearance. This is referring to his character, excuse me. And so this is a symbolic description that helps us learn something about the origin and the monstrous character of this one who is yet to come, who the Bible calls the beast. Just as Jesus was God in the flesh, there's a sense in which this coming Antichrist will be Satan in human flesh. While Jesus was on earth, he could say he that has seen me and seen the Father when the Antichrist is revealed. I I think it could be said that he that has seen the Antichrist has seen the devil. And when we say Antichrist, we know that the word antichrist is not mentioned in the Book of Revelation. John uses it, the same one who wrote the Book of Revelation. He told us that Antichrist will come, or sh will in the future come. Even now there are many Antichrists. He talked about an Antichrist spirit. We don't have time to talk about how that Antichrist spirit has been around for a long time. Not only does he talk about a spirit of the age, but he's talking about a person who will come. The prefix anti has two meanings. It means against, and it also means instead of. And so this is what the beast is. He is against Christ, and when he comes, he will present himself instead of Christ. And so just as Christ is pictured as the Lamb, the Antichrist will be pictured as the beast. Just as Jesus is the promised seed of the woman, the Antichrist will be the promised seed of the woman. the serpent. You know, Satan has always been trying to counterfeit gu uh things, uh and imitate God. Uh for six thousand years he's tried to Imitate and counterfeit everything that God has done, and the crowning work of his work of counterfeiting will be when Satan rises up to be a man and to present himself as a substitute for the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ came from above, Antichrist will ascend from the pit. Christ came in his Father's name, Antichrist will come in his own name Christ humbled himself, the Antichrist will exalt himself. Christ was despised, the Antichrist will be admired. Christ will be exalted, the Antichrist will be cast down to hell. Christ came to do his Father's will, the Antichrist will come to do his own will. Christ came to save, the Antichrist will come to destroy. Christ is the good shepherd. The Antichrist is the evil shepherd. The Bible says Christ is the true vine. The Antichrist is called the vine of the earth. Christ is the truth, Antichrist is the lie. Christ is the Holy One, Antichrist is the lawless one. Christ is the man of sorrows, Antichrist is the man of sin. Christ is the son of God. Antichrist is the son of perdition. Christ is the mystery of godliness God manifests in the flesh. Antichrist is the mystery of iniquity, Satan manifests in the flesh. And those who are not children of God, and those who have not pledged their allegiance to the Lamb, I think one day during this time will bow to the beast. I am come in my father's name, and ye receive me not. If another shall come in his own name, him you will receive. If you don't receive Christ, you're open to receiving the Antichrist. Another who comes in his own name. Now, with all that in mind, I just want you to see three things, three lessons about the beast that we're going to look at in the first ten verses here. And here's number one. I want you to see number one the ascension of the beast. Just write down the ascension. We see this in verse one again. And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns And upon his head is the name of blasphemy. Now, the picture here in verses 1 and 2 is of a person Rising to world power, I think. A person that will come to universal preeminence. And John is describing his ascension onto the to the world stage. Um people ask, you know, do you think the Antichrist is alive today? I have no idea. I don't know about that. I do look at the world today and I can see how this the stage is being set all around. It just seems like all the turmoil that is in the world. And John, notice in verse number one, he is he is um stands upon the sand of the sea, and he sees the beast rise up out of the sea. And to see in Scripture is a was a sign of turmoil, but also a sign of of the sin of people, the chaos of the world. All of that, out of all of this turmoil and chaos of the nations, of the people, the things that are going on, there's going to come on to the world scene Someone that is called the beast. Again, this will be a personal rise. He will rise up out of the sea. Now remember a lot of revelationist symbolism. What's the symbol here? Sometimes we can Look in the book of Revelation itself, and those symbols are given to us. So go to Revelation chapter 17 and look down at verse number 15 and notice what it says there. And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the horse sitteth are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues, or that is to say, languages. And so this beast will rise up out of a sea of humanity, we could say. Out of a sea of people. And he will exalt himself above man. And again, the idea of a sea is something that's in turmoil, that is restless. I mean, look at our world today. Can we say that our world is in turmoil today? Look at all the things that are happening, not only just in our nation, but all over the world. Wars and how it's affected the economy everywhere and things that are happening and the division and the strife and all of the turmoil in the world out of the sea of turmoil of the nations, of the peoples, this man will come onto the world scene. And I think that the beast is therefore a man that comes from the sea of humanity. I say that because some have said that the beast is a computer. You know, I don't think the beast is Apple, alright? Or IBM, alright? I had someone come to me and rebuke me because I had an iPad. Don't you know that's Antichrist? Uh uh don't see that. I'm gonna keep my iPad, okay? Um some people think it's a computer, some people say the beast is a government, or the beast is a confederation of nations. I believe he will be a man because he will come out from a sea of people, and he's a counterfeit to Christ. Daniel 889 suggests that he's the little horn that came up out of the four Grecian horns, signaling that he Could be part Greek. And then Daniel nine twenty-six refers to him as the prince of the people that shall come, uh which means he could be of the royal image of the race that A pass destroyed Jerusalem as one person said this is a Roman. It will be a Roman. And Daniel 11, verse 36 and 37 tells us that he regards not the God of his fathers. Some suggest that this means he could be part Jew. In all probability, the Antichrist will perhaps appear to be a Gentile and who yet maybe is feared to reveal the fact that he has Jewish blood. All these things have been postulated about who this Antichrist may be, but we do know that it'll be a man and it'll be a personal rise. Secondly, it'll be a political rise. Notice that this beast has in verse 1 seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns crowns. And again, these are symbols. Again, go back to Revelation 17. Look down at verse number 9 because I think it helps us here. And verse um In verse 8 and verse 9, and the beast which thou sawest and is not, and is ascended out of the bottomless pit to go into perdition that were dw uh that they dwell upon the earth shall wonder whose names are not written in the book of from the foundation of the world when they behold the beast that was and is not and yet is Verse 9, and here is the mind which has wisdom. The seven heads are the seven mountains on which the woman shitteth. And so the city of Rome was built on seven hills. This is a veiled reference to that powerful city of Rome. The ten horns Will represent ten kingdoms yet to come according to Revelation seventeen, twelve. You say, what does all this mean? It appears that the beast will be the head of a revived uh confederation or unification of of kingdoms that are there in Europe. That's why some people call him the leader of the revised Roman Empire, a formation of a European Union And it's very interesting that we look over what's going on in Europe and all the things that are going on over there, a reunified Germany. That's very interesting in light of biblical prophecy. In Daniel chapter two, verse forty-two, the ten toes And the ten-horned beast, uh, I think is a parallel here. This could represent a revived Roman Empire which will hold power before Christ comes. And so this will be a rise on a political platform. And again, we can look out in the world and see how that some of these pieces can easily fall into place. It'll be a personal rise. It'll be a political rise, it'll be a profane rise, because look what it says in verse number uh one in chapter thirteen, and it says, and upon his heads the name of what? Blasphemy The beast will blaspheme God. He will profane the name of God. And eventually he will declare himself as God. Roman emperors in the past blaspheme God. Excuse me. Some of the Roman emperors in the past designated themselves as God. And this ruler will be worse than all of those. It'll be a plunderous rise, because look down at verse number two. And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard. And his feet as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion, and the dragon gave him his power and his seat and great authority. And so we see these three animals here in verse number two, and they remind us of the animals, the beasts that were mentioned in Daniel's dream in Daniel chapter 7. One scholar suggested that Daniel lists them in reverse order of John, because Daniel's looking forward, and John uh may uh uh uh may be looking backwards, however, that he lists them in reverse order. A lion represented the Babylonian Empire, which was represented strength, a bear, the Medo-Persian Empire, that's savagery. A leopard is the Grecian Empire's swiftness because the Greeks took over the world so quickly. And I think what he's referring to here is that the Empire of the Antichrist will have all these fierce characteristics of the other empires. It'll all be that and more. And add to that the ferocity of the beast. The empire under Antichrist will be strong like a lion. It'll be savage like a bear. It'll be swift like a leopard. And add to that, it'll be satanic. Like the beast, a new unified Europe. And this empire will be rooted in all the previous empires. And it'll be all the evil in those empires, all united together as one. David Hawking wrote this. John sees the beast with seven heads and ten horns. as characteristic of all three empires from the time of Daniel until the time of John. The beast boasted of great things like Babylon, the lion. It had the feet of the Persian Empire, the bear, strong, well organized, stable. It was like a leopard as well, manifesting the swiftness at which the Grecian Empire conquered the world. This beast would communicate arrogantly, control extensively, conquer swiftly. So this will be a political a personal rise, a political rise, a profane rise, a plunderous rise, but also a powerful rise because again notice in verse number two at the last phrase it says and his seat uh excuse me back up a little bit and the dragon gave him his power and his seat and great authority. Now, as great as this man is, his empire will actually simply be an agent or a tool of somebody else. And who will that be? That's the dragon. Now who is the dragon? Well, we we don't have to wonder about that. In chapter 12, verse number nine, it tells us that the dragon is Satan. And it is Satan who will give this beast the Antichrist his power. He will give him his throne. He will give him his authority. He will be sold out to Satan to do his bidding. The Antichrist is the person on the throne, Satan will be the power behind the throne Now, so we see number one the ascension of the beast, but then write down number two, the adoration of the beast. Because notice what will happen here, according to Scripture, and they worshiped the dragon, which gave power unto the beast. And they worship the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? And who is able to make war with him? And so this beast operating with Satan's power and carrying out his plan will orchestrate the worship of the dragon and of the antichrist. And you know, Satan has always wanted to be worshiped We can go all the way back to Isaiah 14, where he said, I will be like the Most High. That's why he so often imitates God. That's why Martin Luther called Satan God's ape, because he's always imitating God. And here he's imitating God. He wants worship. And uh and here what will happen is is this beast that's all part of this Will have a wound. Notice the wound he will receive in verse number three. And I saw one of the heads as it were wounded to death, and his deadly wound was healed, and all the world wondered after The beast. Now the word for wounded to death is the same word used in Revelation 5. 6, talking about Jesus as a lamb, as it were slain, exact same word. And so the wound here, since Jesus died It's very likely that this wound will cause death, and then afterwards he will be restored to life. And so there's a sense in which this is kind of an imitation of the resurrection of Jesus, isn't it? The restoration of the beast will invoke worship. And notice what the Bible says in verse number 3, and his deadly wound was healed, and all the world wondered. After the beast, the Bible says when they see this happen, they will all wonder about it. You ever notice that there's something about a political leader who comes close to death and then overcomes death? There's something where it causes people to admire that person. Some of you may remember when Ronald Reagan was uh president. The attempted assassination on Ronald Reagan. I don't know if um I was very young then. But I I do remember that Reagan had this agenda, he was trying to get some bills passed and nothing was working and no one was working with him. And then all of a sudden there was this assassination attempt And he came close to death and he overcame it. And after that, when he gave a State of the Union address, both sides of the houses of Congress, they rose and they applauded him, and then from there on out, anything that he wanted to pass, he got I don't know if you remember that in history. It just seems like that when a man is wounded and then he overcomes it, there's a natural admiration. And so I think that there will this will be a sense in which the Antichrist will either die and and or appear to be almost dead or dead and then will resurrect or come back to life and it will cause all the people at that time to wonder and worship at this man. I don't uh I don't like to say that I think he would die because there's only one who has power over death, and that's Jesus. But it'll maybe deceive and make others think as if he died. Now, let me just again talk about the preterist of you. Remember, the preterist stated this is Nero, and he received a mortal wound and he died. And and this is a little this by the way it did happen to Nero. He was killed. He did die. And when that happened, the Roman Empire was thrown into violent convulsions. But Nero did not resurrect from the dead. He did not come back. In fact, after that, three emperors succeeded one another in the space of eighteen months. Then the empire recovered with Vespasian on the throne. And it was a marvel to all that the empire, according to some, that the empire was able to survive. And so therefore they say, aha, the beast of the empire survived the mortal wound Well now you're saying that the beast is the whole empire? You're not being consistent with the interpretation there. You said that the beast was Nero, and now you're saying the beast is the whole empire. And again, that's an inconsistency there. So just a little note on that. The wound he will receive, and then the worship he will receive. We saw that in verse number four. And look at verse 4. And they worshiped the dragon, which gave power unto the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? Who is able to make war with Him. All the world will rally around him. All the world will sing his praise. He will be mentioned with reverence. And this will be the adoration of the beast. Now let me give you the third thing, the third and final thing tonight. We saw the ascension of this one called the Antichrist. We saw the adoration that he will receive from the world at that time. But then the abominations of the beast. Look at verse number five. And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies, and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months. Now notice, first of all, he defies the Lord. With his words, he'll be able to control the world. With his great oratory, he will blaspheme God. And hope being someone that has power in his words, speaking great things, it says. Now we've already seen some dress rehearsals of this sort of thing in history, have we not? In history, you remember no doubt the name Adolf Hitler, who rose to power, who was able to mesmerize huge crowds with the way he spoke. He to me is kind of a paradigm, a pattern, or maybe a foreshadowing of someone who can come and can control multitudes. with his ability to speak and to bring people together and it was said of him and you can of course see this that when he gave a speech he would start out softly just above a whisper and he would gradually build and he would just throw his audience into a frenzy with the way he spoke. I was reading some some things about Hitler here. Did you know many historians have documented Hitler's obsession with the occult? In fact, there's a book called Hitler's Monsters. That's the title of the book. It was written by a man by the name of Eric Kurlander And in that book, he reveals the obsession that Hitler had with the demonic and the occult, and the third rights relationship to the supernatural. All that was very real. He documents this. This is a Yale scholar And uh this is what he writes. Let me give you a little excerpt. He's talking about the beginning of Hitler's life. This is what he said. I should say the beginning of his Jumping into the occult. One day in August of 1909, a young man dropped by to the inner office of the Austrian occultist Leibensfeld. Pale and shabby in appearance, the man politely introduced himself and asked whether he had ordered some back issues of Lance self-published periodical, Astera. Lance's austerità was dedicated to propagating an esoteric doctrine known as Aerosophere. Aeriosophy, I should say, excuse me, Ariosophy, which prophesied the resurgence of a lost Aryan civilization peopled by a Nordic god men. Touched by his visitor's sympathetic appearance and earnest demeanor, Lance offered the young man some copies of Ostrica free of charge, and two crowns for the streetcar home. Evidently Hitler was poor at that time. The visitor, according to Lance's 1951 memoir, was Adolf Hitler. And in reading any one of those issues that he was given, he would come across uh multiple uh occultic themes, ideas that later became part of the whole Nazi propaganda program ideas of purity of blood, of ideas of uh basically eliminating Jews to sterilize the race from the weak in the inferior, uh the idea of a reawakening of Nordic civilization. This book documents how that Hitler would go into uh uh these demonic convulsions, as he would say. At night when he slept in his bed, the bed would shake and he would go into convulsions. It just shows how he got into all the demonic. He says that the closest to him believed him to be demon-possessed. They said he's when he spoke it was not the same voice that they would hear in conversations with Hitler, because they believed that it was And then he goes on to say this given these political antecedents, should we be surprised that among Hitler's inner circle were men who practiced astrology? who wanted to resuscitate pagan gods, who who considered themselves magicians, that Hitler himself, in contemplating how best to manipulate the masses, apparently read a parapsychological tomb called Magic in which he underlined sentences such as, Satan is the fertilizing, destroying, war destroying warrior And he who does not carry demonic siege within him will never give birth to a new world. That was the background of Hitler. And friend, if you don't believe that he was satanically inspired, you have another thing coming. And I I bring that up just to say that this idea of an Antichrist coming onto the world saying, seeing, this is not an abstract idea. This is something that we've already seen in history before. We've seen it in the Hitlers of the world. We've seen it in the Neroes of the world, which could be a paradigm of the Antichrist. We've seen it in the Antiochus Epiphanes of the world, and I think that we're yet to see another one that's going to come that will be worse than all of those put together. And the Bible says in verse number five that for forty-two months the beast Will be given power. That is three and a half years. This I think is the last half of the tribulation period. And that time of the tribulation period, he will be given freedom and he'll be given power to do his worst. He will attack the character of God. He will attack the name of God because that's who God is his name is his character. The Bible says God is love. The Antichrist will say God is hate. The Bible says God is holy. The Antichrist will say God is defiled. He will orchestrate hatred and bitterness and warfare against God and against his people. In fact, the Bible says this in verse number six, and he opened his mouth. and blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven. And it was given unto him to make war with the saints and to overcome them. And power was given him over all kindreds and tongues. and nations. This will be the time when I think that he will this is the second thing, he will destroy the saints. He will make war against the saints on earth at that time. God will allow it, but he will be on God's leash, but God will permit him to do this. I think that this is referring to tribulation believers, the same one spoken of in Revelation chapter seven, who refuse to worship the image of the beast and they will suffer persecution. for it. And then here's the next thing, he deceives the world. Look down at verse eight and all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life, of the lamb slain from the foundation of the world. He will lie to the world and they will believe him. All those who have received Christ will reject the Antichrist, but all those who have rejected Christ will receive the Antichrist. 2 Thessalonians 2 verse 9 says this, even him whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders. And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish, because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved. There are some people that seem like they receive the truth, but it's only superficial. They don't receive the truth so that they are truly saved. And they will be open for this deception of the Antichrist. And the Bible says in 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 11, and for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie. And they will believe whatever the Antichrist is peddling, they will receive it. They will believe it. But then also he dooms his empire. Finally, look down at verse number 10. He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity. He that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is patience. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints. Now, what is verse 10 talking about? Well, this is really a proverb, and it's an important truth. for anyone, and even for us in this time and for those at that time. And the principle is this: look, the one who has brought people into captivity, he will be brought into captivity. The one who kills by the sword, he will be dealt with by the sword. He will be killed by the sword. That is to say, you know what? For a time the Antichrist will have his day, but God will judge him. In the end, God will take care of it. Friend, don't get the idea that the Antichrist is winning. That he will win. He will not win. But what we must do is we must put this in the Lord's hands. We don't take things into our own hands. And this is true even for today. You know, if you want to live for God You want to stand firm on the Word of God. You understand that you're going to get some persecution for that, right? In the world in which we live. You think it's going to go easy for you to stand for truth? And you're going to be dealt with unjustly. I'm talking about by people who should be administering justice, by governments and government officials. And others who are in positions of authority, who should be doing what is right, those will be the ones that will persecute you. Those are the ones that persecuted the Christians in the early church. What was the response? Remember what Peter said? He pointed to Jesus and said, look, remember how listen, no one was ever treated more unjustly than Jesus And and how did he respond to that? When he was reviled, he reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But he committed himself to him that what what? Judges righteously. So we don't retaliate against the persecutors. In 1 Peter 4. 19, wherefore let him that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well-doing as unto a faithful Creator. We commit our souls to God, the faithful Creator, when we're going through those things, knowing that He's going to right all the wrongs. He'll take care of it. That's all to Him God will make it right. Sin will not win, and faith will not fail. And if you're a child of God, here's what I want you to know from this: you're on the winning side You're on the winning side. It doesn't matter what look it looks like in the world. If you know Jesus, you are on the winning side. Do not forget that. And friend, if you're here and you don't know Jesus, I would tell you tonight, turn From your sin and turn to Christ. Turn to Him. Put your faith in Him. There's no neutrality with Christ. You're either for Him or you're against Him You either bow to Christ as the Lord and you've repented and you trust him, and if you have not, if it's not Christ, beloved, it'll be Antichrist. There's no neutral ground. Jesus said, You're either for me or you're against me. And I would just tell you, put your faith in the risen Christ. The risen and returning Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Night is we're out of time. And so, Father, we thank you for your word. We come to it humbly, Lord. We want to understand it. We want to know it. We want to live by it. We want the strength that it gives us, Lord, to stand firm in these days. When we look around and we see all this going on, we see all the challenges. It feels like, Lord, in some measure, we've already gone through some tribulation. But Lord, our faith is in you. Our hope is in you. And Lord, help us not to grow weak or weary in well-doing. Help us to remain firm and strong in our faith. And Lord, remind us again how that, Lord, you're sovereign, everything is in your hand. And that the gospel will not fail. It will not fail. The gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. But you, Lord, are building your church. And you are consummating your plan. You're putting your plan into place. And it's all taking place. Lord, help us to grow strong in faith. Believe that. For those that are here and have never trusted Christ, Lord, may they do so now. Right now. May they reach out in faith. And say yes to Jesus Christ. Lord, use your word to strengthen saints and to convert sinners unto you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.