All right. Thank you so much. Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the book of Hebrews, chapter number ten. And we're going to be looking at verse 24 and verse 25, and we'll also look at some other passages of scripture. So Hebrews chapter 10, verse 20 four. And what I want to do is I want to begin a new series on the issue of worship. I want to talk about worship in in general and what the Bible teaches us about worship. And so I want to call the name of the series, Worship Matters. And the first in this series would be on this subject today. Why church still matters. Why church still matters. Look in Hebrews chapter 10 and look down at verse number 24 and notice what it tells us. And verse twenty four. And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. Verse twenty-five, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another and so much more as you see the day approaching. You know, we live in a day when church attendance is no longer assumed. You used to assume that people were just going to go to church on Sunday And you can't assume that anymore. Now church is treated as something that is negotiable, as secondary, something that is optional. There was a time in our nation when on Sunday that was a day that was set apart, and families ordered their whole lives around the church, what took place in the house of God. The gathering of God's people together in the church was a priority. It was not an afterthought. It was something that was vital. But today, for many, church has become something you attend if nothing else interferes If it happens to work out for you. And and also in recent years something quietly has taken place in the church And I'm sure that some of you may be aware of it or see it. I I certainly see it. During the days of COVID, many churches, including ours used live stream as a necessary tool and during that time it served a good purpose and we all understand that. And it still does in some way. It helps the sick and the shut in who cannot come to church and those who are providentially hindered when there's a genuine providential hindrance. But what began as a provision in a crisis has really become for many a pattern of convenience. Because now since that time it's easier to stay home, to sit on the couch, to watch church, and that's really all you're doing. You're watching church. You're not really going to church, you're in church You know, and people have now uh grown accustomed to having church in their pajamas with a cup of coffee in the morning. And without it, without realizing it We've exchanged participation for observation, fellowship for isolation, and obedience for convenience. Now the truth is the live stream broadcast can be a real service, but it cannot replace the assembly of God's people. It cannot replace being in the house of God. You can watch preaching, but you cannot practice the one-anothers that are taught in the scripture that all of us are supposed to be engaged in. You can observe worship. But you can't engage, you can't engage fully in worship. And so very slowly and very subtly a dangerous habit has crept in And this really is what this whole passage addresses. Again, let me read it to you, verse 24. Let us consider one another. There's something to think. Think about others. To provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together, as the manner of some is. But exhorting one another so much more the time as you see the day approaching. It's just not a suggestion here that is given to us in this passage. It is a divine command. Church is not just a place you go. It is a people to whom you belong. It's a gathering. that you're commanded to be a part of. So what I want you to see here in the time that we have left are seven reasons why church matters. Seven. Yes, I said seven. That is the number of perfection and completeness. But we'll try to get through all of them. And the first reason is very simple because God commands it It's a matter of obedience. Again, not forsaking the assembly of ourselves together. Recently a survey was taken among a cross-section of Americans And the question was, is church really a command? If you miss church, is that really disobedience? And they all agreed, f I I shouldn't say all, fifty percent agreed. that the Bible does not command people to attend church, that that is a man-made requirement. Well, in fact the Bible very plainly commands us. to be in church. And we read it right here in these verses. Forsake not. Forsake means to abandon. The Hebrew Christians that we're being written to in this letter had already begun to miss the local assembly. Notice what it says as the manner of some is ethos, the custom or the habit. Some had already gotten out of the habit of being in the place of assembly, the worship church, the church that worships in the assembly. There were already deserters there in uh that that Paul was writing to, or the writer of Hebrews was writing to And the writer is basically saying, stop this. Stop this abandoning the church. Stop skipping church. Now by the way, if anyone had a reason to skip church It would be these Hebrew Christians that were being written to because many of them had gone through severe persecution because of their faith in Christ. Many of them lost their property, they lost their jobs, they were abused by Orthodox uh Jews. And so but the writer understood perfectly their circumstances. And it would have been easy, you know, for the for them to preserve their own life by saying we're just going to stay out because we know that people get persecuted But the writer of Hebrews, understanding all of those circumstances, gives this command, forsake not the assembly of yourself together. In fact, when it's difficult for you, it's even more important that you be in the Lord's house. Obedience is not measured by convenience, it's measured by submission. And our presence among God's people reflects our submission to God's authority. And so let's go on to the second one. Because we need one another. It's a matter of encouragement. Again, look at verse 25, 24 and 25. You see two one another expressions. Let us consider one another, exhorting one another. You can't do that if you're not there. Beloved, Christianity was not meant to be lived in isolation. Christianity is not a solo endeavor God has brought us together because we strengthen one another. The phrase one another is one Greek word that appears over a hundred times in the New Testament. We are to love one another, we are to bear one another's burdens, we are to encourage one another, serve one another, greet one another, receive one another, and so on. All those things require proximity. You have to be together in order to do these things. Everybody needs the encouragement of church of being with God's people. Even the Apostle Paul needed it. Paul wrote a letter to the church at Rome as the book of Romans. And he was telling them why he wanted to come and visit with them. And he gives them several reasons, but here's one of them, Romans 1. 12, that I may be comforted together with you. In other words, I can be comforted just by being in your presence. Paul needed the encouragement At that time he'd written 2 Corinthians, where he gave a long list of afflictions that was a part of his life. And then he went on to say, Without were fightings, within were fears. Paul was preparing to take a trip to Jerusalem. He had been collecting a big love offering, and uh he knew that it was going to be a dangerous journey, and he just needed some encouragement. He needed the people of God You know the truth is you don't come to church just for yourself, you come for others. Because other people need to see you here. And when you're absent, the the the body is weaker. Your presence strengthens others. There have been times when I, the alarm clock would go off, and uh I know you might be surprised to hear me say this, but I'm gonna show my clay feet here. Uh that it's been hard to get up to to go to church because I'll be care I was carrying a burden and I felt like Lord I don't know how I'm going to Want to make it through. It reminds me of the the man who uh got up on Sunday morning the alarm alarm clock went off, he refused to get up, his wife came in and said, You have got to get up and go to church. And he said, Well give me one good reason why I need to be there. She said, Well, because you are the pastor of the church. That's why you need to be there I can relate to that. There's been times when I I didn't honestly feel like coming uh from a human perspective. And of course I'm always glad to be in God's house. But let me tell you why. Because sometimes I've carried such heavy burdens And I'm glad I didn't decide to miss Sunday, because by the time church was over, I had had so many people give me words of encouragement That it felt like the burden was gone. And sometimes they would say things and they didn't even really know what they were saying. But I knew that providentially God was using them to say words that I needed to hear. Standing there in the back, shaking people's hands, people coming through, giving me these words, and I knew that that was directed from God. That's encouragement of the body of Christ. That is helping one another. So why do we need church? Why does it matter? Because God commands it, because we need one another. But here's a third reason: because the word of God is central. This is a matter of spiritual growth. The Bible says in Acts 2. 42, they continued steadfastly in doctrine. The preaching and teaching of God's Word is central to the worship. That's how you grow. And this is God's ordained way as a primary tool to help you grow in Christ, that when you come to God's house, you hear the word of God. And my responsibility is to preach the word, not come up with something new, not try to be innovative, but just simply give you the word of God. Because it's through the Word of God that you see Jesus. And it's through the Word of God that your soul is strengthened. The strength is in the Scripture itself And so you need to be exposed again and again because you need that consistent uh uh influence of God's word into your life And so that is another important issue. But here, let me give you number four. Because God meets with his people, it's a matter of presence. The Bible says in Matthew 18, verse number 20, where two or three are gathered, there am I. Did you know that there's a unique sense in which God gathers With his people when they all come together for worship, there's a blessing and a benefit that takes place. In Acts chapter 4, the church was going through a difficult time. They all came together and prayed, and the Bible says that the Holy Spirit moved upon them, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit. Can you imagine someone in that group back then deciding not to go that day to church to prayer meeting? Because that's when God did his work. God does his work when people are gathered together. And another thing is that when we do come to church and we gather before uh the presence of the Lord, it is a privilege Not to be taken lightly, to draw near is something that is very, very important. The writer of Hebrews again was reminding these believers here. Don't you understand? Don't you remember the privilege that you have now to draw near? And you know why they should appreciate that? Because in the Jewish uh tradition in the Old Testament, uh Jews could not draw near. There were barriers that kept them from the presence of the Lord. When God first gave his commandments on Mount Sinai, what did Moses tell the people? Don't touch that mount, don't go near. Why? God is on that mount. And it's a holy mount. And if you touch it, you could die There were all these barriers pushing people away. In the temple, there was a veil and that that kept people out. from the presence of the Lord. But now because of Jesus Christ, because of the blood of Christ, we can go into the presence of the Lord. That's what the writer is reminding these Hebrew Christians about. You have the privilege of drawing near to God because Jesus has given us that access. And a person who loves God is going to want to draw near. With the people of God. You're gonna want to draw near. You know, even an unbeliever can come in a church and sense God's presence. Paul said that in first in 1 Corinthians chapter 14. Paul said this, but if all prophesy an unbeliever enters He is convicted by all, and he's called upon to account all, and the secrets of his heart are disclosed, and so falling on his face, he will worship God and declare that God is really among you. That's an unbeliever. Paul says they can come in, and when they hear the preaching of the Word of God, God will expose their hearts, and he'll know that truly God is there. God is with you. He is among you. And Jesus Himself invites us to draw near. Look in Hebrews chapter ten. Look at verse number nineteen. Just back up to verse number nineteen. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus by a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us through the veil, that is to say, his flesh. And the thought here is that Jesus is now the great high priest over the house of God. He's the great high priest. And you know what he does? Because he has made that way available, he invites us to draw near continually Because God meets with his people. But here's also number five, because it guards us from drift. It guards us from drift. Again, look in Hebrews chapter 10, look at verse number 25. where it says, but exhorting one another so much more as you see the day approaching. What is the day that he's referring to there? That is referring very clearly in the context of this, the second coming of Jesus Christ and all the judgment that is associated with it. In verse 23, it talks about the hope. that we're to hold fast to. And verse twenty-seven, a fearful looking for of judgment. And verse thirty-seven, he that shall come will come and will not tarry. All these verses Talk about the second coming of Christ. So what's the point? Well, each day we're a day closer to the second coming of Christ. And also, as the that time approaches, things are not going to be easy. We're going to need the encouragement, the exhortation. Of the church, in order for us to persevere, we have to be strong together because things are not easy out there, and they're going to continually be challenging up until the return of Jesus Christ. So we need to exhort one another, we need to encourage one another. In Hebrews chapter 3, verse 13, it says this: exhort one another daily, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Neglecting church is often the very first step towards spiritual decline. You take some hot coals, you remove one coal and and and separate it, that coal begins to lose its heat. And s and pretty soon it's extinguished. And so it is among the people of God. We need each other. And throughout the book of Hebrews, the writer gives some warnings uh that he wants the readers to really understand. First of all, about doubting in chapter three, let us not doubt the word of God. He gives a warning about dullness. Don't grow dull towards God's word about despising it. Let us not despise the word. Also disobeying. But one of the warnings that he gives is in reference to drifting. Drifting from God's word. And this doesn't happen suddenly. It happens gradually, easily, through just small decisions. First, attendance becomes inconsistent And then interest begins to fade, and then the heart grows cold. A boat doesn't have to steer away, it just simply has to be unmoored from the dock. It'll drift away. And that's what happens to many. Let me give you number six. Because it declares what we value to matter of priority. David said this in Psalm 122, verse 1. I was glad when they said unto me, let us go to the house of the Lord. David didn't say, I'll go if I have time. No, he was glad. Your priorities reveal your heart. We make time for what matters. You know what I've learned as a pastor? People do what they want to do. People just do what they want to do. And if you want to do something, you're going to find a way to do it. Church is often the first thing sacrifice when the schedules get full. And so the question is not, do you have time? The question is, what have you chosen for your priority? That's really the issue here. And we are to prioritize worship. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. But here's number seven. Because it prepares us for eternity. It's a matter of anticipation. And and I want you to go to another passage As we close out, look in Revelation chapter 4 this morning. I want you to see this, Revelation chapter 4. And the point that I want to make here is that we worship here So it prepares us for what we're going to be doing in heaven one day. In Revelation chapter 4, look at verse number 9. We'll start in verse 9. And when those beasts give glory and honor and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever, the four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth forever and ever And cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power, for thou hast created all things, and for all thy ple and for thy pleasure they are and were created. So what do we see here in this passage? We see that heaven is filled with worshiping God. Heaven is radical in its worship. And in fact in John chapter four, John's called up to see heaven, and what he sees is the throne. And the throne is the center of chapter four. All these things that are happening around the throne. There's singing that goes on all around the throne of God. And verse number nine we read were the beasts, these are the four beasts that are before the throne and worshiping God. These are cherubim. worshiping God. And they lead the worship in verse 9. And then in verse 10, 24 elders fall down before the Lord. And they begin to worship the Lord. But then you know what happens after that is that if you get to chapter five, what you're going to find out is that uh all of the universe erupts in worship. In chapter 5, the one seated on the throne has a book, a scroll. No one's worthy to loosen it, but then steps forth the lion. uh uh of the tribe of judah, the Lamb of God who takes the scroll from the hand of the one on the throne. Of course that is Jesus. And what happened happens is it heaven just erupts in praise. Erupts in praise. All of the the the angels are sing all of the saints are singing. I think that's represented by the 24 elders. Then all of the angels join in. Can you imagine being in heaven and hearing all that? The angels who are without number, singing praise, singing, thou art worthy, all of the saints of God, all of the angels of God. This is the worship in heaven. And in heaven, it is radical worship. And here's the point. If you don't enjoy worshiping here, I doubt very seriously you're going to enjoy heaven. Because that's what we're going to do there in heaven. Corporate worship is a foretaste of heaven. And what we're doing here is preparation for what we're going to be doing in heaven. Worshiping around the throne of God and delighting in our God. That's why church is important. Why does it matter? Because Christ died for the church. He loved the church and gave himself for it. He didn't give himself for a building. He didn't give himself for an event. He gave himself for a people. And the church is the people of God that have come together. So to neglect the church is to neglect what Christ purchased with his own blood. And how can we treat lightly what he has given his life for, which is of course His church. So let me ask you plainly, is the gathering of God's people in God's house, is it a priority with you? Is it a priority? Not perfection, but pattern Faithfully worshiping. We need this. We need it. And so let me just close with this illustration. There was a 100-year-old church member. who was having a birthday party at this church, a church that he had faithfully attended since he was a child. And at his birthday cake celebration, his family was there and of course the church family was there. And uh His his great-grandson uh stepped forward and spoke with a very loud voice because his great-grandfather couldn't hear very well. And he said, we know that you can't hear, you can barely hear, and you have all these other uh difficulties, you can barely see. Why do you keep coming to church at 100 years old? And the old faithful Christian said, Well, because I love Jesus with all my heart, because he commanded me to be here, and I just want everyone to know whose side I'm on. And that's a good good way to live. So may we be able to say with David, I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go to the house of May we be found faithful, not forsaking the assembly, but may we rejoice in it until the day when we are all gathered around the throne of God in heaven. Let's bow for prayer together. So I want you just to examine your own heart. Has the worship of Christ in public worship? Is that a priority with you? You understand how important it is. It's a matter of obedience. It's a matter of encouraging other believers. It's a matter of your own spiritual growth, of drawing near to the presence of God, of keeping yourself from drifting away from Him. And because it prepares us for eternity, we know that we anticipate the time when we are there in heaven. Just take a moment right now and just if this is an area of your life that you need to talk to the Lord about, why don't you just do that? It matters. It matters. If you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ. And may I just tell you that He came to this world to die for sinners? to take sins that you like I've committed and you've committed upon himself to pay the debt, the sin debt with his own Death on the cross. And now salvation is a gift. It's freely given. It's offered to whoever will receive it. If you're here and you haven't done that, I invite you right now to say, Lord Jesus, I believe that you're the Son of God. I believe you died for my sins and were was buried and rose again. I believe you're the only way of salvation and I put my faith in you, Jesus. I put my full faith in you. Is that your prayer? Would you just say that to the Lord right where you are? Let's all stand together. We're going to have just a minute of invitation. We're going to sing this through. And if God spoken to your heart, we'll have some ministers down here in the front. And we want to help you to know for sure that you know Jesus Christ as you're