Would you please take your Bibles and open please to the book of First Corinthians, chapter number nine? We're going to look at uh today verses one to nineteen. And I want to speak about uh this subject, why should I set aside my liberty? And what I want to address is uh something that I felt like I should probably address sometime uh while we're going through what we're going through with respect to this COVID virus. These are very unique uh circumstances. Now when the executive order was given by the governor back in March, that was immediately something that we pondered and prayed about as to what what we should do. Obviously when a church uh uh is is told not to meet, uh this is a cause for um concern among us And uh the the question that came to mind is was this a case for civil disobedience? We know the classic scripture in the book of Acts where a man ought to obey God rather than man And so the first question was, was this a time where we would have to respectfully disagree with the state law and practice our our uh worship, practice obedience to the Lord instead of the state? Well, after meeting with the church leadership and just pondering it, we voted unanimously that this was definitely not a time for uh civil disobedience, but in fact it was a time for civil obedience. This was a very unique circumstance. And let me tell you the reason why. There are several reasons, but I want to focus on one uh today. And that is that the goal of the governor's order when originally given was not to take away religious freedom. The govern it's not like the governor arbitrarily got up and said, you know, we don't want churches worshiping anymore and we're therefore going to pass this law. And it it's kind of a continual law of taking away our religious freedom. Now in a case like that, obviously we would rise up And we would uh we would do what the Lord tells us to do and not compromise. But this was a very difficult different situation than that. Uh that was simply not the goal. The goal of the governor and the state It was simply to protect people to save lives in this virus. Nevertheless, immediately after we made our decision, I began to get questions about it from well-meaning people questions like wait a minute we have our First Amendment rights we need to protect our rights uh shouldn't we practice civil disobedience in this time? Uh isn't it important that we protect uh our religious freedom rather than uh bow to what the state says. And I just want to kind of give you a biblical understanding of why we believe that this is the right course of action. Again, I would just point out that the reason for the law to begin with was out of love for people's lives. And so I want to ask you this question and just pose it before you. Is there a time in Scripture when the Bible calls upon God's people to limit their liberty out of love? And I say that there there is definitely a time to do that. The Bible makes it very clear that there are certain circumstances and times When as Christians, the right thing to do is to set aside our liberties, to set aside our rights out of love for others. Now, what what if we just said, you know, we don't really care what the the state says, we're gonna we're gonna worship anyway Uh the question I would ask is what does that say about the church to the world? In essence, what we're basically saying to the world around us is we don't care if you get sick, we don't care if you die of this virus What means more to us than that is our rights. And is that really the message that we want or wanted to communicate to people during this whole thing? I think that uh uh to communicate that message would be a terribly wrong thing to do. I think that would cause the church to lose credibility. And when it is time to make that stand, we would not have a strong voice. And believe me We we're coming to a point in time when we're gonna have to really evaluate what's going on to make sure that we are not losing our liberty. And I fully understand the idea that there are some in authority that would use this as an opportunity to take away the church's rights and the church's freedoms because they don't think we should have those freedoms to begin with. Believe me, I understand that there are people in authority that don't uh fear God, that have their own political agenda in mind, and are angry at the church for one reason or another And would discriminate against the church and would use this as a great opportunity to discriminate and take away our right to worship. I fully understand that. And uh and by the way, we have uh a tremendous lawyer, David Gibbs, who's who's speaking for us and other churches, that's talking to the powers that be, to voice our concerns to make sure that while we are very concerned about people and we want to practice civil obedience. We're also very concerned that this is not an opportunity for some people uh in p positions of authority to take away our just liberty and to protect our right to worship when it's time to worship again. But again I want to ask you the question, is there a biblical precedence when Christians are called upon at times and at unique circumstances to set aside their rights and their liberties and and there is. And if you look in 1 Corinthians chapter 9 If you look down at verse number 19, notice what the Apostle Paul says. He says, Though I be free from all men, yet I have made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more Now notice what he says here. I am free from all men, but I have made myself the servant of all, that I might gain the more. What does he mean by gain the more? Well here he's speaking in the context of sharing the gospel and winning people to Christ. And what Paul is saying is there, look, I'm willing, very willing, to limit my liberty or my freedom, if it will ultimately result in people coming to know Jesus. In fact, look at the word gain there. This is from the Greek word kurdas, and it's a word that means to earn or to make a profit from an investment. And this is future indicative. Remember I told you indicative, that's a statement of fact. Future, it's a fact in the future. In other words, Paul was looking at limiting his liberty at that present time in order that he might at a future time get a gain from that from that investment or make a profit from that investment. He was looking into future profits based on the sacrifice or the decision to limit his liberty at the present. And so again, what was the gain that he was talking about there? The gain that he was talking about was winning people to Christ Lost people coming to know Jesus Christ as their Savior. And so what Paul was saying is, as far as his rights were concerned, he was free from all men. He understood what his rights were. He had a lot of freedom. He had a lot of liberty. But for the sake of love for all, he would gladly limit those rights for their sake. And when he says he would be a servant unto all, the word for servant there, again a very interesting word. It is uh the word dulas, you've probably heard of that word before And always in Greek um literature, whenever the word doulas was used, it always meant slave. And so Paul was saying, I would become in a figurative way a slave. to all around me. If it meant that it would give me the opportunity to share the love of Christ and win them to Christ. That means he would modify his habits He would modify his lifestyle. He would do anything to keep a person from stumbling or bringing offense to them. Why? So that he could do it for their sake that he might win them. In fact, look down at verse number 23 where he says, And this I do for the gospel's sake. that I might be partaker thereof with you all. And so again, this became a basis for our decision. that we this is a time to practice civil obedience. These are very unique circumstances, this pandemic, and the one thing that we did not want to communicate to the world was that we didn't care about you or we didn't care about spreading illness. We wanted our rights that was more important to us than you. That would have been an entirely wrong message. to communicate. No, quite the opposite. We wanted to communicate that we are willing to for a time in this unique, different circumstance. Even though we have the right to meet and the right to worship God, a right that is protected by the First Amendment, a right as believers to gather together publicly. All those things are very meaningful to us, very sacred to us, and yet we are willing to comply and to submit and set aside those rights that we have for a time If it means that we can communicate the idea that we love the people, we love those that are suffering If it would give us the opportunity to come. Again, the word gain. It's a future investment. If us practicing this liberty now would give us opportunities in the future to share the gospel, then it would be worth it to us. But again, we always say, what if what if what if we decided, you know, we're going to meet anyway? uh what we would be communicating again to the world that um we don't really love you and again I think it would take away the opportunity to really share the Lord Jesus Christ and be effective in the gospel. And so therefore We and you heard me say this statement before, we joyfully choose to limit our liberty for a time in this circumstance, in order that we might, as the Apostle Paul said, to use his words in verse number 19, that we might gain the more. Now, I want you to want you to look at uh chapter 9 with me a little bit closer. This is the whole theme of 1 Corinthians 9. And the whole context of this is that Paul is dealing with a problem in the church at Corinth. There were certain believers in the church at Corinth that did not want to ever limit their liberty. They were constantly wanting to exercise their rights, irregardless of how it affected people around them. They felt like they had their liberty. In fact they would quote a Greek slogan Uh throughout in 1 Corinthians 6 you hear the expression, all things are lawful. And there what they're doing is they're actually quoting a Greek philosophy, all things are lawful. And Paul will come right behind them and say, Yes, all things are lawful, but All things are not expedient. Yeah, you do have a lot of liberty, you do have a lot of rights, you can exercise your rights, but there are times when that's not expedient. It might be lawful, but it's not expedient for you to do it. And so Paul is addressing some of those believers in the church of Corinth that would refuse to set aside their liberties uh out of love for others and and and would just determine that they were going to hold on to those rights And Paul is basically in a very mild way rebuking them and teaching them that limiting your liberty is necessary at times. Now, what Paul's going to do in chapter 9 is he's going to use himself as an example of this. In other words, what Paul wants everyone to know is that he's not telling them to do something that he himself wouldn't do. In other words, Paul is practicing what he preached. And he's going to use himself as an illustration. And this is what he's doing here in chapter 9. The whole the whole chapter is about Paul using himself as an illustration of someone who agreed and and joyfully limited his own liberty f for the benefit of others And so this is one big illustration. Now there are some uh commentaries I read when they deal with 1 Corinthians 9, and they they really say, well, you know, the whole message of this is Paul is defending his apostleship. Well, in 2 Corinthians, Paul will defend his apostleship, but that's not really what he's doing here. What he's doing here is he's showing a right that he has. He's proving that there's a right, there's a liberty that he has, that he has chosen to set aside. And so I want us to look at it in that light. So I want you to see, first of all, in the first part of this chapter, he's going to expound his right. He's going to tell you about the right that he has as an apostle. And what he's going to use here very specifically is this right to receive support, financial support from the church And yet this is the very right that he decided to set aside. And uh so this is the first thing he does to illustrate this principle of limiting one's liberty. Look at verse number three what he says, my answer to them that do examine me is this. The word answer apologia that is my defense. Uh those that want to examine me, that's kind of a legal term used for an investigation made into reaching a decision. It was a word used by lawyers arguing their case in court And so there's a sense in which Paul pictures himself here as a lawyer arguing in the court of law for his right to receive financial support. as an authentic minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And what Paul's going to do is he's going to he's going to lay out all of those arguments. He's going to lay out all of those things. that um that uh uh that sh prove that he can indeed receive financial support. And notice, first of all, he he uses the argument of the proof of an apostle. Look down in verse number one. And I I'm not An apostle, Paul asks, Am I not free? Now these are all rhetorical questions here. Because remember, there were some in the church of Corinth that were saying, you know, we have freedom. And Paul's response to them is, yes, I know you have freedom, but you know what? Am I not an apostle? Don't I have freedom? Don't I have rights? If you think you have rights as a Christian, how much more do I have rights as an apostle? And as a as a believer, one who is in verse number one, uh seen the Lord Jesus, look what he says. Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? I mean it that that would you would think that someone at that level would have even more rights and authority and um freedom to do certain things. Someone who saw the Lord, Paul said, I saw the Lord with my own eyes And are ye not my work in the Lord? And so Paul was basically saying, look, I'm an apostle. I saw the Lord. And the other proof of my apostleship is you. You're brought to faith in Christ. You're converted. The fruit of my ministry is proof that I am an apostle And so he basically is saying that because I am an apostle, I have these rights. Look at verse number two. If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you, for the seal of mine apostleship is ye are in the Lord. And again, Paul is saying that this is the seal, this is the proof In ancient times, seals were used on containers or on letters to indicate authenticity. If you want to know that I'm authentic, that I'm truly an apostle. Well, you look at yourself. You are in the Lord. Your salvation in and of itself proves my apostleship. And so uh that's what he said. This is my answer. Now look down at verse number uh four. Have we not power to eat and to drink? And the word power here is authority. And we also could again say this was a right. In fact, he'll use this word, this is the Greek word exusia, he used this six times in the chapter referred to his right or his authority. He says, you know, I have this right, because I am an apostle, because you're in the Lord, I have this right, and he said, to eat and to drink. And and what does he mean by by that? It's just simply that um he would um basically receive good from them. You know, back in this day traveling missionaries and preachers were dependent upon the hospitality of other believers, and so they would go to their house and the people would take care of them, they would give them a meal, they would give them drink, they would give them a place to stay And Paul is saying, you know, I have the right to claim all those benefits, just as any other missionary. And here's another thing that he mentions. Look down in verse five. Have we not power again or right to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles? And brethren of the Lord, if there were other um uh uh apostles that were married, for instance Peter was was married And so he's here referring to a wife or a spouse. And he says, you know, don't we have the authority and the power to take them along with us to carry them about in our company? Uh again, you know, there were some apostles who did this, and yet the apostle Paul uh was single. He remains single, but he says, you know what, I have the right, I have the Uh liberty to do that if I wanted to do it. He was perhaps a widower, maybe he was married at one time and is no longer married And so he's basically saying, you know, we have the right to do all that. Look down at verse number six. Or I only and Barnabas, have we not power to forbear working? Now the other apostles did not work to support themselves because they were supported by people in the churches. They gave themselves completely to the ministry, but Paul and Barnabas, they worked with their hands And I think Paul may be a bit sarcastic here when he asks the question, is Barnabas and I the only ones who do not have a right to be financially supported by the church? And of course the answer to that is obviously no. He had a right to receive financial retribution for his labor in the Lord as much as anyone else. So he uses in this first argument the proof of his apostleship. And what is he establishing again by all of that? I have a lot of rights here. I have a lot of liberties here But then notice the next thing. I call this argument the privilege of the workmen. Look at verse 7. Who goeth award at any time at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of the flock? And here Paul gives three illustrations to show that it's common for a person to get his or her living from their work. And so this is just common sense. Paul says common sense reveals that a person who labors benefits from that labor He uses the illustration of a soldier. How many soldiers you know go out and they wage warfare at their own expense? No, normally it's the government that takes care of all of their expenses A soldier doesn't do it of his own. He he gets paid for that? What about a farmer? Is there a farmer who plants a vineyard and he doesn't eat the fruit thereof? Do you know of any farmer that plants his own uh uh uh crops and then doesn't benefit by eating some of that himself? Of course not. It's common sense that a farmer would reap the benefit of his own labor. What about a shepherd? He says, Who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk thereof? Shepherds don't work for free either. They're expected at least some of the milk from that flock in payment, some of the wool from that flock in payment for what they do. And so Paul again is showing here that this is just common sense But then he uses another argument, the principle of the law. Look in verse number eight. Say I these things as a man, or say not the law the same also? And so the principle of works being paid for by their um workers being paid for by the work is not a secular principle. we could say. Paul says, I say these things at a man. In other words, he says, you know, do you think this principle is according to just human judgment? only or secular judgment only. Isn't that also true in the spiritual realm as well? And then in verse number nine, Paul quotes from Deuteronomy 25 for Look at verse 9. For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox, the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. And then he asked this question, Doth God take care for oxen? And so Paul proves that God's law teaches the same principle of rewarding the worker for their work. Now he uses this illustration of the law about an ox. You don't muzzle the ox that treads out the corn Uh that was wrong for two reasons. If you were barring your neighbor's ox to to use it to tread out the corn, then w you wouldn't muzzle them because that would be wrong Um you know, you would want to make sure that the ox was fed to do the labor, and it was just simply wrong to do that. If the ox is going to do the work, he needs to be fed from that work that he's doing. But then Paul says something very interesting in verse 9. He says, does God take care for oxen? In other words, Paul was asking, you know, does God make this law because he was really concerned for oxen? Well, the answer is yes and no. Of course, God is concerned about all creatures, but ultimately the reason that God made this law was to illustrate a principle, and what was that principle that the laborer is worthy of his hire. That the worker should benefit himself from the work that he does. And later on Paul will quote this verse in 1 Timothy chapter 5, where he says that let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the in the preaching and teaching, for the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox that treads out the corn. So Paul points to the Old Testament law. And again, remember what he's doing here. He's building his case about his own rights. Does Paul have a right to receive financial support? Of course he does. He's an apostle. He deserves all the benefits of being an apostle. He's a workman, a laborer for the Lord He we also see the principle of the law. That's the argument that he uses here. That also backs up his claim, this right. But then there's also the precedence of the past. Look at verse 12. If others be partakers of this power Or this right we could say over you. Are we not rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power, but suffer all things. Watch this, lest we should hinder the gospel. Now, what I want you to see here is I said, you know, this is a precedent that you've done in the past, talking to the church at Corinth. In the past, you have rewarded others Who have labored spiritually, you've paid them, you've given to them financially. And if they have the right to receive financial remuneration, we also have that right And then in verse 13, he even points back to priests on the Old Testament. Look at verse 13. Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live with the things of the temple? And they which weigh at the altar are partakers with that altar? Did you know that according to the Old Testament priests were supported by even the sacrifices that people would bring? They would always get a portion of those sacrifices for themselves And that was used to help support them and their family. And so even the priests at the altar lived by the altar there. He said they were partakers of that altar. And if that's not enough If the proof of being an apostle and the privilege of a workman and the principle of the law and the precedence of the past and the pattern of the priesthood, we could say, if all that wasn't enough to prove his claim There's one more in verse 14. Notice what it says. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. This was a principle that Jesus Christ himself ordained. That they who preach the gospel should live of the gospel. And we see this in the gospels when Jesus sent his disciples out. And uh he said, you know, if you go to a house, go ahead and eat and drink with that house. And he said, for the laborer deserves his wages. So it's okay to receive financial remuneration for the spiritual work you are doing. Now, again, like a lawyer, Paul's laying out his case. So here's the question, did Paul have a right to receive financial remuneration, financial support from the church at Corinth and other churches for that matter. And we would say, after all the arguments that Paul just presented in chapter 9 here, we would say absolutely. That is his right. However, Paul said all that aside, that God-given right. That liberty that he had was all set aside. Paul said, I'm going to set this right of mine to the side, even though I deserve this, even though this is my right. I'm going to limit my liberty here in this area. Why would you do that, Paul? Well again, if you look in verse number 12. He said, nevertheless, we have not used this power, or we say this right, but suffer all things. Watch this, lest we should hinder the gospel. Paul said, I refused this right, even though it's mine. And the reason we did it is because we don't want to be a hindrance to the gospel. By the way, this was not the first time that Paul did this. He we could look in other places where he is refused to take money. And why didn't he do that? What why how could that hinder the gospel for Paul? Well when Paul went to Corinth to preach the gospel, there were other itinerant men speaking. They were not Christians, they were not preachers of the gospel, they were teachers of wisdom, and they were doing it for money. They would give excellent speeches and hold out their hands for money. They would gather together students and have them follow them in their schools, and they did it all for money, and they wore the best clothes And they tried to make a an appealing image to all the people that they spoke to, but they were teachers of wisdom. And you know what Paul didn't want to happen? And we could also say they were false teachers Because they were teaching a man-made wisdom that didn't help anyone. And when Paul went to Corinth, he saw this And he did not want people to confuse him with these false teachers. And so Paul, when he gave the gospel to the early Corinthian believers. And others who were converted. He did it without charge. He worked with his hands. He did it because he could see that some people resented having to give money to some of these speakers. And Paul didn't want that to be the case with the gospel. He wanted them to get the gospel free of charge. He saw for him to take money at that point Would limit his ability to reach certain people, to share the gospel with certain people. It would present a roadblock, a hindrance. For some people with Paul, they saw Paul taking money for what he was doing and thinking he was just another one of these sophist teachers that traveled around for their own benefit. And so in order not to hinder the work of the gospel, even though Paul had a God-given right that he could exercise, Paul said, No, I'm going to set aside that right. And I'm going to do it for the sake of the gospel. I don't want it to be hindered. And again, we see in verse number 19 where he says, though I be free from all men, yet I've made myself the slave of all men. Or the servant of unto all men, that I might gain the more. And so again, beloved, I would just go back to when we originally made this decision to follow the law that was given and practice civil obedience in this case, it was in order that the gospel be not hindered. It was in order that we might be able to be a pleasing testimony that that Had we set aside that law and decided to meet, that in the future could potentially have created a roadblock. For this church, reaching out into the community unto others could be a hindrance for the gospel. And we didn't want it to be a hindrance for the gospel. We want to communicate love to all people. And so in this case, I think it's biblical. It is right to limit our liberty in Christ that we might gain the more. Now we're going to continue on this. I want to speak on this again because Paul has more to say, and I just want to kind of uh dig into this a little bit more. And that'll be on the um the neck the next sermon here in 1 Corinthians chapter 9. But let's let's bow together for prayer. Would you pray with me today, Father? Thank you for your word and how it gives us principles to follow. These are very unusual times that we live in. And Father, we need your wisdom. We need your grace. Help us, Lord, as your church, to shine forth as lights in a dark world. Help us never to do anything that would hinder the gospel. And Father, why we under your wisdom and leadership seek to please you. And to limit our liberty and to practice civil obedience. Lord, my prayer is that in doing this, you would protect us Because, Father, we know that there are ungodly men out there that would use this something like this, this COVID virus and these executive orders for tonight to meet in worship. They would want to overstep their authority And take away our rights. So Father, while we seek to please you and do what's right before you, would you protect us? Would you establish us? Would you keep us from falling victim to the schemes of men who do not love you and know you, that we might be the pillar and ground of the truth that you have called us to be Thank you, Lord, for all that you're doing, and we pray in Jesus' name, Amen