Well, take your Bibles tonight and uh open, please, to the Book of Romans. We are continuing our study in Romans, and we are coming to Romans chapter 7. And the question that we're dealing with here as we come to chapter 7 is what is the believer's relationship to the law? And that's a question that has had a lot of different answers to it, but we want to look what the Apostle Paul writes about in the scripture. Now, just remember that the Book of Romans, there are some points in it where the theology gets a little bit deep and a little bit heavy, but you know what? It's worth it for us to plow through and to understand these concepts because these are basic to the Christian life. You know, we're it's it's wonderful to be saved, but you know what? Being saved is not enough to just to be saved from hell. God wants us to per to progress in our spiritual growth, and he wants us to progress in holiness. And in this war that we have over sin. And so in order to understand all that, we have to understand a lot of these things that Paul is talking about here in Romans chapter 6 and in Romans chapter 7. Now let me do this with you tonight. I want to do just a really quick summary of where we are so far in the book of Romans. Now we if you've been with us, you know that in Romans chapter 1 The Apostle Paul starts off by talking about the wrath of God. In fact, we talk about that this morning. When he starts the gospel, he starts talking about the fact that God's Wrath is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and all unrighteousness. And that really there's the pagan or anyone is without excuse before Almighty God. And then when you come to Romans chapter two, Paul takes upon uh the argument perhaps that a moralist might uh take on. He has an imaginary opponent there that that he imagines what he would be thinking. He's probably thinking when Paul's writing chapter one, yeah, go get those sinners, Paul. They really need it. But me, I'm I'm kind of a moral person So in chapter 2, he basically aims at the moralist and says, You're inexcusable as well. In chapter 1, verse number 20, he said that all men are without excuse. And then in chapter 2, verse 1, he uses the same expression. Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man. Who's the man there? That's the person who thinks himself self-righteous, the moralist person. If you think that you're more righteous than someone else, you're wrong. You're inexcusable as well. And then when you come to chapter the second part of chapter two, He really turns to the Jew who who thinks himself self-righteous. And he also shows that he's also guilty before God. So by the time you come to chapter 3, Paul summarizes by saying in chapter 3, verse 9, all are under sin. In fact, look at chapter 3, verse number 19, he says this. Now we we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped That all the world may become what? Guilty before God. Let every mouth be stopped. Let no one say that their righteousness is enough. Let everyone say that they're guilty before God. And so once Paul shows that, then in the rest of chapter 3, he begins to speak about justification. And then in chapter four, Abraham is an example of justification by faith. And in chapter five, the Apostle Paul begins to list the blessings of justification. You know, there are some who hear this message of the gospel and and they were amazed at perhaps some of the Jews in the church that heard this message of salvation by grace and they thought this is too good to be true What do we have to do to keep this? And the Apostle Paul shows that you don't have to do anything to keep it. You can't keep in your own strength what you in your own strength couldn't get to begin with. You are secure. You can't lose your salvation Well, how do we know that? Well, in chapter 5, verse 1, we have peace with God. In chapter 5, verse 2, we have access and stand in grace. We have a future hope of glory that brings us through times of trouble. We have been given love in abundance. The Holy Spirit sheds love abroad in our heart, and then God further demonstrates his love by the death of Christ. And then we have assurance of being delivered from the wrath of come. And we have joy in God. What are these? These are all blessings that show that you're secure. You're not going to lose your salvation. Now, some people think that the remainder of chapter 5 starts a new section, but I don't. I think Paul continues with the same theme. And he adds on one more blessing that you have now that you're saved, and he reminds you about this, and that's simply this: your union with Christ. The reason you're secure, the reason you won't lose your salvation, is because of this union that you have with the Lord Jesus Christ. You're saved. You are united fully with him. Look at chapter 5, verse 10 again. Just look at that. For if when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. And really the preposition there we could say is in the death of his son. That is, we're saved by his death, and we're being saved in his life. Uh we could say in in chapter five, verse number ten. For if we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by his death of the of of his son. Much more being reconciled we shall be saved excuse me, where it says saved by his life, that's what I meant to say. Excuse me there. The that the the phrase there should be in his life. Where saved by his death and then saved in his life. Everybody with me now? Alright, that's the first mistake I've ever made in preaching. But you understand what I mean. So in verse number ten where it says by his death, that should actually read in his death. Okay, so if it's the Lord psh, alright. Sorry Lord, I'll get the business here. So in his life And what does that mean that we're saved in his life? Again, this is the concept that Paul introduces, that we are united. with Christ, this union with Christ. Now, I I tried to hammer home and I hope you got it that this is a really important principle to understand in the Christian life. This is an important theme because Paul's going to play on this same theme in chapter 5, and in chapter 6, and in chapter 7. If you don't understand your union in Christ, you're not going to understand the rest of this. You're one with him. When when Jesus died, you were there and you died with him. When he was buried, you were buried with him When he rose, you rose with him. And in the mind of God, this is all happening. You're so one with Christ that whatever happened to him happened to you. Because you're one with him. You're united to him. And so we have to understand this. And so therefore, it is this union with Christ that makes it possible for the believer to be delivered from death. Chapter 5. Sin, chapter 6, and then the law, chapter 7. So this same principle The same argument he uses for these three chapters. In chapter 6, we are delivered from sin. We don't continue in sin. Why? Because we died to sin. That relationship is over. Paul is answering the charge that he was promoting sin. If it is true that where sin abounds, grace much more abounds, why not sin and demonstrate God's grace all the more? And Paul's response is what? God forbid. And he points out that we were united to Christ. We were buried with him in baptism and the death. And then it says in verse chapter 6, verse number 3, know you not that so many of us as we're baptized into Jesus Christ, we're baptized into his death? Therefore we're buried with him by baptism into his death, verse 4, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in newness of life. So you see, he points out this principle again We don't continue in sin because of our union with Christ. We were submerged into him. We were immersed into Christ. That when he died, we died. When he was buried, we buried. When he rose, we rose to walk in newness of life. And so we're dead to sin. That relationship is over. And now the same principle comes to chapter 7. Paul begins to show us how that principle applies in our relationship to the law. And remember, I told you there's basically four things that he's telling us here in chapter 7. Here's the first one. We have been delivered from the condemnation of the law. That's the first argument that he's using in chapter 7. And he establishes here that a law is only binding for someone who is alive. Right? Look in chapter 7, verse 1 again. Know ye not, brethren, for I speak to them that know the law, how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he lives Now the law that we have, let's just say, and when he says law here, he's not talking about Old Testament law, he's not talking about the commandments necessarily. He's using kind of an illustration. He's saying a law in general The law only applies to people who are alive, right? A policeman doesn't prosecute a man who died. If a man committed a crime and on the scene this this man died while committing that crime, the police officer's not going to arrest him and he's not going to charge him with a crime. Why? Because he's dead And the law has no dominion over a person who is dead. It has no condemnation for someone who is dead. And so Paul further illustrates this by the principle of marriage or the law of marriage. Look at verse number two. For the woman which hath a husband is bound by the law to her husband, so long as he liveth. But if the husband be dead, she's loosed from the law of her husband. So then, if while her husband liveth she be married to another, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband be dead, she is free from that law, so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man. So you understand Paul's logic there. He's just using a very simple analogy As long as a woman's husband is alive, she's bound by the law of marriage to be faithful to him. But if the husband dies, she's no longer under that law. She's free from that law. Or let's just say that if While her husband is alive, Paul says in verse 3, if she marries another, she shall be called an adulteress. But if her husband dies, that law can't condemn her anymore. So really, what's the principle? Again, the same thing that he said in verse 1, that the law can only condemn you if you're alive. If you're dead, the law no longer has any dominion over you. And so uh this is what we Paul wants us to understand. Now, if I commit a crime, and again, same illustration, before the police could come and arrest me. Let's just say I committed a crime, the police come, they want to arrest me, I died before they got there. And then you so will the law condemn me? And again, the answer is no But here's the thing. I did commit many crimes against God's holy law. And I stood condemned by the law. But before the law condemnation against me could be carried out, you know what happened? I died. You say, when did you die? I died at Calvary with Christ. I disobeyed a lot of God's laws. I stood condemned But again, before that punishment could be put in place, I died. And I died at Calvary with Christ. Because when I when I was saved, I was united to him in his death. And so therefore the law and the condemnation of the law no longer has any uh power or dominion over me. Now you see how again that principle of the union of the believer in Christ frees us from the condemnation of the law. Does that make sense? So we when again when we died with Christ at the cross, and I know again that's hard to comprehend, but in the mind of God, we were there with him. That's why Paul says, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. You see, it's that union with Christ. And so we died with Christ at the cross, therefore there's no condemnation from the law. Now look down at verse number four. Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ, that ye should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit And so this is the outflow of this. I died to the law, but I didn't stay dead, I rose. And now that I rose, I'm married to another. And who is that? That's Christ. And now I'm producing fruit unto holiness. I'm producing spiritual fruit. But this is all under the first principle. That is, I have been delivered, and so have you. We've been delivered from the condemnation of the law because we died with Christ and we resurrected now to produce spiritual fruit in our life. Everybody with me so far? Very good. Now I can start the sermon here. Actually we'll start into the rest of it. Because there's a logical question, and really this is principle number two, and really we get to ask this question, well then what purpose does the law serve? You know what purpose is it? What good does the law bring? That's a logical question. And then so here's the next principle. We have to understand the purpose of the law. We have to understand the convicting purpose of the law. Because it, again, it brings a natural question. Look down in verse number seven. Here's the question. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? That's the question there. Again, Paul is anticipating an objection from the Jews because he knows their minds, he knows how they think. And if the law can't save us, and if the law can't sanctify us, is it evil? I mean, you just said we're dead to the law. Are you saying that the law God gave us was evil since it sought to condemn us? Is the law then therefore evil, Paul asks. He anticipates that question. And notice the response to it in verse number 7. What is it? God forbid. There's that expression that Paul likes to use. Again, this is the strongest negative in the Greek. God forbid. May it never happen. Perish the thought. He's saying absolutely not. The law cannot be considered to be evil under any circumstance. That would be an absurdity. In fact, the law is good. The law is holy. The law is right. The law, you know what the law does? The law shows us the righteous character of God. It shows us that God is holy. So how could that be evil then? It can't be evil. This this law that shows us the righteousness of God is not evil, but what the law does is this, and he's going to point out several things then. You say, well, then again, what's the purpose of it? Well, he's going to point out several things. That the law does then. And here's the first one. The law pinpoints sin. Look again in verse 7. What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid, no. I had not known sin, but by the law For I had not known lust, except the law had said, thou shalt not covet. The law is that instrument that shows us what sin is If it weren't for any law, there wouldn't be any sin. Right? Often tell you know parents sometimes when they're counseling, you know, um, and they they're they're kind of dealing with their children about disciplining their children And one thing I always try to say is that make sure your children understand what the boundaries are. You know, how can we punish our children if they violate something that they don't know is wrong? Right? So the first thing I try to tell parents is, look, make sure you clarify what the rules are, because it's one thing for a child not to know that if a child is just doing something and they irritate you, that's not a reason to punish a child, is it No, we discipline when we know that there has been willful rebellion. And so how do we know that there's willful rebellion? We know that because when we make clear and establish A rule or a law, and we know that they know that, and then they violate that, then that becomes a transgression, right? But they have to know what the boundaries are. before they could actually be punished. And this is the idea. We don't know what sin is except it is by the law. The law is really what tells us the righteous character of God, and it tells us what sin really is. And by the way, I can't resist this. You know what? God gets to say what sin is He's the one that writes the rules, you understand that? Society doesn't get to say that. And the state doesn't get to say that. And one crowd pushing a political agenda doesn't get to say that God is the one who created all this. He is the authority. And he's the one who gets to say what is wrong and what is right. And that's part of the law. It reveals the righteous character of God. But if there is no law, then we really don't understand what sin is. And that's part of the problem today. If we have a generation of people that reject the Word of God and reject the law, no wonder they don't know what sin is. God is the one who establishes that. Not long ago I was watching a fascinating documentary about the Autobahn in Germany. You know what that is? That's a highway that has no speed limit on it. Wow, wouldn't that be great? Some people drive out here like it's the Autobahn anyway. There's no speed limit, so it's impossible to get a speeding ticket on this highway Because if there's no law about how fast you can go, there can be no transgression. And friend If there is no law, we don't really understand what sin is. But the law is the thing that tells us It again reveals God's holy standard for man, and it lets us know, it lets man know when he is in violation of that holy standard. Write down Romans 3. 20. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. For listen, by the law is the knowledge of sin. That's the principle there. By the law is the knowledge of sin. That's a very important truth. The law simply shows us what sin is by God's definition. Romans 4:15 says, where no law is, there is no transition. Aggression. So when God reveals the law, we are immediately measured by the standard, and you know what? We're found to be sinners. We're measured by that standard and found to be sinners. And Paul uses himself as an example of that very concept He uses himself as an illustration. Look again at verse number seven. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust Except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. And Paul is using here the first person pronoun, and so this is personal Paul's giving his own personal testimony as to the convicting power of the law. And there are some scholars that suggest that this may have taken place at about the time of his bar mitzvah or when he became a son of the law as the term means. And Paul is saying, when I began to understand the full extent of the law, I began to feel convicted. Of sin, or convicted with sin. I began to realize my own personal sinfulness is what Paul is saying And this is part of the convicting power of the law, along with the Holy Spirit. It brings us to a place of conviction. That's why One reason why the law is still so very useful and vital today. Sometimes again parents will ask me, you know, how do I lead my children to Christ? Well the very first thing that we need to do is we need to show them the holiness of God. You say, how do we do that? The Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments teach that God, they teach what God's standards are, and they teach that God is holy. And they teach that, you know what, these are this is this his moral standards. And what it also reveals is that we really can't fulfill those standards. And we need to be saved. We need the mercy of God. And so this whole passage reveals that God was progressively I think convicting Paul of his sin, and he began to see the law of God for what it was. And I think this is important to see because many think that everything that happened to Paul on the road to Damascus, that all happened at once And I don't think that's what happened with Paul. I think there are some people that think, bam, he was zapped on the road to Damascus and he was saved all at once and that was it. And I say no. Before that, there was the work of conviction that was going on in his heart. The convicting power of the law had been doing its work in Paul's life. Now, consider two things. First of all, Paul's outward zeal. And that really shows a misunderstanding of the law. You see, for a long time, Paul thought he knew all about the law of God. I mean he thought he knew all about it. He was a Pharisee. He spent his life fulfilling or trying to fulfill all the law and keep the law. You know what? I think Paul is like that Pharisee in Luke chapter 18. Remember when Jesus gave the parable? And when he went to the uh to the temple, said, you know, Lord, I thank you that I'm not like this publican over here. I fast and I give all my tithes of everything that I possess and so on. In Galatians chapter 1, verse 13, and writing to the Galatians, Paul said this. He said, You have heard of my manner of life and time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I profited in the Jews' religion above many mine equals in my own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the tradition of my fathers. You see, Paul's reputation was as a zealous leader, a zealous keeper of the law, and it that reputation spread. Later in Philippians chapter 3, Paul gives a similar testimony. He said this. He said, I was circumcised on the eighth day out of the tribe of Israel. Uh excuse me, stock of Israel, tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee concerning zeal persecuting the church, as touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless And you know how he could say that? He could say, you know, concerning the law, I was blameless. How could Paul say that? You know how he could say that? The same way the rich young ruler could say to the Lord, I've kept all the law since my youth. You know how they could say that? They just didn't understand the internal implications of the law. It's not just On the outward, doing everything that you're supposed to do, but it also is on the inside. It's not just outwardly, it's inwardly in our heart Obeying not just by the letter, but by the spirit. And so Paul finally came to understand That God didn't just require outward actions to obey the law, it also required inward attitudes. Remember, that's what Jesus emphasized in Matthew when he was talking to the Pharisees. You know, he says, you know, you have said, but I say unto you. You know, you said if a man uh you know commits adultery, uh he sinned. But I tell you that if a man looks upon a woman And with lust, he what? He commits adultery in his heart. The law doesn't just isn't with outward actions, it's also with inward attitudes. And when Paul recognized that he actually wasn't obeying the law Because inwardly his attitudes was not right. It was sinful. He understood that all of his external righteousness was nothing. In fact, Paul said it was it was a it was waste. It was all nothing. Look in verse 7 again, he said At the end, for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. And the word lust there, epithumea, an evil desire And so this passage records the conviction Paul experienced before he was saved. And notice what illustration he chose. Of all the commandments Paul selected. What did he select? He selected coveting, which isn't an external act. It is something that happens internally. And Paul was saying, when I realized that the law of God had not to do just with my acts. But with my inward attitude, I realized that all of my self-righteousness was worthless. It was nothing. And that's what happened. There was true conviction of sin. And that's what the law does. It pinpoints sin. Sin that is in us, inside of us. But here's the second thing, the law provokes sin. Look at verse 8. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of Concupiscence, for without the law sin was dead. And here Paul describes how the law shows this indwelling sin in verse number eight. We see, first of all, the dormancy of sin, for without the law, sin was dead. And this verse doesn't mean that sin did not exist or that it was not there. It just means that it was dormant inside. The sin nature was at rest, was asleep. And you know what awakened to the sin nature inside of Paul? A law came. The law aroused That sin nature, and then we see then the development of sin, but sin, taking occasion by the commandment wrought in me all manner of, we could say, coveting or evil desires. The commandment awakens sin within me. And that's what happens. That shows these of our nature. Look at the word occasion there in verse number 8. The word occasion. That word there, taking occasion, that's a Greek term which was used in the military sense, referring to a base of operation from which an attack is launched. Sin is launched by the commandment. As soon as the commandment of God enters in, sin is awakened and begins to take over. You know, in history, it says that when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor, it was reported that Hitler said, Now you have awakened the sleeping giant, talking about America. Now you've aroused, you've awakened America. You see, before that, the U. S. was neutral in this war that was going on and tried not to enter the war. But now because of that attack, the U. S. was provoked, and Hitler said, now you've awakened a sleeping giant. There's a sense in which a command that is given to Us before salvation, you know what it would do? It would awaken the sleeping giant inside of us. It would awaken the sin nature. And then it provokes us to sin. And that's the nature of human nature. And I've told you this before. That if you want someone to do something, you just tell them don't do it. Because there will be something inside of them. I remember, you know, Theo has been coming to visit us, and he was there a few days just before they all left me. and uh went to Tennessee. But I I was I was uh I was kind of ironing a shirt and he was looking up at the iron and I know what he was thinking in his mind, man, he wanted that thing And I was trying to tell them, you know, don't, don't, don't do this, don't do this, because it's hot, and I would go hot, hot, hot, ouch, ouch, ouch, you know, tr Trying to get them, you know, that's my parenting their skills there, did you see But the more I tried to tell him don't, you know what, the more he wanted to touch that thing. Why? Because he's a sinner like his grandfather, that's why. Because there's something inside of us that when we say don't, the sin nature arouses and rises up. It says, I will do this. The Bible scholar John Murray in his book Principles of Conduct said this: The more the light of the law shines in our depraved heart, the more the enmity of our minds is aroused to opposition, proving that the mind of the flesh is not subject to the law of God. And so there's a sense, and by the way, what purpose does knowing this serve? When confronted with the holy law of God, man doesn't find himself eager to obey it, he finds himself to an even greater extent. So what? To disobey it. And what does that show? That shows our sinfulness. That reveals what? It reveals that we desperately need a savior. We desperately need a Savior. And so the law pinpoints sin. The law we could say provokes sin in us, showing us our depraved nature that really we're kind of rebels at heart. We don't want to do the law of God. And then we could say the law prosecutes sin. Look at verse number 9. It says, For when I was alive without the law once, I was alive without the law once. But when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died, what does Paul mean when he says he was alive? Or he was spiritually alive before the law? It means he was doing fine. Everything was alright in his life. He had his religious act together. You know, everything was going well. He was content with his self-righteousness. Everything was going good, and then suddenly, bam, he understood What the law really meant. And Paul said, when the law came, he died. And what he means is he died in the sense that everything he hoped in was shattered. It was gone. He was devastated. He lost his sense of security. He lost his sense of self-satisfaction Paul had everything in his religious notebook filed away. It was all in order. He would carry it around, and suddenly it's like someone knocked a notebook out of his hand, and all the pages were scattered. And Paul said, that's what the law did to me. Can you imagine believing in something all your life, having security in it, only to find that it was the wrong way? It's not right. It was not bringing you salvation. That's why Paul says he was devastated. When he saw saw the real extent of God's law, and he recognized his own sinfulness. It made it impossible for him to save himself. He recognized that he was without strength, that there was nothing he could do. You know what? He was devastated. He says. He said in verse number ten, and the commandment, look at verse number ten, and the commandment which was ordained to life I found to be unto what? Death In other words, Paul said, my theology was turned upside down. Man, I thought the law was there to save me. I thought the law was actually going to save me. What I found out Was that it was actually given to prosecute me, to condemn me, or to show me that there was no hope in me whatsoever. None whatsoever. And again, the fault is not the law nor the commandment. God's commandments are holy The problem was with Paul. And we could say that about us. The problem is not the law, the problem is us. Because look at verse 11. For sin taking occasion by the commandment Deceive me and it slew me. And Paul reiterates that sin killed him when the law prosecuted him. He was deceived into thinking he was blameless as he went about with his zeal for God persecuting Christians. He thought he had his religious act together But when he was confronted with the reality of God's holy law and saw inside himself and saw the evil in his heart, he realized that he had been totally deceived. Totally deceived about himself. About where he was spiritually. I once read of a group of missionaries who traveled to a remote part of Africa and they saw a tribe there which was ruled by a queen. This African queen was very proud of her beauty and boasted in her physical, facial beauty. And one day the missionaries, intending to bless her and give her something as a somewhat of a gift, they gave her a mirror. And when she looked into the mirror, she was devastated. You know why? Because she was deceived about her beauty. She thought she was much more beautiful than she really was. And what was intended to be a gift to bring happiness, what it actually brought was devastation to her heart. It wasn't the mirror's fault. What's the old saying, mirrors don't what? You guys know that, huh? Not so sure about that But the mirror doesn't lie. It was not the fault of the mirror. It was not the fault of the missionary. They simply wanted to be a blessing. They wanted her. to be a happy person. The problem was not the missionaries, the problem was not the mirror, the problem was the queen herself, because she was deceived over her condition. And in a similar way The law of God was given as a gift to men, to guide men, to bless men. But the law is God's divine mirror, which does not reveal the outward appearance, but rather reveals The inward appearance of man and what does it show? That we are really ugly inwardly. We're ugly on the inside. And Paul was under the deception that he was beautiful in God's sight, but the law showed him the ugliness of his heart. And Paul said, I was deceived when I saw what I really was. It killed me. It killed me. I was devastated. Can you identify with Paul's experience here? Has God's holy law Hit home in your own heart, in your own conscience, to the point where all self-righteousness in you is completely gone. It's dead. There's no self-righteousness in you whatsoever. Because, friend, that's what it takes before you're ready for salvation, really. The law has to kill all of your hopes that your good works will get you into heaven And if you ever get to that point where you're absolutely devastated over who you are spiritually, inwardly, that's when you are really ready for the gospel. When you see God's holy standard, How we have violated that holy standard, how we stand before God as sinners Then, friend, you are ready for a savior. And that's, by the way, friend, why it is so wrong today. And I'm hearing this all the time, and I've heard it all this week, and all these letters that I've been getting and messages and whatsoever, that all, you know You know, God accepts you as you are, that you're all right before God, and you know how people draw those conclusions? Well, the first thing they have to do is they have to reject this right here. They have to say this is not the word of God. And then you know what they do? They make up their own standard of religion. Their own standard of being accepted before God. They promote, and they become gods of themselves when they do that. And then they deceive themselves by saying, oh, we're okay, we're alright. They make up their own mirror, and it does lie. It does lie. That's why Many people will be condemned on the day of judgment. They'll die thinking, oh, I'm okay, you're okay, we're all okay, and you're not okay, and you're not be ready for a savior until you see the exceeding sinfulness of sin. And by the way, the greater the sin, the more evil the sin, the greater it exalts our Savior. Because he saves us from so great a sin, or sins, I should say. So all self-righteousness has to be completely, totally devastated It has to be all our hopes for salvation in and of ourself and our own self-righteousness has to die. Just like Paul said, that I died. When the law came, I died. Any hope of me being good before God, it all died. I was devastated, and that's a good thing because then you're ready for the gospel. James Boyce tells in his commentary, he tells of a time when John Gershner, who was then retired from teaching history at a theological seminary, was preaching at a church and he was preaching from Romans. And he expounded on the law and he used it to expose sin. And after the service a woman came up to John Gershner and she held up her hand and with her index finger and her little thumb. She made she said she kind of made a half inch. She said, Dr. Gersner, you made me feel this big tonight. You made me feel this big. And Dr. Gershner replied, madam, that's too big. That's much too big. He said, don't you know that that much self-righteousness will take you to hell? That much self-righteousness will take you to hell. God gave us his law to strip us of all self-righteousness, to convict us of our sins, so that we would what? We would run to Christ. We would flee to Christ. as the only means of salvation. And so let me give you the last thing real quick and we're done. Verse 12. and 13 and that is the law proclaimed sin. This leads to the next point. Look in verse 12. Wherefore the law is holy, the commandment holy Just and good. Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid, but sin, that it might appear sin working death in me by that which is good That sin by the commandment might become exceedingly sinful, for we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. And again, Paul's saying it's not the law's fault, the law is good. It is holy, it is just There's nothing wrong with the law. If the law reveals sin, isn't it the law that is at fault? That's the question he's asking, and of course he says no. If a person is convicted for murder and given the death penalty, do you blame the law for convicting them? No, at least not yet in this society as far as I know. Is it even the lawyers is fault, or is it the judge, or is it the jury? No, it's none of that It's the person who committed the crime. So the law is holy. It is just. It is good. And it is us that are sinful. The law loudly proclaims the exceeding sinfulness of sin, Paul said, in order that again we might run to Christ. And the thing that I fear that I see today, dear friend, is that people don't see themselves as being sinners. They don't see themselves as being sinful. And if that's the mindset, then they'll never run to Christ. They'll never run to the Savior. Which is why the law has a great purpose. We have to see ourselves as sinners, and it's the law that does that. And that's why the devil has attacked the Word of God. That's why he's attacked the Ten Commandments, the laws of God, because the devil doesn't want people really to know what their condition really is. And as long as he can keep people blinded about their real spiritual condition, then he can keep them in bondage. He can keep them from running to the Savior. But the gospel, dear friend, it is the gospel. And by the way, this is happening in churches nowadays. Churches nowadays, I'm talking about mega churches, you know, they try to make it the safe place. Where everyone will be fine and no one will be judged. We don't want anybody to be judged. And so therefore we in the church, not this church, there are others that say, okay, everybody's all right. We're not going to judge you here. You're accepted as you are. Let me tell you something, dear friend. Anyone is welcome here in this church. But we're going to point them to the gospel of Jesus Christ. We're going to point them to the only way of salvation. And we're not going to cut any corners and say you're all right. You're not alright. I don't go to the hospital just to hear the doctor say, You're doing great. You're doing great. I go there because I need healing. Because I'm not doing great. And I've got to be properly diagnosed. And it is the law that diagnoses man's condition so that he might run to the Savior. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, we thank you then for your word, for your law. We say, like the psalmist, oh, how I love thy law. We love it, Lord. Not because it's a source, it's not because it saves us. We know the law doesn't save us, Lord. We love the law because it points us to the Savior. Because Lord, you gave it to convict us of our sin. You gave it to bring us to the end of ourselves so that we would flee to Christ for salvation And so therefore we say like Paul the law is holy because it reflects your character, your righteousness. And therefore, since you are righteous, your law is righteous. And since you are good, your law is good. And we confess that it's right, it's good, but Lord, we are carnal, sold under sin, and we have no hope except our Savior. And so we run to Him. We take refuge in Christ. Thank you, Lord, for providing that refuge for us. Thank you for your mercy. in salvation. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, I just want to again just ask you, friend, have you found that refuge? Have you been like Paul devastated? You died? All of your hopes and your your Thinking about any self-righteousness that before God would save you? Have you gotten to the place where you're totally devastated with all that? You completely ready to say, I have no hope. No hope in of myself. None. And I run to Christ today. There's not a shred of goodness in me before that I that I could use for salvation before God. Not a shred of it. And we say like the hymn writer, nothing in my hand I bring. Simply to thy cross I cling. Simply to thy cross. And friend, is that your desire? Would you just run to the cross with nothing but just your repentant spirit that says, Lord, save me. Save me. And if that's your prayer, would you just say that in your heart, Lord? I I'm devastated by my own sinfulness. I know that I'm a sinner and I run to you. I run to you for refuge. Save me, Lord Jesus. Save me. Friend, if you pray that in me, then He will do that. He will save you. So, Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.