Would you take God's word and open to the book of Job, please, Job chapter one, and uh we're going to look at a few verses here in Job. And uh would you stand for the reading of God's Word, Job chapter one, look at verse 20. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head, and he fell down upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sin not, nor charge God foolishly. Thank you so much. You may be seated. May God help us to be attentive to the word today. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we thank you for the time of worship we can have together. Lord, as we go through the scripture now, would you please fill our hearts and help us to remember that we worship in the way we hear the Word of God. And in the way that we submit to it. So help us, Lord, and give us understanding. Lord, give me your servant clarity. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. A few weeks ago I was in Los Angeles and uh preached at a church out there. And uh I had a couple at that church that was assigned to be my host. They came to the hotel and got me and took me to the church for the services in the night They also during the day took me out to to lunch and um they just got to know them very well. Um just a beautiful couple. And in our time together and talking and getting to know them, they had a concern over their son. His name was Evan. I remember talking to them about their son. uh young man who wrestled with depression and they were very concerned about his state of mind and everything that was going on in his life and we prayed together for him. And then last week I got a phone call, uh or actually a text message from Scott, the father, told me that his son Evan had died. Um so I called them and talked to to Scott and Jeannie and prayed with them and been in contact with them. But right now they're bearing a burden that's the hardest burden any parent could ever bear. They are bearing this burden of losing their son. And it brings up a question: why does God allow his people to suffer? Why do the righteous suffer? The book of Job kind of deals with that age-old question. In fact, chapter 1 really is a summary of the whole book of Job. And I want us to kind of examine this story, and I pray that it will help you if you're a believer here and you're going through a time of trial in your life. I hope that this will be an encouragement to you. If the book of Job were in a Hollywood movie, it would really be presented in three scenes. That's what we see here in chapter one, three different scenes They're all set off by the phrase there was. In verse one, there was a man in the land of us. That takes place on earth. Verse six, now there was a day. That's uh the camera switches to heaven. The scene is in heaven, and then finally in verse 13, and there was a day, and it kind of goes back to earth. So we go from earth to heaven to earth. We get this whole story in three scenes. And in each of these scenes We see something that God is doing in the life of Job. And I want us to look at this and then draw some principles for us. First of all, seeing one, I call this Job contented, God gives prosperity. The setting of the story, the scene opens up in verse 1. Now there was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. There's some doubt that this is a real story. Uh the reason they probably doubt is because the suffering that Job goes through is so incredible, so unbelievable, you might think that this couldn't be real. It's it's gotta be a fable I mean the extent of his suffering is such that we think it might be humanly impossible for a person to go through that. But this is no fairy tale. The emphasis of this is on a real person. The fact that Job is real is seen in other places in the scripture. He's mentioned in Ezekiel 14, 14. The Bible says, though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it. That is, if if Noah was real and if Daniel was real, then Job was certainly real. And besides that, James mentions Job as a man. He points to as an illustration of patience. James 5. 11. Behold, we count them happy which endure. You've heard of the patience of Job. So this is a real story, this is a real man. And this scene that we're open up with here is designed to show us the great piety and the great godliness and the great prosperity that Job had. We see Job's faith in verse 1 It says that his man named Job, that he was a perfect man. The word perfect here is not sinless, but blameless. It means that he was a man of integrity. He was not a hypocrite. And then it uses again the word that one that upright, perfect and upright. Upright is a word that means straight. It refers to his conduct. He was righteous in his deeds. The Bible says in verse 1 that one that feared God, he had a reverence for God, he stood in awe of God. I love that expression where it says he eschewed evil. That is, he he shrank back from evil. He turned away from evil. He hated evil. And so these four expressions are designed to show us that Job was a godly man. He was a man of the highest moral and spiritual character. And that's important to note because later on in the story, when Job suffers, some of his friends will come and accuse him of being a hypocrite or being a sinner. That's not the case. And then we see Job's fourteen in verses two and three. It says and there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters, and his substance also was seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five Hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred sheases and a very great household. So that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. Uh Today, you know, children are considered a financial expense, but not back in Job's day. Children were considered part of your riches. Children don't make a rich man poor, they make a poor man rich. And so here this large family was a blessing from God. The ratio of sons to daughters, seven sons, three daughters, that's considered ideal. Here's a complete family. And also his livestock. And in this age, uh your wealth was measured by your livestock. It was a barter economy. And so he had a phenomenal amount of livestock by ancient standards. According to one source, Arabs in that day had three thousand camels. Jo Job owned that many himself. Nabal in 1 Samuel 25, 2, was a very rich man. David said he had 3,000 sheep. Job had 7,000. You were considered rich if you had 300 sheep in that day. So the Bible says he was the greatest of all the men of the East. He was the Elon Musk of his day. I mean he he had money. He had wealth, he had riches. We also see his family in verse number four, and his sons went and feasted in their houses every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink. with them. And so I think what we see here is this family togetherness. They feasted together. They enjoyed one another. These were weekly meals. There were seven sons, seven days of the week. Each son took a day where they would invite the rest of the family over. They would host a meal for all of the family. The three daughters didn't have to do that. That was a way to honor the daughters You know, they didn't have to fix a meal. They just came over. They were honored. And so the idea is family constantly being together, enjoying family meals all the time. I mean we love our family we love when they visit, but let's be honest. Some of us love when they leave too, right? But Here, they don't get that picture. You get the picture here of this one big family and they love one another and they're and it's a joyful family. And so the Bible puts a high premium on family unity. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell together in unity. And so here's a beautiful picture of a beautiful family who love one another, who are together. I mean Job has a lot. He's got A beautiful family, he's got fortune, but also we see his fear in verse number five. And it was so that when the when their days were feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them. And rose up early in the morning and offered burnt sacrifices according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts, and thus did Job continually In this patriarchal era, it was a father's responsibility to act as high priest of the family. And so as a priest, he would offer sacrifices on behalf of his children. He was praying, interceding for his children. That's the picture that we have here. He took this role as spiritual leader very seriously. He would constantly make an altar and sacrifices on behalf. The Bible says according to the number of them all, you know, one animal per child. This is a lot of work. It took Job a lot to do all this, but yet he did it because he feared God and he feared their spiritual state. He said it might be that one of them cursed God in the heart. It might be that some of them maybe carelessly or flippantly sinned against God, and I don't want God's judgment coming down. And so he offered a sacrifice as an atonement on behalf of his children. He interceded on behalf of his children. And so we get the picture here then of a man who feared God, who loved God, who God had blessed. He had a wonderful family. He was a high priest for them all. He took that seriously. He prayed for them all. Just a good man, living a contented life, having been blessed by God. That's scene one, scene two Scene 1, we see Job contented, God gives prosperity. Scene 2, now the camera switches to heaven. Scene 2, I call this Job considered, God gives permission. Look at verse 6 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan came also among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, from going to and fro in the earth and walking up and down in it. Sometimes Scripture gives us the privilege of seeing behind the veil and looking into the spiritual world of what goes on in the heavenlies. And that's certainly what happens here. This is what some Old Testament scholars call divine counsel. Apparently, God has cabinet meetings in heaven, council meetings in heaven. The sons of God that we read here in verse number six is the Hebrew word Bene Elohim. That always refers to angels in the Old Testament. The Bible indicates of the times God would meet in session with his angels. In Psalm 82 1, God has taken place his place in the divine council in the midst of the Elohim he holds judgment in the midst of the angels there there in heaven he holds judgment. Now while they're having this meeting someone comes an uninvited person comes and it's Satan. The Bible says in verse 6, Satan came among them. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comes thou? And by the way, the word for Satan here, that's the actual Hebrew word. This is a transliteration. And the word means slanderer. That's because that's what he does best. He loves to come to God to slander the people of God. And so here Satan is bragging. And by the way, God asks him, why are you here? God doesn't ask that question because he doesn't know. God knows everything. God, whenever you see God ask a question in Scripture, it's to put them on record. God wants to put Satan on record before all of heaven as to why he's there. What is his agenda? And Satan says in verse 7, Oh, from walking to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it. So Satan is bragging, and basically what he's saying is, you know, I have it pretty easy. I'm accomplishing whatever I want. My kingdom is advancing. There's no one of your children that is a threat to me. I'm having my will and my way in people's lives. There's no one that's really an obstacle to me. There's no one that really is a challenge to me And so what is this? This is an accusation against the people of God. This is an accusation against the church. Satan is saying to God, God, where are all your godly people? Where are all your people In your kingdom. Satan is saying, I have my foot in the door of every heart. I place my stronghold in people's lives. I'm building my kingdom. I'm advancing. Now there are times when Satan speaks truth, and I think this is one of those times where there he's he's c somewhat truthful here. He's asking the question: where are the godly people? Where are the godly men that are a threat to the kingdom? Again, this is an accusation against the church. We need more godly people. We need more people that are a threat to the kingdom of darkness that keep Satan busy. What Satan here says, I mean, I'm not really busy. I don't have any challenges. We need more people that are a challenge to Satan, I want to live such a godly life that I'm one of his most wanted lists. That should be our goal is to be live that kind of a life. The the Bible says in Psalm twelve one Help, Lord, for the godly man ceases, for the faithful fail from among the children of men. And God responds in verse 8 by saying, And the Lord said unto Satan, hast thou considered my servant Job? That there's none like him in the earth? Wow, what a statement. And there's a sense in which God is saying, yeah, it's very true, there's no one else like Job in the earth. But have you considered my servant Job? God always has a remnant of godly men. There have been a time in redemptive history when that number has been low. But God has a remnant of godly men. So he says, how do you consider my servant Job? I can s I call this divine challenge. And Satan begins to challenge God about Job. Look again at verse 8. The Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that fears God and askews evil? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for naught? Oh, he doesn't fear you for nothing, God. Oh yeah, I mean Job does fear you, but not for nothing. The only reason Job fears you is because look at everything you give him. I mean look at how you blessed him. This is an accusation against God. What is he saying to God? God, you have to buy your worshipers. The only reason certain people worship you is because look at everything you give them. I mean, you know, you take it away. He's not going to worship you. So the Lord says, you know, here's the one man who really fears me, who loves me. And Satan comes and says, Yeah, but if you let me take all that stuff away, that's not true. The word considered here, where God says, Have you considered my servant Job? Interesting Hebrew word. Have you appointed, have you uh fixed or we could say, have you made a target? Have you targeted Job? Have you set your heart on him? Because Satan knew that Job was the one person he had to really get to. And so, do you know that sometimes Satan will target the righteous? Sometimes Satan will target us. Jesus sworn Peter, it said, Peter, Satan has asked permission to get at you. But by the way, I've prayed for you, and when you're converted, strengthen the brethren. I pray that your faith will not fail. He wants to sift you like wheat. And what Jesus was saying is, yeah, I'm going to let him at you. I just want you to know that. And when at the end of all of this, I want you to strengthen the brethren. What you're going to go through, use it in the end. But Satan can do nothing until God gives him permission. But here's the challenge. God says, or Satan says to God, God, the only reason he worships you is because of what you give him. He's a superficial follower. His faith is not real. You take all that stuff away and he won't follow you. He'll curse you. Look at verse number ten. Hast not now made a hedge about him and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands. And his substance is increased in the land, but put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. You let me take all of that away And he'll he won't follow you. His faith is superficial. It's like John 6, when Jesus was feeding the multitudes, they were there. When he no longer gave them fish and loaves, they were out of there. He started giving them the gospel. They turned and walked away, and Jesus said to his disciples, You're going to walk away too? They said, Lord, where will we go? You're the one that has the words of eternal life. But there are some superficial followers who once God stops giving them what they want, they walk away. And this is what Satan is saying of Job. And the question that Satan asks is a question all believers have to ask themselves. Would I fear God even if there were no blessings here or now, and greater ones waiting me in the hereafter? Would I serve him? This cuts to the heart of genuine faith, of real faith. So this is divine challenge. And so this is what I call divine consent. Look at what God says. And verse 12, and the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. In other words, you can take away all that he has, you can't touch him physically. Satan got what he wanted. He got permission. And again, I remind you that the devil can do nothing in your life until he gets permission from God. Nothing. Because God is in control. So we go to scene three. Scene one is Job contented, God gives prosperity. Scene two, Job is considered, God gives permission. Scene three, Job crushed. God gives pain. And again, this this opens up now back on earth. The camera switches back to Earth. Verse 13. And there was a day when the sons, when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their elder elder brother's house And there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing and the asses feeding beside them, and Sabians fell upon them, and took them away. Yea, they had slain the servants with the edge of the sword And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The fire of God has fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep and the servants, and consumed them. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands and fell upon the camels, and carried them away, yea, and slaying the servants with the edge of the sword And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. And while he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in the elder's brother's house, and behold there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house And I fell upon the young men, and they are dead, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee wow. Bam, bam, bam, bam It just came all of a sudden. You ever notice that trials don't come individually? They come in bunches. One after another. Suddenly, swiftly, savagely, they come, no warning. That's what James when he says, when you fall, suddenly. You're in a midst of a trial. We always must be ready at our average moment to meet what the enemy will throw at us at his select moment. And this was Satan's select moment. He had studied Job. He studied him up and down from head to heel. He knew all about him. He knew his soft spots. He knew how to hammer them. And notice where he hit him. He hit him in his fortune, his herds, his animals, his wealth. All of a sudden it's all gone. And then the worst, he hit his family. That's the most painful. Job worried over his children. And Satan saw that. He worried over them. He knew this was Job's soft spot. And notice Satan was smart enough not to take his wife. Because she wasn't a real believer. She had the superficial faith that Satan was talking about. She's the one who said in chapter 2, verse 9, just curse God and die. I mean her faith was superficial. She was not real. Satan could use her. Oh, don't I just imagine him talking with demons? Oh no, no, leave her alone. I can use her. She's one of ours. And after all the goal was for Job to curse God. Remember this is the divine challenge. The challenge is if All these things go away. Job will turn back. His faith isn't real. He'll curse God. Satan wins the challenge. Satan wins the challenge. So leave her alive. She'll encourage him to do what I want Job to do. And he had to endure her on top of all that. And then there was Job's friends who come along. Job's friends, supposedly wise men. Now I think that they had a sincere heart as far as they really wanted to help him, but they were just spoke foolish words. They were going to try to heal Job's broken heart with logic. Let me tell you something. When someone is crushed and hurting, you don't heal them with logic, you heal them with love. That's not the time to give all kind of logical answers. But that's what they do, and their logic was all wrong. Look at Eliphaz, let's look at a few of things which they said. I won't can't go into it too much, but look in chapter 4. In verse 1 through 5, he starts out well. He starts out saying, you know, we want to comfort you. You know, in verse 3 of chapter 4, behold, thou hast instructed many and has strengthened the weak hands. You've helped others in the past. Now we want to really help you. In verse 5, but now it has come upon thee, and thou art faintest, and it touches thee, and thou art troubled. We want to help you now because we know you're in trouble. So he starts out real well, but it really goes bad quick because in verse 7, he basically says, You're not innocent, Job. Remember in verse 7, remember I pray thee, whoever perished being innocent, were the righteous cut off. You know, God doesn't punish the innocent Job. Whoever perished being innocent, that's a really bad theology, by the way. Many innocent and godly people have suffered. The martyrs of all the ages would rise up against these words of Eliphaz here. Where does he get his wisdom from? Well, two places, verse eight. He says, Even as I have seen that they that have plowed iniquity and sow wickedness reap the same. In other words, this is based on my observation. This is what I've seen, this is what I've noticed. And secondly, he says he has a vision in verse twelve. Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and my near received a little thereof, and the thoughts from the visions of the night when deep sleep falleth upon man. Oh, I had a dream about this, Job Spirit came to me tonight, told me I should tell you this. Be careful when anyone comes and has a prophecy for you, a dream they had for you. Be careful about that. So he accuses Job later in chapter 22 of endless sin. And then there's Bildad. Look in chapter 8. Bildad doesn't do a whole lot better. Because he says in chapter 8, verse number 4, he's sure that Job's children died because they were sinners. Look in chapter 8, verse 4. If thy children have sinned against him, if he cast them away for their transgression They died because they were sinners. He said, Look at the tradition of the fathers. That's what he said basically there. And In chapter 8. And so there's Bildad, and he's not a lot better. Then there's Zophar, and that's chapter 11. He's the youngest. He's really brutal. In chapter 11, look at verse 1. Then answer Zophar. Verse 2, should not the multitude of words be answered, and should not a man full of talk be justified? Verse 3, should thy lies make men hold their peace? When thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? He's accusing Job of being full of talk, being a liar, and being a hypocrite who mocks God. Job, this is why you're going through this. In verse six he says, You got less than you deserve, you deserve worse. In verses 13 and 14 he says, you know, you need to repent of your lies. Verse 13, if thou prepare thy heart and stretch out thine hand toward him, if iniquity be in thine heart and put it far away, let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. Look, if you just repent of your wickedness, You'll you'll get out of this. Again, he's accusing Job of being wicked. And so here are these guys giving him all of this? And Joel Job's whole world came down on him, and he was crushed. And to give you an idea of how crushed he was, look in chapter three And look at verse number one, where he says, After this opened Job his mouth and cursed his day, and Job spoke and said, Let the day wherein I was born and the night when which it was said there is A man with uh a man shall conceive, let that day be darkness. Let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. He curses the day where he was born And then in verse 20 of chapter 3, he longs for death. He says his worst fears have come upon him, his worst fears. Think of the worst thing, your worst fear happening. That's what happened to Job. The thing that he feared greatly. So all of heaven is watching. All of heaven is looking. What's Job gonna do? And we know the challenge. Will he curse God? Will Satan win this challenge? I think all the angels in heaven are waiting. They're watching. What's gonna happen? Go back to chapter one, look at verse 20. Because here in verse 20 there are nine Hebrew words. Five of the nine Hebrew words are verbs, and Job is the subject, and notice what he does. Then Job arose, he got up. You know, sometimes it's hard to get up after you've been hammered. He gets up. The angels watch him as he gets up. What's he do next? He tore, he sm uh it says he tore his clothes. Rent his mantle. That's a sign of extreme grief and sorrow back in the ancient Near East. He shaves his head in verse 20. Again, a sign of extreme sorrow and grief. And then in verse 20 it says, and fell down upon the ground. Oh, here it is. Here he's going to fall apart now. Here's when he's going to curse God. Satan will win the challenge. Is that what he does? No, he fell down on the ground, not to fall apart, but to worship, and he worshipped. He was humbling himself. He fell prostrate in an act of reverential worship. He doesn't shake his fist at the hand of God and say, why me, Lord? He doesn't curse God the way Satan said he would. Instead he blesses God In verse 21, he blesses in humble submission, and he said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this, Job sinned not nor charge God foolishly. Job recognized that ultimately God who is sovereign is the one who allowed all of this, and he submits to it, and he trusts God, and he blesses God. He acknowledges that God sent these troubles. Now some may say, well, you know, he shouldn't blame those troubles on God, should blame it on the devil. But notice the verse 22, it says, Job didn't sin nor charged God foolishly. He understood who was in control. God gives and God takes away, and he knew that God had a purpose in it. He understood that. And so, wow, what a difference a day makes. He went from being the richest man to the poorest. He went from having a wonderful family to being childless. What a difference a day makes. Now, in the little bit of time I have left, I just want to give you just a few reasons why God allows suffering from this story. And here's the first one, number one, to test our faith and to prove it genuine, to demonstrate what real faith looks like. Why is this recorded for us? God wants us to see how real faith responds in the face of tremendous trials and adversity. And here's the bottom line, if your faith is genuine, you will not quit on God, no matter how difficult the trial is. A jeweler, when he wants to find out if a diamond is real, has what he calls a water test. He puts it underwater. If it's a real diamond, it'll shine brighter than ever before under the water. If it's a faith diamond, there will be no light at all. There will be no shining at all. It'll be extinguished. A person with genuine faith, ultimately in the trial, will shine more than they did before. Robert Johnson wrote something about this, he talked about trials. He said, where there is true faith, affliction naturally leads to a deeper than thought than under other circumstances. on sin and deserts and thus frees the heart from the control of self-righteousness. The source of weakness leads to earnest wrestling with God in prayer and experience of sustaining grace. Thus obtain strengthens and exhilarates hope with regard the time to come. And that's a powerful statement. What he means to digest that for you means this. You put a false Christian through a trial, he'll burn up. You put a true Christian through a trial, at first They might falter and and they will ultimately, however, run to God in despair over their weakness, and they'll get strength from God and learn how to overcome it. That's how true faith responds. But they will not turn their back on God. David said, Lord, you have tried me, you have tried me in the night You have visited me and you've tested me and you find nothing. That is, you find nothing there that's not genuine, that's not real. But here's another reason. Job's faith was real. Why do we know that? Because he said, Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. His wife said, Curse God and die. That's not real faith. Job said, I know that my Redeemer liveth. But here's the second thing. Another reason why God will allow his children to suffer and go through trials is to demonstrate that God is worthy of worship, not just because of what he gives us. But because of who he is. Is it okay if God uses you and your genuine faith to demonstrate to others what true faith is and uses you to glorify him in a great way? Because sometimes God will do that. The fundamental reason Job suffered was to display to the world that God is worthy of worship and to silence the blasphemous slanders of Satan against his name. What a great thing. What a great calling. Called upon the sufferer to bring glory to God in a wonderful way. To glorify God's name. By the way, that's why we're here, beloved. You understand that, right? We're here to glorify God. We're here to show the greatness of God. In us. And part of that is by faith. But another reason why God allows his people to suffer is to increase our blessedness. God didn't want to take away blessings from Job, God ultimately wanted to give them more. And as you read the end of the story, we don't have time, but he got double at the end of everything he had before. He got ten more children. Now he had ten in heaven and ten on earth. God doubled everything that he had. He gave it all back and more. And God used them in a great way. But here's the last thing I would tell you that another reason why God will allow His people to go through suffering is to teach us to submit to God's will in humble faith, just to teach us to be submissive and to trust him You know, Job never really understood why he suffered. Now we know, we on this side, we understand it, but Job, he never really fully understood But he trusted God. Again, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. I know that God has a purpose. It's not arbitrary. I know that God in his character, he's doing this for a divine purpose, a good reason, and I have to trust God in that. One day I picked up a book. I was in a bookstore. I I told you this before and I'll close with this, but one of my favorite sermons from a book, A Crook in the Lot, given by a man by the name of Thomas Balston. He was a Puritan. He lived in the sixteen hundreds, a Scottish minister. Um he pastored a small church there in Scotland for twenty-five years, same rule church. He was a man who was kind of And his personality, kind of a melancholy type person. He was prone to discouragement. He had poor health. Yet he never missed being in the pulpit. But the worst tragedy and the worst trials that he ever had to bear was he lost six of his ten children. Six One was especially tragic. Boston had already named a son Ebenezer, which the Bible says hitherto has the Lord helped us, based on 1 Samuel chapter 7. And that child's son Ebenezer died. And now his wife was had given birth to another boy, and he was going to name this new son Ebenezer as well as a testimony of hope in the faithfulness of God. But he he paused, he hesitated, because he thought, What happens if this child dies too? That might be a burden too hard for us to bear, to lose another son named Ebenezer. And so he prayed and in faith He named his new son Ebenezer as well, but the new child was sickly, and despite the urgent prayers of his father, he never recovered. And he wrote in his memoirs, It pleased the Lord that he was also removed from me. Incredible. After suffering such a heavy loss, many people would be attempted to accuse God of wrongdoing. of turning their back on God or to abandon their faith or maybe even at least to drop out of ministry for a while. But that's not what Thomas Boston did He believed in the goodness as well as the sovereignty of God. So rather than turning from the Lord, he turned to the Lord with all his heart and learned to trust God even more. Boston's perseverance through suffering is not only worthy of our admiration, is worthy of our imitation We need to learn from him. And he wrote a book called A Crook in the Lot based on Ecclesiastes seven thirteen. Consider the work of the Lord, for who can make that straight which he has made crooked. And when Solomon talks about something crooked there in that verse, he's not talking about something morally out of line. God is never the author of sin and evil. He means something difficult in life to bear. A lot is our lot in life. We all have our lot in life, and somewhere along this lot there's going to be a crook in it. This is something that we don't have any control over. It's something that we want to change. It's something that causes us great sorrow and heartache and burden Some adversity. It might be a physical limitation. It might be something. Something we wish we had or we wish we didn't have. That we wish we could change. And Thomas Boston said we all have our crooks in our lot. We all have those things in life that are an incredible affliction to us. And He he he basically says that we have to learn to accept that because God, the one who made it crooked, is the only one who can make it straight. We can't make it straight. We can't straighten it out. And then in the book he gives r reason after reason why God would put a crook in our life. And the point of listing those reasons for our suffering is not to suggest that we can always figure out why God put the crook in the lot, but it is to suggest that God always knows why it's there. We might not know why it's there, but God has a purpose why it's there. That's the whole point. It's not arbitrary. When something in our life seems crooked, we're very quick to tell God how to straighten it out Instead, we should allow God to straighten us out. Because that's why it's there. That's the ultimate purpose. His sovereignty over our suffering is always for a good spiritual purpose for our good or for his glory. Therefore, we are called to humble ourselves under the crook in the lot that God has placed in our life and to trust him. Can you do that? Can you say, I trust you in this God? Can you say, like Job, though he slay me, yet will I trust him? Because that's genuine faith. That's real faith. Let's bow for prayer together And with heads bowed and eyes closed, I just want you to maybe some folks are here right now, that you're going through a trial. Some kind of an affliction in your life. And you just need grace from God to bear that. You say, man, I've kind of faltered in this. Well, Job did too. It wasn't a perfect faith. But ultimately he learned how to rely on God. And what you can do is run to the Lord in this in your weakness. Just tell him all about it. God, I can't bear this. It's too much for me. But I know that you are the one who gives strength. And Lord, if this is to purify my faith and then do it, I submit to it. It doesn't it hurts But I submit. And I trust you. And I say, like Job, I know that when he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. I'll come forth as gold. Take a moment and just cast yourself upon the Lord. Say, God, help me. And may my faith be tested and found to be real. And this is the other thing I would encourage you to do, beloved. Examine your own heart. Make sure that that faith is a real faith. Because the genuine faith will not turn its back on God. It will not. The same grace that saved you will be the grace that will uphold you even through the most difficult trials. It just will. And so, Father, help us. Help those that are here today that may be dealing with the crook in their lot. Lord, give them the patience and perseverance of Job. And may you be glorified. May Satan be shamed. And the world, may the world get to see what real faith looks like. Those that are watching, and they are watching, may they get to see what genuine faith looks like And so, Father, help us in this. And if there's someone here that's never trusted Christ, Lord, do that work of salvation in their heart. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's all stand together.