Take your Bibles now, open to the book of First Peter. We're studying First Peter here on Sunday night. And tonight we're going to deal with verses thirteen down to verse 21. And I want to talk tonight on why be holy. Why be holy. Heard about a a uh a California driver's license examiner, and he told about a teenager that when he took his test, he just did an almost perfect test. He said he only made one mistake when he got out of the car. He said to the examiner, I sure I'm glad I don't have to drive like that all the time. That wasn't a good thing to say. You know, that that kind of reminds me sometimes of Christians. A lot of times Christians come to church and that we always put on our best front at church. I understand that, but a lot of times that's all that there is. I mean there's what we are here and then it doesn't really translate into our life. And so we don't want to let down our standards ever. What people see of us here ought to be true of us everywhere in our Christian life. That is to say that there should be a difference between the believer and the world. They should see a difference in us. They should see us living out a holy life. I'm disturbed by a lot of the statistics that I read with reference to Christians and things that happen and go on and how true those statistics are. To be honest with you, I'm not really that sure how true they are, which is why I kind of hesitate to even mention them. But I do know this, that God does expect his people to be holy. And he does want us to be different. And so I know of no text in the Bible that needs to be burned into our thinking any more than 1 Peter 1 verses 13 to 21. Now Peter is writing to believers that are living in a very difficult situation. They all came from pagan backgrounds. They're living in a pagan society. There's pressure on them to conform, just like there's pressure on us. We live in an X-rayed world. We live in a world where the world is constantly trying to squeeze us into its mold, trying to make us like it. And this was the situation with the P with the people Peter is writing to And Peter is calling the readers here to live a holy life. He's calling them to be holy. The first part of chapter one is about the living hope, be hopeful. The second part of chapter one is about living a holy life and he's telling us to be holy. Now the word holy of course it means to be separated. When it applies to God, it's always referring to God's transcendence, that God is different He's different from anything. He's above and beyond his creation in such a way that it makes them so very distinct And contained in this word is the notion of God's purity. He is completely, totally separated from all sin. And so therefore God calls us to holiness. It means that we as well are to be different. We as well are to be separated from sin. But here's the problem. Since sin dwells in us, how is that going to happen? All of us have a sin nature. All of us deal with sin in our life all the time. We're sinful beings down to our very core. How can we ever expect to be holy? This is a very difficult thing for all of us. But this is what God calls us to. Now, there are three senses in which we are holy. or sanctified as God's people, I should say. And one of them we could say is just positionally, when you were saved, you were given the righteousness of Christ. I was talking about our cla to our class this morning in Sunday school. We were talking about the breastplate of righteousness that we are to wear as Christians. This righteousness that we have, it's not our righteousness It's a righteousness that Jesus gives us the moment we put our faith in him. That's why a lot of times it's called in and some theologians call it a alien righteousness because it's not of us. It comes from a different source, a different person. And it comes from Jesus, and we we put our faith in him, we are made righteous, God sees us righteous, that's what we are positionally. But then there's a progressive righteousness. We could say practically Not only does God declare us righteous and give us the righteousness of Christ, but he puts the seed of righteousness inside of us by the Holy Spirit of God. And John talks about that seed of righteousness that grows in us. And so there should be some kind of progression towards holiness in our life. The sins that we struggled with a few years ago, we should be getting victory over that by greater degrees. We should be advancing in our righteousness. and having victory progressively over sin. And then of course there will be a perfection, a perfect sanctification that will take place when Jesus Christ comes and we are all glorified and we become just like the Lord Jesus. Of course, right now we are in this process. Of being made holy. Write down 2 Corinthians 7:1. Having therefore these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God That's what we're to do. We are to perfect holiness. The word perfecting epi taleo. Teleo means pressing towards a goal or completion. Epi is a Prefix it kind of intensifies that. We are working towards this one goal, which is holiness. We are perfecting it. We are working towards the end of it. But it's not easy. And if we would be honest with ourselves tonight, we would have to say there are times in our life when our motivation to be holy is not what it should be. There are times in our life that perhaps when we struggle against sin we get discouraged And we need some kind of motivation, we need some help, we need some kind of incentives that help us along. What Peter does here in this chapter, the rest of chapter one that we're dealing with here, is he's going to give us incentives for holiness. He's going to give us some ideas that we should think about as we think about these ideas. It should motivate us to want to be holy in this war that we declare against sin. So I want you to see in our passage then five incentives for holiness. And here's the first one, the glory of God. Look at verse thirteen. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end, for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Look at the word revelation there. Apocalypsis, which simply means the unveiling or the uncovering, or we could say the glory when the glory of Christ is unveiled. There's coming a day at the second coming when all the glory of Jesus will be unveiled. It's a particular term that's used here in the New Testament. We see Peter using it here. Apocalypsis Jesus Christu. The unveiling, or we could say the unveiling of the glory of Jesus Christ. And that should motivate us right there. And the Bible speaks about this. 2 Thessalonians 1, 7, the Lord Jesus shall be revealed. Same exact expression. And uh Peter talks about it in chapter 1, verse 7. And of course the book of Revelation talks about it. Now you might be thinking, wait a minute, I thought Jesus, when he came, he already revealed his glory. When Jesus came the first time, the glory of Christ was hidden. We saw glimpses of that glory. We saw it at his birth. We saw a little bit of it at his early childhood when he was able to give the doctors wisdom there at the temple. We saw a little bit of the glory of Christ uh on the Mount of Transfiguration when all the glory inside of him began to shine outward. But never during his earthly ministry did we see the full glory of Jesus. Because when Jesus came the first time, he came in humiliation. And so W. A. Chriswell writes this talking about the next time that Jesus comes. He says, But then is that all the world is ever to see of our Savior talking about the first time, dying in shame on the cross No, it is also a part of the plan of God that someday this unbelieving, this blasphemous, this godless world shall see the Son of God in his full character, in glory, in majesty, in the full orbed wonder and marvel of his Godhead. Then all men shall look upon him as he really is. And that's going to happen when Jesus comes again. When he comes again, he will be revealed. This will be his glory unveiled before us all. The first time Jesus came, he came as Savior. The next time he comes, he'll come as judge. The first time he came, he came to endure shame. The next time he comes, it will be to enjoy glory. The first time he came to redeem us, the next time he comes, it will be to reign Now, this is part of that living hope that Peter has been talking about in chapter one. As Christians, we live in this future tense. We're living in light of this future hope when this second coming happens When Jesus will come in glory. Now, what Peter is saying is, now you need to get serious about that. Look again in verse 13. Wherefore, gird up the loins of your mind and be sober. Gird up the loins. That's the image of a man who takes his robe. You have to remember back in that day they wore long flowing robes. And if a man was getting ready to work hard, or if he was getting ready to run Uh he would take the bottom of his robes and he would kind of pull them up and gird them under the uh his belt that he wore around his midsection because he was getting ready to uh to do some hard work or he was getting ready to run or maybe even uh go into battle And so it has the idea of get serious. The expression we would use today is roll up your sleeves. You need to roll up your sleeves. In what way? Peter here is talking about mentally Uh you need to get ready mentally. You need to get serious about this idea of Christ coming back in his glory. Because the one thing I don't want to happen when Christ returns in his glory is for him to see me not living the way I should live. I don't want him to see me living an unholy life. Because when Jesus comes, my salvation will be complete. All of my hopes will be realized I don't want to be ashamed at his coming. And so what Peter is saying is you better get sober about this idea of the second coming of Jesus Christ. And when he comes, all of our salvation will be complete. The grace of God that began will be brought to an end at this revelation of Jesus Christ. And it's going to be a wonderful time. And so the point is, you better think about that. And you better let that get into your mind. And by the way, holiness begins with the way you think. And I've said this before, if you don't win the battle in your mind, if you don't win the battle on the inside with reference to this thing of holiness, you aren't going to win. It's got to start in the mind. It's got to start with your thinking. And so Peter says, be serious about this idea. Let it affect the way you think. Be sober in your thinking. Be serious in your thinking, but then also be sober, which is the idea of just self-control. The idea of, Peter will later t use the same expression, be on the alert, be sober, be vigilant. Your adversary, the devil, is like a roaring lion walking about and seeing whom he may devour. Sometimes when I drive home at night Uh it's it's it's dark, you know, maybe not so much now, but it was dark, you know, after church. And uh sometimes I'd pull up in the driveway and there would be animals out in the back of my yard. I saw deer running through my yard. They're not all that fearful But one time I pulled up and there was this big old fox with a big bushy tail. And I just looked at him. And he looked at me. We kind of greeted each other, you know. And uh a fox isn't a very scary animal. I wasn't afraid to get out of the car. You guys admire my courage there. But if I pulled up one time and I saw walking in the back of my yard a lion I think I would probably pray about maybe staying in the car at that point. If I knew that there was a lion on the prowl there in my property, I tell you what, it would affect the way I lived. It would affect my thinking. I would become very sober, and that's the whole idea that Peter is giving us here The way we think should affect the way we live. And if you're serious about this thing about the second coming of Jesus, him coming in glory, it will affect the way you live. And so one incentive for holy living is the glory of God. But here's the second one. Write down number two, the nature of God. Here's another incentive. Look at verse 14. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance. But verse Verse verse 16 says, because it is, or excuse me, verse 15, but as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Now here's the argument. Peter is saying we need to reflect the nature of God in our lives. And he's giving really two ideas here. We have to cultivate holiness. In verse 14, now as children of God, we're to be obedient. This is not what we were before. In verse 14, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance. The word fashioning yourselves there, interesting Greek word, schiz schismato. It's where we get the word scheme from. It's the idea of a pattern or a mold. We no longer live according to the pattern or mold of the world. That's not our scheme anymore. That's not the way we live. By the way, this word is used one other time in the New Testament. Can you guess where it is? Romans 12, 2. Be not conformed to this world. Same idea. Don't let the world put uh press you into its mold, its pattern. Because again, that's what the world is trying to do. The world is trying to squeeze us into its pattern, its mold. And Peter here is saying, don't live that way. That's the way you were before. You lived according to your former lusts, verse 14. You lived to fulfill the lust of the flesh and all of your desires. That was your past lifestyle It was marked not by obedience but by disobedience. And so what you have to do now is you have to cultivate this obedience, an obedient lifestyle, where it says as obedient children That's a Hebrew expression that means our life is to be characterized by obedience. This is what we are now And then holiness is a call. That's the other idea in verse 15. But as he which has called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. And the logic here in the argument is very, very simple. Children inherit the nature of their parents. And since now you are a child of God, now that you're saved, God is your father, you've been placed into his family, you are partakers of that divine nature. And so, therefore, you must reflect the nature of God. And what kind of nature does God have? It's very clear. God is holy, He's absolutely holy, and so this is the thing that should characterize your life. This idea of the holiness of God. One thing that I fear is that the church has become so comfortable, so casual That we have forgotten that we worship a holy God. We need not to lose sight of that Uh Stephen Charnock in his classic book, The Existence and Attributes of God, which by the way is a very thick book. Uh if you ever want to read that, it'll probably take you a few years. If you ever I challenge you to go ahead and start on that project, let me know how it goes, all right? But in that book, he points out that no other attribute of God is elevated to the third degree. It's an incredible point when you think about it. No other attribute of God is elevated to the third degree. In other words, the Bible never says God is eternal, eternal, eternal. It never says God is love, love, love. It never says God is mercy, mercy, mercy. We know that all of those things are true of God, of course. But when it gets to the attribute of the holiness of God, the Bible says, holy, holy, holy. There's something there about the holiness of God that is elevated to the third degree where God wants us to know that. He wants us to see that this is important. And I think as Christians we sometimes are a bit too shallow in our knowledge of God And the understanding that God is a holy God. I was reading about a a preacher who was telling his people that every morning when he shaves in the mirror, Jesus comes and meets with him there and puts his arm around him and talks to him in the morning. That's a flippant way to view God. And the response is, I mean, do you still keep shaving when he comes? Because in the Bible, whenever God appeared, you know what would happen? People would fall on their face. To acknowledge the holiness of God. They would be filled with a reverential awe and a fear. If you look at Isaiah 6, when Isaiah saw the holiness of God, he said, Woe is me I'm undying, I'm a man of unclean lips. He immediately saw how sinful he was in the presence of a holy God And sometimes I think we get a little too careless about this idea of the holiness of God. And this whole idea is something that we should think about. Talk about getting serious about the way we think. We should get serious about this idea of the holiness of God, because that in itself is an incentive for us to live holy lives. So, first of all, there's the glory of God. That serves as an incentive. There is the nature of God that serves as an incentive. But here's the third thing: write down the word of God This is also another incentive. Look in verse number 16. Because it is written, be ye holy, for I am holy. And here, Paul, or excuse me, Peter is quoting directly from the Old Testament scripture. He's quoting from Leviticus 11, 44, where it says, Be ye holy, for I am holy. And Peter is saying this is one of the incentives, is that the Scripture commands us to be holy. This is an imperative here that Peter gives us here in the Greek. It's a command, it's not a suggestion. Again, he's quoting from the Old Testament about a holy life. It's Peter saying, if you want an incentive for being holy, let me give it to you. The word of God commands us. To be holy. I think I mentioned this last week and I I'll mention it again in case you weren't here. Recently a megachurch pastor made the comment that we should unhitch from the Old Testament because it really is not valuable for us as Christians to use the Old Testament. But what I see is Peter here And Peter is quoting directly out of the Old Testament to New Testament believers. You say, I really don't like you mentioning these other guys. Well then just plug up your ears if you don't like it. I get a little angry when people try to cut up the Bible and say we don't need part of it. Forgive me if I have a little righteous indignation here. Just by virtue of their position, they should watch what they say. Because they're going to stand before a holy God one day. And so Peter here is saying, listen, the Bible commands it. It's scripture tells us that we should be holy. Now I know that as believers in the New Testament, we're not under Old Testament. ceremonies and civil laws, but there are laws in the Old Testament that are also taught in the New Testament that are binding for us there. And this is certainly one of them. But here's the whole point. Whatever you allow to influence your life the most, it will determine your progression in holiness. And there are two major influences in your life, whether you realize it or not. One is the influence of the world, and the other is the influence of the Word of God. And so the question is, which one of those two is influencing your life the most? And by the way, do we see this in John 17? Hold your place here in Peter. Go to John 17. Let me just show you this real quick. This is Jesus' high priestly prayer. This is a beautiful prayer that he gives. So very majestic. It shows us the kind of intercession that Jesus does for us even now. But in John 17, Jesus is praying for his disciples. And look in verse number, we'll start in verse number 8. For I have given them the words which thou gavest me, John 17 8, and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee. And they have believed, and thou didst send me, and I pray for them, I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me, for they are thine. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine, and I am glorified in them. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee, Holy Father, keep them through thy own name Those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are one. And Jesus continues on praying in this vein, but we don't have time to look at all of it. But look down at verse number 14. I have given them thy word, and the world hateth them. In verse 14, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. Look down at verse number 17. Sanctify them through thy truth. Thy word is truth. Now let me give to you in a nutshell what Jesus is saying here. My people are still in this world, but I have given them thy word. And the idea is the only way that we're going to be able to survive in this world that the Lord leaves us in is through the influence of His Word. That's the idea. You're either being crushed, conformed by the world with its pressure, or you're being transformed By the word of God. It's one or the other. That's what Paul said in Romans 12, right? Be not conformed to this world that is crushing you from the outside. Don't let it conform you into its mold But be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. When God changes us, He begins on the inside through the power and the influence of the Word of God. That's why it's important that you come to church You hear God's word, that's why it's important that you study God's Word, that you meditate every opportunity that you have, because the influence of the Word of God is keeping you from being pressed into the mold of the world. So it's one of those two influences. You know, when I was young, I used to watch the undersea undersea world of Jacques Cousteau, you remember that? Remember how sometimes they would take a big boat out there in the ocean and they would launch like a diving bell This l little submarine type you know thing where it would just go down to the bottom of the ocean and you know what we know according to uh scientists that there's water pressure at the bottom And the question is, why doesn't that little diving belt, why isn't it crushed? Because the deeper it goes in the water, the greater the pressure from the outside, and really you can go low enough where that thing could just really be crushed completely The question is, what keeps it from being crushed by the water pressure? Well, there's an airline that goes straight up to the ship. And that airline is pumping air down inside that diving bell, and the pressure on the inside matches the water pressure on the outside. And it keeps them from being crushed and conformed to the water. And we could say it like this: we have a line, we have a union that connects us with the Lord Jesus Christ. And the reason we're not conformed to the world is because we keep that line open. We keep the pressure that He gives us from the Word of God, from communion with Him. It equals the pressure of the world. So, friend, we're not being crushed by the world. We're being influenced by the word that Jesus gives us. And so that's an incentive to holiness. What we have to do is we have to be in the Word of God. We have to constantly be letting Scripture renew our mind. That's a key expression that we see in the Bible. And we see it in Romans 12. Be ye transformed, how? By the renewing of your mind. And so the question is, are we allowing that to take place in our life? Also write down 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Where it talks about as we look into the pages and see the glory of Christ, we're transformed into that image of glory. So as we look at the glory of Jesus in the scripture, we are changed into that image We're sanctified, and so there's power in the scripture when we look at it, when we study it, when we allow it to renew our mind Write down Ephesians four twenty-two, that you put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt to the deceitful lust And be renewed in the spirit of your mind, and that you put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. So we put on The Lord Jesus Christ, we put on the new man, and we are made more holy. Now let me give you the fourth thing One incentive is the glory of God. Another incentive is the nature of God. A third incentive is the word of God. Let me give you a fourth incentive, the judgment of God. Go back to 1 Peter if you're not there. 1 Peter 1 and look down at verse number 17. Notice what it says there in verse 17. And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judges according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourn here in fear. And so what's Peter telling us here? Peter's point is this: God is not only your father, he's also your judge And he's no respecter of persons. He's holy. He will not compromise with sin. And one day we must stand before him in judgment. And really, you say, what judgment is Peter talking about here? Really, there are three judgments in the Bible when it comes to relation with mankind. How does God judge? He judges as sinners And by the way, when we come to Christ, that judgment is taken care of in Christ. Because when we receive Jesus Christ, all of our judgment for sin is put on him. Thank God for that. But there's a judgment for sinners who do not trust Jesus as their Savior. And then there's a judgment as sons. Just write down Hebrews chapter 12. God will sometimes chastise us because we are his children. That's another form of judgment. The writer of Hebrews says that. Have you forgotten the exhortation? Which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor be faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens. And so there is a judgment that God gives as we are his children. And if you're his child and you continue to disobey, he will chastise you, he will judge you as his child. But the judgment that Peter is talking about here is the judgment seat. Just write down 1 Corinthians 11. 31 will be judged as servants, as servants. The Bible says we'll stand before the judgment seat of Christ. And so we will be judged according to the works. That we render unto the Lord. It's called the Bema seat. That's 2 Corinthians 5, 9 through 10. I gave you a wrong reference there a minute ago. 2 Corinthians 5, 9 through 10. It's called the judgment seat of Christ. And one day when we stand before him, he will judge us as servants. We will never go to hell because that has already been paid for by the Lord Jesus Christ, our eternal salvation. Sometimes, you know, I'll hear men pray in church and they'll get a little confused in this area. And every once in a while I'll hear someone say, Lord, grant that I stand before thy great white throne judgment. And I say, please don't pray that for me. Say why? Because if you read in Revelation 20, the great white throne judgment is a judgment for sinners that will be cast into the lake of fire. Now, friend, if you want to stand before that throne, that's up to you. But I don't want to stand there. The judgment that Peter is talking about is not the great white throne, it is the judgment seat of Christ. Where we're judged as servants. And what will God judge? He will judge how we have served him, how we have walked. You see, you can't lose your salvation, but you can lose your reward. You can lose blessings. You can serve in such a way whereas it's not pleasing to the Lord. You can be saved so as by fire And when the Lord judges us, the Bible says in 1 Corinthians that he'll judge to see whether our works are wood, hay, and stubble. or gold, silver, and precious stones. It'll be judged by the fire of heaven. You see, I'm a Christian. I don't fear the fire of hell. I fear the fire of heaven. And when that fire judges my works, what will be left standing? Will it be gold, silver, and precious stones, or will everything be burned up? Because I haven't pursued holiness. I haven't lived the kind of life that the Lord has expected from me to live. The Bible says that every man's work shall be made manifest in that day. And so Peter is telling us, you know, this this should cause us to fear. Again, look at verse 17. For if you call on the Father, who without respect or persons judges according to every man's work Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear. There should be a little bit of a fear here as a believer, knowing that I'm just a sojourner on the earth. That is the idea of a pilgrim. Don't forget that. This is not my home. I'm here temporary. I'm headed towards the heavenly city. I'm just a sojourner. Life is too short to waste it in disobedience and sin and half-hearted service to the Lord. So I need, as I walk this pilgrim journey, to do it with a bit of fear, knowing that one day I'm going to stand before the Lord and He's going to judge me for all the works that I do. And he'll either say, Well done, good and faithful servant, or he'll call me an unprofitable servant. Or I'll lose my reward if I don't serve in an acceptable way. So there should be that bit of fear that I have As I'm serving the Lord. Let me give you the last one. Another incentive for holiness. The glory of God should motivate me. The nature of God Should motivate me. The word of God should motivate me to live holy. The judgment of God. But here's the last one. If none of these other ones have convinced you, this final one should. What's the last incentive? The Lamb of God. The Lamb of God. Look at verse 18. For as much as you know You were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ as a lamb without blemish without spot, who verily was forordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifesting these last times for you? Who by him do believe in God that raised him up from the dead and gave him glory that your faith and hope might be in God And what's Peter here saying? Peter reminds us of something that we already know. He tells us that, for as much as you know, you already know this. How was your redemption bought? What was it that paid for your salvation? How were you redeemed? And the whole point here is that we were bought with an incredible price. A price that was so high. It's beyond our comprehension. Look at the word redeemed. Now, when we think of the word redeemed, that's normally a theological term for us, but it had a very special meaning to the people in the first century Roman Empire. There were probably 60 million slaves in the Roman Empire. Many of these slaves became Christians and they fellowshipped in churches. And it was possible for a slave to buy his own freedom. If he could collect funds Enough money, he could buy his freedom and be set free. And redemption was a very precious thing in those days. Not many slaves were able to be redeemed. Not many were able to purchase their own freedom. And so it was a very, very precious thing. And Peter reminds them of redemption. And how precious it is. And he says to us as believers, you also needed redemption. And redemption, in redemption, there is a cost. It involves a cost. And God redeemed us at an infinite cost. And what was that cost? It was the precious blood of Christ. That's what set us apart to begin with. We're not it's not holiness is not even possible unless first of all the precious blood of Christ pay for our sins You see, we don't try to be holy in order to get saved. We're saved, and now we should live in holiness. Holiness is not the way to Christ. Christ is the way to holiness. But it came because of his precious blood. And that one thought right there, just a moment ago, we sang a song about the Lamb of God. And this morning when we were in our service, we came to the Lord's table. And we you know what we do when we come to the Lord's table is we focus on the cross. We focus on the redemption that is ours, of the blood of Christ. that was shed. All of that is very purposeful. And I think Peter is saying that when if you want an incentive for holiness, just think about your redemption. Think about the infinite price that was paid to purchase your redemption, that in itself alone ought to motivate you to live a holy life. The next time you're tempted Think about the Lamb of God. Think about the precious blood of Christ. Think about what it costs God to give us salvation. Meditate on that one thing. There was a song or a poem that was actually later put to music, written by Francis Haverdegale. And she saw a picture of the crucified Christ with this caption under it, I did this for thee. What hast thou done for me? And so she wrote the words of a poem, I gave my life for thee, my precious blood I shed, that thou might ransom be and quicken from the dead. I gave, I gave my life for thee. What hast thou given for me? serious things to consider there in that poem. A good question. And so the question is Do we really value our redemption? Enough to that to the point to where it is a motivation for us to live a holy life. I heard about a seminary student. And he told a story of how he fell in love with golf. And so his parents bought him some golf clubs But they didn't buy him a real golf ball. They buy those little plastic balls with holes in it, you know, before they actually bought him a real golf ball. Uh because they were a little afraid of what he might do, you know. So he said one day he thought he was by himself and he went out, he got himself a real golf ball. And he went out to the backyard. And he put that golf ball down with his golf club and he swung that golf club and he hit that ball and that ball hooked and it went right through the front window of the living room. And he heard that glass shatter. And then he heard someone inside just scream, a piercing scream. And the boy ran into the house. And he saw his mother and she was holding her hand to her head and she was bleeding. And he said, Oh mother, he was so, so afraid. He hugged her and he said, I'm so sorry. And she said, it's okay, I'm fine. But he said after that, when he saw his mother bleeding, he said he could never ever again pick up a golf club. Because every time he would reach to grab a golf club He would see the blood flowing from his mother's head. And he basically said, that changed my whole behavior When I saw the blood of my mother, it changed my whole behavior. And so you get the point. When we think about the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, It should change our behavior. It should be an incentive for holiness for us. Leonard Ravenhill has written this. He said, The greatest miracle that God can do today is to take an unholy man out of an unholy world, make that man holy, put him back into that unholy world, and keep him holy in it. And how does God do that? He does that as we think about the glory of God, the nature of God, the word of God, the judgment of God, as we think about the Lamb of God. That in itself is enough to motivate us to holiness. So let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, I just pray that you'll help us to take to heart the message of Peter gives us. So very important. There's not a person in here tonight, Lord, that doesn't struggle. Against sin, living in an unholy world with all the pressure of the world And I pray, Lord, that you'll use this to stir hearts. This was the intention of Peter, I believe, when he wrote it. To give to believers who were going through a difficult time, motivations. to live out the calling that you've placed upon us to be holy people in this difficult world. So Lord, let it speak to our hearts. Let it be a motivation for us. May we perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. Help us, Lord, I pray. And we pray all these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen.