Would you take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Mark, chapter 14? Mark chapter 14, and we're going to look at verse 27. Of Mark chapter 14 and one down. Mark chapter 14, verse 27. And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. But Peter said unto him, although all shall be offended, yet will not I And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. But he spake more vehemently. If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. And likewise also said they, Oh, thank you so much, you may be seated. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for how it instructs us. And I pray that you will bless us this morning as we look to it And apply this to our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. It's generally believed that when Mark wrote this gospel, he was a protege of Peter So when he was writing this gospel, a lot of his source material came from Peter himself, who was an eyewitness of the Lord. Jesus. That's why when you read through the Gospel of Mark, you'll see a lot about the life of Peter. You see glimpses of his life. This is especially true in this narrative that we're going to be looking at this morning, in the life of Jesus, during the Passion Week. The main plot of this whole narrative is Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane, and then he's arrested, and then he's put on trial. That's the main theme. But there's a subplot that runs right alongside the arrest of Jesus And that subplot is the failure of Peter as a disciple. When Jesus is being falsely accused, Peter is also going through the trial of his life While Jesus is suffering and he's about to be made the sin for the world bear the sins of the world. Peter is failing, and the Lord is going to use the failure in the life of Peter to make him strong. Let me just say failure is bad, but it can be used for our ultimate good if we learn from it. If we learn just how weak we really are and learn to depend upon the Lord in a new way, then out of our failures, God can use us greater. Weakness becomes strength when we give it to God. You remember when God called Peter, his name was Simon, and God and Jesus said to him, I'm going to change your name from Simon to Peter. Peter actually means rock. And in essence, what Jesus was saying is, Peter, I'm going to make you a rock. Simon is a name that really means unstable or shifting like sand. And so in a sense, Jesus was saying I'm going to take you from being an unstable person and I'm going to make you as strong as a rock. And one of the things that the Lord used in the life of Peter to make him so strong was his failure. So this is the story of Peter's denial. We can learn from this because all of us have failed Christ at some point in our life. And I know that you're like me, you do not want to fail the Lord in your Christian life. And so we can learn from studying the failure of Peter. Why did Peter fail? What mistakes did he make? What did he need to avoid? What can we learn in our own life that will help us? So I want you to look in this passage with me. We're going to be looking at a long narrative here, but we're going to just be picking out spots as we talk about this. But I want you to see the reasons for spiritual failure. And here's the first one. Number one, we fail because we forget about our spiritual enemy. Look again at verse 27. And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night. That is, all of you are going to stumble, all of you are going to fail. Now in Luke's gospel in this account, Luke says this. Listen to Luke chapter 22, verse 31. And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat. That is to say, Peter, don't you understand that Satan has asked permission to get at you? Did you know that Satan can do nothing to us unless he gets the Lord's permission? And sometimes God in his wisdom will grant that permission. And this reminds us of the story of Job, doesn't it? Remember the Bible tells us in Job there was a time when all the angels appeared before the Lord and Satan came among them. And the Lord said to Satan, You know, why are you here? What have you been doing? Of course the Lord already knew why Satan was there. He knows everything, but he wanted to put Satan on record. And Satan says, You know, I've been walking up and down in the earth, going to and fro And really the translation of that is is this. You know, I'm I'm having it pretty easy, God. I'm going everywhere I want to go, I'm doing whatever I want to do, I'm meeting with no resistance, my kingdom is advancing, everything is going very well. Where are your people? There's no one out there to challenge me. I've placed my strongholds in the hearts of all of Your people, I have my foot in every door. Spurgeon said this, the evil one boasted that he had gone to and fro throughout the earth, insinuating that he met with no hindrance to his will And then you remember the story where God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? The Hebrew word there for considered is appointed or set upon, or we could say targeted. Have you targeted my servant Job? There's none like him in the earth, perfect and upright, one who fears God. and recoils or hates evil. Did you know that whenever you seek to live for God and you want to please the Lord, you can rest assured that Satan will put a target on your back. He's not going to allow you to go unhindered to serve the Lord. And so this is what The Lord is reminding Peter. Peter, do you not understand that Satan has requested permission of you? And by the way, the word you there is in the plural. And the Greek, which is me which means that Satan was trying to get at all of the disciples, not just Peter, all of them. However, Peter was the leader. And when you want to get in a group, you go through the leader. And this is especially true. If you're a leader in some way, Satan will get at you to get at others. And so Jesus is is reminding Peter, he's warning Peter about his enemy. Who is bent on our destruction? What does the Bible tell us? Satan is like a roaring lion walking to and fro, going about seeking to whom he may devour. And so we need to be careful. We need to understand that in the background, Satan is always there. He is working for your destruction. He wants to bring you down. J. C. Raoul said this the world is a snare to the believer, the flesh is a burden and a clog, but there is no enemy so dangerous as that restless, invisible, experienced enemy, the devil, And if we forget about our spiritual enemy, we will fail. Here's number two. We fail to take the Lord's warning seriously. Again, look at verse twenty-seven. Jesus is warning them in a way, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it's written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. Now, remember the scene here. They're just leaving the upper room. Jesus now goes through the eastern gate with the disciples. He goes down through the valley of Kedron. He crosses that little brook that's there that's filled with water at that time because of the of the uh the melting from the uh w the the the winter snow that's come down from the north And probably in that water is also mingled with blood from the sacrifices of the lambs that are in the temple. This would be a reminder of what the Lord was going to do, shed his blood for the sins of the world. And as they're crossing that brook They start to head up the Mount of Olives. And this is what they're doing. They're walking up the Mount of Olives. And Jesus gives this warning that we just read in verse 27. All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. So he gives this little warning to the disciples. Now they needed it because their attitude wasn't right. What was their attitude? Well, we're reminded in the Gospel of John. how that the disciples were even in the upper room still arguing about who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom. They still didn't really comprehend or grasp What was taking place at that very moment, the momentous events that were taking place. And so Jesus gives a sobering prediction and mixed with a warning. Where he says, you're going to be offended at me. And he quotes from Zechariah 13, 7, I will smite the shepherd and the sheep shall be scattered. But after that I'm risen, I will go before you into Galilee. Now, so the the response of the disciples is one of God to be shock and surprise. We will never abandon you, Lord. We're not going to abandon you. So really, in a sense, they don't take his warning very serious. Whenever God in Scripture gives us a warning, it's for our protection. It's because he loves us. I read early on the morning of December 7, 1941, there was a young man at his radar that he had new radar equipment. He saw a huge blip on the s radar. It indicated a large group of planes. He made a phone call Later the he the the uh the phone call was returned and they said just ignore that blip. What you're probably seeing are American B-17 bombers coming in from San Francisco. Of course it was not. That was Pearl Harbor. You know the history there. Because a warning was given and it was ignored. People died. Again, Scripture is filled with warnings for us, and we need to take those warnings seriously. We fail because we forget about our spiritual enemy We fail because we fail to take the Lord's warnings seriously. But here's number three, we fail because we're overconfident about our spiritual condition. Look at Peter's response to Jesus in verse number 29. But Peter said unto him, although all shall be offended, yet will not I Lord, everyone else might fail. Everyone else might stumble. Everyone else might be offended in you, but not me. I'm not like everyone else, Lord Peter was so confident in his own spiritual condition that he didn't put himself in the same category as everyone else. I will never deny you. You know, Peter failed to realize the weakness of his own flesh. And beloved, the moment you say it can't happen to me, it will happen to you. Someone said, A proud man tempts the devil to tempt him. No wonder Satan was asking permission to get at Peter. Peter was acting so proud, so puffed up. And Satan says, I want to get at him. You see, overconfidence is a problem for a believer. This is the very thing that Paul warned the Corinthians about. If you were here last week, I touched on this. The Corinthians were so overconfident. In fact, the expression that Paul used for the Corinthians several times in that letter is that they were puffed up. You're puffed up. You're overconfident. They were so confident that they felt like they could walk close to the edge and do things. They could take their Christian liberty and use it In a way that flaunted their liberty and abused their liberty. And Paul said, you better be careful In fact, the Christians were so overconfident they felt like they could go into a pagan temple, they could sit down and eat and eat at a pagan temple and it not affect them spiritually. They felt like they could do a lot of things And it not affect their spiritual life. And you remember the warning that Paul gave in 1 Corinthians 10, 12, wherefore let him that thinks he stands take heed lest he what? Lest he fall. You better watch out. When you walk in overconfidence like that, you're right for a failure. And so Paul says to them in that passage, run from idolatry, flee from it Flee from temptation. Flee from any circumstance that could cause your fall. And so we need to take heed to that. Sometimes we're overconfident about our spiritual condition, and that makes us ready for failure. We fail because we forget about our spiritual enemy. Because we fail to take the Lord's warning seriously, because we're overconfident. But here's another reason we fail, because we're careless in our prayers. Look down in verse number 32. Because it th the scene will shift. And they came to a place which is named Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, Sit ye here while I shall pray. And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy. And saith unto them, My soul is exceedingly sorrowful unto death. Tarry ye here and watch. And he went forward a little and fell on the ground, and prayed that if it were possible, that the hour might pass from him. Here Jesus and the disciples finally make it to Gethsemane, which is when you're traveling the way that Jesus came, you go halfway up Mount Olives. And there is that garden. It's a garden full of olive trees. And in that garden there was an olive press. In fact, the word Gethsemane means oil press or olive oil press. And of course they would take the olive oils and put them in the press and make olive oil. And uh it was here in this garden that Jesus wept and he prayed. And in fact, in fact we saw the phrases he was sore amazed, very heavy, exceedingly sorrowful. This reveals the human suffering of Jesus there in the garden. Really the suffering of Christ began right there in that garden when he was praying. He was overwhelmed. with anguish as he contemplated taking the cup that God was going to give him to be made sin on the cross to bear the sin of the world to be separated from the Father And he prayed with such agony that the Bible says in Luke's account, Luke who's the doctor who would give uh attention to this, Luke says he was in such agony that he sweat, as it were, great drops of blood falling to the ground. And also in Luke's account, what we read is that when Jesus got to the garden with the disciples, he exhorted them to pray, pray, pray that you enter not into temptation. They needed prayer for this time. This was an incredible moment in redemptive history. And prayer was needed more than ever Did you know as Christians we're to be consistent in our prayers, but there are times in our life when we need to pray more fervently than usual. When we need to seek the Lord more than ever. And this was one of those times. Here Jesus asked the disciples to pray. He prayed fervently. He's praying for God to give him the strength. And when he says in verse 35, rather, excuse me, verse verse 35, he went forward a little and fell on the ground and prayed. that if it were possible the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee. Take away this cup from me, nevertheless, not what I will, but what thou wilt You see, Jesus' request here was to ask, is there any way that a redemption might be accomplished through some other means? Did he have to Bear sin. And this request from Jesus was not a sign of weakness, beloved. This was just a natural response of someone who was sinless, who is holy, who is pure. He recoiled at the thought of bearing the sin of the world, of becoming sin for us, of being separated from the Father. This was a normal response. From someone who is absolutely holy. And yet at the same time, he submitted not my will, but thine be done. What an example that is to us. There may be times in our life that God calls upon us to do something that we don't particularly want to do. We're not looking forward to that particular thing, and yet whatever we submit willingly. to whatever the Father says. This is Jesus being an example for us in this. At this crucial moment, what does Jesus find? Look at verse 37. And he cometh and he finds them sleeping And said unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? Couldest thou not watch with me one hour? He comes in and he finds Peter asleep. And then again in verse uh forty-one he comes in, or uh excuse me, verse thirty-nine he comes in again The second time, and again he went away and prayed and spake the same words. Verse 40, and when he returned, he found them to sleep again, for their eyes were heavy. So they're sleeping when they should be fervently praying, not only for themselves, but for their Lord. And then again the third time, look at verse 41, and he come the third time. And saith unto them, Sleep on now, take your rest, it is enough. Go ahead and sleep because the time is here. Go ahead and rest, it's enough. There's a document that I read while I was in seminary called the Tractate Yoma. I say this just to impress you. I read the Tractate Yoma. You say, what in the world is the Tractate Yoma? Well, it is a Jewish document that talks about how the high priests would prepare for the Day of Atonement. And in that document, it says that every high priest, before he would go into the Holy of Holies on the Day of Atonement, would spend the previous night in prayer. Getting himself ready for that incredible transaction when he would sprinkle the blood of the lamb on the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies, only the high priest could enter in there once a year, and he had to make sure that he was ready. And he would always stay up reading scripture and praying, getting his soul ready. And he would always have younger priests around him praying as well. But also when the high priest would begin to fall asleep, the younger priests would snap their fingers and say, Sir High Priest, Sir High Priest, wake up, wake up It's incredible, however, here in this scene that we saw in the garden, it wasn't the high priest Jesus that was falling asleep. It was the younger priests falling asleep. Because Jesus is a greater high priest. But what we see here in this is that Peter and the disciples are sleeping when they should be praying. They're careless about prayer. When your spiritual life gets to the point where you're careless about your prayers, you're in danger. You're in danger of falling. Prayer is our source of strength. Prayer unleashes the power of God in our life. We fail because we forget about our spiritual enemy, because we fail to take the Lord's warning seriously. Because we're overconfident, because we're careless in our prayers. But here's number five, we fail because we're dependent upon our own strength. Our own fleshly strength and ideas. Now, the scene again changes a bit because now Jesus is in the garden. And no sooner does he finish speaking to the disciples saying, go ahead and rest, that a multitude comes, a mob of soldiers. Look at verse 43. And immediately while he yet spake cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders, and he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, the same as he, take him, and lead him away safely. And as soon as he was come, he goes straightway to him and said, Master, Master, and kissed him. So here comes Judas with a a crowd of soldiers. And Judas comes and the idea was, the plan was, is the one that I kiss, that will be the one you'll know to take him and arrest him And so Judas comes and he gives Jesus a kiss. This is the most despicable kiss in human history because it betrayed the Lord Jesus. It was hypocritical. a sign of affection using to be used for betrayal. And when they saw that Judas kissed Jesus, the Bible says that Peter sprang into action. Now, Mark doesn't give Peter's name here, but we know from the Gospel of John that Peter does something that is kind of foolish. You know, he's not ready. He's been sleeping in the garden, you know. So spiritually, he's not ready for what's about to happen. And when they take when they grab hold of Jesus, Peter takes a sword, and he wields this sword and he smotes the servant. Of the high priest, the Bible says, and he cut off his ear. Now, Peter, by doing this, shows how unprepared he really is. And by the way, in Matthew's gospel, it records that Jesus rebuked Peter. He said, Peter, put up the sword. And he said this, he said, Don't you know? Thinkest thou not that I can now pray to my father and he can presently give me more than twelve legions of angels presently is immediately. Peter, you don't have to fight. I don't need your backup. I already have backup All I had to do is just pray. Immediately, the Father will send 12 legions of angels. That's 72,000 angels. I think they could do the job, don't you? The Bible says in the Old Testament one angel killed 185,000 Assyrians. So 72,000 could do the job very well. But Peter didn't need to defend the kingdom of God because the Lord doesn't need that kind of help. And here's an example of Peter depending on his own ideas, his own fleshly strength. To try to win a battle. Peter's a fisherman and he tries to be a soldier. That's why when he took a swipe at this guy, I think he was aiming at his whole head and he only got his ear. Here's Peter trying to win spiritual victories with a carnal weapon. If Peter had been awake in the garden, he would have heard Jesus say, Not my will, but thine be done. He would have heard Jesus submitting to what was about to happen. But here he seeks to do battle against Christ's enemies in the flesh. in his own way. Listen to what Second Corinthians ten four says. The weapons of our warfare are not carnal, that is physical. But mighty through God through the pulling down of strongholds. Listen, the kingdom of God does not advance by using fleshly weapons. That's not how we advance in our world today. We don't advance by using guns or by using uh any kind of weapon, physical weapon, or political maneuvering Or any of those things. That's not how the kingdom of God advances. The Bible says in John 18, 36, Jesus told Pilate, he said, Look, if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight My kingdom's not of this world. The kingdom of God is not of this world. And so there's no need to pick up a sword and fight like that. And so Peter is a reminder to us that when we try to use our own flesh and strength and our own ideas, that we will fail. In the kingdom of God. We will fail. So we fail because we forget about our spiritual enemy. Because we take we fail to take the Lord's warning seriously. We're overconfident. We're careless on our prayers. We depend upon our own physical strength, fleshly strength. But then here's the last thing I want you to see. We fail because we're not strong enough to stand up against worldly pressure. So look down at verse number 53. And when they led Jesus away to the high priest, and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes, verse 54, and Peter followed afar off. even into the palace of the high priest, and he sat with the servants, and he warmed himself at the fire. So as they arrested Jesus, they take him away. Where are they taking him? Well first they're going to take him to the palace of Caiaphas who is the high priest. There will be his first series of trials. It will be Jewish trials. They're at the the palace of Caiaphas. And the Bible says Peter, he kind of follows afar off. Where are the other disciples? Well they all ran. It says in verse 50. And they forsook them and they fled. Just like Jesus said to what happened. They ran. Peter, we have to give him a little credit here. He follows afar off. And w there's a young man mentioned in verse 51 and verse 52. And and look at verse 51. And there followed him a certain young man Having a linen cloth cast about his naked body, and the young man laid hold on him, and he left the linen cloth and fled from them naked. Who is that Well, most scholars believe that's John Mark who is the writer of this gospel. And no wonder he didn't give his name. If that were you, you wouldn't give your name either. What happened with John Mark? Well, he heard about what was going on. He ran up to the Garden of Gethsemane. He was it was nighttime, so he was wearing his pajamas. You ever run out in your pajamas somewhere at night? That's what Mark does here. When he sees what's going on, the soldiers come and get Jesus, there's evidently little commotion there. Someone grabs him, he leaves his pajamas in that guy's hands and he runs and sli Slithers away in the darkness of night with nothing on. And so here, really, everyone ditched him. Peter, he's following afar off. And then he even has enough nerve to go into the outer courts of the palace waiting to see what's going to happen, and while he's there He gets into some company that he shouldn't be around. As one country preacher said, he warms himself by the devil's fire here. He's here with this crowd. And pressure begins to be put on Peter. You know, that's how the world operates, did you know that? You know what the world does to the Christian? The world puts pressure on Christians. Why? Because the world wants us to be conformed to its own image. That's how the world operates. So the world will intimidate the Christian. The world will intimidate the church or seek to The world will put pressure on you to conform. Remember what Paul wrote in Romans 12, too? Be not conformed to this world, an interesting word there. Literally means to be stamped like metal or to be molded. To be pressed into a mold. Don't be pressed into the mold of the world. That's what the world is constantly trying to do. Conform us into its image. But the Word of God, you know what the Word of God does? It transforms us. That's why Paul said, be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. The world seeks to conform us from the outside to its image. The Word of God transforms us from the inside to be made like Christ. You know, there are two great influences in your life today. There's the world and the word of God. The world on the outside is trying to conform you. The word of God from the inside is trying to transform you. And it's whichever you have allowed to be the dominant influence in your life will determine whether or not you fail. I used to watch the uh these uh shows about going under the sea. You ever watch the undersea world of Jacques Cousteau? You know, I remember watching that when I was a kid. And he would get in this diving bell and it would be launched from the side of a ship and the diving bell would go way, way, way down in the water, and the commentator would say, you know, the water pressure on the outside should crush this diving bell But the only thing that's keeping this diving bell from being crushed by the water pressure is that they're pumping air pressure down into this, and the air pressure being pumped into it equals the water pressure on the outside. And to me, that's an illustration of the Christian in this world. You're in this world. God leaves us in this world, not so that we would be conformed to the world by the pressure of the world. But that we would be transformed by the Word of God and be an example to this world. God's not going to take us out of this world. We're in this world. However, we're being pressured from all sides. The evil philosophies of this world, the dominating ideas, and the world is coming to us and trying to intimidate us and trying us to fold get us to fold and to believe all of its philosophies and its ungodly ideas. The only way you're going to escape that is through the power of the Word of God in your life. That's the only way. But here's Peter. And now he's in a situation where he's being pressured by the world. And notice what happens in the story. We'll just let it unfold. Look at verse 66. And as Peter was beneath the palace, And verse 66, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest, and when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him and said, And thou also was with Jesus of Nazareth. But he denies, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out to the fortune of Cockrow Here's this maiden. She says, you know, you're, I recognize you. You're one of those disciples. You were with Jesus, and Peter says, I don't know who you're talking about. And there's the first rooster crowing. And then look down at verse number 69. And the May saw him again and began to say to them that stood by, this is one of them. And verse 70, and he denied it again. And a little after that they stood by and said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them, for thou art a Galilean, and thy speech agreeeth thereto. And they began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. So the second time the maid comes, this time she speaks to the crowd. This is one of them Peter says, I don't know what you're talking about. A third time. Now it's the crowd. No, it's it switches to they in verse 70. They come. And they say your speech betrays you. You're one of them, you're from the northern Galilean area. And Peter says, you know, you want to hear some speech, and so he curses and he denies the Lord at that point, the third time. And then in verse 72, the rooster crows again. In verse 72 And it says, in the second time the cockroach, and Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him before the cockroach, twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereupon, he wept. He was devastated. You can imagine. Here's Peter before saying, I'll never deny you. That same night, he denies the Lord. Peter was so devastated that if you read in John chapter 21, verse 3, Peter said to the other disciples, I go fishing. And that didn't mean that he was going to take a little break and throw a line in the water. What that meant was I'm going back into the fishing business. This was in the linear. I'm going back into the fishing business. God is done with me. I fail to the point where God can't use me You ever you ever been there? You ever think that you failed to the point where God can't use you? Well let me just tell you this. That's never true. God does not give up on us. Let me how does Jesus respond? Well, first of all, he's not surprised Remember, Jesus saw this coming. Remember, he predicted it. Simon, Simon, Satan has desired to have you that it might sift you as wheat. But I pray for you that your faith fail not, and when you're converted, strengthen the brethren. Jesus knew all this was going to happen, and he was going to use this failure in the life of Peter to make him stronger. He's not surprised when we fail. He doesn't cast us aside and say, I'm done with you. In fact, what does he do? This is the second thing. He prays for us in our time of testing. You know when the Lord is more merciful with us than at any time is when we fail. He understands our weakness. He understands our frailty. And he comes to us in our weakness and he prays for us. You know, that's why I know I can't lose my salvation because Jesus is praying for me. It's his prayers that keep my faith from utterly falling away. And then number three, he uses failure to make us stronger. Notice he said, When thou art converted, Peter, strengthen the brethren. When you're converted. Now, he's not talking about salvation here. He's not talking about spiritual conversion in the sense of being saved. He's talking about spiritual growth. Peter would reach a new milestone in his life. He would be converted from being someone who would depend upon his own strength, his own wisdom, his own flesh. And he would learn to humbly trust in God in a new way. You see, his pride was dealt a death blow And he realized how arrogant, how weak he really was. And he learned to cast himself on the Lord in a new way. He repented. He got forgiveness And you know what? He used the failure that he had to go and strengthen the other disciples. You know why? Because the other disciples failed too. And he needed to help them along. Have you failed the Lord? Well, you're listening to someone who has failed the Lord too And if I can strengthen you and help you, that would be a blessing. That's what God used Peter to do. Peter, you failed. Jesus will fully restore us. And it'll bring us to a place of greater usefulness. That's what he did with Peter. You remember in John 21, three times? He asked, Peter, Peter, do you love me? Three times. Peter said, Lord, you know I love you. What was he doing? Jesus was restoring him And I'm here to tell you, beloved, regardless of what you've done, if you repent like Peter, if you look to Christ and put all of your dependence upon him, not on you, He'll use you. He will restore you. And that failure that you had, you'll learn from it and you'll be stronger than ever. before. Let me tell you something, folks. God uses people who fail because there aren't any other choices around. There are no other choices around. All of us fail. Thank God we have a God who's merciful And forgiving. And he takes people who are unstable and he makes them a rock. That's what God wants to do for you. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, I pray that you will use this word to strengthen the brethren. That are here, that are listening by way of live stream. Because all of us at some point in our life we have failed. We have failed you. And we need to understand how weak we really are. And we need to come to grips with the areas in which we have failed you. Forgive us for forgetting about our enemy, and for not taking your warning seriously, and for at times being overconfident And prayerless and for not having the strength to stand up against the pressure of the world. Lord, I pray that you will make us rocks, make us strong out of our failure Lord, would you conform us to be more like our Savior, the Lord Jesus? In this beautiful narrative, we see the contrast between the strength of Jesus and the failure of his disciples. Lord, make us more like our master. Strengthen us. And if there's someone here that's Struggling over a past failure. I pray, Lord, that you'll give them the grace to see your message here, to see that if they repent and turn from it and turn to you, you'll use them in a greater way than ever. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen