Take your Bibles tonight. Open to the book of Psalms, chapter number 33. Psalm 33 tonight. And uh We're going to be looking at this chapter, and the title of our sermon tonight is A Call to Worship. This is a psalm that is doing exactly that. It's calling God's people to worship the Lord. One thing that we notice when we look at this psalm is that the verbs in the psalm are plural, which means this is really talking about worshiping not just privately. We all have our times of private worship, but what he's referring to here is public worship This is the worship of God's people. The book of Psalms has been called Israel's hymn book because normally it's uh it's referring to Israel or individually the people of God in Israel But this psalm kind of follows a different pattern. It's looking to all nations, to all generations, to all people everywhere This is a call to worship God. It's a universal call from all over, not just Israel, but every nation. Not just the Jews, but every people. Every person are called to worship the Lord, to praise him. Someone said a rowboat in the sand is hard to move. But when the tide comes in, it's easy. And the church is like that. When genuine worship is absent from the church, we kind of struggle to do the work. But when there's a tide of praise and worship, That lifts us up, everything goes better. Everything goes easier. And this is really central to why We're here. We're here to worship the Lord. This is the most acceptable, the most well-pleasing thing that we can do for God is to worship Him and to praise Him. This is what God desires of us. And this is what we should come to church to do. And what we're going to see here in this chapter are four crucial elements of worship. Four crucial elements. If you're taking notes, write down number one, we're going to think about the people of worship. Who should worship God? Look at verse number one. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. Notice this is God's people calling those who have been redeemed to worship him. We are the people that should be worshiping God. If we don't do it, who who will? The world certainly isn't going to worship God. So this is a call for God's redeemed people. In fact, this is the reason God has redeemed us. Every time a person gets saved, they are added to that chorus of voices that give Glory and praise to God. In fact, that's what motivated Paul. Paul was always out there trying to get the gospel out because he knew that every time a person got saved and they were redeemed, he was adding another voice to the choir. And that it was a choir of people that were praising and worshiping God. Worship is a priority with the Lord. I mean, before there was this world, there were angels in heaven worshiping God. It was taking place. Referring to the angels, Nehemiah 9. 6 says, the heavenly hosts bow down before thee. They worship God constantly, angels do in heaven. In the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve were created and placed in the garden, that was part of what they did is they worshiped God. And of course we know that sin kinda entered into the picture and and that kinda hurt that. And worship was gone when sin entered in. And then if you just continue to go on in biblical history, you'll know that in the book of Exodus, God was calling his people out of Egypt. Why? Because he was gathering together a group of people that he had delivered so that they might worship him. Remember when God spoke to Pharaoh, what did God say? God said, Let my people go, that they may go and what? Sacrifice unto me or worship me. Several times God said that to Pharaoh Let my people go that they may serve me. Let my people go that they may worship me. That was the whole reason. And of course, when they were ultimately delivered What's the first thing that really took place after they traveled through Sinai? They came to the Holy Mount, and they had a huge worship service there be with God. Because God had called them out to worship. And then you think about the tabernacle in the book of Exodus. God specifically gave instructions on how to worship him How to build that tabernacle. If you want to know how important worship is to God, think about this. It took seven chapters, a total of 243 verses, for God to discuss All the worship that went on in the tabernacle. Now think about this. It took 31 verses to describe the creation of the whole universe. And it took all these verses to talk about worship. Why God was so very detailed. And what he wanted and how he wanted his people to worship him. And so if we come all the way to the New Testament into the church age. The gospel call is a call to worship God. Write down Philippians 3. 3. For we are talking about the church. Who are we? We are the true circumcision who worship God in the spirit and glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh That describes the church. We're the ones who spiritually have been cleansed. We worship God, and we have no confidence in the flesh. What did Paul say in Romans? Worship is our reasonable service. And beloved, if you don't like coming to church to worship, you're going to have a difficult time in heaven. You know why? Because heaven is going to be a pretty big worship service. The Bible tells us that in the book of Revelation. It's going to be an incredible, radical service of unceasing praise. Not only us, the saints, but all of creation. If you read Revelation chapter 4, uh the saints begin to praise God. They we fall down before uh the the Lord and in chapter 5 when the seals uh the the scrolls give into the The worthy one, the Lord Jesus, we all in heaven, we're going to cry out and worship to God. We're going to sing, Worthy is the Lamb. And on the second stanza, all the angels in heaven are going to join in. And then all of creation joins in. There's not going to be one silent voice there. All will be worshiping God. So who are the people that God is calling upon to worship? He's calling upon his people. But also he uses the word upright. That's those who are walking in obedience to the Lord. Let me just say this. Did you know that you really can't worship God the way you're called to if you're not walking in obedience to Him? Did you know that? And did you know that worship is not just something that we do here on the in the public service on Sunday and Wednesday, it is something that we should be doing every day of our life. It is really who we are. You remember when uh Jonah was uh discovered by the mariners and they said, Who are you and what do you do? And he said, I'm a Hebrew and I worship God. That's how he described himself. That's what I do in my life. I worship God. Now he wasn't doing a very good job at the moment because he was running from the Lord. But he was basically saying, look, this is how we live our life, and that's true of all of us. We worship God every day that we live. We give all to him. And we should be worshiping God privately. In fact, in the Bible, it talks about two types of worship. There is the private worship Where we're worshiping the Lord in our own personal and private life. And there are Psalms that talk about this. Psalm 138, verse 2. I will worship towards thy holy temple and praise thy name for thy loving kindness And for thy truth. And there he's just talking about his own personal time when he's praying and he's worshiping towards the temple And Psalm 9. 2, I will be glad and rejoice in thee. I will sing praise to thy name, O Thou Most High. Psalm 34, one, I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. That's all talking about the private worship. And so let me ask you a question: Do you worship God privately? It should be a part of who you are, a a daily expression of God's people to him. But then there's the public worship, there's the corporate worship, which is what we're doing here tonight, and there's many psalms that talk about that. Listen to Psalm 22 verse. 22. I will declare thy name unto my brethren. Listen, in the midst of the congregation I will praise thee. Psalm 22, verse 25, my praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. And on we could go. Now here's the point. If you're not worshiping God privately, consistently, you're not going to be able to really worship God that well publicly. Because worship is not something that we come to church to get. You know, sometimes I need to I hear people say, Well, I need to go to church and get on my worship. Look, friend, you don't come to church to get worship. You bring your worship to church. You understand that is something that you give, not something that you come to get I agree with one man who wrote this. He said music and liturgy can assist or express a worshiping heart, but they cannot make a non-worshiping heart into a worshiping one. The danger is that they can give a non-worshiping heart the sense of having worship. He goes on to say, so the crucial factor in worship in the church is not the form of worship, but the state of the heart of the saints. If our corporate worship isn't the expression of our individual worshiping lives, it is unacceptable. If you think you can live any way you want and then go to church, And turn on worship with the saints you're wrong. And that's very true. Our public worship in the congregation It's kind of an expression of our private worship of God. You can't live all week long in disobedience to the Lord and then all of a sudden come to church and turn on worship. Because let me tell you something, your obedience to God, that's a core part of your worship. If you're not walking in obedience, how can you be worshiping the Lord? Remember when uh Saul was disobedient to the Lord and then he pretended to sacrifice? And what did Samuel say? The Lord, uh, he delights more in obedience than he does burnt offerings and sacrifices. In fact, you can't bring a sacrifice You can't worship the Lord if you're walking in continual disobedience to his word. So who are the ones that can worship God? It is God's people. who are redeemed and those who are walking in fellowship, walking uprightly with the Lord. That's the people of worship. But then write down number two, the participation. In worship, because as I look in this chapter, I see uh several synonyms that speak of worship. In verse one, we see the word rejoice, so it's rejoicing. We see the word praise, so it's part of it is praising. Drop down to verse number 8 where it says, Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. So it's fearing the Lord. There's a sense of reverence there and standing in awe of him. That's kind of a parallel idea. Again, it's synonymous. All of that is part of worship. But we also see in this psalm that there are voices and instruments. Look in verse number two. Praise the Lord with harp. Sing unto him with a psalter and an instrument of ten strings Sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud noise. So part of worship is singing. When we come to church and we sing, we're not just taking up time. This is very meaningful. This goes all the way back into the early New Test Old Testament, all the way back into the worship. of God's people in Israel, how that part of what they did was they sang unto the Lord. And notice in verse 3 where it says, Sing with a loud noise. Some of you can relate to that, right? Uh you some people I hear them say, well, you know, I can't sing well, but I make a joyful noise. And actually that's biblical because right here in verse 3. Sing with a loud noise. Some of you sing pretty well, others you make a loud noise. I'm just kidding. You know what actually the word loud noise here is one, that phrase is one word in the Hebrew, and the word actually means shout for joy. It's just being joy. And really the idea here is enthusiasm. There should be enthusiasm when you are singing out Sometimes when people sing, it's kind of a half-hearted singing with no enthusiasm. And certainly God is worthy of a better effort and more than just that. There's been times, honestly, when on Sunday morning sometimes I want to come up to the pulpit and stop and singing and say, what's the matter with you people? You know, sing out. Do you understand who you're singing to? Do you understand what you're doing? We're giving this to God. This is not for your neighbor. This is not for anyone else. It's not for the preacher. It's unto who? It's unto the Lord. We're singing out unto God. And so the idea here is we sing with enthusiasm. And notice in verse 3 where it says, sing unto him a what? A new song. Now, some scholars debate what is meant by new. One Old Testament scholar, Luke Paul, said that it's one which springs freshly from the heart of that is thankful and rejoicing. Boyce wrote this, he said it's more likely, however, a new song that means that every pray song should emerge from a fresh awareness of God's presence. Another guy says that the new song might mean new in time or new in expression. So some people think it's the idea that Every time we come here, it's kind of a new song because we're having a new experience with the Lord. And just like the the Lord's mercies are new every morning, we could say it like this. God's mercies are not the fact that God is merciful is certainly not something that is new. It's his mercy the fact that he's merciful is old, and yet to us every day it's new. And there's a sense in which the fact that we want to sing and praise the Lord That's something we do all the time, and yet each day is kind of a new song. Because we have a new uh experience with God, a new time in his presence, and so it should be fresh But I think it also there's nothing wrong with writing new songs. You know, there's nothing wrong with new songs because new songs come with new experiences that God has given us, right? And so think about it. The psalmists, they were writing new songs all the time. And they were based on the new expressions that they had. And in fact, we see this This expression new song many times in the uh in the Psalm, Psalm 40 verse 3, he's put a new song in my mouth, even praise our God. Many shall see it in fear and shall trust in the Lord. Psalm 96. 1, sing unto Lord a new song. Psalm 98. 10, sing unto the Lord a new song. And we can keep going through the songs, but go all the way to the book of Revelation where it says, and they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy, O Lord. So there's nothing wrong with new songs. We should have songs that we continually are singing unto the Lord. It should be new in its freshness with us. Because we have new experiences, it should be done with enthusiasm. That's all part of the way that we worship God. But also playing, singing and playing, because it says again in verse number three: play skillfully. And back in verse number two, with a harp and with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. And so we can see that they were using instruments here. This is the first time in the Psalms that musical instruments are mentioned as being employed in worship. By the time you get to Nehemiah's day, they had kind of an ancient equivalent to an orchestra. They had all these instruments that they were incorporating into the service. And I think there's precedent that if people are able to play instruments and adds to the worship, then do it. Then do it. You know, sometimes we get this idea and it c I don't know where it comes from all the time, but you know, there's certain instruments you know we just shouldn't shouldn't play a lot of instruments in church. There's nothing wrong with that Nothing wrong with it at all. But notice where it says play skillfully. In other words, just do your best. Make sure that you are playing with your very best to the Lord. And one of the things that really made David stand out was his excellence in music, his excellence in playing with the harp. That kind of made him st Stand out, they saw his worshipful heart, they saw the skill with which he was able to play that instrument and sing unto the Lord. And so we need to do it with excellence. So we see the people of worship Secondly, we see the participation, but thirdly, notice the purpose of worship. Why do we worship? And we can see this from verses 4 on down. In fact, this is kind of the meat of the chapter. But let me just stop right here for a minute and answer this one question. What is worship? Let's be very specific. The word means to give honor and reverence and adoration and praise and glory to a superior being. Many times this word was used to ascribe to a false God and it Old Testament. And so the word itself was not necessarily a sacred word in that sense, but the word it it can be used to speak about worshiping the wrong thing. But in the context of the Christian, it's used to talk about worshiping God. And it means to give him reverence, give him respect. Give them adoration. The New Testament word is proskinea, which means to kiss towards or to bow down. And again, it's the idea of really just giving. We're giving adoration. We're giving praise. And so essentially then worship is giving. It's giving God the respect and the honor and the reverence that is due unto Him. Again, we don't come to church to get We come to church to give. Sometimes people say, Well, I didn't get anything out of that service. Well, what did you give to the service? What did you do as far as worshiping the Lord? Because I find that people that come and they give their worship unto the Lord are going to get something out of it. In fact, you never really leave empty when you give true worship to God. Because God's not going to allow you to leave empty. Because God is always going to, in return, when you give him true worship from the heart, he's always going to do something for you. And so you can't say, well, I didn't get anything out of it. That's really it you're telling on yourself. Because when you truly worship the Lord, you won't walk away with that emptiness. And why do we worship? Well, the psalmist gives us several reasons here. We worship God because of his righteous character. Look at verse 4. For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. That means all that God commands is perfectly right, absolutely true. He is faithful in all that he does. He is righteous. He is just. He is the standard of what is right. As I said before, God doesn't do a thing because it's right and just. A thing is right and just because God does it. He is the standard of what is right and what is just. And notice verse number five, where it says, He loveth righteousness and judgment, and the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. You see, the word goodness here is the Hebrew word kesed. Or we could say it like this: the earth is full of the unfailing love of God, or the faithful love of God. You know what the earth says to us each day? God loves you. God is faithful to you. You see, how does it say that? Because all of God's creation is constantly giving to us And it comes from Almighty God. It's constantly giving. The ground gives of its food. The sky gives of its rain. The trees gives of its fruit. The rivers gives of its water and its fish. field gives of its meat. The earth is is is so bountiful. It's so rich. It's such a great resource. It's constantly giving us all that we have. In the sense of earthly physical things. It gives us what we have. You're sitting on a pew tonight because the earth gave a tree. Everything that you have in your house is a result of the bounty of the earth. And who gave us that? It was God. And so the earth is telling us that God loves you. All that you have is because of God's faithfulness. And so that's why we worship him. We worship him because of his righteous character. But here's the next thing: we worship him because of his creative power. Look at verse number six. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. The divine power that the psalmist describes here is beyond our comprehension. Really, when you think about it, I mean this just blows me away. God created everything by divine fiat. He simply spoke it into existence. There was nothing, and then he spoke, and then there was something. I mean, I it just blows me away. The Bible says in Hebrews 11:3, through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So that the things which are seen are made of the things which do which do appear or not made, excuse me, of the things which do appear. And so Things that we see came from from nothing, out of nothing. And that's ex uh nihilo. God created the whole universe out of nothing. And how did God do that? God just spoke. God said, I want this. Boom. I want this, and there it is. I want there to be some stars, and I want to put them over there, and there they are. You know, you take a telescope and you look up into the universe and you see if you can count the stars. And you think about the power that it took to create all those stars. And you know what Genesis says about that? It doesn't go into a big detail about the stars. It just kind of almost a by the way point where it says, oh yeah, and he made the stars also. That's the power of God. He just spoke it. And it was there. That's just incredible. And you think about the immensity of the universe, it's just staggering. I was reading that the astronomers are discovering vast regions of space that are completely empty One such space is a billion light years across, that's 10,000 times greater than the distance across our Milky Way galaxy. There are billions of huge galaxies like our Like our Milky Way, and they're out there. And they're discovering new things all the time. And it's just staggering. And how did God do this? God just did a divine fiat. He created and it was done. And notice what is what he says in verse again, verse six, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts that is the stars of them by the breath of his mouth. He just spoke it. It's a miracle. It's incredible. And that's why we worship him, beloved. We worship him because he is the creator. He spoke it all into existence. That's why, of all the lies out there, The one that makes me the most angry is this blasphemous lie of evolution. You know why? Because it takes away the glory that rightfully belongs to God. It takes away the glory that belongs to him as the creator. We worship him as the creator, as the one that made all things by divine fiat. And notice, you know what the proper response should be of a creation? Look at verse number 8. Let all the earth what fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in all of him? That's the proper response to the Creator. We should stand in all of Him, not make devilish lies trying to explain it away We should just stand in awe of who he is. You see, there's no way to harmonize or reconcile what the psalmist says here. By random chance over billions of years, some of those lies that are that are put out there by people that don't want to believe in a God. There's no room for that here. God spoke and it was done. So we worship him because of his righteous character. And we worship him because of his creative power. But then we worship him because of his sovereign control. Look in verse Number 10, where it says, The Lord brought the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught, he maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations And what he's saying here is that God is in control. God is the one that's that's the controller of all things. He's in sovereign control. Of everything. You know, I think of that poem by William Ernest, which says, you know, I'm the master of my faith, I'm the captain of my soul, and God says, Oh no, you're not. God says, I'm the one in charge. Not you. You might think you're in charge. There's a story told of a newly elected politician who had just arrived in Washington, D. C. He was visiting at the home of one of the ranking senators And the two men were looking over the Potomac River, and as they were looking out at the river, an old rotten log floated by. And the old senator said, You know, this city is like that log out there. And the young politician said, Well, how's that? And the senator said, Well, there are probably hundreds of bugs and ants and other critters on that old log as it floats down the river. And I imagine every one of them thinks that he's steering that log. And he said, you know, that's that's the way it is here. You got all these people thinking that they're the ones in control, but you know what? They're not in control God is the one who's in control. Proud man thinks that he is fearing the course of history when he's not. The psalmist makes it very clear that God is the one who is fearing history, and he's making all things work together for his purposes. Even even when men think that they they're doing their own thing, they don't realize it, but they're really doing God's thing And God will use even the m the mistakes and the decisions and the bad things that people do, God will still use all of that. He'll work it all together and he will accomplish his purpose and he will frustrate the plans of men and he will fulfill his own purpose. Man will do what he wants of his own free will, and yet not knowing, he'll fulfill the purposes of God, the sovereign purposes of God. God. That's how great God is. Whether it's Pharaoh, or whether it's Nebuchadnezzar, or whether it's Cyrus, or whether it's Artaxerxes, God will use them to further his own purposes for who? For his own people and his church. and his purposes. And so that's why we praise God. We praise God because of his sovereign control. But let me give you this other thing. We worship God For his righteous character, his creative power, his sovereign control. But notice this next name because of how he delivers. Look at verse 13. The Lord looketh from heaven He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considers all their works. There is no king saved by a multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, and upon them that hope in his mercy. And what he's talking about here is how God works, how he delivers. And in this these verses here, the psalmist pictures God as looking down from heaven, just the way that you and I would look down from a tall building, or maybe in an airplane, we would look down And God sees everyone on earth, all over. You realize that? God sees everyone. There's nothing hidden from his sight. He sees the woman bent over on a rice paddy in Thailand. He sees the Indian hunting for food. In the jungles of South America. He sees the executive at his desk in New York on the 44th floor of that building. God sees all of us Sitting here tonight. But more than just seeing us, God knows everything about us. He knows what we're thinking in our hearts. hearts. He knows what everyone is thinking in their hearts. He knows why people do what they do. He knows He understands the thoughts of every heart. And look in verse 16 where it says, There is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. What's the idea here? There's a king going out to battle. With what to him is a mighty army. And the question is, is he trusting in his army for victory? Well, God knows that. God knows what he's trusting in as he goes out to battle. In verse 17, Actually verse 16, the other part, a mighty man is not delivered by much strength. Here's a soldier, and he's got strength, and he's mounted on his impressive horse. Is he trusting in his own strength? Is he trusting in his horse for victory? Again, God knows the answer to that. He knows what the king is thinking when he goes into battle. He knows what the mighty man is thinking as he goes into battle with his horse. And here's the point. It's our human tendency, even as redeemed people, to put our trust in things and methods rather than to put our trust in God. And we have to avoid that. Now, granted, that God works through things, He works through secondary purposes, He will use methods, He will use plans, but the danger is this that we put our faith in those things rather than ultimately in God. That's the thing. These things are just secondary things that God uses. The one who really does it all is who? It's Almighty God. So don't put your trust in the horse or in the strategy or in the plan or in the method, even though God might use those things. You better put your trust in God Because God is the one who brings the victory. And this is what he's saying right here. Look at verse 17. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Well then God, how do how do you deliver? God, if you don't deliver through those things, if that's not the primary way, if it's not strength and methods and programs and all those things, Lord, how do you do it? Look at verse 18. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that what? Fear him. And upon them that what? Hope in his mercy to deliver their soul from death. And to keep them alive and famine. You know how God works? He works for those who fear him. He works through those who worship him. He works through those who trust him. And the psalmist just said that God sees everyone on earth. But here in verse 18, he says, the eye of the Lord is especially on those who fear him. And so what does this mean? It means that God looks with favor on those who fear Him, those who may be in overwhelming situations And you know what God does? God delivers them. And notice that the people here described the verse 19. They're not strong, they're not self-sufficient. In fact, they're in danger. Look at verse 19: to deliver their soul from what? From death To keep them alive and famine, these are people that are in a very difficult situation. They're facing death. They're facing famine. They have been stripped of every human prop. And what they're doing now is they're putting their full trust in the Lord. And they're fearing God and God alone. And you know how God works then? God works through helpless people. That's how it works. And I thank God for that. You know why? Because you're looking at a helpless people right here. I'm someone that doesn't have any strength. I don't have the know-how. I don't have the might. We have to depend upon Almighty God. And that's why we worship him. We worship him because of the way he works and the way he delivers his people. He delivers needy people when we put our trust in him and we fear him and him alone. And friend, that's a reason to worship God. That's a reason to praise Him. Now let me give you the last thing, and I don't have time to develop this last point. But let me just talk to you really briefly about the product of worship. Look at verse number 20. Our soul waiteth for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our hearts shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according to us. And what he's saying here basically is, Lord, because we have worshiped you, because we fear you, because we praise you and we rejoice in you, in return, Lord, you give us joy. You give us peace, you give us confidence, you give us strength, you work inwardly, you minister to us. Remember, I said that when you come to God's house and you truly worship God, you're not going to walk away empty. Because there's always an exchange, there's always a return. When you focus on the Lord, you keep your eye on Him, and you worship Him and you praise Him and you fear Him, God is always going to give you something He's always going to give back. Psalm sixteen verse eight, one of my favorite verses. I have set the Lord always before me God, I put you first in my life. You're number one. I'm going to honor you. I'm going to worship you. I'm going to fear you. You're at my right hand. That's the place of honor. That's the place of priority. I put the Lord before me. He's at the place of honor in my life. I'm going to keep him first. I'm going to worship him above all things. He is my priority. And I shall not be moved. And I'm not going to let anything keep me from bringing God or keep or cause me to bring God down or keep me from keeping him in that rightful place. I'm going to worship him. What's the return? Verse 9: Therefore, my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. In return, God fills his heart with gladness and strength and glory. In another place, the psalmist said, The Lord is my strength and my shield. My heart trusted in him, and he helped me, and therefore my heart greatly rejoices, and with my song will I praise. Him. And so the product of real worship is God always blesses us. He strengthens us. He ministers to us. He gives us great joy. That's always the result of a real worship experience when you come to God's house. And this is what energizes us. You know, I asked you during the announcement time, I said, hey, go take five cards and go give them out to somebody. But I guarantee you you're not going to do it if you're not really worshiping God. You know why? Because worship comes before witness. And if you're not really excited about God and you're not really worshiping him, you're not going to give out no card and tell anybody about God. Remember what happened when Isaiah saw the Lord? High and lifted up? You know, remember what his first response was? The Lord said, Who's going to go? And what did he say, Here am I, Lord, send me. That came right after he had a worship experience in the sanctuary. He saw the glory of God and he was excited about who God is. And God says, I need some people to go. And Isaiah said, Here I am. Worship comes before witness, worship comes before work. When we're really worshiping God the way we should, you know what? No one's going to have to beg you to do things. you're going to want to do it. You know why? Because even that is an act of worship from you. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Let me ask you with your heads bowed, are you delighting in God in your life? Are you truly bringing your worship to God's house? And returning with joy when you leave. That should be our experience. And that's why God created us. God created us to enjoy Him. We were created to do this very thing, to worship him. And so may God give us that That heart, like the psalmist who said, There's nothing upon the earth that I desire beside you, Lord. That is to say, Lord, you are above all things. Would you take a moment and just examine your heart based on what you heard tonight? Maybe there's some things you need to remove that you put ahead of God. God ask God to give you a worshiping heart to learn to delight in Him above all things. I'm not going to give an invitation. I'm just going to ask you to just pray right where you are. You know, when we delight in God, He delights in us. He rejoices us And we draw near to him, and you know what? He draws near to us. Ask God to do that tonight. And so, Father, may we not just leave and forget what we heard. Help us, Lord, to think about this. Let it resonate in our mind. Heart. Make us true worshipers for your glory's sake. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.