Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1. We've been looking at this passage of Scripture. And would you stand for the reading of God's Word? I just want to read a few verses with you. before we uh get into our message this morning. Second Thessalonians chapter one, we'll start in verse number five. Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that you might be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which ye also suffer Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you. And to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. And then drop down to verse number eleven. Let me read that verse with you. Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy. of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. Thank you so very much. You may be seated. This is God's holy word. May we give our attention to it. And worship in the way that we listen. God give us understanding in His Word. Would you pray with me today? Father, thank you for the joy and the privilege of being able to come and worship. Thank you, Lord, for the privilege of being able to stand and proclaim the Word of God. And in this, Lord, I recognize that I'm insufficient for these things. But my sufficiency comes only from you, Lord, and so I pray that you'll help me today as I preach the Word of God to make it clear. And bless the truth as it goes forth. Speak to hearts, save souls, and strengthen the body of Christ, Lord, for your glory and your glory alone. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. One time Napoleon Bonaparte, the great general, was doing his rounds. He was checking on his soldiers. He went to a post where he found one soldier asleep on duty. He woke the soldier and the soldier stood up and he said, What is your name? And the soldier said, My name is Napoleon. He said a second time, tell me that name again. He said, My name is Napoleon. He said, Soldier, my name is Napoleon, and I suggest you either change your name or live up to that name Well, you know, f many people name the name of Jesus Christ, but they're not living up to that name. Or they're not counted worthy of the name by which they are called. Now here in 2 Thessalonians, Paul is writing to believers who are going through a time of sorrow and suffering. And Paul is calling upon these believers to live up to that name by which they are called. And in fact, he emphasizes this. We saw this two times. We see it in verse number five once, where Paul mentioned that, and he says that um that you might be counted worthy of the kingdom of God. And then in verse number eleven Where we read where he said, Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling The word means to be counted valuable or deserving. And the point is that believers will prove themselves worthy of the salvation by which they are called. Now how do we do that, beloved? Have you ever asked yourself that question, am I living up to the name of Christianity? Am I living up to the calling that God has given me? And one way you prove your worth to God is the manner in which you suffer The matter in which you suffer as a Christian. And so you remember last week we we dealt with this issue. This is actually part two of a sermon that I didn't finish last week. It's because you guys didn't listen fast enough. I'm gonna have to No, I'm just teasing. There are some things that I uh I wanted to really talk about more that I I felt like really needed to be uh dealt with. And you remember that last week we saw two reasons for suffering. This is answering the question, why do the righteous suffer? And one is suffering advances our spiritual growth. You remember we looked at this last week that the Thessalonians were growing in faith. They had an overflowing love. They were loving one another. They had an abounding or a glowing testimony And Paul was so very pleased with what he was seeing among them. But there was another reason why he mentions why God allows the righteous to suffer, and that is, as we already alluded to, suffering reveals our spiritual worth. Now, suffering doesn't earn us salvation. We know that salvation is all by the grace of God. Amen. It's not by works. It's by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. And beloved, if you're here today and you've never done that, I would just plead with you that you put your faith in Jesus Christ and his work on the cross, that you might have eternal life, that you might have forgiveness for sins. But so we don't earn salvation through suffering. However, suffering reveals whether or not we are living up to that calling of salvation Whether we're living up to the name of Christ. And so are we doing that? Are we counted worthy of the kingdom of God? Now what determines if we are? the manner in which we respond to suffering when it comes our way. You see, when some people go through trials and suffering, they get bitter. Some crumble. Some simply complain about what's going on in their life. What is the right response to suffering? Now, I think that Peter has something to say about this. We alluded to this last week and I want to elaborate further on it, but go to 1 Peter in your Bible. Take your Bibles and go to First Peter chapter number four, because really this is a parallel passage. And the believers that Peter is writing to in First Peter four are also believers that are going through similar types of suffering as the Thessalonians were experiencing. And look in verse number 12 of 1 Peter chapter 4. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you Now again, believers were suffering. And Peter is writing to them, these are believers in Rome, and telling them the proper way to respond when suffering comes their way. You see the believers there, they were thinking negatively of their trials. They were thinking like, you know, God, why are you allowing this to happen to me? Have you ever had thoughts like that? Maybe some believers think that, you know, when I get saved, I shouldn't be going through this. Or maybe, you know, you just think, you know, as Christians, God should be protecting us from trials. But Peter is dealing with this attitude among believers there, and Peter is trying to change their attitude towards suffering because I want to tell you something. Your attitude in the time of trial and suffering will determine your outcome. It will determine whether or not you benefit from the trial that God in his wisdom has decided to put you in. So Peter gives four proper responses to suffering. Here's the first one. Number one, expect it. Just expect it. Again, look in verse number twelve. Beloved, think it not strange. That is to say, don't be surprised when it comes. You know, a lot of times again we we're we're surprised when a trial comes. But y guess what? We live in a fallen world. We live in a world where that is against God and rebellion against God, and when you get saved, you're now going against the flow of this world. So it shouldn't surprise us when suffering or trials come our way. And that's what Peter is telling these believers. He calls them beloved. He has a warm pastoral tone as he's speaking to these believers. But he also speaks firmly. What we'll find here in this passage are six imperatives or six commands. Stop um thinking it strange is just the way we could say Verse number twelve. Beloved, think it not strength. That is, you know, it's this is called a prohibition imperative in Greek. That is, it's an imperative They're commanding an action to stop that has already started. The believers were already thinking in a strange thing because they were going through trials. And Peter says, look, stop thinking that way. That's not the way you're to think. In fact, trial, suffering, even though we don't desire it, even though we don't want it, we sh it shouldn't surprise us. This is all part of the Christian life. James said this, count it all joy when you fall into divers temptations. The Bible says that man is born of woman, man that is born of woman is few of days and full of trouble. Now I know that you didn't come here to hear that. You wanted to hear a happy message. You want to hear something that lifts you up. But I do have something good to say about that. God uses these things in our life for your good. And for your blessing. In fact, go back to 1 Peter chapter 1. And I want you to look at these verses here. Chapter 1, look at verse number 6. Notice what he says here. Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations. This is a season. Peter sent calls it a season, though now for a season He says, God brings seasons of trials and suffering and his wisdom in the life of God's people. There are one or three people here in this room, people who are going through a trial. Right now you're in the middle of a trial, and there are some people that in the future you're going to have a trial. And there may be some people here in the third category, you just coming out of a trial. But God brings seasons of These trials enter our life, just like seasons of the year come, there are seasons of suffering that God allows to come. And so they're probable, but trials are profitable. Notice what it says in verse number six, if need be. God only does it because it's necessary for you. Need here has the idea of something that is necessary. It's inevitable. You say, why do I need that? It is for your good. It's like a medicine that wounds you and then it heals you. This is what suffering and trials do to a believer And also, trials are painful. He says here in verse 6, ye are in heaviness, which means to be filled with sorrow. You see, if you're not in sorrow, it's not really going to do his work. Sorrow is one of the things that God uses to make us better. Like the songwriter wrote, let sorrow do its work. And God uses sorrow to do the work of sanctification in our life. The psalmist wrote this, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. Affliction caused a greater sense of obedience and spiritual stability through this psalmist. That's what happens in our life. But also trials are personal. Again in verse number six he says, Through manifold temptations And the word manifold means different kinds, various kinds, and there are various kinds of trials that God uses But the the idea is this, God will s fit a trial that will suit you because God has a certain purpose, something He's doing in your life. that he wants to accomplish through this particular personal trial that you are in right now. And so there's a purpose in all of it for God So number one, expect it. That's what Peter says. But here's number two. What's another response, a proper response to suffering? Number two, embrace it Embrace it. Go back to chapter 4 and look at verse number 13. 1 Peter 4. 13. Notice what he says. But rejoice Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also, with exceeding joy And so Peter says, look, when it comes your way, rejoice. Now that's a strange command to us, is it not? How am I supposed to rejoice when a trial Or when suffering comes my way. You're asking me to rejoice, and that that's illogical to us. It it doesn't seem to make sense. You want me to rejoice that I'm suffering? You want me to rejoice that I'm hurting and my heart is broken and I'm being crushed You see, in Scripture, Job, when the awful suffering came his way, what does the Bible say? Did he shaved his head? He mourned, he rent his clothes. We didn't see him rejoicing. So you say, how could Peter say rejoice? What does Peter mean? Well, here's the key. Our rejoicing is not connected with the pain or the difficulty itself. Our rejoicing is connected with the product of what it's going to do in our life. We don't rejoice in the pain that we're in or what's happening. We rejoice in the end result. Of what God is doing, what he's going to do. Ask mothers who go through the pain of childbearing if it was worth it. You see, that it maybe while they were going through it they might not think so. But in the end when they saw that beautiful baby, all of the suffering that they went through When it produced that beautiful result, made it all worth it. And that's the idea here. We don't rejoice in the pain itself We rejoice in the product of what it brings. Now, what does trials and suffering bring to us? First of all, purity. Look at verse number 12 again, 1 Peter 4. 12. Notice what he says, beloved, think it not strange concerning the what kind of trial? Fiery trial. The word fiery here. Purosis, which you can almost hear the word purity in the Greek. It's a word used to speak of a furnace that melts down metals and the and the impurities are scraped away when the metal is melted down. And this is what God is doing. God is purifying his people. And when God puts you in a trial, when you go through suffering, he has his eye on the clock, he has his hand on the thermostat. He knows exactly what he can do in your life. And he knows exactly how long to keep you there in that trial. Why? Because God is doing that purifying work in your life. But another result is partnership. Again in verse number 12 he says, Inasmuch as ye are partakers in Christ's suffering. Did you know that when you suffer as a Christian, that there's a beautiful partnership? That you have with Jesus Christ. And let me tell you something, beloved. If you're in a trial, you're not in that alone. You're with the Lord Jesus. And there's a special intimacy that Christ has with us. We are partakers with Christ during the trials. You ever read the story of the three Hebrew children that were cast into the fiery furnace? Remember what happened when they were thrown in by Nebuchadnezzar? As he looked down into that furnace, what did he say? I see a fourth person in there. And he has the form of one like the Son of God. You see, when you go through the furnace, there's always a special presence there with you, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. You have a special intimacy with the Lord Jesus when you go through suffering. And that's what Paul wanted. Remember what Paul wrote in Philippians chapter 3, verse 10, that I might know him. and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his suffering. I think there are three levels of intimacy here that I might know Christ in his person. That I might know Christ in his power, I want to have the power that Christ have, that I might know Christ in his persecutions There's a special level of fellowship and intimacy when we suffer for the name of Christ. There's purity that God does in our life, there's partnership, but then there's also praise. Notice again what it says in verse number 13. Rejoice as much as you're partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. When will his glory be revealed? That's going to happen at the second coming of Christ, right? When he comes back, Jesus will unveil his glory. The first time Jesus came, his glory was veiled on earth. We didn't really get to see the full glory, the manifestation of the glory of Christ. However, it is second coming. His glory will be revealed. And also, at his second coming, he will give praise and honor and glory to those who have suffered well as a Christian, and you'll be filled with joy. Again, verse thirteen, when it says, inasmuch as, we could translate that in proportion as, in other words, the greater the suffering The greater the praise and the honor and the glory at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And the Bible says at that time we'll be filled with exceeding joy. And again To qualify this, this is for believers who have gone through trials. They didn't quit on God. They stayed faithful. They were testimony to Jesus Christ. They suffered well for the glory of God. When Jesus Christ comes, he will bestow upon you honor and glory. And there'll be joy at that time. That's what he's saying. You ever notice that there's something innate in man where he wants honor? He wants glory? That's why athletes compete on the on the field. They want to, you know, be able to raise the champ the the trophy at the end and say they're champions. That's why soldiers fight on the battlefield. They they talk about glory there. That's why people work to be the best at something. Why? Because there's something innate in people where they want honor and they want glory But you know what? There's no glory and no honor like the honor that Jesus will bestow upon his people when he comes at the second coming. for those who have been faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know what he'll say? You have been worthy of the kingdom of God. And so there's a honor and a glory that comes. Write down Romans chapter 2, verse 7, where it says to those who by patience and well doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life. I don't know about you, Fran. I don't want the accolades of this world. I don't need the praise of this world, of people, but I want the glory and the honor that comes from Jesus Christ. When he says, Well done, you've done well, you're worthy of the kingdom of God. And so what does suffering do? Purity. It brings purity. It brings a special partnership with Jesus Christ. It brings praise from your Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. It also brings power. Look at verse number 14. It says this, if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happier ye, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. And Peter is saying, look, you should be happy if you're suffering for Christ because there is a divine favor that comes with that The spirit of glory rests on you. When you think of the spirit of glory, what do you think about? Remember the tabernacle in the Old Testament where the glory would come down upon it? And Peter is saying there's a special sense in which you as a believer, if you're going through trials and suffering and you do it faithfully and you do it well, there's a sense in which God's glory rests upon you. You ever see that on a believer? Someone who is suffering terribly, and yet there seems to be something about that person They have a glow in their life. They have a joy. They have a grace, a power. And we really can't quite put our finger on it, but we know that they're being upheld by God. God's glory and spirit rest upon that person. And of course, this is the Holy Spirit who gives us power. How many of you know that we can't do any of this by ourselves? We have to have the power of the Holy Spirit to uphold us, especially in a time of trial and a time of difficulty. And so there's there's power. And so Peter says, look, when suffering and trials come your way, the right response is number one, expect it Number two, embrace it and rejoice, not in the pain that you're going through, but in what it produces. This purity, this partnership, this praise, this power that comes only from the Lord. But then here's a third proper response. Evaluate it. Evaluate it. Look at verse number 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer Or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's affairs. When we're suffering, you know what we have to do? We have to evaluate the trial and the suffering that we're going through to make sure That we're not suffering because of our own faults, our own sins. Because there's no reward in that, beloved All right? When you suffer because of your own faults or your own trial or your own mistakes. I remember one time years ago, many years ago, I was a teenager, I was out going door to door Witnessing and a guy wanted to come with me and so we went together. We were down in the inner city and we took his car and he Um parked down in the inner city. We got out, we started witnessing. And we got back to the car, a police officer was running a ticket to this guy. And then the police officer found out that this guy had a lot of unpaid tickets. Yeah, not good. Because he arrested the guy right there. I mean he put handcuffs on him. Paddy wagon came, opened up the doors, put him in the paddy wagon And as the paddy wagon was driving away, he looked through the bars and he said, Pray for me, Jerry. I'm suffering for Jesus. And I wanted to say, well, I I don't know if that qualifies for suffering for Jesus. Peter's not talking about that kind of suffering here. Alright? That's why he says, look, when you're going through a trial and you're suffering, you better evaluate it. You better evaluate why you're going through this. And he really tells us here there are three, actually four types of suffering. That are in this world. First of all, there's common suffering. You know why some people suffer and we go through trouble? Because we live in a fallen world. And in this fallen, sin-cursed earth, bad things happen. After the sin in the garden, God said, Cursed is the ground for thy sake, and sorrow thou shalt eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth unto thee. Thorns and thistles are a symbol of suffering and sorrow. We live in a fallen world. The worst thing that could happen is that we continue to live in a Garden of Eden after sin. We would never know that there was anything wrong. God sends suffering to remind us that we live in a cursed earth. And the reason some people suffer is because we live in this Sin-cursed world. That's common suffering. But number two, there's carnal suffering. And this is the things that we suffer for because of the bad things that we have done. Jeremiah wrote it like this, Jeremiah 2. 19. Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, thy backsliding shall reprove thee. So if you're suffering for the bad things that you have done, don't blame God for that. Solomon said in Proverbs, the foolishness of a man perverts his way, and then his heart frets against the Lord. You're in this position because of your own mistakes. Don't blame it on God. Alright? That's carnal suffering. And that's why Peter says here in verse number 15, but let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody. Why does he mention these things? Now remember that Peter is writing to believers in Rome and they had gone through a particular type of suffering. What was it? You remember they were living under a man by the name of Nero He was a wicked, evil, ti tyrannical dictator who hated Christians, and at one point in his reign he wanted to uh renovate a part of the city of Rome and make it for himself, build a palace there and so on. The Senate voted him down, so he secretly sent some of his henchmen to to to put that part of the city on fire. And the fire kind of got out of control. And of course you probably heard in history, you know, he played his violin. Of course it wasn't called a violin by the Romans, whatever it was. He, you know, he was fiddling while Rome burned. And when everything went bad against Nero, he found a scapegoat. He said, It wasn't me, it was those Christians. They're always talking about a baptism of fire, this weird new sect of people. And it was open season on Christians. And Christians were being hunted and persecuted. And they're going through this. And this is where Peter is writing to these believers. He said, look, if you're going to suffer, don't do it as a murderer. Don't do it as an evildoer. Don't suffer as an evildoer. And, you know, there probably would be some temptation. from revolutionaries who were believers to want to get back at the government of Rome, take matters into their own hands And kill perhaps some Roman officials or things like that. There's always this sense of revenge that rises up in our heart when we're suffering injustice. And Peter says, look, don't do that. Don't suffer as a murderer. Don't suffer as an evildoer. That's a general word. All kind any kind of moral failure. A busybody, that's someone who meddles in other things. Some think this means a spy or informer or doing kind of secret revolutionary type things. Peter says, don't do that You don't want to suffer because of your own sins, committed to the Lord. Then there's another another type of suffering. That's Christian suffering. Look at verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or as an evildoer Or a busybody in other men's matters. Verse 16, but if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. This is the next category of suffering. You're suffering as a Christian. This is not common suffering. This is not carnal suffering. This is Christian suffering. And here you're suffering because you're doing what is right and pleasing in the sight of God. Because you're standing for the Word of God. And Peter says: if that's your category, don't ever be ashamed of suffering. For that reason. In fact, you should glorify God on this behalf. You should thank God. You should determine that you're going to glorify God In this type of suffering, suffering as a Christian. And this is simply suffering that God, in his sovereign wisdom, allows to come upon his people at certain seasons of life. God has brought it. And you're suffering for His name's sake. That's Christian suffering. But then there's another kind of suffering. I call this chastisement suffering. Look at verse 17. For the time has come, the judgment must begin at the what? House of God. And if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God? Peter gives us another reason we're to evaluate the suffering that comes to us because God at times will purify his church. God will allow things to come that purify his church. Because God wants his church to be true and pure and right. So God will sometimes allow suffering to come. And Peter says, you know, judgment must begin at the house of God. When God starts to do a purifying work, he always starts at his house. And he starts with the most godly and he moves his way outward. That's what he's saying there. And by the way, he's making allusion here to a passage in the Old Testament in the book of Ezekiel, chapter 9. We don't have time to turn there, but you can Here's your spiritual homework. Go home and read that. All right. Ezekiel chapter 9. This is talking about when um basically Ezekiel has a vision. Remember, the people are all sinful in Jerusalem, and God's about to take his spirit or his glory off of the temple of uh there in Jerusalem. And but and when he I mean as soon as God takes his glory away, he he he sends judgment. And and Ezekiel here in this vision sees some angels. He sees one angel with an ink horn, he's writing down um names And also also he's writing a uh a a mark on people's head. And in the vision Ezekiel hears God say to this angel, put a mark on everyone's head who weeps and mourns and sighs over the sins of the people. And you know why God marked them? Because the ones who have the mark are the ones who will not be judged. That's the sign of a true believer. You mourn over sin. That's not only your own sin, but the sins of the world. And you sigh over the evil that's around you in the world. And God says, anyone who's doing that, you put a mark on them. By the way, the Hebrew word there is Tav, which is the last letter of the Hebrew Old Testament, or Hebrew alphabet, and Mark You know, today if you look at the Tab Hebrew letter in Aramaic, it's kind of like an N in cursive. But back in Paleo-Hebrew, you know what it was? It was a cross. It was a cross. Think about that. God says to the angel, go put a cross on that forehead of everyone who's weeping and sighing and mourning over the sins of the people. And then he says to the other angels who had slaughter weapons in their hands, and you go and you s you you utterly slay those who do not have that mark, and don't be merciful. And then he says this, and start at my house. Judgment must begin at the house of God. And here's Peter's point. If God begins purging at his house, if he begins to chastise his own people, And then he moves from the godly and he works his way out to the ungodly, and God deals severely with his own people, he deals thoroughly with his own people. What's it going to be like by the time he gets to the ungodly? That's the idea there. You know why God judges this house? He wants people to be true and right. And he wants them to walk in godliness. So sometimes God will purify his own church. You know, I I've complained a lot about COVID because it seems like, you know, before COVID came we were we were we had more people here. And it seems like after COVID, the people that used to be here are no longer here. We had ev never saw them again. And for some people I'm gonna stand on the soap soapbox here and complain a little bit more, but Some people that it was just a handy excuse not to do the things they didn't really want to do to begin with. There were some people who just, you know, they're going through the whole superficial thing of religion with no real true devotion and commitment to Christ and the things of God, and they were handed a good excuse not to do that. And they took it and ran with it. But that's okay, because when judgment begins, God starts at his house. And sometimes God's got to purify his own church. his own people. That's why some of you are going through trials and suffering right now. Don't despise that. That's God doing a deeper work in your life. That's God purifying you. Don't despise that. Judgment must begin at the house of God. You have to evaluate your suffering. But if it begins there and God moves outward, and Peter's saying this for the benefit of those Christians who are suffering, look, if God's purifying you, what's it going to be like by the time he gets to the ungodly? It's not going to be chastisement. It's going to be condemnation. They will suffer eternal punishment from Almighty God. If he's allowing you to be purged, wait till he gets to the ungodly. So, but let me give you, let me move on here to the last right response. Peter says, look, when suffering comes Number one, expect it. Number two, embrace it. Number three, evaluate it. Make sure you're not suffering because of your own sins. But then here's the last thing. Number four, entrust it Look at verse 19. Actually, back up to verse 18. I should have hit on this verse during the last point. And if the righteous scarcely be saved, Where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear? Realize that you are saved, now you get your sense of assurance. Through the suffering that you go through because you haven't quit on God when others have. Which is going to be like for the ungodly. Then in verse 19, wherefore let him That suffers according to the will of God, commit the keeping of their souls to him and well-doing unto a faithful Creator. Here's the fourth thing Peter says. Look, when you go through suffering, just entrust it. Entrust what? Entrust your soul to God. Let me ask you a question. Are you going through a trial right now? Do you trust God enough to say, God, I'm committing my soul to you in this time of suffering? Because I know you'll take care of me. I know you'll watch over me. And I know you will accomplish whatever you want in me. So, God, I now by faith entrust my soul to you. I put it in your hands. I trust you. Let me ask you a question. Can you trust the God who created you? Is he a faithful creator? That's the whole implication there. If he's a faithful creator, then it should be easy for us to entrust Or commit our soul to God in a time of trial and suffering. And that's what he's saying. This is a banking term. To make a deposit. I mean you deposit money in a bank. Quite frankly, I don't trust some of these banks. If you can trust a bank with your money, can you entrust your s trust your soul with God? He's a much more faithful guardian. And so deposit your soul to God. Give yourself to God. in a time of suffering. And by the way, you're never more like the Lord Jesus when you do that. Because that's exactly what Jesus did. Go back to 1 Peter chapter 2 and look at verse number 21. Let me show you this, and we'll be done. For even, this is 1 Peter 2, 21, for even hereunto were ye called Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow what? His steps. Follow the example of Christ. This is unique. When Peter refers to the cross here, he's not referring to the cross with an evangelistic purpose. This is the only time this happens in the New Testament. Every time a New Testament writer refers to the cross of Christ It's with respect to evangelism. They're pointing to the cross as a as the gospel. They want people to come to know Christ as Savior. But when Peter points to the cross here in this letter, and again this happens only here Nowhere else in the New Testament, he's pointing to the cross, not with respect to evangelism, but with respect to suffering. If you want to know how you're supposed to suffer, well. Look at the cross. Look at what Jesus did. Look at verse number 22. Peter said, follow his steps, verse 21, verse 22. Who did no sin. Neither was guile found in his mouth. Who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But what did he do? But committed the same word, entrusted himself to him that judges righteously. Who his own self bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live under righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. This is what Jesus did. You talk about someone who was going through unjust suffering. That was Jesus. He'd never deserved anything that he got. And when he suffered, he didn't revile, he didn't lash out, he didn't want revenge. What did he do? He committed his soul to God And then Peter adds to the fact, he suffered for you, by whose stripes you are healed. It was his suffering, his death on the cross that paid your sin debt. So that you can have eternal life in heaven. And now Peter says, follow his example of how to suffer right. And so what are the right responses to suffering? Expect it. Don't think it's strange. Embrace it. Rejoice in the product. Evaluate it. And my suffering as a Christian. Entrust it. Commit your soul to God. That's what you do. And as someone who does this, I think it could be said of them, this is a person who's worthy of the calling. They're worthy of the kingdom of God, and God is glorified in their life. Let's bow for prayer together. And if you're here today and you are in the middle of a trial and you say, Man, preacher, I can't do this on my own. That's r that's right, none of us can. Are you willing right now to just say I'm going to commit my soul to God for Him to watch over me? And I want to respond correctly to the trial. Would you pray for me? I want to pray for you this morning. How many say that's me, preacher? Pray for me. I need this right now. I'm going through a trial. I want to respond correctly. And right now, by faith, I'm committing. I'm entrusting my soul to God. For him to help me. God bless you, dear friends. I see your hands. God sees your hands. And I want to give an invitation to you who are here who may not have ever trusted Jesus' Your Lord and Savior. I'm talking to you, dear sir, ma'am. Would you today realize that Jesus, when he suffered, suffered for you? He took your sins upon himself on the cross, as Peter said, that you might be made righteous, that you could have eternal life And the way you respond to that is by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. In Christ and Christ alone. It's not by works. Salvation is not by works. It's not by ritual. It's not by trying to do good. We're all sinners. It's by recognizing that we're sinners and putting our faith in Jesus Christ who died for our sin. Reaching out by faith. How many of you here say, preacher, today I'm going to put my faith in Christ for salvation? Would you lift your hands? I just want to pray for you. I don't want to embarrass you. I'm waiting for you. Anyone here? Say that's me, preacher. I'm putting my faith in Christ as my Savior. All right. Father. How we thank you, Lord, for how you minister to us from your word. Thank you for this beautiful passage of scripture that teaches us how we should respond. When trials, the fiery trial, comes our way. Lord, help us to obey this. Help us to indeed expect it. Embrace it, not embrace the pain, but embrace the product, what it's going to produce. Evaluate it and make sure it's not because of our own foolish actions that we suffer, but because we're trying to please you, we're trying to do what's right. And entrust it. Entrust our soul to you, Lord. Lord, bless those that raise their hand, that are going through a trial now. Lord, give them your grace. Help them through this time. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful and matchless name. Amen