It's good to see you here tonight, and I invite you to take your Bibles open to Jeremiah chapter five tonight. As you know, we are just kind of doing a selective study through uh the prophet Jeremiah. And I think uh we can learn a lot from Jeremiah the prophet. He lived in a time when uh it was really a a post uh Christian era, we could say. And we're living in a time when I believe in America unfortunately I think it's post Christian Christian America that we're living in now. And it was a very difficult time for Jeremiah. There are many challenges, and even so it's difficult for God's people to live uh in this day and age for the Lord, and yet God gives us the grace. But I want us to look tonight in Jeremiah chapter 5, and uh while you're finding that, you know, there's one particular day I don't think I'll ever forget. Uh on this particular morning I got up at 4 a. m. I had to uh to drive to seminary. I had a six thirty class and it took about an hour and fifteen minutes to drive to the seminary. Why I signed up for a six thirty class I don't I don't know. It may have been I had to, but um but that morning I got to class at six thirty and stayed in class there for a few hours and then went to another class and then was released and I went to chapel that morning. But it was a very unusual chapel, very solemn when I walked in, and and the chapel bulletin it read that uh Two airplanes had crashed into the Twin Towers in New York. And for that particular morning, the chapel service, there was no preaching. The president of the chapel service called uh a time of prayer. And so we spent that whole chapel service and prayer, praying for our country. And so when I remember I called home, they dismissed classes for that day and I called home and talked to my wife. And you know, Abby and Jeremiah were, you know, just kid you know kids then. And And uh I just remember how terrified they were when I talked to them. And you know, I think all of us here can probably remember where you were and what you were doing when that event took place. And I remember driving home and listening to the radio and listening to some of the talk shows and what was going on, and a lot of what I heard was this one question over and over again. Why? What is going on? And even some people that said, why is God allowing this to happen? Why is God doing this? There are times when people will question the the, we could say the justice of God or the way that God does things. Uh this is a branch in theology in theology that is called theodicy. Theo meaning God, the see meaning the justice of, and it's and it's the idea of the justice of God. It's a branch of theology that basically defends the righteousness of God in the face of calamity, in the face of suffering, in the face of even sin and evil. And so everyone has a theodicy, so to speak. An answer to the question of why is this happening? When we come to Jeremiah chapter 5, really what we see here is a theodicy. And it's really answering this question, why is God going to do these things? Or why is God doing these things? Now, what we see is God is about to judge Israel, or we could say Judah. God is about to judge Judah very severely. In fact, in chapter 5, Jeremiah the prophet presents some very graphic pictures of God's judgment. Look at chapter five, verse six. Wherefore a lion of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of the evening shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their cities. In other words, God's people will be a prey for vicious hungry animals And uh in chapter 5, verse 14, they're going to be like dry wood and devoured by fire. They're going to be devoured by a merciless enemy. This is not good news for God's people. And no one of these things are going to happen. There's one big question. If you look in verse 19, it says, And it shall come to pass when I when ye shall say, Wherefore doth the Lord our God all these things There's going to come a time when all these things are befalling you, and you're going to ask this question, why is God doing this to us. This question is going to come up. And as if to imply that God had no good reason to do these things. They almost imply God's being cruel. God's being unjust In fact, even Jeremiah the prophet might be wondering. In fact, in chapter 4, Jeremiah was given some visions from God about some of the judgment that was going to come. And these were pretty frightening. Um uh the judgment is compared to a reversal of the creation story. When God created he took disorder and made order out of it, and God's gonna do the opposite when this judgment comes. God says. It's going to be reversal of the creation order. He said the whole land will be made desolate. The earth would mourn, and the heavens above will be Black. And people will cry out like a woman in travail. He compared Nebuchadnezzar to a lion that just had awakened and was coming out of his lair He's hungry and he is vicious. And so the question again, why is God doing these things? And so chapter five is really a chapter that's designed to answer these things, or this question, we could say. He would rather have mercy than to um than to bring wrath. And yet and that's why God gives warnings. God warns people because God wants to give them time to repent. And what this this whole chapter teaches us is that when we don't repent, when God warns us over and over again that we're going to have to face We're gonna have to face the consequences of that. He would rather not judge, but he will when God's people don't repent. So I want you to look at this And really what I want us to see is this whole chapter, and God's answering this question, four reasons for God's divine punishment. And then I want us to learn what we can draw from this and how it can it actually encourage us as Christians in this era in which we live. First of all, here's the first reason why God's bringing this. They didn't behave honestly They didn't behave honestly. Look in chapter 5, verse 1. Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now and know and seek in the broad places thereof. If you can find a man, if there be any that executes judgment, that seeks the truth, and I will pardon it. So God gives a challenge to Jeremiah. Again, maybe Jeremiah is wondering, Lord You know, why are you doing why are you gonna do this? I mean I've seen the visions. It's hard to receive. This might be a little over the top. And God says, Okay, Jeremiah, I want you to do something. I'm gonna give you a challenge here I want you to go all throughout the city of Jerusalem, and I want you to just find someone who speaks the truth, who's honest. Just find someone who's a plain dealer. Just find a citizen that can be trusted One person of integrity. And if you can find just one person who genuinely speaks the truth, who generally is a genuinely is a person of integrity. Then I I'll spare the city. Now think about that. Jeremiah has an opportunity to prevent the judgment that is going to come. If he can just find one person who does justice It says in verse number one, and seeks the truth. If you can do that, God says, I will pardon it. So where does Jeremiah start? He starts with the poor. And verse number two, and though they say the Lord liveth, surely they swear falsely. O Lord, are not thine eyes upon the truth? Thou hast stricken them, but they have not grieved. Thou hast consumed them, but they have refused to receive correction. They have made their faces harder than a rock. They have refused to return. And therefore I said, Surely these are poor, and they are foolish, for they know not the way of the Lord, nor the judgment of their God So what does Jeremiah do first? Jeremiah says, well go first of all to just the common people, the poor people in the city of Jerusalem. Perhaps I can just find among the poor people one who will speak the truth One person of integrity, one who is honest, and Jeremiah begins to look and what he finds, perhaps at first he feels like he's in the right neighborhood because he can hear people using the Lord's name on their lips, saying, as the Lord lives. And maybe he thinking, well, I'm probably in the right place here. But as he looks closer he realizes that they're saying that with their mouth, but actually they're lying They are using the oath formula to hide their lies. And what he finds as he goes through this neighborhood is he finds people who have suffered. Many people have endured suffering. They have been struck down. They've been crushed by hardship and a long uh they've had uh people that have It's a lot of adversity. Uh he might a expected among that group to perhaps find someone who fears the Lord. After all, when you go through suffering and hardship, it has a tendency to drive you close to God. But he didn't find any of that What did he find? In verse 3, he found people who were calloused and stubborn and obstinate. Men and women of steel, we could say. And then people who wouldn't repent. They they would not repent at all. Look in verse number three at the end. They have made their faces harder than a rock. They have refused to return. So Jeremiah says, Well, I've tried to common people. I'm trying to find someone who will speak the truth there. He doesn't find any. So he says, Well, I just I started with the low, I'll go to the height people of the land. I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them, for they have known the way of the Lord and the judgment of their God. Surely among the the leadership, surely among the priests and the politicians and the religious leaders. Surely they will there will be some people that are honest there after all. They've perhaps been to seminary. They've probably studied the Torah. They are educated people But what did he find there? The same thing. And the end of verse 5. And these have altogether broken the yoke and burst the bonds. No, they there's none among them even that speaks the truth. So what does Jeremiah find? Couldn't find anyone. Couldn't find anyone that would speak the truth and not lie. He found dishonesty. And so the nation of Judah had given itself over wholly to deceit and to lying. And God hates that. Look at real quick, look in chapter nine, look in verse number two. It says, Oh, that I had a a wilder a wilderness in the wilderness, a lodge, a place of wayfaring men, that I might leave my people and go from them, for they all be adulterers and assembly of treacherous Men, for they bend their tongues like their bows for lies, but they are not valiant for truth upon the earth, for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith the Lord Uh take ye every one of his neighbor and trust ye not in any brother, for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbor will walk with slanderers. What is God saying? It's become a nation of deceitful. Liars. It's just they they don't speak the truth. You know, honestly, when I hate to say it, but you look around in our country, it's kind of hard to find honest people. It's hard to find people that will speak the truth. And this is something that upset God. He could this isn't a little thing. I mean God hates lying. I was reading some some statistics according to a survey by the Society for Human Resources management. It was just doing survey about people who put in job applications and resume. And the bottom line is I don't want to read you all the stats and bore you with it, but 90 it said 95% of people who fill these things out normally lie according to that group. I'm not saying that you all have ever done that. 95, that's pretty high I mean that's a lot. I don't know how accurate that statistic is, but let's just cut it in half. It's still really bad. We live in a society where all of the leading elements of our society, business, political, legal, insurance companies, news media, those we depend on for the truth, they're lying to us. It's a lot of lies going all around. And and the Bible says that God hates lying. Why is this so destructive? I I like this what Spurgeon said one time. He said, When a heart is untruthful, when honesty has gone from it, then it is prepared to be the seed plot of every evil thing. Any crime is possible to a liar. He who is rotten without falsehood will break At the touch of every temptation. You hear what he's saying there? He's saying, look, if you if you'll lie about something, basically what you've done is you've opened yourself up for any temptation that's going to come You've opened yourself up for any evil. Why? Because if a temptation comes, you're basically going to reason like this. Well, I'll just give in to that. And if someone asks me about it, I'll just lie. I'll just tell them I didn't do it. And if a person has that kind of thinking where they'll just tell a lie, then they are open to anything that Satan wants to throw at them. But a person who says, I will never lie. I will always speak truth. It's like a guard around them from temptation. Because they'll reason like this, I'm not going to do that, because if I do that, someone's going to ask me, did you do that? And I'm going to have to say yes, and I don't want to have to say yes So guess what? I will not yield to that temptation. Speaking the truth is like a wall around you, but when you open yourself up By lying, it brings you down morally. And you can normally tell the moral level of a nation by how much deception and lying is going on. And that's what God was showing Jeremiah. Jeremiah, if you can just find one person who speaks the truth. He was showing Jeremiah how bad things have gotten in Judah. And so they didn't behave honestly. But here's the second thing. They didn't take God's word seriously. Here's another reason why God was just really upset. Look in chapter 5, look in verse number 11. For the house of Israel And the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against me, saith the Lord. They have belied the Lord and said, It is not He. Neither shall evil come upon us, neither shall we see sword nor famine. And the prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done unto them. You hear that? God says, Judas basically betrayed me. They've been utterly faithless to me And really the word belied there in verse 12 means they've spoken falsely or they denied. The word means not to take something serious. And here was the problem. The people were not taking God's word serious. When a prophet would stand up and preach the word, they would just carelessly listen. They weren't really listening to hear and obey. And in verse 12, where it says, it is not he They said it is not he, literally, he will do nothing. We could say it like this. God's not going to do anything. This is this is not going to happen, what they're saying In verse 13, the prophets are nothing but wind, which is basically the same thing as saying, the prophets are windbags. You ever leave church and say, man, that guy's a windbag? Please don't raise your hand if you said that event. No me. Man, that guy, these these preachers, man, they're nothing but windbacks. That's what they were saying back then about these prophets. And I think there's a play on words here in the Hebrew because the same word used to translate spirit is also the word used to translate wind. They say they're filled with the spirit, but actually they're filled with a lot of wind. That's what they were saying. And the word is not in them. And so they didn't take God's word seriously. They were saying, God's not going to do these things That was their response to the preaching of the word. They listened very apathetically. They listened half-heartedly. They weren't really following the preaching. But what was God's response to them? Look at verse number fourteen. And wherefore thus saith the Lord God of hosts, because ye speak this word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth Fire, and this people would, and it shall devour them. As a result of their attitudes, God says, you know what? My word is going to be like fire, and this people, they're going to be like kinland. They're gonna they're gonna burn up like like twigs thrown into a roaring furnace of fire. Now God of course is speaking metaphorically of when the Babylonians were gonna come in And look at verse seventeen, and they shall eat up thine harvest. Notice how many times he uses the word eat up. And thy bread, and thy sons and thy daughters shall should eat, and they shall eat up thy flour And thy herds, and they shall eat up thy vines and thy figs, and they shall impoverish thy fence cities wherein thou trusteth. In other words, they're just going to come in and they're just going to devour you, and they're going to just eat everything up. My word is going to be like fire and you're going to be like the wood. What I said is going to come true. Now the problem with the people is they just they just didn't believe it. They thought this In fact, in chapter 7, Jeremiah preaches what is his famous temple sermon. And so picture this in your mind. Jeremiah's in the doorway of the temple as people are coming in and out of the temple and he's preaching that God is going to uh abandon that temple. He's going to abandon his people. He's going to destroy and judge if they don't repent. He wants you to repent. But they wouldn't. And uh in fact, look in chapter seven real quick. Just flip over there. I want you to see. Look in verse four. Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord, the temple of the Lord are these. In other words, there are others saying, oh, God's not going to allow anything to happen to his temple. This is the place where God put his name. He's not going to have anything happen to our temple. There's no way he's going to let this be destroyed. They would come there and they would worship God in that temple and and and do their sacrifice and then they would go out and live however they wanted to. And they thought just because they were going through that religious ritual and going to the temple that God would never destroy that temple. They assumed he would never judge them for their sins. They basically wanted a faith without practice. They wanted covenant blessings without covenant obedience. They wanted to be justified without being sanctified. Basically. And so they said, Oh, God's not going to destroy the temple. But look at chapter 7. Look in verse 8. I love what God says to them in chapter 7, verse 8. Behold, ye trust Behold, ye trust in lying words that cannot profit. And then look over to verse number 12. But go ye now unto my place, which was in Shiloh Where I set up my name at first and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel. God basically says to them, look, you don't think I'm going to take this and destroy this temple Let me tell you what to do. Go to Shiloh and visit Shiloh and see what you see. What was Shiloh? Shiloh was the holy place before Jerusalem was. Shiloh was a place where the tabernacle rested for 369 years, and there was the Ark of the Covenant in there, and if you wanted to go and meet with God and worship, you would go to Shiloh, not Jerusalem. Shiloh's where Eli the great high priest ministered. That's where Samuel grew up in the tabernacle there at Shiloh David understood Shiloh. He would go there with his family. Everyone that was located centrally in Israel and the land of Ephraim. People would just come and go there And God says, I tell you what, why don't you go look at Shiloh now? Because in Jeremiah's time, guess what it looked like? It was a heap of stones. It was completely destroyed. God said that was my first place of worship. That was the first place that I put my name. And if you don't think I'll do this to the temple, just go take a visit to Shiloh. Just look at it and see if I'm not serious. What's the message there? You better take my word seriously. When I say something, you better listen. And don't trust in lying words. You know what? I'm afraid sometimes that we live in a country today that no longer takes the Word of God seriously. Where they don't no longer they're listening. You know, there was a time when in our country they had great respect for pastors and preachers who preach the word. I think we've kind of gone down on the totem pole there. I think that respect is kind of gone. I think people sometimes just kind of scoff. And the Bible says that in the New Testament, in Peter. said that. No, in the last days scoffers are going to come saying, Where's the promise of his coming? Oh, you talk about Jesus coming again? Yeah, right. When is that going to happen? They were scoffers. And of course, you know Peter's response, Peter said, you know, well, they did that in the flood time at Noah, but you know what? The flood came. They scoffed at Noah But yet the flood came. But there are some people that just don't take God's word seriously. When God says repent, they don't listen. Today, people say, well, God's not really going to send anybody to hell. I mean, do you actually believe that? That God would do that, that God would judge a person like that? Or do you or how do you know that what you preach, how do you know that Bible is from God, it was written by men? They have all kind of reasons, they have all kind of arguments why they don't take the word of God. Seriously. You know what, beloved, we need to be careful that we don't fall into that mindset. That we take God's word seriously. I'm reading a book A very interesting book called Godly Conversation. It's subtitled Rediscovering the Puritan Practice of Conference. You know, sometimes I think the Puritans get a bad rap. You know, I I don't agree with them on everything, but there were certain things that they did that I thought were really, really good things. And this book talks about one of them. And they called it conferencing. You say, what is that Well the Puritans believed that when a preacher preached, uh, they had to be very, very diligent to listen, because they believed that if a preacher was preaching the word of God, that they were actually the mouth of the mouthpiece of God And so therefore they would listen very diligently. One Puritan wrote this: when a minister speaks truly God's word, he may speak freely to all, and all must hear him as if God spake They must hear him with reverence, and so listening to a sermon wasn't a passive affair. In fact, they had guidelines For example, give great attention to the word. Come with a holy appetite. Come with a tenderness on your heart. Receive it with meekness. Mingle the word preach with faith. Be not only attentive in your hearing, but retentive after hearing. Reduce your hearing to practice. Beg God that He will accompany His word with blessings. And make it familiar to you and talk about it when you go home. And so this is what they would do. Say, what's godly conference? After the sermon, they would get together. And they would all talk about God's word and how it applied to them. They would make sure they would keep each other accountable to make sure that they listened and that they received it and that they were going to apply it. And that was called godly comment. Conferencing. You know, that's that's really a good thing when you think about it. Because, you know, a lot of times we come to church and we half-heartedly listen, and then when we leave, we forget what we've heard And we don't really talk about it much. We're not just here to listen and then forget, we're here. We have to apply it. And so what happened in Judah that they weren't taking God's word seriously. Let me give you the third thing. They didn't fear God properly. Go back to chapter 5 and look at verse number 20. Chapter 5, verse 20. Declare this in the house of Jacob. And publish it in Judah, saying, Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding, which have eyes and see not, which have ears and hear not. Fear ye not me, saith the Lord? Will ye not tremble at my presence? Which have seen the sand for the bound of the sea by perpetual decree that it cannot pass it, and though the ways thereof toss themselves yet cannot Can they not prevail? Though they roar, yet can they not pass over? But this people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart. They are revolted and gone And so God says, you know, this people they're they're foolish, they're senseless, they're as lifeless as the idols that they worship, and they should fear me. God's angry because they're not showing proper Fear. He's basically saying the sea waves are more obedient than these people. Judah feared and worshiped other gods, but not the true God. Unlike the sea, which does not cross beyond the boundaries that God established for the sea by putting a bond uh uh a band of sand around the sea setting up boundaries, and the sea wouldn't pass over those boundaries. However, Judah and the people there have transgressed the boundaries that God has given them. And so they don't fear me, God says. Not only that, look down at verse number 24. Neither said they in their heart, let us now fear the Lord our God that hath given rain both the former and the latter in his season he reserved unto us the appointed weeks of harvest That is, they refused to recognize that God was the source of the fall and spring rains, which assured an abundant harvest in its season. Instead of giving credit to God, they gave credit to Baal God says, they don't fear me. And so he's angry about that. What is it to fear the Lord? I think of course it is an awe and a reverence, but really the fear of the Lord is a reverential attitude that leads to right actions. If you fear God, it's going to determine how you live and the decisions that you make And these people, they weren't making very good decisions. There was idolatry in verse 7. He talks about that. In gratitude also in verse number seven, I have fed them to the full. And then immorality in verse number eight, he said they were as fed horses in the morning, everyone named after his neighbor's wife. It's a very descriptive figure there of their carnal mindset. It describes that gross carnality that was going on there, the immorality that was going on. They weren't fearing God because look at what they were doing Do you know in the Old Testament the fear of the Lord is mentioned 300 times? This is something that's very important as far as a theme in the Old Testament. And what is the fear of the Lord? Again It's really uh tied to wisdom. Wisdom was what you did. It's the the decisions that you would make, the choices that you would make. Wisdom is not intellectual or theoretical, it is practical You're wise according to your decisions. You know, all of us are the sum total of the decisions that we have made, the choices we have made. And in the Bible, wisdom is simply making not just the right choice, but a righteous choice. And that's why wisdom begins with the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. If you have a reverence and fear of God, you're going to make the right choices. But they were making all the wrong choices because they didn't fear God. Let me give you the last one real quick. What's another thing here? They didn't want leaders who were godly. Look in chapter five. Look down at verse number twenty-six. For among my people are found wicked men, they lay wait as they they they set stairs, they set a trap, they catch men. As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit. Therefore they are become great and waxing rich. They are waxing fat, they shine, yea, they overpass the de Deeds of the wicked. And so look what God says here in verse twenty nine. Shall not I visit for these things, saith the Lord Jeremiah calls this in verse thirty a wonderful or we could say an appalling and a horrible thing that is committed in the land. Verse thirty-one, the prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means, and my people love to have it. So and so what was going on here? He gives us really the last reason for God's coming punishment. The the leaders were corrupt, and the people they were fine with that In fact, they wanted that. They were wealthy, these leaders taking advantage of other people. Their houses were filled with ill-gotten gain. They were uh uh acting uh unjustly. They weren't really protecting the helpless and the minorities. There was social injustice. The prophesied uh excuse me, the prophets prophesied falsely and the priests were supporting them. They had their back, so to speak. And Jeremiah said, you know what? And my people, they were fine with it. They'd love to have it so They didn't want leaders who were godly. There were people, false prophets there saying peace, peace, when there was no peace. And so This is just another reason. And so God says in verse 29, shall not I visit for these things? It was Thomas Jefferson who said this. Indeed, I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just and that his justice cannot sleep forever. And I think that sometimes that applies to our country as well. I can't help but see some parallels. They say, boy, this is this is bad. I mean, God's going to judge them. And these are the reasons. But you know what? There was some hope there. And here's where I want to encourage you. There was some hope. Look in chapter 5, look in verse 10. There's one phrase there I want you to underline Go ye upon her walls and and destroy, but make not a final endance underline that where it says, make not a full, or we could say final end. And then look down at verse 18, we see the same thing. Nevertheless, in those days saith the Lord, I will not make a full end with you. Not going to be final. In other words, God's not going to entirely wipe them out. Why? Why was that true? Because there was, even despite the fact that the nation was really far gone. There was still a band of godly re a remnant of people who did love God. Now again, that was very small because it was very obvious it was small because Jeremiah couldn't find any of them, but they were there You say, how do we know they were there? Well, because you know there were some carried away into captivity. Daniel was among some of those carried away into captivity. Ezekiel was some of those carried away into captivity. The three Hebrew children were were some of them. They were all people who love God and they feared God. And so it was a godly remnant that was still there. And God was basically saying, because of this remnant Because of this band of people, this handful of godly people, God says, I'm not going to completely destroy Judah. There's still hope there Because of these people that are there. In fact, later on in chapter 24, God's going to give a parable to Jeremiah, and it's going to be about two baskets of figs. One basket was incredibly rotten, and another basket was really good. And this was going to be the people in Jerusalem. In other words, there were people that were really bad, but there were still also among the bad, there were still good figs. There were people who were good people, who were godly people, and you know what? It was this handful of godly people that was basically keeping the nation alive. That's where I want to encourage you. You know why? Because you know what's keeping our country going? It's not what's going on down in Washington today. You know what's keeping our nation going? It's what's going on here. And in other churches around here, where there's a handful of people of godly people who fear the Lord, who love God, who are going to stand for the the truth that is what God is looking to. And I want this to encourage you because sometimes you might think, and really does what I do make a difference And what I'm doing by coming to church and being faithful and serving the Lord and fearing God, does it really make a difference? And you know what the answer to that question is? It absolutely makes a difference It's really people like you that's keeping our country going. Because God, when he looked down at Judah, he saw those good figs And God said, I'm not gonna utterly destroy the land because of these people God always has a faithful, godly remnant of people. Again, I say I think we're living in a post Christian em America. And we're not living in easy days. We're living in difficult days. But you know what? God wants a group of people and he's watching. He wants a group of people that's willing to stand, even though it might be difficult to stand. He's looking for people that will hold to the truth. He's looking for people that will be honest. People of integrity that bear his name. He's looking for people that do take the Word of God seriously. He's looking for people that do fear him. And fear his name, and they show it by the actions, the choices that they make. They make godly choices. Because in the midst of all what's going on, you know what? A people like that, they glorify the Lord. They glorify God. And so let that encourage you. But really the question, and I'll close with this, look at verse number thirty one, because Jeremiah closes with a question. Look what it says. It says, The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means, and my people love to have it so. But look at the next phrase. And what will ye do in the end thereof? What are you going to do when the end comes? How are you going to live in these end times? Literally, is what he's saying. I don't know about you. I don't care what era that we're in or how difficult it is. I want to live for God. But I want you to know for God's people, it might mean that you have to pay a price for that. But I want to live for God. And I want to be part of that remnant. Because again, it's the salt. That's preserving. It's the light that's giving light. You just keep on doing what you're doing because God is using you. And be encouraged. Again, let me there's a verse in 2 Peter that kind of says the same thing, 2 Peter 3:17, 3:17, where Peter's talking about the end and the end time coming, but then he says this seeing you know these things. You know this is going to happen. What kind of person are you going to be? Make sure you're someone who is aware of that and you're diligent to live a life that's holy and acceptable. In God's sight. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Father, I pray that, Lord, we would have the strength to stand for truth and to love you. And to be people of integrity, people that fear you. And I pray, Lord, that you would just strengthen these your people who are here. So very faithful to come to church on a Wednesday night to hear the word, to draw near to you. I pray, Lord, that that they would be encouraged by the fact that it's folks like them that God looks to the remnant that's faithful to serve. And Lord, bless them and encourage them and refresh them And Lord, let us be filled with your strength. Just like Jeremiah was in his day. There was a lot of bad things happening, yet, Lord, he was faithful. Lord, may that be our testimony as well. And Lord, strengthen these your people and bless them. And we pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.