Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of First Timothy? First Timothy chapter five. It's been our privilege to study First Timothy as we've been uh Gathering on Sunday nights, and we come down to chapter 5, and I want to tonight, with the Lord's help, deal with verses 19 on down to the end of the chapter, verse number 25. This is the uh section of Paul's letter where he's dealing with issues regarding pastors. So there's a sense in which I'm preaching to myself. If you were here last week, you know the s the sermon kind of sell sounded self-serving because we were talking about pastors and we were talking about um honoring pastors, you know, and uh making sure that they get remunerated, um repaid and all that. But again, I Wanted to let you know that I'm not asking for a raise, I'm gloriously content with everything I have, and that's not personal with me. We're just preaching through First Timothy And by the way, John, when I preach a sermon like that, the r and you get up and you sing a hymn right after it, Jesus Paid It All, that's not the right hymn to sing right after a sermon like that. So tonight I'm going to talk about sinning pastors and how to deal with them. So probably the right song to sing after that would not be I Love to Tell the Story or something like that. But anyway, I want to talk tonight about why pastors leave the ministry. Why pastors leave the ministry. There seems to be an epidemic today of pastors leaving the ministry, and some pastors leave because of their own failure. or inappropriate behavior, financial mismanagement or what other things like that. Others leave because they feel sometimes abused uh by the church. And perhaps there are some that leave because they really didn't be uh belong in the ministry to begin with. They enter perhaps with maybe the wrong expectation or a sense of entitlement. But uh that's just the reality. We we see that happening today. I just want to read you some statistics. These were compiled by Barna and Focus on the Family and a few by Fuller Seminary. But according to these statistics, 1,500 pastors leave the ministry each month due to moral failure, spiritual burnout, or contention in their churches. It goes on to say 50% of pastors' marriages will end in divorce. 80% of pastors feel unqualified and discouraged in their role as pastor. 50% of pastors are so discouraged that they would leave the ministry if they could, but they have no other way of making a living. It says 80% of the s of seminary and Bible school graduates who enter the ministry will leave the ministry within the first five years. Seventy percent of pastors constantly fight depression. And it goes on to say almost 40% polls said that they've had um affairs, extramarital affairs, since beginning of the ministry. And so these are very troubling statistics. Focus on the Family reported that we in the United States lose a pastor a day because he seeks an immoral path instead of seeking uh God or the intimacy found with the relationship with Almighty God. And so It goes on to say 61% of congregations have forced a pastor to leave. This is according to Christianity today. 61% of congregations have forced a pastor to leave. And on we could go. There are all kind of statistics that I was compiling and reading about this. A lot of these are eye-opening statistics. Many denominations report an empty pulpit crisis, and what they mean by that is they can't find anyone to fill the pulpit. They can't find anyone that wants to pastor that church or fill that position. Now with this in mind, it's crucial that a church recognize the the the challenges that a pastor faces. And by the way, again, I I I just want to tell you I feel blessed to be here at Grace. I don't feel any of those things that they talk about. I'm not depressed, I'm okay. In fact I have a lot of joy. All right. Yeah, you can you can give me a hand on that. I'm I'm very happy. All right. Um you know, of course there are challenges everywhere, and we understand that. Um But my heart goes out to men who are in the ministry or who are being hammered or having a difficult time. And when a church leader falls into sin, it wreaks havoc upon the cause of Christ. And when a church leader quits, it doesn't bring honor to the cause of Christ. So it's crucial that the church recognize these challenges and that they put godly men into leadership positions uh in their in their church. Now how can we do that? How can we do everything possible to ensure that the pastors who serve are godly men? And if a leader happens to fall into sin. What is the church to do about that? These are some com some of the questions that Paul is answering here in 1 Timothy chapter 5. Apparently Timothy was dealing with these issues in his own church. Apparently there were church elders there in the at the church at Ephesus that had fallen into, we know doctrinal error because we already dealt with this in 1 Timothy. Some were teaching false doctrine. And along with false doctrine, there is always ungodly behavior. Those two seem to go hand in hand. False teaching, ungodly conduct are just inseparable, it seems like. And part of the problem might have been that perhaps there were some men in that b role were in that position that were put there too quickly. They didn't belong in that position to begin with Another factor could have been that perhaps in the uh vetting and looking for men to fill leadership positions in the church at Ephesus, some had made hasty decisions. and they misjudge the character of the person that they were putting in that position. The Apostle Paul says in chapter five and verse number twenty-four He said, Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before the judgment, and some men that follow after. Likewise also the good works. In other words Outwardly they might look apart, but inwardly uh they are not truly called of God. Some men's sins are evident. Uh that is, it's very obvious. That they are not qualified, but then for others, that's not so obvious. Their sins won't be revealed until the judgment And so it's important that the church uh understand this and address this problem. And what Paul is going to give us here in this chapter are just two basic principles to follow with respect to churches and their pastors. Just two basic principles. And really the big idea, if I could just give the sermon in one sentence. Um and by the way, after the sentence, you've got to stay and listen to the rest of the sermon though, okay? It made me nervous when we were singing that song tonight, you know, you shall go out with joy. I'm like, don't go anywhere yet. All right. Uh we haven't done the whole service yet. But But here's the sermon in a sentence, churches must be wise in protecting and in selecting their pastors. That's really what Paul's talking about here. So, first of all, let's consider the first part of this. Churches must be wise in protecting their pastors. Again, look at chapter 5 And look at verse we'll back up to verse seventeen to get the full context. Let the elders that rule well be what be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scripture says thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the labor is worthy of his reward. So in these verses Paul talk about elders or pastors who do their work well. They lead the church well They labor hard in the word and doctrine. And if a church has pastors like that, you can be sure that the devil will go after them. So churches have to be aware of this and protect and support their pastors from the attacks that they will sometimes get. Now no one knew that better than the Apostle Paul. If you were with us on our Sunday mornings when we were studying 2 Corinthians, you know that that was a letter that was primarily Paul's defense against the many attacks that were rendered against him by some of the false uh teachers that had Gotten into the church at Corinth. They were making all kind of false accusations against Paul. And what really disturbed Paul was that no one in the church at Corinth stood up for him. No one stood with him. There was no sense of loyalty. In 2 Corinthians 12, 11, Paul said this, I am become a fool in glorying. That is, Paul says, you know, I have to defend myself. I have to talk about all my my credentials, and in doing this I'm glorying, but I'm a fool in doing all this. But Paul said, you compelled me, you made me do this, for I ought to have been commended of you. You should have been the one taking care of this. You should have defended me. He says, For in nothing am I behind the very chiefest of apostles, though I be nothing. I'm nothing. I am I am but by the grace of God. But I'm not inferior to these false teachers that have come, and you should have defended me from the attacks. You should have defended me from the false accusations. So no one knew that false accusations can be given against a person better than the Apostle Paul. And he knew that pastors will at times be victims of this. And so Paul gives some guidelines when it comes to accusations against the elder or a pastor. Again, he had received accusations himself. And these instructions explain how to handle a grievance against a pastor or an elder in the church. Here's the first principle we see under this. Accusations against the pastor require factual evidence. Requires factual evidence. Look at verse 19. Against an elder received not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses. Now Paul is quoting here from the law of Moses. He's quoting from Deuteronomy chapter 19, verse 15. Let me read that. One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin. In any sin that he sinneth, at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established So this is a principle that went all the way back to the Old Testament law, that when a person sinned, it can't be an accusation just by one. It has to be by at least two, preferably three. So it's a it's a simple principle. Uh excuse me, a simple principle. A case must be tried on the basis of factual evidence, not hearsay, not rumor. It has to be established with two or three witnesses. Now, Paul specifically applies this principle here to church leaders. And why is that? Well, because they're more liable to false accusations and slander than others, especially men who preach God's truth, who stand firmly on the Word of God. Satan is always out to discredit that person to discredit their authority, to discredit their ministry, and one of the methods that he often uses to attack the credibility uh of the man who teaches God's word is to use people just simply to rise up and make accusations against them. Again, Paul understood this because Paul faced this all the time. And what happens is if people begin to doubt that person's credibility, then they no longer listen to his message. I mean if you don't feel like I'm a credible pastor, if you can't if you don't trust what I say from the scripture, you're not going to listen to me, right? And and that was the that was really, I think, the thorn in the flesh that Paul had with the church at Corinth. He was being undermined so much that the people there were no longer listening to him. And that really bothered Paul because he was giving them the truth. And now they were kind of just shutting him out and listening to error. And so that's one of Satan's devices. And so There are these attacks that he will render against a true servant of Christ. or attack 'em because they don't like something that he did or something that they he said or perhaps something that they don't agree with or something that they don't feel is right. You know, uh and so rather than going to the pastor, there's this tendency to go out and to spread rumors. They spread half-truths, they spread lies, they try to discredit the man and his message Now again, this happened to Paul several times. And so Paul, and by the way, it can happen to anyone. Anyone can make an accusation against another person. This happened in the Bible with Joseph, this happened with Moses, this happened with David, this happened with Jeremiah, this happened with Nehemiah. And on we could go, all the way to the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. False accusations were made against the Lord Jesus. I remember one time in another church down south, I won't give the name of the church. um, you know, to protect the guilty. But um I remember it was a large church and uh There was a man in the church that circulated a letter about me to the membership of the church, and and it had several accusations in that letter that were simply lies. Now, the thing I appreciated is the guy signed the letter Because most letters like that have no signature on it. Most people like to take shots from the hit from the hidden spots. And a a letter that has no signature on it, I just simply throw away. You know, because if you're not going to sign your name to it, if you're not going to talk to me about whatever the issue is, there's really nothing I can do about that. But this might this man he signed the letter and I appreciate it, so I called him on the phone I said, look, I read your letter that's circulating around. And I said, look, we're going to have a meeting with all the deacons on Sunday and all the people from the personnel committee. And I want you to bring your letter and I want you to Speak to them and tell them your concerns. And I want you to bring the evidence with you of the things that you said that I've done. And if you can prove any one of those things, if you get the evidence and you can prove any one of those things, I'll step down. If I'm guilty of any one of those things, I'm willing to step down. You know his response was oh I'm not coming to that meeting. I said, did you write the letter? Yes. Are you a member of the church? Yes. I said, well then you need to come to the meeting. He goes, oh no, I'm not coming to that meeting. I said, we're going to have the meeting whether you're there or not. And and I'm going to read this letter to the to the personnel committees, all the deacons. And if any one of these things are true, by the way, you know, y you had enough, you know, courage, if you want to call it that, to write the letter, man up and come to the meeting. If you made the accusation, give the evidence, give the proof, and if you prove any of these things, I'll step down. You won't get a fight out of me. Well, of course he didn't come because all of those things were lies None of those things were true, and he couldn't prove any of those things in the letter. But it's it's easy for anyone to make an accusation. And so what does Paul say here about this very thing? Notice what Paul says here. The first thing is that you have to have evidence. Against an elder received not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses. And so it's important for the testimony of Christ that we handle such situations in a godly way. If the person is spreading rumors or gossip, that person needs to be corrected. Okay? If he has a legitimate problem, it needs to be processed according to the scripture. If it's a legitimate problem, that's fine. Let's deal with the problem. Let's do it according to the Scripture. I find that five questions here from Stephen Cole are very good when it comes to this. discerning whether it's just rumor mongering, gossip, or if it's a legitimate problem. He said there's five questions perhaps you should ask. Number one, what is your reason for telling me? If a person comes to you, if a person comes to you with a complaint against leadership, you should ask, which what's your reason for telling me? Widening the circle of gossip only compounds a problem. Why do I need to know this? Why are you telling me this? If this person says, Oh, I just want you to know so you can pray, then you should caution him not to say anything more to anyone before he checks out the facts. And takes the biblical steps in dealing with it. You know, gossip flatters our pride by giving us inside information. I just want to give you the inside information. Like one person said, I don't say anything unless it's good, and boy, is this good. Number two, another question, where did you get your information? Refusal to identify the source is a sure sign of gossip. Is there any one any more witnesses? Is there just one or is there more? If not, then the accusation should not be received. Here's another one, Stephen Cole says, have you gone to those directly involved? If the person is not gone to those involved, he's probably more interested in spreading gossip than helping to solve the problem or restore the person. And then number four he says, have you personally checked out all the facts? It's easy for facts to get distorted as they travel from one person and another. And here's another question you should ask if someone comes to you. Can I quote you on this? Can I quote you if I check this out myself? You see, a person spreading gossip won't want to be quoted by name. They don't want to get involved in a messy business of confronting a A person or maybe restoring someone who is in sin. They just want to spread an evil report. And so Paul says, receive not an accusation. Let the elder again in verse 8 19, excuse me, against an elder receive not an accusation. The word receive here, paradecome, means to entertain or to consider it in your mind. If there's no fact, if it can't be investigated, you're not to receive it, you're to simply turn a deaf ear to it. That's the best way of protecting uh the leadership in the church. Accusation is from two words in the Greek combo compound word, kata against agoura And so it's the idea of a public accusation in a meeting place. Don't be entertained with that. It's not to be entertained. Don't receive that. And Paul then gives the condition under which an accusation against the elder is to be taken serious if there is two or three witnesses. Now, under that, it should be investigated. If it's a legitimate problem, if it's a legitimate issue, then it should be investigated. It should be looked into. But even though you have two or three witnesses, doesn't mean that it's verified. That's where you have to look for the evidence Um and so and so, you know, this is Paul's um principles that he's giving here. Check out the facts. Make sure you have evidence. It's a very serious thing to bring a charge against one of the servants of the Lord. Make sure that you have your evidence. And hand, and that you know what you're talking about. The Bible says, Do not touch my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm. Those who set out to falsely accuse one of God's servants are treading on dangerous ground. However, if there's some legitimacy to it, here's the second thing. First of all, accusations against a pastor require factual evidence at the mouth of two or three witnesses. But here's the next thing Paul says Unrepentant sinning pastors are to be publicly rebuked. Look at verse number 20. Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear. Pastors are to be protected from false accusations, but they are not immune from the true ones. They are not immune from a legitimate true accusation. Them that sin. This is present indicative. That is those who are in the process of sinning, those who are sinning and not really repenting of it. I think this is really someone who has perhaps been proven guilty of the charges and they do not repent. You go to the person, you say, look, here's the problem. They acknowledge they're guilty, but there there's no repentance there. There's no changing of the behavior. There's no change of direction. Those that continue in that path, Paul said they need to be rebuked. The word rebuke here to expose, to bring to open conviction, to correct. to reprove. If it's a public sin, such as false teaching on some major issue, or a sin that's in public view. Then a public rebuke is what is called for there. Paul said, you rebuke them publicly. then they need to be rebuked publicly. If someone is in an immoral pattern of behavior, then they need to be rebuked publicly. And let me just say that, you know, Paul, he named individuals at times. Look at 1 Timothy, look in chapter 1, and look at verse number 20. Paul talked about those who have made shipwreck of their faith. Look at verse 20, of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I've delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. It's just so that everybody knows who they are, who these ones that are teaching false doctrine, those who have made shipwreck their faith. Here is Paul publicly Publicly rebuking these men because of what they done. Look in 2 Timothy chapter 2, verses 17 and 18. Here, he doesn't just name the individual, he names their false doctrine. Verse 17 of chapter 2 of Second Timothy, and their word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is Hymenaeus and Theletus, who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is already passed. and overthrow the faith of some. Here, Paul, he names the guilty parties, and he also talks about the false doctrine that they are spreading. And so, depending on the seriousness of the sin, the man may need to step down from his office until he rebuilds a godly reputation, if that's possible. I think there are certain sins that leadership commits that they're no longer blameless. And they can no longer occupy the office of a pastor because they're not and uh found blameless anymore. They can't fulfill that one requirement You know, but the problem is that if a church leader sins, we're inclined to cover it up quickly, or to keep it under wraps, or perhaps gossip about it. You know, to expose it would seem like damage to the reputation of Christ or the church. And so many churches would rather just sweep the sin under the rug. rather than deal with it. I know situations where pastors who sinned morally uh you know basically were just quietly moved out into another ministry. And in that other ministry, guess what? Same thing happened. Same kind of character, same kind of issues that not only destroyed the last church, but is now wreaking havoc on that present ministry that that person is in. If the matter is not dealt with biblically, Satan will use it. It will lead to gossip, it'll lead to slander, it'll lead to division, it'll lead to greater sin. And so Paul is very clear. When a sinning pastor or leader doesn't repent, you know if you go to them and you confront them and they repent, that's fine. You know, there it has to be, you know, look at the seriousness of the sin as to whether or not that person can continue in that role. But if they don't, you publicly rebuke them. Why you do that? Well, because it clears the name of God and his church from association with and toleration of that evil. You're basically letting everyone know that the church does not stand behind this at all. We don't stand behind what this person has said or done at all. If the church leader sins and the church simply covers it up, there's going to be leaks, and when the leaks spread, people begin to think that the church is tolerating that evil. That was the very thing that happened at the church at Corinth. There was a man there that committed all kinds of sins. And Paul said, Look, you're puffed up rather than mourning over this sin. What do you mean by they were puffed up? Well, this person that came to church, he was a very important person. in the community. Very important person in the city. And the church didn't want to take action against this person that was committing this grievous sin. So rather than deal with it biblically, they were kind of covering it up. They were kind of uh justifying or making excuses because they were so proud to have this big name person at their church. And Paul said, you're puffed up. And you instead you should be mourning over that sin. And so when the leaks spread about a church not dealing with the issue, people begin thinking that that church tolerates sin. That church tolerates evil, and that erodes trust in the message that we proclaim and in the holy God that we serve. And so God's method is that it doesn't matter who it is, even his choicest servants, that sin is to be rebuked. In the Old Testament, God rebuked David publicly for what he did. David was a man after God's own heart. David was one of God's choice servants. But when David sinned against God, guess what? God rebuked him publicly. He said, through the prophet Nathan, what you did, you did in secret. But what I'm going to do to you, I'm going to do it openly. I'm going to do it in public. Public rebuke causes others to be fearful of sinning. Again, in chapter five, verse twenty, where he says again, Excuse me, verse 19. Against an elder receive not an accusation, but be but before two or three witnesses, and verse twenty, them that sin rebuke before all, that others may also fear. That's what I'm looking for there in verse twenty. It causes others to be fearful of sinning. And fear is not necessarily a bad motivator if it keeps us from sin. It keeps us from that kind of disgrace. Public discipline, especially of a church leader, makes people see the gravity of sin, and it causes a healthy fear of God. If people know that the church will discipline and administer discipline, impartiality, they will be fearful themselves of such a rebuke. But also public rebuke causes the sinner himself to be fearful. Notice the word also in verse number twenty, where he says, them that sin rebuke before all that others may also may fear. What does that imply? That the one who committed this is also fearful. The one who committed this infraction. So it will act as a deterrent against sin. So what are the principles that Paul gives here? First of all, accusations against the pastor require factual evidence. And then unrepentant sinning pastors are to be publicly rebuked. But then what's the next thing? No preferential treatment. No preferential treatment. Look at verse 21. I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that thou observe these things without preferring one before another. doing nothing by partiality. And applying these principles, no one is to receive special treatment. No one Alright? There should be no effort to protect a pastor because this pastor might be famous. You know, maybe they have a a nationwide ministry, or perhaps they're specially gifted. Or they're popular, you know, we just like this pastor, so we don't want to deal with this. Nor should someone seek to expose them because they're not liked, or they don't have the same giftings as perhaps someone else. The attitude is those who apply these principles, they're to do it fairly, with no partiality, and you know what? You should do it with sorrow, not self-righteousness. Because we know that any one of us at any time can be guilty of sin. And so this is what Paul said. Look, don't use partiality. Doesn't matter who it is. You you apply these principles. Now this is not really a a section of scripture that you like to deal with Or something you like to do. Someone said this section is like strong medicine. You don't want to have to use it, but it's good to have it just in case, right? I hope we never have to apply any of this, but it's good that we know this, that we have this kind of thing in our medicine cabinet in case we ever need it. Now to demonstrate how serious this is, this fact of not being partial, Paul invokes a solemn charge to Timothy. Look again in verse 21, where he says, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels. Notice God and Jesus Christ. By the way, that's contained under the same Greek article, implying that Jesus Christ is God, just a little side note there. God is the ultimate judge who's committed all judgment to his Son, the Lord Jesus. All discipline in the church is carried out before the Lord Jesus. The elect angels were probably brought up to present this awesome picture of God in judgment Just like you know that vision of uh uh Mount Sinai when the angels were there, when God was displaying his holiness there. And so it's it's it's designed to show the awesome presence of God in judgment. Now why did Paul give this charge to Timothy. Well, you know, Timothy, if you read this epistle, it seemed like he was somewhat timid by nature. Somewhat timid by his personality. He may have had the tendency to back off from confronting powerful people who were in error. And so Paul says to Timothy, in effect, look, don't be afraid of men. You be afraid of God. You fear God. I am giving you this charge in the presence of God. Don't fear men, fear God. And so this is the first principle then. Churches must be wise in protecting pastors. But under that, accusations against a pastor require factual evidence. Unrepentant sinning pastors are to be publicly rebuked, and there's no preferential treatment in this. Here's the second major point. Churches must be wise in selecting pastors. Wise in protecting pastors, but wise in selecting pastors. And we see this in verses 22 down to verse number 25. Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins. Keep thyself pure. And so the point that Paul makes here is that perhaps the reason so many leave the ministry, or you have issues like this, is because they did not belong in the pastoral role to begin with. So be careful how you select pastors to serve in ministry. As the old saying goes, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. So be careful that you don't put people in positions of leadership that do not qualify. And so Paul basically says under this, be cautious. He says this in verse 22, and then in verses 25, 24, and 25, he'll talk about be careful in your observation, watch that person. Watch that individual. Let's look at the first one. By the way, sandwich in between that is a little personal advice that Paul gives Timothy and we'll look at that. But first use caution in selecting a pastor. Again, verse 22, lay hands suddenly on no man. Now, what is lay hands here? Now there's a little bit of debate by some as to what it means by laying hands on that person. Some interpret this as After a pastor repents and they have basically proven themselves, you lay hands on them, you restore the repentant pastor or elder back into leadership. That's one interpretation of the laying hands on no man suddenly. I think that's improbable. I don't think that's what Paul's talking about here. And let me tell you why. First of all, because there's no evidence of such a custom existing in the New Testament church. That you lay hands on a person who's being restored back into the past order. Well, we don't see that in the New Testament anywhere. Secondly, laying on of hands in the New Testament is always connected with ordination. It's bringing that person into the role of pastor. We see this often. Acts chapter 6, verse 6. Says this, whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. They were ordaining them into ministry to begin with. Acts 13, 13. And when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they sent them away. Again, this is the laying on of hands, ordaining people to go and do ministry. In 1 Timothy 4, 14, we saw this where it says, Paul said, Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the Presbytery. Timothy, people laid hands on you. Ordaining him into ministry. Second Timothy one six, Paul says, I put you in remembrance. You stir up the gift of God which is in you by the Putting on of my hands, I laid my hands on you. So every time you see this laying on of hands in the New Testament, it's not talking about restoring a person after sin It's talking about ordaining them into the ministry to begin with. And finally, this interpretation flies into the face of the New Testament teaching about forgiveness. Paul's saying here, use caution. Don't lay hands on a person suddenly. Is God telling us to do that with a person who's repentant? A person who's truly repentant and wants forgiveness? Oh, I've got to be careful whether or not I forgive you I've got to be careful whether or not I want to lay hands on you. That goes against the teaching of forgiveness in the New Testament. So what he's talking about here. is to lay hands on someone, affirming them, accepting them into ministry to begin with, to ordain them, to give them a ministry title, to give them a ministry position. That's who you want to be. That's what it's talking about. And that's where you need to be careful. Now some elders had fallen into sin. And Timothy may have been inclined to hastily appoint others to take their place. And Paul is saying, look, be careful about that. Don't lay hands on someone quickly. If he did, and those men were not qualified, and they fell into sin, guess what? Timothy then would be a partaker of their sin. Again, look what he says in verse number 22. Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins. If you do that, if you lay hands on someone suddenly without thorough investigation, without really understanding and knowing who they are, And careful observation, if you if you lay hands on them and they end up not being qualified and they fall into sin, you share in that. makes you responsible for the sins of others. The fact that where he says you're a partaker, this is the word coinineo, it means you to have in common. That's a word for fellowship. Hasty ordination without proper examination makes those responsible culpable in that person's sin. That's what Paul's saying here. So he says to Timothy, keep yourself pure. Keep yourself pure. Don't be culpable, responsible for another man's sin by laying your hands on someone that's not qualified by God, that's not set apart by God for ministry, because you have played a part in their failure and in their fall. And so watch. Keep yourself pure. You know, that's what he's saying here. Now, notice the fatherly advice that Paul gives Timothy in verse 23. Drink no longer water. But use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities. You say, man, where did that come from? Seems like that's kind of intrusive into this whole narrative here, this whole passage. All of a sudden Paul says to Timothy, don't drink water, you know. Well, health experts today wouldn't agree with that. You know, don't drink water, but but drink a little bit of wine for your stomach's sake. Now this is kind of parenthetical. It's a personal word from Paul to Timothy. And let me tell you how I think this fits in. I think that Paul had just said to Timothy, keep yourself pure. And Timothy was a man who I think was disciplined in his spiritual life. And part of the problem in the church at Ephesus were there are false teachers that were teaching a brand of asceticism that is rigid self-denial, hoping that that would make give them favor with God. That was kind of a false religion there of asceticism, thinking that their asceticism, their self-discipline, in some way would make them acceptable to God. And so it could be that Timothy was tempted to follow in those practices of rigid self-discipline. And Paul was concerned that he not be swayed at all by some of these false teachers. And then one of the things that Timothy refrained to do was drink wine. So evidently Timothy had committed himself to total abstinence from wine. He maybe he wanted to be a model of spiritual virtue. He wanted to limit his liberty in this area. And so Paul was concerned about Timothy for these reasons. And and also Timothy evidently had some health problems. And Paul didn't want Timothy's health to suffer because of his abstinence from wine. Now let me just say this: water in the ancient world was impure, and it carried diseases like dysentery. And so Paul's advice to Timothy to use a little bit of wine for your stomach's sake. You know, don't just drink that polluted water. You know. By putting in some wine and mixing it in the water, it basically took some of that impurities out of the water. It purified the water some so that Timothy could drink. And it would be healthy for him to do this. And basically what he's saying is use wine and a medicinal purpose that will help you. Okay? Don't in your in your effort to be pure, in your effort to show discipline, don't neglect your health. That would be the principle that we could give there. And and go ahead and drink a little bit of wine for your stomach's sake. The Talmud Hippocrates, Pliny, Plutarch, they all spoke of the value of wine and counterin and and um and basically dealing with stomach stomach ailments caused by impure water. They all wrote about this in the ancient world. And so wine was used for an additional purpose when something like this came up. Now of course this gets into debate of whether a Christian should drink wine or not. That's another sermon for another time. All right. And uh let me just just give you And say, look, uh you've probably heard me talk about this before when it came up in First Timothy, but the the Christians in the early church You they had two options, either water or wine, or mil actually three milk. And most of the time, like I said, the water was impure, it was bad. And so, you know, did the Christians in the early church drink wine? Of course they did. Was some of it fermented? Probably, yeah. But it was also watered down a lot. And to compare the wine that they drank back then with what is we have today is not a really a fair comparison. You know, alcoholic beverages today are made to be strong. They're made to be alcoholic. There's nothing in the Bible that forbids a believer from drinking wine, but I tell you what it does forbid, it forbids alcoholism. It forbids being a slave, to be of being an alcoholic. The Bible teaches that, you know, that is a sin. And so drinking any alcohol is dangerous since It can be addictive and we live in a day to day where there's so many choices of things to drink. I mean we're blessed. So why even start With the possibility that you could get addicted to something like wine. You say, Well, I'm not gonna be alcoholic. Well no one plans to be an alcoholic. It kind of sneaks up on people. It ensnares people unawares. And so Paul says to Timothy, Timothy, go ahead and drink some wine for your stomach's sake. Be careful of your health. Also notice what he didn't say. He didn't say, Timothy, just claim your healing by faith. Just claim your healing by faith. Don't worry about anything else. Just name it and claim it. You know. He was recommending a medical use of wine and a sensible recognition that Timothy needed to take care of his body. He needed to get proper, you know, rest and medicine, and and so you know that is not opposed to a life of faith. Taking care of yourself in the right ways. Yes, we should pray for healing, but yes, we also should be thankful for modern medicine and use it, because that's a common grace from Almighty God. So that's Paul's fatherly advice. Let me get to the last point here. Use careful observation and selecting pastors. Look down at verse number 24 and verse 25. Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before the judgment, and some men they follow after. Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand, and that and that they are otherwise otherwise cannot be hid. So this principle here is Paul emphasizing careful observation. And he gives us two class of men here, those who are qualified and those who are not. Careful observation will reveal in time who is qualified and who is not. The qualified Those are, you know, this is the first category in verse 24, the qualified, excuse me, the unqualified, I should say, those who are obviously unfit. Some men's sins are open before him. That is You know, it's evident when you look at this person that they're not qualified. Because their sins are open. It's not a secret. Their sins rush in before them like heralds, announcing their guilt And so what's what's in view here is that you know you just look at their life and see that they're not qualified And then he says other men, their sins follow after after them. There are some men, it's not openly obvious before all that they're not qualified, but only after time and careful observation will it be revealed In the judgment of the church, that they're not qualified. Their sins are not all that evident. And so again, the whole point here is it takes time and observation and watching a person. But then there's also the qualified. We deal with the unqualified in verse 24. But then the qualified in verse 25. Likewise also the good works of some are manifest before him And they that are otherwise cannot be hid. And so the opposite is also true. Some men's good works and character are so obvious that it's manifest to all. And it becomes obvious to all. That they are qualified to serve, that they are gifted and called by God. Their good deeds cannot be concealed. And again, time is the thing that will reveal that. Some people who see church leadership may not look at first as if they are qualified, but in time, their good works cannot be hidden. And it'll come to light that this person actually is qualified. They're truly godly. They may not appear to be that on the surface, but in time, their good works will not and cannot be hidden. And so this is Paul's advice then. What does he teach? Churches must be wise in protecting pastors. Accusations against a pastor require factual evidence. Unrepentant sinning pastors are to be publicly rebuked. No preferential treatment Churches must be wise in selecting pastors. Use caution in selecting a pastor. Use careful observation in selecting a pastor. And I'll close with this. You know, during the time of the Reformation, there were many Catholic priests who just led immoral lives. Many of these Cat Catholic priests had mistresses, they had illegitimate children, they were greedy of misusing church funds, they were living in luxury. And one of the major things that happened during that time in church history was that the true church was returning to the Word of God. They were returning to the principles of Scripture. And along with that came this return of holding high the standards of leadership in the church and discipline when those things were not being done. And God was honored because of that. Greatly honored by the return to righteousness in the church, starting with the leaders. And so this is very important for the church. That those that are in those positions are held up as qualified, that they honor the Lord with their life. Holiness and sound doctrine should go hand in hand, and it should be evident to the people of God in the church. And so the church is accountable to make sure that that happens. And also pastors are accountable to the church to make sure that they're living the way they should live and they're preaching sound doctrine. Amen? All right, let's have a word of prayer together. Father, we thank you for this sobering warning that Paul gives to Timothy here that is applied also to us as a church. Lord, we want to honor you. We want our ministry here to be above reproach, blameless in your sight. And we know, Lord, that that can only come because of your help and your grace. Because we are nothing but sinners saved by your grace, and we don't want that grace to be invested in us in vain. But Lord, help us to labor all the more. To be diligent that we might be found in righteousness, as the Bible says, that we might within the fear of God. Provoke ourselves under good works. And that, Lord, we deal thoroughly with sin in our life. That we might be the people that you have called us to be. So Lord, help us to take heed of your word, to apply it to our own life. And Father, we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.