Of Genesis. Genesis chapter one. And we'll start at verse number one. You should sure know this verse pretty well. Genesis 1, 1. And I just want to read some verses from the creation account with you tonight. This is a beautiful, beautiful passage of Scripture. Look in Genesis 1, verse 1. In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth. And the earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light. And there was light And God saw the light, that it was good, and God divided the light from the darkness, and God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And the evening and the morning were the first day. And God said, Let there be firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters. And God made the firmament and divided the waters which were under the firmament, from the waters which were above the firmament, and it was so. And God called the firmament heaven, and the evening and the morning were the second day. And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so And God called the dry land earth, and gathered together all the waters called he the seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself upon the earth, and it was so. And the earth brought forth grass and herb yielding seed after its kind, and the tree yielding fruit whose seed was in itself after his kind, and God saw that it was good, and the evening and the morning were the third day. And God said, let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years. And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven, to give light upon the earth, and it was so. Drop down to verse twenty. And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creatures that hath life and foul that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven. And God created great whales and every living creature that moveth, which The water is brought forth abundantly after their kind, and every wing fowl after his kind, and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth And the evening and the morning were the fifth day. And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creatures after his kind, cattle and creeping thing, and the beast of the earth after his kind, and it was so Drop down to verse 26. And God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth And over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. And God blessed him. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air, over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. Well, that's the story of creation, at least it's an excerpt of it. And if you ask me, it's one of the most beautiful chapters in all of the Bible. What a chapter in which to draw you into worship. God the Creator. This is the story of creation. It is literal. It is not a myth. This is historical fact. This is not poetry. This is prose. This is straightforward historical narrative prose. And the reason I say that is because there's a heated debate today over this issue of creation, whether we should take the the Word of God Literally here in these first few chapters of Genesis, there are some that say we should uh approach this more in a figurative sense as if this is poetry or this is some kind of a myth that was written. Last week I preached on why I believe the I preach the Bible literally true. I guess tonight the sermon could be why I believe in creation is literally written in Scripture. Or why I reject evolution. I I think I don't have to tell you that this is a huge issue. This is a crucial issue. This is foundational We have uh children that are being taught evolution as a fact in schools. College students and universities are being taught that Genesis 1 is not Historical fact, it's not reliable. They're being indoctrinated with the theory of evolution. And Let me just say that understanding origins is the basis for understanding all of the rest of the Bible. If we can't trust in Genesis 1 through 3, why how can we trust in the rest of Scripture? If we can't take Genesis 1 through 3 literally, then when do we start interpreting the Bible literally? And who wrote the rules on all that, by the way? No, I believe this is literal. The Bible says that God is the creator. And if he's not the creator, then how do we know that he's the Redeemer? How can we trust in that? And if he's not the creator, then there's no need for a redeemer. Because if he's not the creator, then there's no such thing as sin as we know it in Scripture. And if there's no such thing as sin, then there's no need for salvation, and there's no need for redemption. Creation and redemption are inseparably linked together. 2 Corinthians 4, 6. For God who commandeth the light to shine out of darkness, when did he do that at the beginning when God said, Let there be light? Listen to the rest of the verse, has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The same God who said, Let there be light in the beginning is the God who said to us at the moment we were saved, Let there be light, and the light shined in our dark hearts. So you see there in that one verse that these two things are linked together. Which is why evolution is so dangerous and why it's so blasphemous. Uh Huxley, a biologist and evolutionist, wrote this. He said Evolution is the most powerful and most comprehensive idea that has ever arisen on the earth. I would just say it's the most powerful and comprehensive lie that has ever arisen on the earth. I believe that. It's the single greatest satanic lie that has ever been given that robs God of his glory and the need for redemption And so what I'd like to do tonight is just kind of, I hope you don't mind, I'm going to stand on a soapbox here for a little while and I'm going to rail on evolution. Is that okay? So I'll just give you five reasons why I reject evolution. Five reasons. We may not get to all five of them, but we'll see how it goes. See how well you all listen. But here's the first reason. Number one, evolution is the worst expression of man's depravity and rebellion against God. Evolution is the worst expression of man's depravity and rebellion against God. Any attempt to explain origins and creation apart from what Scripture reveals is nothing more than an expression of rebellion against God. It is a rebellion against what man knows to be true. It's a stubborn refusal to acknowledge God as the Creator. You say, why do you say that? Turn to Romans chapter 1. Just hold your place in Genesis, but turn to Romans chapter 1. I want you just to look at this. Romans chapter 1, and I want you to look at verse 18. Notice what it says. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven. God is revealing his wrath today. I I love to preach about the love of God. And thank God we have a God of love and mercy, but friend, he's also a God of wrath. And in fact, when Paul starts out his gospel, he starts not with love, but with wrath. It's the bad news about God's wrath that makes the good news good. And so he starts out talking about the wrath of God in verse 18. The wrath of God is revealed. The word revealed there is a present-tense verb. We could say constantly being revealed. It's the word apocalypto, where we get the word apocalypse. It has the idea of uncovering, of bringing to light, or to be made known. God's wrath is continually being made known from heaven. He's constantly revealing it. You say, why? Look in verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who hold the truth. in unrighteousness. That's why it's being revealed, just right down, willful ignorance. They hold the truth, or we could say the Greek verb is hold down the truth. Because they hold down the truth. The analogy we could use is like being in a pool with a beach bowl. You're just holding it underwater. You're constantly pushing it down. That's exactly the idea that this action carries here in this verb. A continual aggressive striving against truth. In fact, the word suppress would be a good word for that. They are suppressing the truth. And he's referring here to a sinner who successfully silences his conscience. Paul is saying somehow, somehow, the truth is being pushed. It's being repressed. It's being stifled. Modern psychologist notes that this is what happens with painful memories that people have or a traumatic experience. People will push them out of their conscious mind. They will push them back into the deepest recesses and chambers of the mind. That's the idea here. Man is suppressing. And what is he constantly suppressing? He's suppressing the truth about God. That's what Paul's referring to here. Linsky wrote this, whenever the truth starts to exert itself or makes them feel uneasy in their immortal nature, they hold it down, they suppress it Some drown its voice by rushing into their immoralities. Others strangle the disturbing voice by argument and denial They're suppressing truth. Look at verse 19. Because that which may be made which may be made known of God is manifest in them. For God has shown it unto them. Man is suppressing the truth about God's revelation of himself to men. He's holding that down. This is inward evidence. Notice where it says in verse 19, it is in them. God has planted in man the knowledge of himself. You know that everyone is born with this inward knowledge that God exists. It's in every person. That's what he's saying here. It's in him. The theologian Augustus Strom said the scriptures both assume and declare that the knowledge of God is universal. God has inlaid the evidence of that fundamental truth in the very nature of man. Helen Keller was had a disease when she was very young. It left her without sight, hearing, or speech. and through the efforts of a a a devoted woman named Ann Sullivan, she was able finally to communicate with Helen Keller. And when she finally was able to, she began to tell her about God And Helen said, I I already know about him. I just didn't know his name. Because that knowledge was already in her Inward knowledge, but also outward evidence. Look at verse 20. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seeing being. understood by the things that are made, even as eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without exc excuse. All of creation bears witness to a powerful, wise, loving creator. What does the Bible say? The heavens declare the glory of God. All of creation bears witness to God. For an atheist to say there is no God, you telling me you can live in this world and see all this beauty and all this design and all this creation and refuse to acknowledge that there is a creator or friend, that is suppressing the truth Not only the knowledge that is in him, but the knowledge that is revealed around him. And so much so that Paul says, for God has shown it unto them, God has made it manifest. Just by looking at creation, you can tell that God is powerful, that God is kind and gracious, because all of creation gives of its resource, it gives of its bounty. We can see that he's a God of wisdom and beauty and love and all of these things. Now, natural revelation isn't enough to save a man, but it's enough to know to show a man that there is a God. And Paul says so much so that man is without excuse. Acts 14, 17, yet he did not leave himself without witness. For he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your heart with food and gladness. And so there's that natural revelation that makes man without excuse. But then look at verse 21. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Part of suppressing the truth is that man refuses to give God glory as creator. Man's chief end is to glorify God. But man refuses to acknowledge the handiwork of God. He refuses to acknowledge God in any way. And the Bible says neither were they thankful. They didn't recognize God's gracious gifts that he gives daily. And the worst of sins is ingratitude. And man refuses to acknowledge that. And then this turns to rationalization in verse 22, professing themselves to be wise. they became fools. This leads to rationalism. Man, his vain imaginations and his reasoning becomes full of intellectual pride, and then not not wanting to acknowledge God, he comes up with all these great philosophical systems and reasonings to argue God away to get him out of his life Brilliant thinkers composed these very intricate, complex systems of philosophical thought, all designed to explain God away. To say that there is no God. The Bible says in Psalm 14, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. And that's the defiance in those words. No God, I'm not going to acknowledge you. I'm not going to give you the glory. And so this is an expression of a depraved heart. Before anyone can know the truth about origins, they have to have a reverence for God. They have to believe that God is. And that's precisely what evolutionists do not have. And evolution is simply a system that is designed to explain God away. Did you know that Charles Darwin, when he first published The Origin of Species It was largely rejected by the scientific world. In fact, Dar Darwin himself had doubts about it. He was filled with doubts, and when he writes many of his writings, you'll find that he's constantly doubting himself And he wrote that he was deeply conscious of his own ignorance. In his personal letters, he wrote about having awful misgivings of having deluded, quote, myself and devoted myself to fantasy. Well then why continue with it? This is what he says. These are his own words. But he said, quote, I am determined to escape from design and a personal God at all costs, end quote. That was the whole reason for the whole system. He wanted to get away from God. That was his own admission. He wanted to escape God That, my friend, is suppressing the truth. That is pushing away God. That is pushing away the truth. One writer says his life was one long attempt to escape from the church and to escape from God. It is this that explains so much that would otherwise be incongruous to his life and into his character So it was all about getting rid of God, getting rid of the authority of Scripture, getting rid of any moral or spiritual implication that comes from there being a God and the authority of Scripture. That's number one. It's the worst expression of man's rebellion against God. But write down number two. Evolution makes a God out of chance It makes a God out of chance. So if creation by intelligent creator and God was not an option, according to evolutionists, that leaves only one other thing. That leaves simply chance. It's either creation or chance. Or creator who made all this or chance. It's one or the other. And evolutionists say we choose chance over a creator. Douglas Kelly says this essentially, mankind has only two choices. Either we evolved out of the slime and can be explained in a materialistic sense, meaning that we are made of nothing but the material, or we have been made on a heavenly pattern. Those are your two choices. Another writer, Harold Hill, says it like this in his book, a catchy title, From Goo to You by Way of the Zoo. He says, in the beginning what? In the beginning what? Evolution says go. The Bible says God. Were our beginnings in a sea of chemical soup or in a cloud of hot gases? If so, where did this soup or gases come from? Or is it just possible that a supreme being, God Himself, carefully engineered and created the whole show? And these writers are exactly right. You either choose creator or you choose chance. Scripture is very clear. Scripture tells us how all of this came into being. It was through divine fiat and then fulfillment. In fact, go back to Genesis 1, look at it again. What do you mean by divine fiat and fulfillment? We saw this in these verses. Let me emphasize it to you again. In verse 3, and God said, Let there be light. There's the divine fiat. And here's the fulfillment. And there was what? There was light. And God said in verse 6, let there be firmament. And the end of verse 7, and it was so, and verse 9, and God said, Let the waters unto the heaven be gathered together. And then it says, And it was so, and then so on. God said, let it be, and it was so. That is the power of creation, and beloved, that is how all things came into being through the power of God's word. That's how it happened. A simple decree from God brought it all about. John 1 says, all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. Psalm 33, 6, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth, and on we could go. But that is the essential element of faith. It's one of the fundamental tenements of faith. Our faith is not in faith. We don't have faith in faith. We're not name it and claim it where you speak something and then believe it happens. Our faith is in something that has already been spoken. It is in the authoritative word of God. God said, and we have our faith is based on what God has said. Right? That's faith But not so with the evolutionists. What is his faith in? His faith is not in the authority of Scripture. His faith is in what? Chance He puts all of his faith in chance. Each have to exercise faith. We as creationists put our faith in the revealed, authoritative word of God. They put their faith in random chance. That all of this came about by chance. And that's what they say. Naturalism essentially teaches that over time and out of sheer chaos, matter evolved into everything that we see today by pure chance. It all happened without any particular design. It all happened by chance. In fact, the trinity for the evolution is this, matter, time, and chance. That's their holy trinity. Those th three things together. They constitute the cosmos, according to the evolutionists. Let me read to you what Jacques Manad, a Nobel Peace Prize winner wrote in his book Chance and Necessity, he wrote this. Man is alone, he's an evolutionist. Man is alone in the universe's unfeeling immensity out of which he emerged by chance And then he goes on to say, chance alone is at the source of every innovation, of all creation in the biosphere. Pure chance, absolutely free but blind, is at the root of the stupendous edifice of evolution. It all came about by chance. So you want to put your faith in that. Your faith in pure chance. You say, what's the answer to that? Chance, they're making chance something that is not. Chance is not a force. Chance is a mathematical probability. You know, if I had a coin here, chance could tell me if I flip this coin fifty times, how many times it could land on heads or tails, but chance can't flip the coin. Chance is not a force Chance is just something that is a probability, but it's been elevated to be everything in the system of evolution. So what does the evolutionist believe? He believes this, that in the beginning, all the way back in eternity past, there was this chemical primordial soup. All these chemicals or we can just say mud. How it got there? An evolutionist can't tell you how it got there. It was just there. I mean try to pin an evolutionist down on that. Where did this all come from? Well it was just there. Out of nothing, something came. By pure chance. And out of this there was spontaneous generation. Life generated out of this. How did that happen? How does conscious life come out of mud? Well again they would say it's just chance. And some will say if you try to pin them down, well, there were crystals there at the beginning. What? What is crystals? What has that got to do with anything? And some will say, well, there was a bolt of lightning, and this bolt of lightning hit this mud with all these chemicals in it, and that spontaneously generated life. This single cell of life was generated by the bolt of lightning hit hitting this mud. In fact, there was one evolutionist named Dr. Stanley Miller that came up with an experiment. He tried to simulate that in the beginning, and he put together this chemicals and this mud, what he thought was there at the at the beginning, what evolutionists thought was there. And then he had lightning he had lightning bolts hit it. Or electricity hit it In this great experiment. And you know what happened? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. There's a fact for you. But if there was a bolt of lightning in the beginning, where did the bolt of lightning come from? Where did that come from? They can't tell you. Just chance. And so, well let's just give them a little credit. Let's just say this really happened, okay? Let's go ahead and give them that. Okay, the bolt of lightning hit this primordial mud, and then there was a single cell of life that generated out of this bolt of lightning. And by the way, a single cell of life requires 250 proteins that are sequenced in a certain order in order to just give the basic form of life. 250 proteins have to be lined up in a strand, sequenced in a definite pattern, in order for there to be life. What are the odds of that happening? It would be like lining up 250 slot machines, hitting the 250 handles on the slot machines at the same time, and all 250 slot machines hitting the jackpot at the same time What are the odds of that happening? Someone estimating it would be one in a trillion, trillion, trillion. And yet that's what they believe happens. Fred Hoyles, the British astronomer, was the one who made this quote famous. You probably heard it before. He said concerning the possibility of spontaneous generation to life, in that form. He said the chance that a higher life form might have emerged in this way is comparable with the chance that a tornado sweeping through a junkyard might assemble a Boeing 747 from the materials therein. Same idea. And by the way, a Boeing 747 has a collection of 4. 5 million parts arranged in an intricate design that causes it to fly. But the human body has a whole lot more than that. But evolutionists believe that anything is possible. Well, let's just go ahead and give them that. Let's just go ahead and say that this cell came to life The single cell and the 250 proteins lined up exactly the way they should have to generate this life Now what's the problem? Well now you have to believe that this single cell mutated into higher forms of life. And in order for that to happen, you know what has to happen to this cell? More information has to be downloaded into this cell. More proteins, more DNA, and it has to add information. How does that happen Well again to them it's just chance. You know what science has proven? Science has proven that there are mutations within species But there's never a case where one species mutated into another completely different species. That has been proven. And listen to this. All mutations are harmful. Anytime there's a mutation within a cell, it doesn't add information to that cell. You know what happens? It loses information. So whenever there's a mutation, it's never upward, it's always downward. You understand that? It would be like just to give you an analogy, you can't make a good paragraph out of spelling errors or typing errors, right? Can you say, well I have a lot of typing errors, but I can really hand in a great book because all these typing errors I have in it, you can't make a good paragraph or a good sentence or a good book out of errors And you can't mutate upward, only downward. And without mutation, there's no evolution. None. If you can't add information, then there's no evolving. And University of Chicago scientist Dr. Lee Spetner said this, but so far as known, or at least I know, there is no such examples. That is of mutations of adding information to cells. It's just not there. Yet this is one of the pillars of evolution. And so it makes a God out of chance. Let me give you a third reason. I I reject it. Number one, it's the worst expression of man's depravity and rebellion against God. Number two, evolution makes a God out of chance. But number three, it devalues human life. It devalues human life. Look again in Genesis 1. Look at verse 26. And God said, let us make man in our image. After our likeness. That is what gives such incredible value to human life. It is the fact that man was created in God's image. This is what separates man from and makes him the crown of God's creation. This is what separates him among all the rest of God's creation. The fact that man was created in God's image. It makes them distinct. And some will say, well, what difference does that make? A person's view of their origin affects how they look at all of life. We know that, right? Who am I? Where did I come from? All that has value. Does my life have any meaning? Am I of any value? If a person believes that their origins was just simply as another animal, what does that take from that person? It takes from that person value He uh if he thinks he's just another animal, then that takes away purpose and meaning. Why not just go out and eat and drink and enjoy all that the world has to offer? Tomorrow you're going to die? If evolution is true, that means there is no God. Then with no God, that means there's no purpose and no meaning. There's no hope. There's no life after death. There's no foundation for ethics or morals. One person's opinion is as good as another. There's no absolute standard of right and wrong. Everything in society just falls apart. It eliminates purpose, it eliminates destiny, and it's nothing but nihilism. And nihilism is the philosophy that says everything is entirely without logic, without meaning, without value, without purpose. But if evolution is true, then nihilism is true. There's no purpose and there's no meaning. And friend, if you look out in society today And you see the drift of modern society away from morals and people going out and doing all kinds of crimes and all these other things, it reflects this idea of evolution that there's no meaning. And statistics have shown that the trends of our deprecied society parallel this eye this theory of evolution. As it rises, there's more crime, there's more all kind of perversion out there, all kind of suicide going on. Because if this is true, there's no meaning in life. And by the way, this is also the reason why we have abortion. People don't think anything about abortion. And let me give you a quote here from the ethicist Peter Singer. He said this. He said, We know that mankind is not a special creation of God. There are no good reasons for treating humans special. So he argues that we can dispense with the idea of the sanctity of human life. He says it has no more sanctity than any other animal's life. Therefore, we may kill defective humans with no more thought than we would give to killing a rat. But that's the logical end of evolution. That is the logical end of this whole thing. So we have abortion, we have euthanasia. We have eugenics. Let me give you another quote. This is from Ingrid Newkirk, who is the founder of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. This is what she says. There is no rational basis for saying that a human being has special rights. A rat is a pig, is a dog, is a boy. And then Newkirk told the Washington Post this, told a reporter that the atrocities in Nazi Germany pale by comparison to the killing of animals for food. She said six million Jews died in the concentration camps, but six million or six billion broiler chickens will die this year in the slaughterhouses. And she equates that with what happened in Nazi Germany. Same thing. But if evolution is true, then man is just another animal. And this is the logical, rational thinking of that godless system. That's where it leads. And then it leads to eugenics, which is breeding human beings, and this is the whole basis of what Hitler did, and we don't need to go into all that. But it simply devalues human life. Let me give you a fourth reason. Fourth reason. That is, it's just simply unscientific. It's just simply unscientific. Science is the pursuit about certainty. It is the absolute pursuit of that which is certain. Evolution is a theory. It's never proven to be true. But I want to tell you something in our society today, woe be unto you if you question it. If you're a science teacher and you try to get a job at any public school or university and you don't believe in evolution, you're not going to get the job. That's just the way it is. If you question this then you're on the outside. Evolution is not approached objectively, and you can't use scientific methods to prove it because it cannot stand up to that kind of scrutiny In fact, they know that. A well-known evolutionist, Bertrand Russell, said this, though we cannot validate the scientific method, we accept it because it seems to work. What is he saying there? He's saying that even though evolutionary theory violates scientific method and we can't prove it by science, we still want to accept it because we just like the way it all works out So they totally bet bypass science. And by the way, there was a day when the Bible was the queen of all the sciences. Theology, I should say, was the queen of all the sciences. And we read science through the Bible. The Bible was on top. You know what's happened today? Now we read the Bible through science, through the grid of science And that's why people are constantly reinterpreting Genesis. Science becomes the governing hermeneutic. Science was just constantly changing. Science which basically can't prove what it says it can prove. And if you can't again, if you can't trust what the Bible says in the beginning, when can you start trusting it? You either believe what Scripture says about origins or you do not. And you have to choose. And by the way, let me just say this. I can't imagine why any Christian would want to mix the principles of evolution into the Bible and come up with what they call theistic evolution or progressive revelation or the gap theory. All that is is theologians who are intimidated by science and want to capitulate and try to read into the scripture something that's not there. Because we seem to be intimidated by some of the so-called scientific findings that are out there that are not proven. Simply not proven. Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. When I went to seminary and I took an Old Testament survey class, They made me read a book by a conservative Old Testament scholar. This is the book that a lot of seminaries use. Their students read, Old Testament survey. It's a real thick book, and I started in Genesis reading his survey on Genesis. And it wasn't alone when I was in the book that I began to read where he said that there was a pre-ademic race of people. There was a race of humans before Adam. Then he started naming all the names of this hominoid pre-Adamic race. And all of them died out before Adam came. They all died out, and that's where we have some of these fossils, according to this Old Testament scholar. And then after all that died out, then Adam and Eve was created, and then we have the genesis of count of creation. What is that? That is a capitulation to science so-called science and evolution. Let me tell you something, friend. You say, well, what's the harm in that? Well, if this pre-Adamic race existed before Adam and they died, then what you have then is death before sin. And that perverts the whole doctrine of sin and death. If they died out before Adam sinned, the Bible says what in Romans 5? Wherefore by his one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin. And so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. So you see what's happening? There's a domino effect on the whole gospel. If there was death before sin, then what does that make sin? That turns the theology of Paul upside down in Romans 5. And if we can't understand sin the way the Bible says sin, then we're not going to understand salvation. And so the whole basis of the gospel is perverted. It is attacked at the foundation. These things are not minor issues. These are major issues. Why would anyone try to mix in a godless system that was designed at the very beginning to get rid of God? And try to mix it into the Bible. I I don't understand that. But let me just say this. The Bible, and I don't have time, I wish I had more time, but the Bible can withstand the greatest scrutiny of science. You you understand that. And don't be afraid. by some of these scientists that come and try to attack the scripture. Let me tell you something. The scripture has been under scrutiny by the greatest brains, and every theory or idea they try to use to undermine the Bible, you know what? It crumbles. It falls apart. Because the God who created the heavens and the earth gave us an inspired word, and if the same God, the perfect God who created the heavens and the earth, gave us a book, that book would reflect that perfect knowledge. And so while the Bible is not a science book, it is scientifically accurate where science has proven to be facts. The Bible can withstand the greatest scrutiny of any man. Understand that. And by the way, get past the idea. I'm almost done. I don't know if I'm going to be able to- I'm not going to finish this, but you know, I'll send you the notes if you ask for it. Uh let me just get past this idea that you have to bring into Genesis 1 any scientific information. Or that we have to use the natural laws today to explain creation. Listen, there is no scientific explanation for creation. Creation did not happen according to any fixed laws. And so science can't uh can't use scientific principles to try to prove or disprove creation. It's impossible. You know why? Because creation was one big miracle, and you can't explain it with scientific principles or anything like that. You either believe that God did it or you don't. You either choose to believe the Word of God or you don't. It's as simple as that. And let me give you an illustration of what I mean. Let's just suppose that at the feeding of the 5,000, there were some scientists there, and they They wanted to test out this miracle of Jesus. And so they said to a one person, we're going to need to take this lunch from you, sir, because we've got to run some tests on it. And we want to test out the bread and the fish. I mean, it's incredible that he multiplied bread and fish. We want to find out what this is. And so they take a sample of the lunch and then they interview the guy that ate some. Well, what did it taste like Uh were you full? How much did it take to fill you up? How soon were you hungry after you ate it? And then they run all these tests on this bread and on the fish. They can do all the tests that they want to, but none of that will explain how Jesus did that miracle. It is a miracle, miracle of God. You either choose to believe that or you don't. And that's the same with creation. Science was not there at the beginning of creation. There was only God and the angels, and God told us what happened in the Word of God. You either choose to believe that or you don't. You put your faith in creation and a creator or you don't. Let me give you another example. Let's just say that I hear these scientists say, well, according to our dating, carbon dating, and geology, we date the rocks of the earth to be about this many million years old. It's according to our findings, according to carbon dating, thus and such, this is a million years old. Well And so then we have theologians who get scared and say, well, then we have to hold to an old earth rather than a young earth, because this is what science says. And this doesn't match up with the genealogies in Genesis So they put gaps. That's where we get the gap theory. We put gaps in verses to allow for eons of time. Why? Because we're afraid of what geology says. Well, let me just tell you this. Let's just suppose that there was right after God created Adam on the sixth day. Let's just suppose that there was a scientist there, or several of them. They just got there right after Adam was created. And they say, Adam, we want to do some testings on you to find out how old you are. And so they do an exam and they come up with this fact. According to our calculations, Adam, you're a fully mature man. You are 33 years old. But guess what? Adam is not 33 years old. He's one day old. And not even that. He's just a few hours old. But all of their data tells them that he's much older. And suppose they test the trees that have fruit and say, well According to our data, these trees have to be this many years old in order to bear this kind of mature fruit. And we look up into the sky and we see those stars and we calculate how far the stars are from the earth and the distance and the speed of light traveling to the earth. And so this star must be this many millions of years old, according to us. But but the stars are only a few days old, according to Scripture. You see my point? You can't use scientific data to explain the age of the earth and creation You either choose to believe what the Bible says or not. Let me tell you something. God created a fully mature man and woman, and he put them in a fully mature earth which existed in a fully mature universe that he created. And again, you either believe that Or you don't. Then there's one more thing. Scientists are now looking out and they're saying, oh, now we see evidence of design. Now we see all these things in the universe that tell us that the earth the universe was finally tuned In order for life to be inha and inhabited on Earth. I mean, they they measure the distance between stars and planets and they come up with these ideas. Everything is perfectly adjusted into the universe. In order for the Earth to stay in a fixed rotation around the sun, so that we can sustain life here as we know it, and they call this the anthropic principle from the word anthros, man, everything was designed and created for life to be sustained by man on earth. And they pat themselves on the back and they say, boy, this is an incredible discovery Only problem is it's pretty old. Let me just show you this one verse and we're done. Look in Isaiah chapter 45 and look at verse 18 Look in Isaiah chapter 45, verse 18. Notice what it says. For thus, Isaiah 45, 18, for thus saith the Lord. that created the heavens, God himself that formed the earth and made it, he hath established it He hath created it not in vain. He formed it to be what? Inhabited. I am the Lord, and there is none else. So while these scientists are patting themselves on the back for finding this principle, Isaiah knew about it a long time ago, long time before then. God created all this to be inhabited. David said, When I consider the heaven, the works of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained What is man that thou art mindful of him? David understood that God created all of this for us to live here on the earth as we know it. It was all created for our good and for his glory. And I tell you, beloved, this is a crucial issue. Do not capitulate on this issue. We have to stand firm on this. Let's bow for prayer together. And so, Lord, we do give you praise and glory, for you are the Creator. And we look forward to the day When around the throne we sing, Worthy are you, O Lord, for thou hast created all things. Lord, we resist this desire of depraved man to rob you of the glory that you're due. So Lord, help us to stand firm on the word. Help us to realize that this affects the whole gospel. The whole message of the gospel. That Father, if you're not the Creator as revealed in Scripture, then there's no need for a redeemer. And this is Satan's attack. And I pray, Lord, that you'll give us the wisdom to answer those who may ask us. I pray that you'll give us the courage to stand strong. I pray that you'll give us the desire. to insulate our children and those that know Christ with the truth of your word in these dangerous days, this day of s of lies. Lord give us strength. We thank you and we praise you, Lord, for who you are, and we pray in Jesus' name, amen.