Literally true. 1 Peter chapter 1. And I want you to look down at verse number 10, and we'll look at these verses here. Verse 10 on down to verse 12. Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify when it testified before him the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves But unto us they did minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven, which things the angels desire to look into. Now, Peter, when he writes this letter, he's writing to believers that are experiencing very hard and difficult times I probably have talked to you about the background of 1 Peter, and I'm sure a pastor has, and these were believers that are under severe persecution from Rome. And they needed a word from God. They needed help during the hard time that they were experiencing. Really, the whole theme of 1 Peter is the theme of hope. Someone said that Paul was the apostle of faith. that John was the apostle of love, but yet Peter is the apostle of hope. He gives us hope No matter what hard times you may be experiencing, he speaks about the hope that we have in Christ. In fact, look in chapter 3, verse number 15, just to touch on this verse. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to everyone that ask of you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. So this is a major theme throughout 1 Peter is the theme of hope. Now let me just tell you a little bit about the word hope. Hope is the Greek word elopus, which is not talking about a wish or a maybe. You know, today when we use the word hope, we we use it as kind of a wish. Uh I I hope the Orioles win the World Series. It's not looking too good, but I hope that happens. That's the way that we use it, a kind of a wish, a maybe as possible. But friend, that is not how the Bible uses the word hope. That's not how it's used in the New Testament. The word hope is a divine certainty. Get that down in your mind. It is a certainty. It's not a wish. It's not a maybe. It is something that is sure to happen. So when the Bible talks about hope It's the idea of anticipating something, not that something might happen, but it's anticipating something that absolutely will happen It is a divine certainty. We talk about the hope of the return of Christ. Friend, that's not a maybe. Jesus is coming back. But it's called the blessed hope. We talk about the hope of the resurrection. Friend, that again is a certainty. We know there's going to be a resurrection day. We talk about the hope of eternal life. Again, that is a certainty And it's these truths that undergird us and help us to get through difficult and hard times. When I was uh away, I I uh I thank Pastor for allowing me to go and to uh be a part of a funeral service And some of you have prayed for a young couple who lost a little two-year-old boy, a little boy named Luke. And very difficult funeral service to see a little casket like that. But you know the Lord is so gracious and he's kind and he brings his people through that. But I'll never forget we went to the grayside and I I spoke there at the graveside. My son Jeremiah sang a few songs there. And then we lingered around and talked and fellowship. And uh the mother and the father, the mother's name is Joy, the father's name is Luis. They hung around longer. And people began to disperse and leave, but they stayed there. And they stayed there for about an hour. And we stayed with them, and they stayed there until They took the cement slab and put it down over the coffin after they lowered it in the grave. And then they backed the truck up to the grave And that mother, she took the first handful of dirt, reached into the truck, and got it and sprinkled it on uh the grave. And then they waited there as that grave was filled completely and the whole time she's holding his blanket that that she had for that little boy that he loved during that whole time. And then she uh after they completely filled in the hole, she put flowers on the grave And I just never forget looking at that. And I went over and I, Carol and I, we hugged her, told her we loved her. But you know what? She walked away from that grave with a smile. And she had, I can honestly say the group you can see the grace of God on her. You know why? There's only one answer for that. It's the hope that she has The hope that we have in Jesus Christ. That's the only thing that gets us through difficult times. Amen. Thank God for the hope that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, where is this hope found. What is the basis of this hope that we have? Well Peter is going to make that very clear. All the hope that we have comes because of what the Word of God teaches us. Our hope is rooted in the Scripture, in the Word of God. And so in this chapter here, and these verses, and actually look in verse 22 on down to verse 25, Peter's going to talk about this word, the word of God that we have. In this section, he just exalts the word of God and he tells us how important that it is. And these next few Wednesday nights, I just want to talk about crucial issues that we face as believers. And I believe that's the time of the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ draws near, one of the crucial issues that we're going to have to continually defend and stand firm on is the word of God. I believe the Word of God is going to continually come under attack. It already is being attacked. And friend, I want to tell you this is our source of authority. This is a critical issue. And so I want to talk about that tonight. I remember when I was a college student, there was a book that had a dramatic impact on me. It was a book written by the great pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas named W. A. Criswell. I'm sure you've probably heard that name. And he was a wonderful preacher of the Word, but he wrote a book called Why I Preach the Bible Literally True. Now, as a college student, I picked that book up and I read it, and I want you to know it had a profound impact on me. And the reason for that is because in that book, he basically traced throughout the history of the church How that the church, the prosperity and revival and reformation of the church has basically hinged upon men who have stood firmly on the Word of God and who have preached the Bible literally true. In other words, there are some people that approach the Bible and they approach it and they take the truths of it and they allegorize those truths or they spiritualize those truths. And by doing so, they wrest away from the Scripture the intended meaning of the Scripture. And the whole motif and thesis of that book was that we must believe the Bible, stand upon the Bible, and preach the Bible literally true. We have to come to the scriptures and interpret it to be literally true. And if you don't, then the meaning of it is lost. And so that was the title of that book. And again, it had a wonderful impact on me and that was a time in my life when the Lord was really doing a deepening work to help me see the Word of God for what it is. Now I had always grown up under the sound preaching of Pastor Johnson in this ministry, and I always believed in my mind that the Bible was the Word of God, the inspired word of God. But something happened when I was a college student where it seemed like the Lord just ripped away the veil and it became so real to me That the Bible is inspired. It went from my mind to my heart and has invaded every part of my soul. That what we have is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God. And that is the thing that is our basis. That's and by the way, when the Lord, I I just never forget the time the Lord did that to me. I was on my knees reading scripture, and I'm going to tell you it was just a wonderful time where God just seemed to rip the veil away And from that point on, it was never a question of what I was going to do. I was going to make the word of God clear. Because, friend, I believe there's power in the scripture. There's power in the Word of God. So I want to just show you here just five reasons and borrow the title from that book why I preach the Bible literally true. And here's the first one, if you're taking it right down, God's word is infallible. God's word is infallible. Again, look at verse number 10. Of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched diligently who prophesied of the grace that should come, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of God Christ, which was in them, did signify when it testified before him the sufferings of Christ. Now, I'm going to refer to this verse, but I want you to just think about this one thing. We have an infallible book. We have a perfect book, a book that is without error. Now think about this with me. Is God perfect? He absolutely is perfect. We have a perfect God without error. That means anything that he would write would be perfect and without error as well. Amen. That's why we know the Bible is an infallible book. I I uh had a thought one morning, I don't know why it came to my mind, but uh I just happened to think if God is not immutable, that is the word immutable means unchanging And when you're perfect, you don't have to change. Any change for a perfect person would be a change downward. And since God is perfect, He's unchanging. And if God were not unchanging, friend, then that would undermine the very foundation of Scripture. Isn't that true? Because if God is changing, that means how do we know we can rest on what he said? If he changes in his attributes, or he changes in his nature, or he changes in his purpose or plans or promises That means that the Word of God then would become irrelevant if he changed. Thank God he does not change Thank God He is immutable. You say, why is that important? I'll tell you why, because we have a bunch of theologians out there called open theists and others who say basically God is still growing and developing and He's changing and everything is open. Well friend, if that's true, then you may as well just close your Bible and throw it away. I've read books of authors who when they wrote the book they believed one thing and years later they no longer believe that and so the book that they wrote is no longer relevant. Friend, that will never be true of God, since God never changes in his purposes or his plans or his attributes. then we have a book that we can depend upon. Since God is perfect and infallible, that means his word is infallible. And when the writers of Scripture uh wrote these words It was the Spirit of Christ in them. That's what I want you to see in verse 11. Searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify It was the Spirit of God in them. You know, sometimes the writers of Scripture would write down, and then they would try to mind the depths of the things that they wrote. Why? Because it was the Spirit of God that so moved upon them that gave them what they have. Just write down a very well-known verse, 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's profitable for doctrine and reproof. Now there are some people out there that they'll say, they'll concede on inspiration, but they'll use uh they'll use their own definition of it, not the biblical definition. For instance, some say some will say, I believe the Bible's inspired What they mean by inspired is they believe in the rationalistic theory, that is, they believe the Bible is inspired the way uh uh source of human genius, the way the works of Dante or Shakespeare or some of those other great authors We're inspired when they wrote those words. They'll put the Bible on the same level of human genius. Friend, that's not what we mean by inspiration And then some will say, well, I believe it's inspired. I believe God inspired the thoughts of the writers. And those writers then when they got thoughts from God, those gems of divine thoughts, they took and wrote down in their own words what was said. That's what is some call the fractional theory. And friend, that's not what the Bible means about inspiration. Then there are some who believe in the mechanical dictation theory as if the writers came under some spell and became a writing robot and they were disengaged from their own personality, disengaged from their own uh background or setting or emotions and all of that And as we read in Scripture, we know that we see writers who write with emotion like the Apostle Paul in the book of Galatians. They weren't disengaged from their their uh own emotions, their own personality, their own background, their own education. So the Bible doesn't mean inspiration in that sense. You say, what does it mean? Well again, 2 Timothy 3. 16. Think about this verse. All scripture is given by inspiration. Now, those three words are important words. They are words that great doctrines hinge upon. The word inspiration. Theo. God. Nustos. God breathed. God breathed out. You know, I'm speaking here tonight. And uh air is coming out, and I'm forming words by air passing over my tongue and teeth and lips and all that. You know, I when I studied Hebrew I found that they divided words into how you form them. Some words that are formed with the lips, they have a certain category. As if Hebrew was not hard enough as it is. Then to divide it up that way. Some words are formed called gutturals because they seem to come from the back of your throat when you say it. But the idea is that all the words that we form come from the air that comes out of our mouth And that's the idea behind the word inspiration. Every word that we have came from the mouth of God. That is the idea. Now there's the word inspiration, but then there's the word scripture. Scripture. It's the Greek word graphé. And it means actual written words. Graphite is where we get the word graphite. Graphite is what we use to make pencils. And so it's the actual written words. So the question then is, where does inspiration lie? It doesn't lie in the thoughts. It lies, as Scripture tells us, in the actual written words themselves. The actual words, not the thoughts. And not even so much in the authors, although God, the Spirit of God moved upon the authors. But inspiration didn't lie in the altars. It lies in the actual written words. All written words came from the mouth of God. You see, you know, the Apostle Paul wrote four letters to the Corinthians. Two are preserved in Scripture because those two are the inspired word of God. That means not everything Paul wrote was inspired Scripture But 1 and 2 Corinthians are. So again, that supports the idea that the inspiration is in the actual written words. And now also there's the word all. You know what the word all means in the Greek? It means all. Passe. Every In fact, I'll even go so far as to say, beyond that, Jesus said, till heaven and earth pass away, not one jot or one tittle. Shall in no wise pass away from this law. You say, what's a jot? That's the smallest letter in Hebrew. It's a yod. Looks like a little comma. Smallest letter. And then what's the tittle? Some Hebrew letters have on the end of it like a little horn that changes the letter. For instance, there's the Hebrew letter raish. which is our equivalent to our letter R, and then the Hebrew letter dalit, which is equivalent to R letter D. And you know what? Those words, those two letters I should say, look almost identical Except for one thing. On the dialet there's a little curve that's called a horn. And If you have to look at the letter carefully to make sure that it's not a raise, it's a dollar, because it has the little horn or a tittle is what it's called on that letter. Because if you change the letter, you change the word. If you change the word, you change the meaning. And so Jesus says not one jot Not one tittle shall pass away. That gives me great confidence in the word of God that I have. I believe even the letters. God preserves because the letters change the words, which change the meanings, and so all scripture is given by inspiration of God. That's why we believe in what is called verbal plenary Inspiration. What does verbal mean? Verbal is from the Latin verbos word. Plenary comes from the Latin plinus, full. Every word is fully inspired by God. That is verbal plenary inspiration of Scripture. Now, friend, again, this is, I believe, a doctrine that has come under attack. And I think as the time draws near to the coming of Christ, it will come under attack again fiercely. It already has been. But I want to tell you, if you allow someone to take away the Word of God, everything crumbles. Our whole authority, all that we believe, all that we teach, is based upon the foundation of the authority of Scripture. This is our authority. Now, if you take away the authority of the Bible, one man's opinion is as good as another. Right? So if you take away the authority of Scripture, we have no authority And how do we know anything is real or anything is true? Uh we have to have the authority of Scripture. I was uh debating one cynic of the Bible. And he said, well you you do say the Bible is the Word of God and the Bible has authority. And you and the reason you say that is because the Bible claims its own authority. He said, that's circular reasoning I said to him, sir, let me tell you something. There is no higher authority in which to appeal to. God is the highest authority, so therefore it has to be circular reasoning There's no higher court. There's no one higher that we can appeal to. So it makes sense that it has to be circular reasoning, but beyond that, you use circular reasoning to dispel the Bible or to debunk to debunk the Bible You say, I don't believe the Bible is authoritative because this is what I believe. Well, where is your authority, sir? Your authority is in your own reasoning So you use circular reasoning to take away the authority. I use circular reasoning because the Bible appeals to itself as its own authority, and the Bible is of greater authority than you. And I want to tell you something, friend Since the Bible is the authoritative word of God, we had better hold to it and believe it and not give up that ground. We have an infallible and errant word from God. Now, a lot of the tax uh attacks on the Bible today, some of them are very subtle, very deceptive, very backhanded For example, I've often heard some say something like this, well, you know, the Bible is such an incredible book that we really can't know for sure what it's talking about. Really? That is a backhanded attack on Scripture. If we can't know exactly what it means, what good is it? So we believe in the perpiscuity of Scripture, that is, the clarity of Scripture. God gave it in a way where all of us can understand. To take this pious stance and say, oh well, we can't really know all of what the Scripture says. And there are certain things that we just really can't. It's proud to say that, to be dogmatic. No, it's not, friend. Let me tell you something. Look at the way Jesus handled Scripture. Jesus, he was dealing with Old Testament passages that were 2,000 years removed from his day. And you know what Jesus, you never hear Jesus say this. Well, you know, since this was written so long ago, it's hard to be sure about what this really means. You ever hear Jesus say that? No. Jesus stood up and said, you err not knowing the scripture. What does that imply? That the Bible was written in a way where you can clearly understand what it says. And so we have to be aware of these attacks on the Scripture. So friend, I believe that we have an infallible word from God. John Calvin wrote this, the dog barks when his master is attacked. I would be a coward if I saw God's truth being attacked and remained silent without making a sound. And that's true. May we all stand firm on the scripture. Let me give you a second reason. God's word is infallible. But number two, God's word is inexhaustible. God's word is inexhaustible. Look at verse number 10. Again, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and searched, look at, underscore this phrase, searched diligently. Who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you. Search diligently. Notice that. They wrote it under the inspiration. They knew it had a deeper meaning. And sometimes they couldn't comprehend the depths of what they wrote. They would search and pray and find more. And friend, that's just like the Word of God. You know what? God's Word is inexhaustible. It is inexhaustible. You'll never get to the bottom of it. You never will. Write down Psalm 119, verse 96. I have seen an end of all perfection. But thy commandment is exceeding broad. That is, the psalmist is saying, you know, I have seen Wonderful things. I've seen the strongest and the swiftest and the wisest. I've seen an end of perfection. I've seen men do great and perfect things, but I've never gotten to the bottom of the scripture I've never gotten to the depths of the scripture, to the bottom of it. The word of God is so broad. I've been studying it seriously for over 30 years, and I feel like I have not scratched the surface. The Bible has such a depth to it. Someone said the Bible is so deep that scholars can swim and dive and never touch the bottom. Yet the Bible is so simple and and in places easy that a child can come and and drink from it and never fear drowning. But there's a death to scripture. The Arctic explorer, Nansen, one day was aboard his boat, and he was exploring the Arctic Sea. And he wanted to find out how deep it was at his present location. So he took some rope that was aboard, and this was before they had advanced equipment. Took some rope aboard the boat, and he let down that rope, and the rope didn't touch the bottom. So he wrote in his ship's log for that day regarding the The depth of the ocean, he wrote the word in bold letters, deep. It's deep. The next day he doubled the rope. And he let that rope down, double the length, and still it didn't touch the bottom. So the next day he wrote in the ship's journal two words in bold letters, very deep. It's very deep. And then the third day, he took all the rope that he could find on board the ship. Every bit of rope. And he let that rope down. And still It did not touch the bottom. And so he wrote in the ship's journal, again in big bold letters, deeper than that. Deeper than that. And when I read that, you know what I thought of the Word of God? The Word of God is just like that. You're not going to get to the bottom of it. You can let down all of the rope of human intellect and scholarship and understanding and rationale and all of that, and you know what you'll find that the Word of God is deeper than all of that. It's deeper than all of that. R. A. Tori wrote these words. Listen. Great Bible teacher R. Tori said, Many men of strongest intellect of marvelous power of penetration, of broadest culture, have given a lifetime for the study of the Bible, and no man who has really studied it has ever dreamed of saying he has gotten to the bottom of the book. New light is constantly breaking forth from the Word. The fact that it has proven itself unfathomable for these centuries is proof positive. That in it are hidden the infinite treasures of wisdom of God. No scholar who is worth his salt will say he has mastered the Bible. And that is so very true Let me give you a third reason. Number one, God's word is infallible. I preach the literal truth of the literal word of God because it is infallible. But it is inexhaustible. And then number three, it is incorruptible. It is incorruptible. Look at verse number 23. Being born again, not of corruptible seed. Notice the contrast, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. Everything we know in this world has the seeds of corruption in it. Everything that we look at and see is touched by the mossy fingers of corruption or the the gnawing tooth of time. But that is except for the word of God. Peter says the word of God is incorruptible. Now notice he makes a contrast. In verse 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed. When he's referring to corruptible seed there, what is he talking about? He's talking about, he's really contrasting physical birth with spiritual birth, isn't he? We were we're the product of our parents' seed, uh the physical seed of our parents, and that is corruptible seed. We were born not with corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. Again, spiritual birth is incorruptible seed. And so, you know, I have a physical birth. But I want you to know that this body that we possess in this life on earth, it is corruptible. We are dying a little bit more each day, right? We're corrupting. Why? Because we were born with corruptible seeds, so therefore my flesh and my body are decaying. You know, biologists tell us that we get a brand new body every seven years. Each a little less better than we had before. I certainly am, this isn't a body I had seven years ago. I know that for sure. But we're corrupting. I'm a dying man preaching to dying men. But not so with my spiritual birth Not so why? I was born again of incorruptible seed, and this is referring to the word of God. The Word of God. You know what that tells me? The parents of salvation, spiritual salvation, is the Spirit of God and the Word of God. There has to be the seed of God's word. It is the word of God that gives the life. It's not eloquence. It's not human persuasion. Excuse me. It's not spellbinding stories that gives us life. What is it? It's the Word of God. It is the source of life. You know what story I think of? Ezekiel 37. You remember that story? We don't have time to turn there. But let me just give it to you. You know it. God said to Ezekiel, he took him out to a a dry valley. It was actually a graveyard. And he said, Ezekiel, what do you see? He said, Lord, I see dry bones. And then God said, Ezekiel, I want you to preach to those bones. Preach to them. Now can you imagine that? What a congregation to preach to. I've preached in churches like that, by the way. You feel like it's just dry bones. And he says, preach to those bones. And what does Ezekiel do? He begins to prophesy and preach to those bones. And what happens? The Spirit of God comes and they begin to come to life. You see what that is in the Old Testament? That is a paradigm. For how life, spiritual life, is generated in the church or whenever the Word of God is preached, in whatever context or whatever location, when the Word of God is given. God honors that word and he takes his word and you know what he does? He imparts life. That's how spiritual life happens. That is how regeneration Takes place. That is the clearest illustration of regeneration that's given, I think, in Scripture. Preach to those bones, and there's life. You see, the Word of God is a life-giving book. And so it liveth, the Bible says, and abideth forever. Look at verse 23, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God, which liveth. And abideth. The word liveth is on task where we get the word, the root word zeo, where we get the word zoo. Zoo is a place where there's living things. And the word of God is the living book. There is no other book in the world that imparts life. None that imparts life. We sing the song, wonderful words of life. Sing them over again to me. Wonderful words of life. Notice not only does it live, but it abides in verse 20 Which liveth and abideth forever. The word abide men o something permanent, something will re that will remain. The same words used in John 14, talking about our Abiding places in heaven are mansions in heaven that will be there forever. The Word of God will abide forever. I read in 1939 when they had the World's Fair in New York that they had a time capsule that they wanted to bury not to be dug up for 5,000 years And they put in that time capsule one book. They put in it the Bible. And someone was asked, why did you put the Bible? And this is what the official said. He said, quote, the Holy Bible, of all books familiar to us today, will most likely survive through the ages. Therefore, the Bible that we place in the time capsule will be a sort of connecting link between past, present, and future. And you know what he's right? It is the book of the ages. Because it lives and abides forever. I was reading that in the Naval Observatory in Washington, there is a chronometer. And there this uh is uh is an incredible machine that they have there. And uh basically it's the machine by which all of the clocks are set all over. Let me let me describe to you what it's like. This one chronometer is is uh is rests in a perfect vacuum. It rests on pylons that go deep, deep into the earth to keep it from vibrating. It is electrically wound every 28 seconds. And they say that it varies every six months about one fifty thousandth of a second. So they reset it. And this is how they set it. They have a telescope, and they put that telescope to a fixed star in space. And in that telescope they have crosshairs, but it's not the width of a human hair because that's too thick. They use the width of a spider's web And so they're looking through that telescope with those crosshairs. And the moment that certain fixed star comes and touches that crosshair. They set the clock according to God's clock. And all the other clocks are set according to that clock. At that fixed moment when that star hits that crosshair. The clock is set. Isn't that incredible? We're setting our clocks by God's universe, by what God has done. But I want to tell you something, friend. One day, even the stars are going to fizzle out They're going to be gone. But you know what? The word of God will not pass away. Heaven and earth will pass away, but God's word will not pass pass away. And look at verse 24. All flesh is as grass. This applies to us talking about something that passes away. All flesh is as grass, and all the glory of men as the flower of grass, the grass withereth, and the flower There I'll falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. That is he's talking about our own body, men's flesh, men's beauty, it's as fading as the grass of the field. How fading is the grass? It's here today and gone tomorrow. And the beauty of it is fading. And he contrasts that again with the Word of God, but the Word of God will abide forever. And this leads us to the fourth point. Write this down. God's word is indestructible. It's indestructible. Because look again in verse number 25. But the word of the Lord endureth what? Forever. Now, here, Peter. It's quoting from the Old Testament passage, Isaiah 40, verse 8. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our Lord shall stand. That's the way it's used in Isaiah 40. Verse 8, shall stand forever. And here Peter uses the word endure. The Hebrew word that Isaiah uses for stand is the word Yachim, and it means will rise out of destruction. Will rise out of destruction. And again, God's word has been the target of the devil. He uses his greatest tools to try to destroy the scripture And it has been the target of men who feel like they can uh they can debunk the Bible or they can make the Bible irrelevant. In fact it was Thomas Paine who wrote the Age of Reason, who in that made a boast and said that when when he got off the boat in America, he said in five years people will stop reading their Bibles here in America. He was so confident about what he wrote in the Age of Reason where he debunked the Bible that he felt like people would lay the Bible down and they would they would abandon it completely. What an arrogant boast. You know what? You probably don't even know the name Thomas Paine unless I brought it up. And his book, The Age of Reason, I dare say that none of us have probably read that, and don't waste your time. He's gone, and his book is gone, and guess what? God's word lives on. You're not going to be able to destroy the word of God Ingersoll, the famous atheist, said within 150 years of his death, the Bible will be extinct. Fifty years after he died, the Geneva Bible Society used his printing press to publish the Bible. And they used his house to store them in. Diocletian, perhaps the greatest persecution against Scripture, came in 303 A. D. with Diocletian the Emperor. who basically killed Christians. He made it a law that you can't read from the Bible or have a Bible. He burned Bibles. And when he was confident that he had destroyed Christianity and the Bible, he erected a famous pillar. And on that pillar he wrote in the words in Latin, the Extincto Nomine Christianorium, which is the name of Christianity, is extinct But you know what happened? Just a few years later, Diocletian died. And you know what? Bibles were coming out of the woodwork, and Christians had repopulated And Christianity was growing more than ever. And basically the di the name of Diocletian has is gone. But the name of Christ lives on. That's the word of God. It is incorruptible. But now let me give you the fifth thing. This will be the last thing tonight. God's word is infallible. God's word is inexhaustible. God's word is incorruptible. God's word is indestructible. But then let me give you the fifth thing. God's word is indispensable. It is indispensable. Look in verse 25 again. But the word of the Lord endures forever. Now watch this last phrase, and this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you. God's word, you know why it's indispensable, why it's essential? Because, friend, this is the only place you're going to find the gospel This is the only place you're going to find the saving message of Jesus Christ. This is the only book through which you're going to learn about Jesus Christ and who he is. I tell you, when I was going through seminary, I learned about a group called the Jesus Group. And this was a group of scholars who got together and decided they were going to search for the historical Jesus. That's a backhanded attack against the scripture. You know what the implication is? You're not going to be able to find the historical Jesus in Scripture. So therefore we have to go outside of Scripture to find the real historical Jesus. The implication is the Bible uh is not reliable historically, so we have to go to other sources. And you know what, however, you're not going to find anything else about Jesus outside the Bible. Pray tell, what can you learn about Jesus outside of Scripture? Oh, there's a few quotes in Josephus There's a few Roman uh historians that may give a line or two about that one called Christus. But friend, you're not going to learn anything about the person and work and salvation and redemption in Jesus Christ anywhere else That's why this word is indispensable. And it's indispensable for salvation. This is where the gospel comes from We have to have the Word of God that will preach the gospel. That's why I believe the Word of God will get results. Friend, we just need to preach it. This is the Word that gives us the gospel. It is essential for salvation. It's essential for sanctification. Jump down to chapter 2, verse 1. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the Word. that you might grow thereby. And really, this is just talking about the process of sanctification, growing in Christ. Learning more? We have to lay aside all these things. Sometimes people say, Well, I don't get a lot out of church and I don't get a lot out of scripture when I read it. Well, have you laid aside all malice and guile and hypocrisies and evil speakings? Some people don't have the hunger. And let me just tell you this. One of the clearest signs of backsliding is losing a hunger for Scripture. Friend, when you start losing that, you're on a downward decline. And you know what you have to do? Lay aside all of these things, Peter says. Malice, that's troublemaking. Guile, that's deceit, hypocrisies, that's living a hypocritical life. jealousies and grudges, all of these things we must lay aside. You know why? Because they will jam up the fountain inside us. The desire for the Word of God will wane and that's the beginning of backsliding Peter said, lay apart all this. And look at verse 2. And as newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word. Desire. And that's really a command. God says, you desire the word. You know why? If you're a believer That's why I wonder sometimes people who make a profession are really saved because you know what happened to me when I first got saved? The first thing I desired was more of God's word. That's going to be a natural thing. You don't have to work it up. You just have to keep all those sins out of your life. That will keep the desire fresh. You see, it'll just be a natural desire, just like a baby has a natural desire for milk. You know, my daughter Abby's getting married. I can't believe how time has gone by. I still remember when they brought Abby into the room. And you know when they brought her in, she didn't care what the wallpaper looked like. And she didn't care about all the other babies in the nursery. She didn't complain about anything. You know what? That little baby wanted, she just wanted milk. It's just a natural thing. And friend, when you're a child of God, you know what? The natural thing, you're going to want more of the word. You're just going to want it That desire is going to be there. When that desire starts to wane, friend, you just need to lay aside these things that's getting in the way And give back to the Word of God. It's indispensable for salvation and sanctification, and then finally for satisfaction. Look in verse 3 of chapter 2. If so ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. You know why I love to read and study Scripture? Because the more I read and study, the more I see how gracious God is. How wonderful God is. The incredible wisdom of God. The incredible love of God. It is all there. And when you taste of the Word of God, you know that God is gracious. He's so gracious and so good. Let me close with this. Read this story. This was during uh the Korean War, Pastor, you probably would enjoy this story. When the communists overran part of Korea, they were murdering and imprisoning Christians. A pastor's wife fled with her baby, and all she she could grab, she grabbed her baby, and she grabbed a bag of rice and she grabbed the Bible, and then she fled. And she knew that she may be killed if she was caught with the Bible. But she tucked it kind of in her bosom and she ran. And she would hide it at different places. At one time she she hid it in a cave And we go at night and read from the Bible, read from the words that quote, this is her words, that made my heart leap. And when the communists came further south, she fled more. She found a village in which she could hide, and she hid the Bible under a stone floor. And and she continued to read from it. Long story short, she hid and she read and she she read as she was hiding from the communists and it took all that she could just to survive But when the smoke cleared and when the fighting finally stopped, she had her baby in one hand and she had her Bible in the other hand. And my thought was when I read that, what an incredible picture. You know, there are only two things worth living for, your faith and your family. Only two things you can bring to heaven with you, your faith and your family. But the idea there is how precious the Word of God was to her. She had her baby in one hand. She had her Bible in the other. What a devotion. What a love for Scripture. And I pray that will be our devotion. And I pray that we'll stand firm upon it. This is a crucial issue. In fact, I think again in the latter days, this is going to be an issue. We're going to have to stand firm, hold to the authority, the infallibility, the inspiration of Scripture. And by the way, I think this is one of the things that young people are going to face. This and Origins, the the the literal interpretation of Genesis, this is the foundations that Satan is attacking today. And he's trying to wrest away the faith of our young people. So friend, we have to stand firm on God's holy word. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Father, we we thank you for the treasure of Scripture. We thank you, Lord, that you chose to give us an inspired word through which we can know you and know your Son It is indispensable to us. All we know of Jesus comes from the precious word of God, this word that you have given us, this infallible word. This incorruptible word, this inexhaustible word, that Lord, when we open, you speak to us. Lord, may we prize it. May we defend it. May we stand upon it and never be ashamed. And Lord, may we, through the Scripture, learn more of our Savior. And come to love him more. Lord, truly make us people of the book. And we pray that as a result, holiness, Christ-likeness will Blossom in every one of us. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen