Take your Bibles tonight and open please to Psalm 13 tonight. Psalm 13. Tonight I want to just look at this Psalm here together. Psalm 13. You know, a lot of times pre-K kids say funny things, don't they? I heard about a pre-kindergarten teacher that found an exciting new thing for the Sunday school class The teacher wrote a song about popcorn and taught it to the children and had them crouched down on the floor when they sang the song, and at the appropriate time in the song all the children would pop up And the teacher soon had them popping all over the classroom. And one day the popcorn song was in full swing, and when the teacher noticed that one child remained crouching on the floor while the other children popped all over the room The teacher came to the one child and said, Why can't you pop like the other children? And the little child said, I'm burning at the bottom of the pan. You ever feel that way? You ever feel like I'm kind of burning at the bottom of the pan? The world's going merrily along and you're kind of feel forsaken or abandoned. Or completely alone. Maybe you feel like family has abandoned you and friends are not uh near to you. They're not really helping you. And uh they don't return your text messages or your phone calls. Worst of all, it feels like God has abandoned you. It feels like God has defriended you from his Facebook account David kind of feels this way. He feels that God is distant. He's going through a trial All of us go through trials, but this trial that David was in seemed to really drag on for a long, long time. And to David, it seemed like God was nowhere to be found. Have you ever felt that way? You ever felt like you were in a trial and you're wondering when is this trial going to be over? And there were times when it it was trouble locating God in the middle of that trial, you felt like you were alone. This is how David feels. Now if you've ever felt this way, you're definitely not alone. You'll notice that other believers throughout uh the history of the church have had these kind of experiences All you have to do is read some of the books of the great Christians, read Oswald Chambers or Spurgeon or Martin Lloyd Jones, and you'll find out that they had the same kind of experience as this. In fact, Spurgeon one time wrote he was writing and he said this, he who now feebly expounds these words knows within himself more than he would care or dare to tell of these abysses of inward anguish. He was going through that very same thing. C. S. Lewis, you probably heard that name. C. S. Lewis lost his wife to cancer, and he called out to God for comfort, and it seemed like that he had no reply. Confused, he asked, What does this mean? And he said, This, why is he so present a commander in our time of prosperity and so very absent a help in a time of trouble? But also you can turn to the pages of scripture and what you'll find that in the Psalms, this is something that we see often. You'll read the psalm as crying out to the Lord. You'll read him feeling as if he's been abandoned by God. In fact, just write down Psalm 6, verses 2 and 3, where he says, Have mercy on me, O God. O Lord, for I am weak. O Lord, heal me, for my bones are vexed. My soul also sore vexed, but thou Lord, how long? And then in Psalm 77, verse 7 through 9, will the Lord cast off forever? Will he be favorable no more? Is his mercy clean, gone forever? Does his promise fail forevermore? Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? And then in Psalm 83, 1, Keep not thou silent, O God, hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God And then there's the famous passage in Psalm 22, verse 1, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And those words sound pretty familiar because those were the very words that Jesus said on the cross, right? Even Jesus felt abandoned at a time in his life. Well, we should take comfort in knowing that other believers have gone through this. They've had these experiences. And that these things sometimes are necessary in our Christian life. Now, David is an example of this here in Psalm 13. Let me give you the context. What caused David to write this psalm? Of course we know about David, we know that he's the man after God's own heart from a youth. He was the sweet psalmist of Israel. He was the one who killed Goliath But right after that, you remember what happened? The women in Israel were singing David's praises. Saul has slain thousands, David has tens of thousands. And Saul didn't appreciate that song very much because in 1 Samuel 18 he was very angry and he said the song displeased him. And the Bible says, so saw I David from that day forward. Saul made David his enemy. And that mean meant that David for the rest of the next uh decade basically, for eight to nine years, David had to flee for his life because Saul was trying to kill him. Can you imagine a powerful man trying to kill you for eight or nine years? I mean, it's like the President of the United States trying to kill you. For eight or nine years. Saul was the king of Israel. And David, who was anointed to be the next king, uh, from a human perspective, it seemed like that would never happen. All he was trying to do was simply stay alive. He was just trying to live. And one day the Bible says in 1 Samuel 27:1, and David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day at the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me that I should escape to the land of the Philistines And so when David was despairing one day, he decided the best thing for him to do is to get out of Israel and go to the land of the Philistines. Saul wouldn't dare follow follow him there. But the problem is going to the land of the Philistines is going to who? It's going to the enemy. And so David went to the land of the Philistines. He went to the city of Gath. That's where Goliath was from. Someone recognized him. And he was in danger, and the only way that he could escape was to act like he was insane, to let Spit dribble down his beard, and to write graffiti on the gate. And they thought he was crazy. And King Achis, remember that line that he said, you know, get him out of here. Do I have need of mad men around here? Do I have need of crazy people? And and David was able to convince them that he was insane and and he left Later on, he was finally able to find favor with the Philistines. They gave him a city called Ziklag. He managed to live there for sixteen months in peace with his six hundred men around him and their families. But one day when David was on a mission, And they were returning home to the mission. They saw afar off, they saw their city, Ziklag, it was going up in smoke. When they got to Ziklag, they realized that they had been overtaken by uh a band of uh robbers, Amalekites. They had taken their uh wives and children. They had burned everything that they didn't they couldn't carry with them. And the Bible says that in 1 Samuel 20 David was in deep distress The men began to blame this on David, and they said, we need to just stone David. Here were these men that were very loyal to him, and now they wanted to stone him. And this was perhaps one of the lowest moments in David's life. He felt utterly abandoned by God. Here he is, the next anointed king of Israel. Here he is, living in enemy territory. His no family close by, and now his friends had forsaken him, and it felt like God was afar off. And it was on this occasion that David writes Psalm 13. This is the background for this chapter. And this is not a very long chapter. This is really just six verses. Really it's three stanzas, two verses each. And you can divide it up like this. Verses 1 and 2, he talks about the problem. Verse 3 and 4, he gives a petition. Verse 5 and 6 is he gives praise. And what you notice in this psalm, if you study it carefully, the st the stanzas seem to decrease in their magnitude or turmoil. The beginning of it, he's in real turmoil. He seems to calm down in verse three and four a little more, and then by the end of the Psalm, he's actually praising God. And so there's a really quick change in David in this psalm. But what does this psalm teach us? Let me just give you the big idea of it. This psalm teaches us that when it seems like God has abandoned us, we need to call out to Him. We need to express our feelings, our fears, and our faith in Him and His unfailing love. That's what this psalm teaches us. So I want us to look at it close tonight. I want you to see the first thing. What do we do when it looks like we God has abandoned us and it's seemingly abandoned us because we know that He doesn't But we may feel that way. Here's the first thing. Number one, express your feelings to the Lord. This is what David does. He expresses his feelings to God. Look at verse 1 and 2. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, forever? How long would thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Notice that David comes to God with his honest feelings. By the way, there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with being honest before God with your feelings and pouring your heart out. He knows how you feel anyway. And this is what David does. The Psalms are really a great illustration of being honest before God. And let me be quick to say that what I don't mean is to come to God in an irreverent way. That's not what David is doing here. You can be honest with God and about how you feel without being irreverent to God David is just pouring his heart out. He's expressing his honest feeling. And he does it in a form of a question. You'll notice in verses 1 and 2, four times you see the question, how long? Two times in verse number one and then twice in verse number two, how long David had been praying and waiting, and it seemed as if God had forgotten David. Have you ever noticed that waiting is one of the hardest parts of the Christian life? Someone said the hard thing about waiting is you have to wait. And don't you hate waiting? I hate to wait. And waiting is especially hard if you really don't have much to do while you wait. Think about David. David was running from Saul. He had a lot of time on his hands. I mean, he was holding up in these desolate wilderness fortresses out in Judea. About all he had to do with him and his men is just look for daily provisions and keep watch. You can imagine the hours and the weeks and the months they drag on. And David is waiting and waiting, Lord, when are you going to take care of this problem? When am I going to get to go home and not run and live like an animal in the wilderness? If you've ever been to the wilderness of Judea, you know it's a dry, arid place, very mountainous, and David would climb up into those areas like Masada and Engedi, and he would just wait for God to do something. It just seems like when we are in a hurry, God is much slower. We say, hurry! But God often says, no, wait, I'm not ready just yet. We can probably relate to the New England preacher, Philip Brooks. He was normally a calm man, but one day he was clearly agitated He was in his study and he was just walking back and forth like a caged lion. And a friend said, What's the problem? He said, The problem is I'm in a hurry and God isn't David expressed how he felt really in three ways. First of all, he asked God, how long are you going to abandon me? That was the first question in verse 1. How long would thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? How long would thou hide thy face from me? David felt like God had forgotten him. Now again, he probably felt this way because this trial just went on and on. This was eight or nine years. That David was hiding and running. That's a long time for a trial. You ever notice that some trials don't go away quickly? God might have us in that same trial, not for months, but for years, and for some many, many years. And David felt like He it was never going to change. This is going to be forever. You ever feel that way? He felt like God had forsaken him. He felt like he was burning at the bottom of the pan. That he was by himself. Here's a principle. And remember this. The greater the task God wants to accomplish with you, the greater the trial He puts you through to make you ready. God was going to use David to be the next king of Israel and through him do great things. But before God could do that, God Had to put David through this trial. And when we think of a timetable, when we're waiting on the Lord, we think in terms of hours or days or weeks. God thinks in terms of years. Not the way we think. Remember the story of Joseph? God wanted him in a position of influence. How did God do that? It didn't happen just overnight. God had to put him through some difficulty. His brother sold him into slavery when he was a teenager. He was hauled off to a foreign land. He was made to serve in Potiphar's house. He was falsely accused. He was thrown into prison for years. Can you imagine Joseph in that prison just praying, God, please get me out of here? Get me out of here. And finally, an opportunity came to interpret the dreams of a couple of fellow inmates, one man was the king cup king's cupbearer. He was going to be restored back to a place of service. And Joseph said to him, Listen, when you get back there, don't forget me. You know what happened? The guy forgot him. And the very next verse says, Two years later, two more years passed by. Think about that. Think about the last two years of your life. David stayed, or excuse me, Joseph stayed in that prison for two more years. He spent his twenties in prison. Ten years his twenties in prison. And God brought him out when God was ready. And then think about Paul, God's greatest apostle, how God had Paul in prison for two years at Caesarea. And then they took him to Rome and he stayed in prison for more years there. Think about God's greatest apostle and there he is in prison, but God had a purpose in all of it. And I'm I'm sure that Joseph probably had similar thoughts to David here. God, why aren't you moving faster? Lord, have you abandoned me? That was the first question. How long are you going to abandon me? Notice the next one. How long do I have to bear this inner turmoil? Look at verse 2. How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? The idea of the Hebrew in verse 2 is that of adding one thought to another in an attempt to get out of the difficulty, but they all fail, and they just add sorrow to sorrow At night David made his plans. By day he tried them, but they were all futile and they didn't work, and it just caused him more grief. And so David goes to this roller coaster of emotion where he has hope, and then the hope is dashed, and then there's despair. And he felt like he was on this emotional roller roller coaster. One writer says he was like a rat in a maze with no exit. God had dropped him in and walked away. And so he was in this inner turmoil. He was tied up on the inside. And David says, How long do I have to wrestle with these emotions? And then here's the third thing. How long are my enemies going to win? Look again at the end of verse 2. How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? To put it in athletic terms, David's team had zero wins. The enemy was winning. He felt like he was captain of a losing team. His enemies were winning and bragging. And he was waiting for just one win. I remember when I was 16, I played on the baseball team. We didn't win any games that year. Zero wins. Zero. Can you imagine that? What a terrible year that was. And here's David. He's been on a losing team for years. Saul was still the king. He was enjoying the comforts of the palace while David was sleeping in the caves. And what made it worse was Saul was the bad guy He wasn't seeking the Lord. David was. He was trying to kill David. And he didn't have a cause to. Even though David chose to spare Saul's life. And you can imagine David was thinking, God, do you know what's happening here? Can you do something to help me? This guy who's not seeking you is after me. I'm sleeping in caves. He's sleeping in a palace. How long is the enemy going to win? Sooner or later you're going to get to the place where you feel this way, where you feel like you're abandoned. That you're in this trial, that God's not helping you. There's nothing wrong at moments like that to express your honest feelings to the Lord. To go to the Lord. This is what David does. Express your feelings to the Lord. But then here's the second thing that David does. Write down number two. Express your fears to the Lord. He expresses his feelings in verses one and two. In verses three and four, he expresses his feelings How did he feel? He felt abandoned. Look in verse 3. Consider and hear me, O Lord my God. The word consider here actually means look on me. Please don't turn away from me, Lord. Please don't abandon me. One of the biggest fears we have as people is to be abandoned, to be lonely. Did you know that one of the greatest judgments in Scripture is when God abandons someone? That's a judgment from God. When God abandons you. Hosea 4:17, Ephraim is joined to idols, leave them alone. Jesus said to his disciples when they were attempting to speak to the Pharisees, Jesus said to his disciples, leave them alone. They're blind leaders of the blind. Just leave him alone. Sometimes people say, I don't want God in my life. I wish he would leave me alone. You better be careful what you ask for. Because the worst judgment that a person can receive is the wrath of abandonment when God leaves you alone. It gives you what you want. And David is afraid of that. He's saying, Lord, I don't want you to leave me alone. Consider, hear me. You are my, the Lord, my God. David affirms he's seeking no one else. He's seeking God. He has a fear of abandonment. He has a fear of apathy. Look again in verse 3. Consider and hear me, O Lord my God, lighten mine eyes lest I sleep the sleep of death. And what he means by sleep the sleep of death means lest I get so depressed and discouraged I don't care anymore And I just lay down in bed and I don't get up. I don't want to get to the place where I get so discouraged and depressed that I don't even bother seeking your face. Where I just quit in my heart. You ever meet people like that? Or have you ever been that place? Where you just, you're so down, you're so discouraged, you've been through these trials, it seems like nothing's happening, and in your heart, you just quit. You're going through the motions outwardly, but inwardly you've kind of quit. And you become very apathetic. It's a dangerous place to be spiritually. Apathy is the enemy of every Christian. To be in a place where you don't care. That's a bad place to be. And David doesn't want to be there. He doesn't want to grow to the place where he stops praying. He stops seeking God's face. He stopped growing. He's not pressing on. What did Paul say, brethren? I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, pressing for the mark. That's the attitude of a believer. We're constantly to be pressing forward. But David says, Lord, I don't want to get apathetic. So he says in verse 3, look at the beginning of that one phrase, lighten mine eyes. That phrase there is interesting. It literally means, Lord, put the light back in my eyes. Fascinating thing to say. Put the light back in my eyes. You know, when you see a person who's depressed, sometimes their eyes give it away. Their face gives it away. There's no light in the eyes. There's no desire. There's emptiness. And David says, Lord, I don't want to be in that place. Put light in my eyes. He had a fear of abandonment. He had a fear of Apathy, but then he had a fear of adversaries. Look at verse number four. Lest my enemy say, I have prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved. David didn't want the enemies of God rejoicing. David wasn't praying just for deliverance for himself so he could escape his problems and be happy. His fear is that the enemy would rejoice. And since David was God's anointed king, if he died at the hands of the enemies, it would make God look bad. And God's honor then was tied up with David's deliverance. You see, if you profess, as David did, to hear to trust in God alone, then your defeat becomes God's defeat. And God did not want, or David, excuse me, did not want God's name to be dishonored. And he says, Lord, I don't want the enemies rejoicing over me, which means that makes you look bad. So David expresses his fears. So in a time in your life when you feel as if you've been abandoned You have that feeling. It's okay to express your honest feelings to God. It's okay to express your fears to God. But here's the third thing that David does. Express your faith to God. Express your faith to God. Because this is what David does as well. Look at verse 5. But I have trusted in thy mercy. That's an incredible statement there. I have trusted in thy mercy. David expresses his trust and confidence in God despite his circumstances. Now keep in mind, God hasn't delivered him His circumstances haven't changed. Nothing has changed. But David makes a conscious, deliberate choice that at that moment, rather than giving in to the feelings that he had of abandonment, He made a deliberate decision that he was going to trust God. He was going to trust in God's character. Now, if you remember, we studied Psalms before, we've seen this same thing. This David has learned to do this, and we see it in many of his Psalms. He will describe the difficulty that he is facing. He will bring it all to God And then at the end of the psalm, he makes a deliberate choice to not give in to whatever he's feeling, whatever emotions are welling up. He chooses not to give in to that. He makes a deliberate choice to put his trust in the Lord. And David does it again right here, again in verse number 5. But I have trusted in thy mercy. God, I am choosing to trust in your mercy. And in the Hebrew, the I is emphatic. It points to a deliberate choice. The word mercy is the Hebrew word kesed, which means God's unfailing love So think about this. Even though the circumstances are showing David or telling him that it that God hasn't been with you, that He's abandoned you, David doesn't give in to that on a human level. David says, No, I choose To trust in God's unfailing love. I know, even though it might not look like it, I know that God loves me. I know that his love is unfailing. He chooses, rather than to give in to the circumstances, to trust in the character of God. That's important to note. Instead of giving in to the circumstances around you, he puts his faith in God's character. He says, I know I can trust in the mercy of God. God. He chose to interpret his circumstances by God's love rather than to interpret God's love by his circumstances. And that's the turning point for David here. That's what happens. He believes in God's future deliverance. So his whole focus now has changed. He's not looking at his circumstances now. He's looking at God. And notice what he says, but I have trusted in thy mercy My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. By faith, David counts God's future deliverance as past. It's going to happen. He says, I will sing to the Lord in verse 6. Because the Lord hath dealt what? Bountifully with me. Now again, his circumstances hasn't changed. But he's claiming this by faith. I'm going to sing because I know that God, you're going to bring me out of this, and that you're going to deal bountifully with me. You're going to bless me. You're going to do good things for me. And he accepts that by faith. That's an incredible thing. God, I know that you're going to do this. And by the way, did God do that? Yeah, he did. In God's time, God brought David out of the wilderness. God set David on the throne. God put down all of David's enemies. And God gave David one blessing after another after another. And so the lesson is: God did not. Abandon David at all. Even though it may have looked like it from his perspective. So two vital lessons that I want to give you. First of all, God has not forgotten you. It may look like again, humanly speaking, that he has, but he hasn't. Write down Isaiah 49, 14, and 15. But Zion said, The Lord has forsaken me. And my Lord has forgotten me. And God's response in verse 15 of Isaiah 49. Can a woman forget her suckling child? That she should have not have compassion on the son of her womb. Yea, they may forget, yet I will not forget thee. Even a mother might forget that motherly instinct and forget her child, but God says, I'm not going to forget you You may suffer for years, but God is not going to forget you. He hasn't forgotten you. You are his child. Hebrews 13, 5. I will never leave you nor forsake you. Again, it might seem like it. May it seem like it to Joseph. May I seem like it to David, but God had not forgotten them Do you know what was happening during those times when they were in those trials? God was maturing them so that he could use them. He was making them greater He was teaching them to trust in him alone, because God planned on using them. There's a second lesson in here, not only that God has not forgotten you, but the second thing is there's no such thing as instant godliness. You understand that? You know, how many of you ever pray? You don't have to raise your hand, Lord. I want to be I want to be a godly person. I want to be a man of God. I want to be a woman of God. You better be careful when you pray that. Because God's not going to zap you and make you instant godly. You know what he's going to do? He's going to over time, over years. He'll do that process. You know, we have this instant everything in our society, but there's no instant godliness. David was anointed as king in his teens. He had strong faith at that time, but he wasn't ready to be the king. And so God didn't put him on the throne immediately. Did God put him on the throne when he was twenty-one? No. Did God put him on the throne when he was twenty-five? No. When he was 26, no. 27, 28, 29, no, no, no. Finally, when he got into his 30s. Mid-30s, did God finally put David on the throne? And even then, he wasn't ruler over all of Israel, just a part of it. And then he grew into it even more. And so through all those years of running and living in case, David learned to wait on God, and God was developing him And getting him ready for what God was going to do in his life down the road. That is so out of joint with this rush-rush world where we want everything quickly. But you know what? We have to let God do his work in us. Let me give you some suggestions. Why does God put us in pl circumstances like David? Really quickly, let me just give you a few reasons. Number one, to make you more obedient You might want to write these down. Make you more obedient. You say, I'm obedient. Not enough. He's got to make you more obedient. David was obedient. Sometimes. But God was making him more obedient. Psalm 119, verse 67, before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I have kept thy word. Number two, to deepen your insight into God's word. God might just want to teach you more. And sometimes the best way to learn theology is through the school of affliction. Hard knocks. Psalm 119 verse 71, it's good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. Number three, to increase your compassion. And your effectiveness in ministry. He puts you through tribulation so you can comfort others in tribulation. Number four, to teach you to wait patiently on God. Man, I hate learning that lesson. He puts you through this. You say, I don't have any patience. I know that's why you're in this. Psalm 27, 14, wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart. And here's number five. To make your joy less dependent on your circumstances. We have a tendency to get our joy out of our circumstances, and God wants us to learn not to put our joy or get our joy out of the things around us, but to get our joy from Him. So that no matter what happens in our circumstances, we still have joy in God. And then here's the sixth thing: to make you appreciate God all the more when He restores you. And God will often do this. He'll go take you through this trial, and at the end, he'll restore you, and he'll give you back more than you had before. They'll bless you even more. But this is a process. And you have to allow these principles to mold your perspective. Lean on the revealed character of God. Just know like David did, that although from his perspective, it looked like God wasn't with him, but David knew better. And he trusted in the character of God. So what did he do? He learned to express his feelings to the Lord. He learned to express his fears to the Lord. And he made a choice to express his faith in the Lord. God, I'm going to trust you in this. There was a famous preacher named Charles Spurgeon. One day he and a friend was walking through the English countryside. They saw a barn, and on the top of the barn, they saw a weather vane. Spurgeon's friend looked up at the Weathervane and said, you know what, that's not and the Weather Vane said, God is love on the Weather Vane. And Spurgeon's friend thought, you know what? That's an inappropriate place to put God is love because weather vanes are constantly changing and God's love doesn't change. And Spurgeon disagreed, and Spurgeon said, that's not what the message is. The message is no matter which way the wind blows, God is love. That's the lesson. And this is what David learned. No matter which way the wind blows, God is love. You can count on it. He loves you. Even when your circumstances seem contrary, he is taking you through this to develop you, to mature you, to give you godly character. You might say, well, it's been years, yeah? It may be longer. That's the way God works. But the finished product is so much better in quality than these quick imitations. that some people trust in that don't really develop character. So if God feels to you like he's distant, or if you feel like God has abandoned you, just know that you must, like David, put your trust in God's unfailing love and know by faith that he has not Forsaken you. In fact, the opposite is true. He's doing more in your life in those moments than perhaps at other moments. And this is the thing that David learned. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord, we thank you for this psalm and for the lessons that it teaches us. And I pray, Father, that you'll use your word to minister to people here tonight who may be where David was when he wrote this beautiful hymn. When he expressed his feelings, his fears, and his faith, and chose to trust in your unfailing love. Lord, I pray that you'll do that for us tonight. Help us to follow David's example, to make a choice, a deliberate choice. to put our trust in you when it's when things are so very difficult. And how many will say that's my prayer tonight? I need to learn this lesson. That's my prayer. I deliberately put my trust in God tonight. In the midst of the circumstances around me, I'm not looking to them, I'm looking to God. Father, bless these hands. Minister grace to the heart. And Lord help us again just to keep our eyes on you as David had learned in this psalm. And we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.