To first Peter chapter three. And also let me remind you about um our way to keep in touch here in our class is uh we now have a You can text ABC, which stands for Auditorium Bible Class, if you text ABC to 43905. If you text it ABC to that number, 43905, then you'll be able to keep in touch as I send out little messages and little reminders about things in our class, and also there'll be Maybe little things I want to share, maybe even a little video clip or and so on. So just a reminder about that. That's 43905-TEXT AVC Auditorium Bible class. So 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 15. This should be a familiar verse to you because we have referenced this verse every week. And uh this is our uh what we call the locus classicus for the um branch of study that we are actually kind of giving a summary to which is apologetics. So 1 Peter 3. 15, and read this verse with me out loud, would you please? But sanctify the Lord God in your heart. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you of the reason, of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And that's what we're learning to do. We're learning to be able to give an answer. And we're challenging you to become good apologists because to be an apologist is a call for all believers, as this verse here suggests. Um just like I tell people all the time, everyone's a theologian, you're either a good one or you're a bad one. We could say the same thing about being an apologist. You're everybody's an apologist. You're either good apologists or you're a bad one Now remember our definition of apologetics. It's very simple. It comes from this word here in 1 Peter 3 15, the word reason, which is the Greek word apologia. And it simply means a defense, and it's learning to defend your faith. That's what apologetics is about. We don't apologize for being Christians, but we learn how to give an answer and defend the faith. against some of the false doctrines, the false teachings, the lies that are out there with reference to uh Christianity. Now we talked about what it what is apologetics and then it last week we started in on why apologetics. We didn't really finish this, so We're going to finish this this morning. Why is apologetics necessary in the church? And we looked at basically five reasons, if you remember. Five reasons for apologetics. And the first reason we said is to explain, to validate truth claims. um uh the truth of Christianity. And this means, as we said before, employ employing philosophical arguments, empirical, historical evidences for the Christian faith and the goal is to develop a rational and reasonable case for Christianity against opposing beliefs and worldviews. And uh I don't want to go over all this of what I went over with you last week, but you remember that we We talked about a book that was gone out done by Ken Hamm and Britt Beamer where they did a survey. And they s they did 20,000 phone calls and uh and basically the results of their survey were we saw that young people began to Christian uh excuse me to question their Christian faith uh in these following areas here and you'll notice there in high school is when many young people began to question things And then so on, other questions, and again we s we we showed that, you know, when when young people get to that high school age is when they really seem to be bombarded. So we want to validate these truth claims for Christianity. That was one thing that we talked about. And we also said Let me kind of fast forward here to the next where we were. Um let me see here. We want to next elucidate. We want to refute error. And we talked about that as well, that we have to be able in meekness to instruct those that oppose themselves, and so on. So, and also Titus 1. 9, uh, to convince the gainsayer. So, um With reference to that, here's a quote from C. S. Lewis: good philosophy must exist if for no other reason because bad philosophy needs to be answered. And so we want to basically refute error. And then another reason as we move on here, let me. Again, I'm kind of kind of going through these, what we went through last time. This edification, we want to strengthen the brethren. We talked about that. And that's in Ephesians 4, 14 and 15. That we be henceforth no more children tossed to and fro and carried about with every slight wind of doctrine by the slight of men, and cunning craftiness whereby they lie in wait to And so we want to strengthen God's people, which is another reason why we uh want to really become good apologists. And this requires, of course, on our part that we know the meat of God's Word, that we be able to use our senses, our discernment to know, uh or to sense, or to excuse me Let me back up here and just read the verse. But strong meat belongeth to them that are full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. Now I want to try to pick up where we left off last time. And one of the, let me see. I think we left off on this evangelization. We want to save the loss. This is the fourth purpose of apologetics. And remember I said that with apologetics, what we're trying to do is remove the barriers that would cause a person to um And remember, one of the things I said is the goal is not to win an argument, but it's to win that person to Christ. That's why we have to be careful how we answer the spirit and the manner in which we answer, because we want to win them over. The desired result there is for their salvation. And so we could say that apologetics paves the way for the gospel. And there are many illustrations of this. For example, how many of you ever heard of the early church father Augustine? Augustine was a very brilliant man. He was a skeptic about Christianity And uh he basically was helped by a philosopher that uh helped him to reason from materialism to um to understanding that there is real truth in the spiritual realm. Manichaeism is a is kind of a a form of Gnosticism. We'll get into that in a little bit, but Gnosticism is this Greek philosophy that all material things, all flesh is evil, all spirit is good. And so uh w I would probably say that today we still see remnants of that Gnosticism in religions like uh the Christian science. Uh haven you heard of Christian science. They don't they don't believe that the physical material world is real. They believe it's all kind of an illusion. You're not really sick, you know, you only think you are. And so that's kind of a form of Gnosticism or Manichaeism that's left over. But anyway, it was a philosopher that helped Augustine to overcome some of these barriers to prepare the way for the gospel, the seed of the gospel to be planted, and Augustine was saved and later became one of the great early church fathers. Notorious atheists have been able to reason their way to God, which which is uh which basically gives an argument for the classical approach to apologetics, and we'll talk about that. But here's an example of one man who basically reasons his way to God. He says it is simply inconceivable that any material matrix or field can generate agents who think and act. A force field does not plan or think. So the world of living conscious thinking beings has to originate in a living source of mind. So you can see here how he's this atheist is beginning to put together in his mind. Why there must be a God. This means Anthony flew. And then also here's another quote. I do not feel that I am a product of chance, a speck of dust in the universe, but someone who was expected, prepared, prefigured, insured a being whom only a creator could put here. And so again, that's an illustration of how that philosophical arguments and reason were helping these guys to overcome some of these barriers that they had in their heart. which ultimately led them to affirm that there is a God, which does what? It prepares the way for the gospel. Here's a quote from C. S. Lewis. He said, as an atheist, my argument against God was that the universe seems so cruel and unjust But how had I got this idea of just and unjust? A man does not call a line crooked unless he has some idea of a straight line. And so there's an illustration of C. S. Lewis who reasoned his way uh to belief that there is a God by understanding that this this what is called the moral argument, the fact that we have morals in this world suggests that there is a judge who makes the the laws, who gives us this more these moral principles, does it not? And so there's th there must be a ultimate judge and creator who gave us these. And then again, C. F. Lewis said this: nearly everyone I know who has embraced Christianity in adult life has been influenced by what seemed to him to be at least a probable argument for theism. One more illustration here. I think this is where we actually left off last week. I didn't have time to read through all of this. Some of you might have heard of Lee Strobel. Lee Strobel wrote a book called The Case for Christ. And it was turned into a movie. You can actually see the movie. It's out there somewhere, I think, on Netflix. But basically he was a journalist uh for the Chicago Tribune. Um he didn't believe in the resurrection of Christ. Uh he he kind of set himself up to to show that it was not real. And he began to study and he came to the conclusion that There's historical evidence that proves the resurrection of Christ, and it ultimately led him to be converted to Christianity. And here's what he said. He said, Essentially, I realize That to stay an atheist, I would have to believe that nothing produces everything. Think about that. That's why I say atheists have more faith than a Christian Because to be an atheist or to believe in evolution or something like that, you have to believe that everything came out of nothing. I mean that's that's just not rational. He goes on to say, non-life produces life. Randomness produces fine-tuning. Chaos produces information. Unconsciousness produces consciousness. Non-reason produces reason Those leaps of faith were simply too big for me to take, especially in light of the affirmative case for God's existence and Jesus' resurrection, and hence his divinity. In other words, in my assessment, the Christian worldview accounted for the totality of the evidence much better than the atheistic worldview. It's a good quote, isn't it? It shows you how, again, by philosophical arguments, you can remove some of the barriers. that a person might have and would lead to their faith in Christ. So let's get back to our five reasons and we want to become good apologists for the purpose of explanation. We want to validate the truth claims of Christianity Elucidation, we want to refute the error, clarify the truth. Edification, we want to strengthen the brethren, because when the church is attacked, Uh there's going to be some qu Christians, genuine Christians, who begin to doubt and we need to uphold them and uh assure them in their faith. And then to evangelize That is to save the lost. And I think again, apologetics is a pre-evangelism work that we must do. And then the next one is exaltation, and that is, this is to me the most important reason for apologetics, is that we defend the name and the honor of God. We want to glorify God. Um and so on. So um let me move on here. Um this this gets back um I want to go through this. Let me give you one more example here of a man who got saved by digging up into the truth. Um this is Josh McDowell. I'm going to give you give just give you this quote. The more I examined the evidence, the more it took me that to the opposite conclusion of what I wanted to reach, that the Bible is the very Word of God and Jesus Christ is his Son. And he was raised from the dead on the third day. I had finally arrived at the conclusion that what my mind told me was true. And so again, Dan's story goes in to say the purpose of apologetics is to lay a factual foundation for faith so non-Christians searching for spiritual truth will find good reasons to believe. Now let me uh Sir let me just again um go on and say that uh what apologetics cannot do There's a limit to apologetics. And I think I've mentioned this before. We as Christians, we can explain the truth We can um basically give good arguments. We could give good philosophical arguments, good evidential arguments, and so on, good biblical arguments But what apologetics cannot do is basically do the work of persuasion. And I believe I mentioned this last week. Apologetics can explain the data Apologetics can give you the rational defense of the truth claims of Christianity. However, the best arguments that we ever offer, however convincing they may be, can never change the human heart That by nature is hostile towards God, said enmity towards God, and dead to the spiritual things of God. And uh this this also goes to methodology. And we'll get into that uh probably the next time we do a lesson. We'll talk about the method of apologetics. Because apologists, they all have the same goal. We want to win people to Christ. But how to uh how to achieve that, they don't always agree And there are some apologists who say, well, man's dead in his sins. He's hostile towards God. Unless God does the work through faith, then it's not going to happen. And so they basically say our our philosophical arguments do no good until a person is willing to exercise faith in God. But I do believe that we can lay out the arguments for Christianity. We can give the evidences, but we cannot persuade a person. And the way John Calvin said this, now I don't agree with everything that Calvin wrote, but he had some good things to say about this. He made a very important distinction in his theology between two categories, between proof and persuasion. And uh basically He says that proof is something that is objective. This is something that we lay out. We marshal the evidence. We basically give compelling reasons for some assertion or some proposition. This is what he called the the evidences or the indicea, the indications. And then however once we've laid out all of the arguments Then we have to back away and we have to allow the Spirit of God to do the work. Calvin said that what the Spirit causes us to do is to bow to and surrender to the evidence that is there that is objective and that is compelling. And so basically um You know, we lay out the truth and then we back away and we allow the Holy Spirit to do his work because how many of you know unless the Spirit of God does that work, then a person is not going to get it, right? It has to be the Spirit of God. In fact, look at open to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 real quick. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 2. Let me tell you what the Apostle Paul here says. about that. And this may a passage I'm sure you know very well. Now what's Paul doing here? He's arguing for the supremacy of God's wisdom over man's wisdom. You know, part of the problem with the Corinthians is they put too much faith in human wisdom and not much faith in the wisdom of God. And Paul's saying, listen. The reason you're having such trouble and there's such division in your church is because you're following man's wisdom. You need to realize that God's wisdom is superior. Where does God's wisdom begin? It begins at the cross. God's wisdom starts at the cross. Look at chapter, actually chapter 1, look at verse 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but unto us which are saved it is what? It's the power of God. We've seen the power of God. The wisdom of God is in the cross, and it has power. It has power to change a person's life. But look in chapter 2, look in verse number 6. Notice what he says: Howbeit, we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world, nor the princes of this world that come to naught. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Now Paul's saying, look, these philosophers out there, they think they're speaking great wisdom. But Paul says, we, however, and he's talking here about himself and believers and Christians. We speak wisdom among them that are perfect. And it's interesting the word perfect there has the idea of being initiated into a group Because Paul's using uh basically something that the Corinthians could relate to because back in this day, they had all kind of mystery religions. where people could become part of this group, this little cult, if they had the right knowledge And if they had the right knowledge, they could be initiated into this membership, this little group. And Paul's saying, look, they think they have their wisdom, they think they have their initiation into their group. Let me tell you something, as believers, you have a special group. And we speak the wisdom of God among those who are part of this group that are perfect. And again, he's making a play on words. Did you know that when you got saved, you got initiated into a group? It's called Christianity. You're now part of the family of God. And Paul says, We speak wisdom to those that are perfect. Talking about you as believers. You have been brought into the family of God. You have been given real wisdom because you found it at the cross. And notice what he says in verse number six. Yet not the wisdom of this world, nor the princes of this world that come to naught. The wisdom that you and I have is not the wisdom of this world It is the wisdom of God. So he's making a contrast between the two. Look at verse number seven. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the found before the world unto our glory, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified their Lord of Now, Benab Paul again is still speaking about this superior wisdom of God. You have received it. You're part of this group. And the princes of this world, they don't get it. They don't see it. They just don't have that ability to understand and see this wisdom that you have been given. I remember I've said this before when I was reading Hebrew down, I was taking a PhD course down at Johns Hopkins, we were reading uh Hebrew from the Hebrew Bible and then everyone was taking turns reading out of the Hebrew Bible and then giving a translation into the English and then giving the interpretation of what we read And I was in a room full of very, very intelligent students. I mean, these were just incredibly brilliant, all of them smarter than me in that room. In fact I was looking around going, what are you doing here in this room with these people But when it was my turn to read out of the Old Testament, I would read and I would give my translation and then I would give my interpretation. And we were reading out of Isaiah some of the greatest m messianic passages in the Old Testament. We were reading those passages, and those others in the room that were reading those passages, when they gave their interpretation, guess what? They did not see Jesus in any of those passages. They did not relate it to the Messiah, the Christ, to Jesus. And when it was my turn, I could see Christ in all of those passages. And I would give the New Testament basically a verse that basically was supported this interpretation. And a lot of them I remember just looking at me like I was, you know, from some other planet. You say, what was the problem? It's not that I was smarter than them, but friend, God had given me wisdom to see Christ in there. And that was not because of me, because of my intellect. It was because God opened my eyes. You see, when I got saved, he brought me into the group. And he began to show me his wisdom. And that wisdom is centered in Christ. And Paul's saying the same thing here. He said, look, we speak wisdom, not the wisdom of this world, nor the princes of this world. They don't see Christ. They don't understand him. They don't get him. Look down at verse number 8, which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory If they really understood Jesus for who he was, or able to see Jesus for who he was, do you think they would have crucified him? No, Paul says. And so they don't get it. They don't see it. And again, this is not a matter of IQ or intellect. Some of the most brilliant people in the world are blind spiritually. Their eyes have not yet been opened to see spiritual truth. And this is the point that Paul's raising here. You know why God's wisdom, which begins at the cross, which begins with Christ, you know why it's superior to man's wisdom? Because in the way that you receive it, you know how you receive God's wisdom? You don't get it just by studying and researching. There has to be something else besides that. Now let me just say that we do get we do learn the scripture. We do have to use the empirical ways of learning that we're all accustomed to. We have to be able to see and we have to be able to to to feel and and to sense things. We get we get knowledge through all of that. We have to be able to do research and read and study. and use logic and use reason, all those things are very valid ways to learn spiritual truth. But if you have that, and that's all you have, guess what you'll never understand? You'll never really understand God's wisdom. Because God's wisdom needs more than that. This is why God's wisdom is superior to man's wisdom. Because look in verse number nine. But as it is written, I have not seen, nor ear heard, neither has entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that Love him. Now I know a lot of times we use this verse to talk about heaven. We use this verse to talk about, man, you know, when we get to heaven, we're not really gonna I mean, we're going to see things we never really were able to really comprehend and see. And there's there's truth to that. Don't get me wrong. But this verse here is not speaking in reference to heaven. This is speaking in reference to understanding fully the wisdom of God. Because you don't get it just through the normal empirical ways of learning with your eyes or hearing with your ears. Or trying to reason in your heart. If that's all you have, you'll never really come to the knowledge of the truth. What has to happen? In order for a person to really understand God's wisdom, to understand the truth, to understand who Jesus is. What has to happen? Look down at verse number 10. But God has revealed them unto us by his what? Spirit. God has to open your eyes. To see through his spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God And this is the role of the Holy Spirit. It is the Holy Spirit that has to open your eyes and show you The truth to show you who Jesus is. Unless that happens, my dear friend, all the other things which are valid, we still need to use empirical ways of learning, we still need to use logic and reason and philosophical arguments and all those things. Those are all valid. But if that's all you have, then you're not going to get it. And this is again gets back to what Calvin was saying. Calvin was saying, you know what, you can marshal up all the arguments. You can give all the evidences. You can show all of the research. You can give all of the facts. You can put out all of the proofs of Christianity. But if that's all you have, then you're not going to get the truth. That's proof. The work of persuasion, are we going to could he just say it like this? The work of illumination, of opening a person's eyes To really seeing the truth and seeing Christ, that is a work of the Holy Spirit. Friend, I don't have that power, you don't have that power That is something that God must do. He must reveal it unto us. And that is the work of the Holy Spirit. The work of the Holy Spirit is to reveal to us truth and even the deep things of God. That's why there are people that have never gone to college or seminary, and yet they have a grasp of spiritual truth unlike any PhD that you'll ever meet You know why? Because the Holy Spirit of God has shown them the truth. The Holy Spirit of God has opened their eyes to see the Lord Jesus Christ. God has revealed it. And the word for revealed there in the Greek is where we get the word revelation, apocalypse, which is the word that means to uncover, to rip off the veil. You ever see a a some a statue being dedicated in a city? It's behind a veil, and they pull the drawstring and the veil falls down and the beautiful work of art is revealed. That's the idea of this word here that there's truth behind the veil. And who is the one that pulls down the veil so that we can see the truth? It's the Holy Spirit of God. He does that work of revealing truth. And he reveals the deep things of God. Look at verse 11. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God. And we have now we have received verse 12 not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God that we might know the things which are freely given to us of God. Now What's Paul saying here? He's kind of giving a little analogy. You have a spirit that lives inside of you. And this spirit knows you. It knows the deep things about you. Okay? I I've often said it like this, nobody knows me in this world better than my wife Carolyn. She knows me better than any living human being, except for one person, and that's me. I know me better than she knows me Because my spirit knows the deep things of Jerry Harmon. But if it were possible for me to take my spirit out of me and put it in her, she would know the deep things about me. The deepest things. Now that's not possible for me to do that, but guess what? Who knows the things of God? The Spirit of God? And when you got saved, guess what happened? God took his spirit and put it inside of who? You. Why? So that you can know the deep things of God. He wants you to know his spiritual truth. That's why sometimes Not here, but in other church I preach that sometimes people even go, um you're too deep for me. It's too deep. Too deep. I'm like, look, I I didn't say it, but I wanted to say, you know what? You're supposed to know the deep things of God, big guy. You're supposed to know God. The Holy Spirit wants you to know the deep things of God. That's why you have the Holy Spirit. And that's why Paul says in verse 12, you haven't received the Spirit of the world. You didn't get the spirit of the wisdom of this world. You've got the spirit of God that shows you these deep things. But now look down at verse number 14. But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. Again, this is why God's wisdom, and this is Paul's whole major point here, why God's wisdom is superior to man's in the way that you receive it. The natural man doesn't receive the things of God. They're foolishness to him. He just doesn't get it. He doesn't comprehend it. And he's not going to until the Holy Spirit of God reveals these things to him. And when that happens, he'll understand. But until that day, it's like reading somebody when he reads the Bible, it's like reading somebody else's mail. He just is not going to get it. He's not going to understand The Word of God and spiritual things are spiritually discerned, so we must be dependent on the Holy Spirit. And so again, we're getting back to the point that's being made here, and that is that we can offer the proof, but the work of persuasion We must leave to the Holy Spirit. We must allow the Holy Spirit to do that work. Entrust that to Him Once we've done our job of laying out the arguments, the evidences, we back away and we pray for the Holy Spirit to open their eyes so that they will receive it, so that they will understand it. Now let me stop here. Uh again, I want to in our class I want to give you an opportunity to respond, to ask a question, to make a comment. Any questions or comments or anything uh to based on what you've heard already? Any any anything from anybody So I'm must be doing a really great job teaching then. There's no questions or comments. Okay You guys are easy. All right. Um so let's get to the uh I'll go I'll go again, we'll go to these five reasons. We'll get to the last reason then. Um Which is exaltation to glorify God. I kind of went back a little bit again and talked about salvation of loss, but let's go to the five point the fifth point, and that's to glorify God And this is why we're here. This is why you and I are on this earth as believers. We are here to glorify God. We're here to show forth his praise, his honor, his glory. And the Bible says in 1 Corinthians 10, 31 The Apostle Paul said this, that whether you eat or you drink or whatever you do, you do all to the glory of God. Another place he says this, whatever you do in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks through him to God the Father. And so by defending the truths of God, we defend his honor and we defend his name. Again, to me, this is the highest purpose of apologetics We want to give honor and glory to God. Now I don't know about you, but when I hear a lie about God, it makes me angry. It really stirs me, and I want to I want to really stand up and shout out, hey, that is a lie, that's not true. And we and I want to answer that. That's why I have to guard my spirit when I hear lies about God. You know, I I gotta be careful not to get really angry about that, but I have to come across in the right way. But I tell you it serves me and there's a lot of lies out there about Christianity, about God, and when I hear error being taught instead of truth, that also stirs me. I want to get up and correct that. When I see a verse that's pulled out of context and used in a way that's not intended. You understand that when the writers wrote under inspiration of the Holy Spirit, there is They had an original intention in their writing, and we don't have the freedom to make it mean something other than what it originally intended to say. We don't have that liberty to do that. Okay? And if we do that, we're actually putting words in God's mouth. That's why that we um when we uh interpret the scripture, we have to be careful to interpret it With the idea, with the intent of giving what the author intended to say to that original audience, and then give it how and then give the application how it applies to us today So we say what it meant then and what it means now. But I want to tell you that there's a lot of errors out there. There's a lot of misinterpretation of the scripture. There's a lot of really bad hermeneutics out there. And when that happens, what's going on is they're giving a false idea of understanding about who God is and what God said. And so apologetics should be motivated by the honor of God, God's name and God's glory, to give a correct view of who God is. And a correct view of what he said in the scripture. God has a right to define who he is. really upset a lot of times is people giving their own version of God. Not the one in the Bible. And you hear people say this, well my God And then they give their view of who they think God is. And that's especially true in this postmodern world because you have these postmoderns today who say, you know, here's my story. And my story is the only story that really matters to me. And then but what they'll do is they'll they'll say, I have the right to to to define who I am and to give my story according to what I believe I am. But that same person won't give God that same privilege. They'll go out and make up this God that doesn't exist. God has a right to say who he is And God has a right to reveal himself the way he chose to reveal himself, and he did it through the scripture. We know he did it through creation. We learn certain things about God through creation, but his special revelation is the scripture. If you want to know who God is, he tells you who he is right here. But if you don't get that right, if you have views of God that are not consistent with the Scripture then that brings down the honor of God. So in apologetics, what we want to do is we want to answer those false views about God and about what this what they say he says. By giving the correct interpretation, and we do it for God's glory. That's what motivates us. That God's honor and glory is defended. And so apologetics should also include a clear message sent through the life of the apologists. And this is the other part of it. They have to look at our life. And they have to see that not only do we articulate the gospel, but we live it out. And I think I mentioned this before in 1 Peter 3. 15. How does the verse start off? Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Sanctify Him. That is, count him as holy. Treat him as holy. And how do we do that? By living a holy life ourselves. And so we have to live the message out. Every apologist should reflect Jesus in their character. But sadly, the best argument against Christianity can be a life that is in no way represents the teachings of Christ. Let me give you a quote here. This is from Frederick Nietzsche. He was a very well-known atheist. He was the one who was the author of the God is dead idea that floated around for a while. But he said this, talking about Christians, they would have to sing better songs for me to learn to have faith in their Redeemer. And his disciples would have to look more redeemed. So says Nietzsche. One of the questions is, how does the world see Christians today? There's a book out there. about this and um according to this book here um uh according to a survey taken based on this book What are Christians best known for as being anti-homosexual, judgmental, hypocritical, according to many? Now, we have to understand that the world's there are some people that are just going to be critical for the sake of being critical. There's some people that are going to be negative just for the sake of being negative, but there may be some validity And what some of these people are saying about Christians, we need to be sure in our life to show forth the The Christ-likeness that God calls us to. And that's part of apologetics. That's part of how we glorify God. They should see us living out this message of the gospel and the love of Christ in our life. Okay, so again, these are the five reasons for um apologetics. And then also let me just move on and say, remember I told you before that there are two major Pillars of truth for apologetics. Okay, two major pillars of truth. In other words, these are the two things I think that we need to be able to articulate and defend more than any of the other truths of Christianity. Can you guess what they might be? I call these the two major pillars. And let me just tell you what I think they are. I think it's number one is the existence of God. And number two, the authority of the Bible. These are the two major pillars that we have to be able to defend. These two. Now that might surprise you. You probably thought I might say, well, the single most important thing for an apologist to prove is the existence of God, and the second most important thing that an apologist must prove is the person of Jesus Christ. No, I say that the second most important thing is the truth of Scripture, and I say that for this reason. If we can settle those two issues. Then the rest is just the exegesis of Scripture. You understand? First of all, I have to settle the idea that there is a God. God does exist, and He has revealed Himself. And he revealed himself in two primary ways. And the Bible tells us that. And what are they? Natural revelation. We learn a lot about God just through his creation. Right? What does the Bible say in Psalm 19? The heavens declare the what? The glory of God and the firmament shows his handiwork. We can look out at creation and learn a lot of theology out there about God just by looking at his creative order. You know, I often say, you know, if I never met you and you weren't home one day and I walked inside your house, I could learn a lot about you just by looking around Isn't that is that not true? And there's some of you are thinking, oh please don't go to my house right now. Be calm. I'm not going to do that. I'm just saying if I walked in your house, I sure would learn a lot about you just by looking around This creation is God's house. Can we learn a lot about God by looking at His creation? Of course, we learn He's a God of power, He's a God of wisdom, He's a God of beauty, He's a He's a generous God because everything in creation gives to us. The earth is constantly giving, giving, giving to us. That's one way God has revealed Himself, but the second way is through Scripture And so if I can just get a person to believe that there is a God and he has revealed himself, just like Francis Schaefer said, there is a God and he is not silent. What good would there be to have a God if he hasn't revealed himself to us? There is a God, and He has revealed Himself to us. If I can prove those two things, if I can prove to a person the existence of God and prove that the Bible is the Word of God Then everything else is simply than just the exegesis of Scripture. I can just go through the scripture and teach them after that. So this is why I say that the two major pillars And apologetics are these two things, the existence of God and the authority of the Scripture. Again, let me stop here. Any questions or comments Uh again based on what I said. Any questions or comments? You guys are no fun, man. There there's one in the back here. Uh go ahead, Chris, and then I'll get this gentleman over here. Chris You can just speak up a loudly if you don't have a mic. Can you speak loudly? Um How do you defend scripture as being a W without using scripture? That's a good question. Okay? But there's there are three pri primary arguments that you can use to prove that the Bible is the Word of God. And we're going to get into this as we go on, but I'll give you a little bit of a And one argument that is used with reference to proving that the Bible is the Word of God is the argument of fulfilled prophecy. Okay? Well let me back up. Actually, we could use scientific arguments, first of all. Let's use science first. Okay? I would show how that the Bible is in total harmony with science. All right, that's one argument I would use. Now the Bible is not a science book. As one person said, the Bible was not written to tell us how to heavens go, but how to go to heaven, right? It's a theological book. But if the Bible was written by God and God created the universe the way we know it, if the same God who created the universe wrote the Bible, it would make sense that the Bible would be in harmony with scientific facts about the universe. Is that not true? So I would begin to show them how that the Bible, when it speaks about scientific issues, is accurate. Alright? So for example, and by the way, when I say science, just keep this in mind. Science is constantly changing. I'm talking about provable Facts about science. Science that we know is is uh absolutely true. In fact, there was a book put out a while back called Fifty One incontrovertible facts of science that prove that the Bible is not God's word. Nobody in science today believes any one of those 51 facts anymore. You know why? Because science has changed and it's constantly changing. But when we talk about science, we're talking about science that is proven to be true. It has exper been experimented and we know that it's true. And if you hold those scientific facts next to the scripture, what you're going to find out is that the Bible is in harmony with science every time. Alright? And and here's the other thing I would challenge a person to do. Hold up other holy books, like the Quran, like the holy book of I forget the what the Hindus call theirs, the Hupish and the Shan or something like that. But if you hold up the other holy books where they speak about science, And see what they have to say, and you know what? It's laughable. It's absolutely laughable. But let me give you some scientific facts. Did you know the Bible says in the book of Job By the way, that you know chronologically the book of Job was written before any of the other books. It was actually written before the book of Genesis. And the Bible says in the book of Job that God hangs the earth upon nothing. How did how did Job know that God hangs the earth on nothing? How did he know that? This is back before NASA photographs from space. And did you know that the ancients believed crazy things about what supported the earth? Uh the the um the Greeks believed that the earth was supported on the back of an immense giant named Atlas. Um the Egyptians believed that the earth was supported on the back of um two elephants. And so on. There was crazy things about what supported the earth. But Job came along, and Job wrote, It is he that hangeth the earth upon nothing. And so my question would be to a person, how did Job know that God hangs the earth upon nothing? How does he know that? Unless the God who created the universe is the same God that inspired the Word of God. There's another fact that you know that Isaiah said That it is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth. And the word for circle there is the Hebrew word for globe. or sphere, not a flat circle, but a sphere, a ball. So Isaiah wrote, Isaiah lived 750 years before Christ. Isaiah wrote that God sits upon the circle, the globe of the earth. And again, I would ask you, how did Isaiah know that the earth was round? That it was a sphere, a globe, a ball. How did he know that? Again, I remind you that in history, men have believed that the earth was flat Just up until the time of Christopher Columbus, when Christopher Columbus, who read the the the Bible, was convinced that the Bible was was right and the Bible says God sits upon the circle of the earth and he believes you can come up uh east by sailing west And that's why sailors back then didn't sail too far because they were afraid that they would fall off the edge of the earth. By the way, you know there are still some people that believe the earth is flat? There's still some people that believe that. But how did Isaiah know that all the way back in that day, unless the God who Created the world is the same God that inspired his word. Now I've just given you two scientific facts and how the Bible is in total harmony with those facts, and I can spend You know, much more time giving more facts. Uh when the Bible speaks about the blood, the the life of the flesh is in the blood. Moses wrote that. How did Moses know that the that the health of the body, the health of the flesh, is directly related to the blood that's in a person's body? How did Moses know that? And we and we can go on and talk about these other scientific facts that the Bible basically references or speaks on. Remember I told you the Bible's not a science book. But when it does make references of things pertaining to science, what you'll find is that it's in total harmony with proven science today. That's one argument I would use to show a person that the Bible really is the Word of God. Now you can go from scientific fact to historical um reliability. And I can show you how that the Bible historically, when it speaks historically, is absolutely completely reliable When it speaks with history, because there's been attacks against the Bible on its historical references. I would give illustrations about that. For instance, did you know that for a long time liberal scholars would criticize the Bible because the Bible made reference to the Hittites in the Old Testament? And they would say, historians would say there's been no evidence anywhere of a group of people that existed called the Hittites. And they used that to attack the Bible until in the 19th century archaeologists discovered an ancient civilization, and guess who lived there? The Hittites. And I went to the British Museum. They have now one whole floor devoted to discoveries of those people called the Hittites. Now, there was a time when that was used against the scripture, saying, well, this shows that the Bible is historically, it's just not reliable. It is reliable Historically. I would show the scientific accuracy. I would show the historical reliability of the scripture. And another argument I would use is I would show the fulfilled prophecy of scripture. How is it that the Bible can predict something happens hundreds of years before it happens? That is a work of God. Or nothing is. By the way, that's why liberal scholars try to take the dates of certain books of the Bible and they want to push the dates back. Why? Because they're trying to disprove fulfilled prophecy. Because if you pro if you prove the Bible has made prophecies and these prophecies have come true, then what does that say about the Bible? That it is a book that's written by God. But it's that's a it's a supernatural book. All right. Someone else had a question. Did you have a question? I had a gentleman back here. Let me get him and then I'll get you. Yes, sir. I I'm sorry, I wasn't able to hear that. So let me get a microphone on you so I can I'm I'm hard of hearing, that's my fault. When you are born again, or your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit I'm sorry, I still didn't hear you. Could you speak a little louder? Oh, the body is the body the temple of the Holy Spirit. Oh, when you're born again. Well, yes, sir. So the question is, when you're born again, is your body the temple of the Holy Spirit? And uh I would say yes, that's absolutely true because the Bible does teach us that in 1 Corinthians 6, that when you become a child of God, that the Holy Spirit moves in and you are a temple. The temple of the Holy Spirit there. All right. And then we have one more question, then we're gonna have to go because we're out of time. Okay. Can you hear me? Yeah, I can hear you. So I won't have to stay in a little test here. Um Nostradamus was a famous philosopher during the Middle Ages, and he wrote a book. He was French, so the book was in French, but it was translated. And basically, uh the book he wrote uh r referenced the Bible and it showed it had like predictions of what's to happen. And some of the predictions had already happened, you know, in that point in history, but it predicted what was going to happen in the future. And scholars have studied his book, which is still in existence, and they found out his predictions were true. But he wrote it in the form of um I'd say like a poem or epic, so it was like a literary form. Yeah. But it referred to that. Yeah. And like modern scholars have gone back to study that And found out his predictions were true even back then, based on the Bible, and they came true. So that was history being uh um support it. Yeah. Even back then. And we got to see that now. You know, from modern times and studies. Right. Right. Well um interesting. You know, several things about that. I don't know that much about Nostradamus. I did see a documentary one time where the way he was making predictions was so very general that a lot of times you could read into what he said several different ways. But I would also just say this, that the Bible says that um in the Old Testament that if you claim to know the future that you have to be 100% accurate or you're declared a false prophet. So I would just use that same standard with anyone who claimed that they um that they know the future. Um I know there are people out there with crystal balls that say they can tell you tell the future. By the way, did you know that that whole business of predicting the future has gone down? People don't really I why didn't they see that coming? I saw one of my Any um we're gonna have to end it there. We'll pick up we'll pick up here next uh next week um or next time we we meet together. Let's have a word of prayer. Let's all stand together, we'll have a word of prayer, and then we're gonna have our service. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, that you have given us a true revelation of yourself in Scripture. Lord, I pray that we would be good students of your word, good apologists, so that we can indeed give an answer to all those who ask us of the hope that we have. Lord, bless the service to follow on this very special Sunday. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.