Would you take your Bibles this morning, open to the book of Matthew, chapter number three this morning? I'm gonna I know my I'm been preaching out of Hebrews, but I want to preach out of Matthew three this Morning, I feel led of the Lord to do this. A little bit of a different sermon. I want to speak this morning about the ordinance of baptism uh what the Bible says about it, why should I be baptized? And the reason I want to do it is because I've had so many questions posed to me about baptism and what it means. And I want to be very clear with you about what the Bible says with reference to this very important ordinance. I heard about a young minister who was fresh out of Baptist seminary. He was conducting his first baptismal service And uh he got his ordinances mixed up and uh rather than saying, you know, I baptize you in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, um he when he lowered the person down into the water, he said, Now drink ye all of it. That wasn't the right expression there. You got it mixed up with the Lord's Supper there. So I want to be clear on this. You know, virtually every religious denomination in existence teaches some form of baptism as a part of its doctrine, but what does it mean? Because it doesn't just because a denomination teaches it doesn't necessarily mean it's what the Bible Teach us about. Taker, write down number one the man talk to you about this. And first of all, if you're taking, if you're a note taker, write down number one the mandate for baptism. Because this is an ordinance of the Lord. Now the Bible is very clear about it in Matthew 28. The last words that Jesus gave to the church before he ascended into heaven was to go, we're to go and preach the gospel to every creature. baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. We call this an ordinance because it was ordered by the Lord. As a Baptist church, we don't use the expression sacrament because, although some others do, there seems to be an implication in the term sacrament. Which uh implies maybe some kind of saving element in that ordinance, which we don't believe that baptism saves a person, but rather it demonstrates that a person is already saved. And so Jesus gave this ordinance to the church. And so we could say then also it is the obligation of the Christian. Jesus not only gave the command at the end of his public ministry, but he set the example at the beginning. of this public ministry. Look at Matthew chapter 3, look down at verse number 13. And it says, Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John to be baptized of him. But John forbade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me. And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer to be so, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all righteousness Now Jesus demonstrated the importance of baptism by submitting to it himself. His baptism In fact, it is mentioned in all four of the Gospels of the Lord Jesus Christ. Why did he submit to baptism? Why did the Lord do this? You know, baptism is a sign of repentance, is a sign of being saved. Jesus had no sin to repent of. He was sinless. So why did Jesus get baptized? He was kind of in fact John the Baptist, when Jesus came to him right there at the River Jordan to be baptized, John the Baptist was reluctant, as we saw there in verse number 13 Verse 14, but John forbade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me. John knew who Jesus was. John knew that Jesus was the sinless Son of God. John says, I need to be baptized by you, and you're coming to me to be baptized. And so Jesus uh responded in verse fifteen by saying, Suffer it to be so, for thus it becometh us to fulfill all unrighteous all righteousness. That is to say, John, let this happen. I want to fulfill I want to fulfill all of my obligations in this manner of being righteous before God. And so first of all, this was a matter of obligation. Jesus felt this necessary to fulfill all righteousness. To be the sin bearer of the nation and of the world, Jesus had to make sure that he dotted every I and crossed every T, that he was obeying the Father in everything. But I think by doing this, another argument we could use is identification. Jesus was identifying with us sinners. When he himself allowed himself to be baptized. And right after that, the Bible says he went into the wilderness and was tempted So interesting to me, it might be a type of the Old Testament scapegoat that after the sins of the world were confessed onto the scapegoat, he was led into the wilderness. Jesus went into the wilderness. And he basically by allowing himself to be baptized, he was identifying with you and me. He was saying that I am going to bear the sins of the world. I am identifying with the people that I am going to save by being baptized. But another thing would be anticipation. Jesus, in allowing himself to be baptized, was anticipating the cross of Christ that was before him. And in the beginning of his public ministry, he was basically saying, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to die for man's sin. I'm going to be buried. And I'm going to rise again the third day. This is what I've come to do. So the baptism of Christ foreshadowed what he was going to do, his suffering, his death. There were only two times where Jesus himself used referred to his personal baptism. One time when he talked about it in Luke 12, he says, I have a baptism to be baptized with. And what he was referring to there was the baptism of suffering that he was going to go through on the cross for you and for me. In fact, look in that, go to Matthew chapter 20 real quick. Look at Matthew 20. We'll look at a few verses this morning, but look at Matthew chapter 20. And uh verse um seventeen. And Jesus going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples apart and away and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests, unto the scribes. They shall condemn him to death. They shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock and to scourge and to crucify him. On the third day he shall rise again. And so here Jesus is predicting his death. And then right after this, you remember in this passage, the request of James and John's mother, verse 20, then came to him. the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons worshipping him and desiring a certain thing of him. Verse twenty one. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? And she said unto him, Grant that these my sons may sit, the one on the right hand, the other on the left, in thy kingdom Look at verse twenty two. But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask, are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, or to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? And so interesting in this story, right after Jesus talks about his death, the mother of James and John comes to Jesus and says, Lord, give me this one request. Grant that in the kingdom to come, one of my sons sit on your right hand, the other on the left. This would be a seat of greatness in the future kingdom. And Jesus says, You don't know what you're asking. You see Glory in the kingdom is in proportion to the suffering here in this life. The greater the suffering here, the greater the glory there. So what you're asking, you don't really understand. And then Jesus referred to his own suffering. He said, are you able to be baptized with the baptism that I'm baptized with? In other words, he was referring to baptism there as the suffering he was about to go through on the cross. So there's a sense in which when Jesus allowed himself to be baptized, he was anticipating. The baptism of suffering that he would go through by dying for our sins, by being buried by raising again the third day. And so now Jesus tells us to identify with him. He identified with us in his baptism And now today Jesus commands us who follow him to identify with him by us being baptized. Is that clear? The mandate. It's important. But then secondly, the mode. The mode of baptism. The practice in the New Testament was always immersion. You know, why do uh why do churches build baptistries? You know, we have these tubs back here, you know. We'd save a lot of money if we didn't have to put one of those in Why does churches do that? You know, it's not all churches have uh a baptistry tub. Some churches they they baptize different ways. I remember one time I preached at a Methodist church They had a very nice ornate glass of water there on the pulpit, and I thought it was for me to drink, and I drank the water. Later found out that that was the baptistry. So I literally drank the baptistry dry that morning. on uh baptismal service, totally wrecked the service. Some people when they baptize, they sprinkle But you have to understand that the word baptism is from the Greek word baptizo, it's really a transliteration We normally translate Greek words, but this is a transliteration. In other words, they take the exact the exact Greek letters and they just turn them into English and say, here's the Greek word. It's baptizo, and always that word in Greek means to plunge or submerge or something that would be fully submerged. For example, if a ship sank to the bottom of the sea, the Greek word that was used would be baptizo. It's completely submerged underneath the sea. This word is used when a woman was taking wool and she would put it underneath a dye. It would be completely submerged. The word was used was baptizo. This is a word that we see in the New Testament a lot, baptism. And always it means immersion. Now remember this that when you see the word baptism in the New Testament, it's not always referring to water baptism, but it is always referring to complete immersion into something. Okay? So sometimes it might be you're immersed in suffering, the way we saw Jesus use it. When he talked about his baptism, he was referring to the the fact that he would be fully immersed in suffering. When you're saved, you are baptized into the body of Christ. That is to say that you are fully immersed into Christ. And we'll see that in a passage here in just a minute. It describes the believer being baptized by the Holy Spirit. You're completely immersed in the Holy Spirit when that happens. It always raises, or excuse me, it always refers to full immersion. Which raises a question that is, why do certain denominations then sprinkle? This came out of the erroneous idea that a pr that baptism saves. That if you're baptized, you get that you're fully saved. You know, if you sprinkle water onto someone, or if you baptize a person with water, then they're saved. And the Catholic Church began to sprinkle infants. And uh Uh during the Black Plague, when people were dying. They believed in baptism, regeneration. If you're baptized, you're saved. You couldn't take a sick person to church and baptize them. Therefore The church gave a special commission that you could just go and sprinkle that person and they were considered baptized and therefore they would go to heaven This all comes from an erroneous doctrine, the idea that the water of baptism saves you, that water cleanses you. Now I don't believe the Bible teaches water baptism says. You're not cleansed by water outwardly If I believed that water cleansed you and made you go to heaven, I would come here on Sunday morning with a fire hose and I would drown all of you. Just to make sure that all of you went to heaven. I would drown you all. Now you would be mad at me, but at least you would be going to heaven. But that's not what the Bible says about salvation. You're not saved when you're put underneath the water. But this is how it all came about. They began to teach that you're saved by baptism, and then sprinkling became very convenient because you could go to a person who was dying and sprinkle water on them and then be assured that they're going to heaven. And that's simply not the case. When the King James translators came to this word, they were translating um for the king, of course, under his authorization. The Church of England at that time believed in sprinkling baptismal regeneration. The King James translators didn't want to incur the wrath of the king. So when they came to the word baptizo, they understood fully that it meant full immersion. But what they did was rather than translate the word, they transliterated it. They basically in essence said, here's the word. You put whatever meaning you want to it. But this is the word. And so therefore in the history of the church, sprinkling became known as baptizing, which really doesn't match the word at all. That's not what the word means. In fact, in the New Testament, you'll see that whenever a person was baptized with water baptism, they needed to go to a place where there was a lot of water. In fact, the Bible says that when John was baptizing, he went to a certain spot, and John 3. 23 it says, because there was much water there. Now, friend, if you sprinkle, you don't need a whole lot of water. But if you baptize by immersion, you need a lot of water. The Bible says that when Jesus was baptized by John in Mark 1. 10, that he came up out of the water. implying that he went into the river. He was baptized fully immersed and then came out of the water. And so there are many places in the New Testament that affirm that baptism means full immersion in the water. That's the mode of baptism. But then let me give you the meaning of baptism We talked about the mandate, it's required for all of us if we want to identify with Jesus. We talked about the mode full immersion But then the meaning. Look in Romans chapter 6 real quick. I want you to look at this one passage here because what I want you to see this morning is that The ordinance of baptism is an outward symbol of a spiritual reality that takes place with you. And beloved, this spiritual reality is so important that you understand this. It's so important that you get this. So look in Romans chapter 6. Look down at verse number 1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Verse 2: God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death. Now, what I want you to see here in this passage is the spiritual reality that takes place that water baptism symbolizes. Now think about this. Remember this. In Romans 6, he's not talking about water baptism here. He's talking about the spiritual reality of what happens to you when you get saved. You say, what is that reality? Well, in Romans chapter 5, we see this one idea that God, when he looks down from heaven, sees only two people. He sees Adam and he sees Christ. This morning you are either in Adam or you are in Christ. Alright? The Bible says all those in Adam die. They are guilty of their sin, their condemnation. All those in Christ are alive. You know what happens at salvation? God takes you out of Adam and he immerses you in Christ That happens at salvation. So think of it like this. I can use this illustration. Let's say this hymn book up here represents Adam. This this bulletin represents you. When you're saved, God takes you out of Adam. Let this Bible here represent Christ. He places you in Christ. You're fully immersed in Jesus. You understand that? That happens to you at salvation. That's a spiritual reality. Do you understand that you are one with Jesus? This is called this is what theologians call a mystical union. There are three mystical unions, and the word mystical is the idea of it's it's so deep, it's so beyond us, it's hard to even comprehend the richness of this. One mystical union is the Trinity. God is three, yet he's one. There's oneness in the Trinity. That's kind of beyond our ability to comprehend. There's the mystical union of the nature of Christ. He is God, truly God, truly man. Those two natures are united mystically, and we can't fully understand that, but he's one person, fully God and fully man. Another mystical union is the fact that you are placed into Christ and you're one with Jesus now. You see, I can't comprehend that. I can't either fully But just realize that. That's why Paul said, if you're saved, you're already seated with Christ in heavenly places. You say, wait a minute, preacher, I'm sitting right here. I know. But in the mind of God, you're already seated with Christ in heaven, too. That's why someone says to me, I hope you're going to heaven, or I hope I see you in heaven. I say, what's up to you? Because I'm already there. I'm already seeing with Christ there Because in the mind of God, I'm one with Jesus. So think about it like this. And this is what Paul's bringing out here. Look again in verse number. 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were, we could say it like this, immersed into Jesus Christ, were immersed into his death? Look at verse 4. Therefore we are buried with him by immersion into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in new. Of life. And here's what he's saying. You understand that you're so one with Christ that in the mind of God, on the cross, when Jesus died, you were there with him. And when he died, you died with him. And when he was buried, you were buried with him. And when he rose again, you rose again with him. And now Jesus is seated in heaven, and guess what? You're seated there with him. You're so one with Christ that whatever happens to Jesus happens to you. That's an incredible spiritual reality. Now, water baptism simply symbolizes that It symbolizes that spiritual reality. Now, friend, you can't get all of that out of sprinkling. Alright? When a person is buried, you don't sprinkle some dust on them and say, okay, we're done. No, they're fully immersed in it. And you can't get sprinkling out of that truth there. And so it always means fully immersed Full immersion. We are baptized. We're placed into the Lord Jesus Christ. We are one with the Lord Jesus Christ. And when you understand that, you know what it will help you to understand the spiritual power that you have? You understand you have power because you're one with Christ? And it also will help you in this area of holiness, living a holy life. Because when you're tempted to sin, or to go someplace that you probably shouldn't go, or do something that you shouldn't do This spiritual reality can prevent you from doing that because whatever wherever you go and whatever you do, you're bringing Jesus with you. Because you're one with him. In fact, this is the whole argument that Paul is using because a question was posed to him by people. Paul is anticipating arguments and they're saying, you know, you mean that if you're saved by grace, that you'll never lose it? That's you understand that you're saved and you'll never lose that? And people in Paul's day were thinking, well that means I could sin all I want to. Paul, if I believe this gospel of grace that you preach, that once saved, always saved That that means I can sin whatever I want to and and never affect my salvation. And Paul answers that one question by saying this. Look in verse 2 again, chapter 6. God forbid How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? Look at verse 3. Know ye not that so many of us as we're immersed into Jesus were We're immersed into his death. In other words, Paul is using the argument of your oneness with Christ as a reason not to just go out and sin all you want to. Because you bring Jesus with you. And when Jesus died on the cross to sin, you died with him. Why would you want to continue in sin if you died with Christ on the cross? To sin. Paul said that in Galatians 2. 20, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Why would I want to continue in sin when I'm one with the Lord Jesus Christ? And so the water baptism stands for the spiritual reality. Of our oneness with the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the source of our power. And when we understand that, friend, the Christian life doesn't become a burden, it's a blessing. to know that we're united with Christ. He's the vine, we are the branches. All of our strength comes from him. Now let me give you the fourth thing quickly. We talked about the mandate for baptism and the mode and the meaning of it, but then the misunderstanding, because again, there are some people out there that want to say that water baptism will save you And what they do is they point to certain verses in the Bible to try to justify that. And let me just go to the one passage that they use most of all, and I want you to understand what it really means. Look in 1 Peter chapter 3, and I'm going to end with this verse here. But look at 1 Peter chapter 3. Look down to verse number 18. I want you to see this misunderstanding about baptism here. And look what Peter says, 1 Peter 3:18. For Christ also has once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, verse twenty, which sometime were disobedient when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was of preparing were in few Now watch this last phrase verse 20. That is eight souls were saved by what? Water. They look at that verse, oh there it is Eight souls were saved by water. Look in verse 21. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. They say, well, there it is again. It says that baptism saves us. So there will be people that will point to this verse and say, Well, there it is. Baptism saves you. These people were saved by water. But they are misunderstanding what Peter is saying here. Look at the word in verse 20. Look at the last phrase where it says, eight souls were saved by water. See the preposition there by? That's the Greek preposition. Our English letters would be di-i-di. And it can mean through. In fact, sometimes it could be translated by. Or sometimes it can be translated through. The context will determine it. And so I think the better way to say this would be: eight souls were saved through Water. What's he talking about here? He's talking about Noah and his family. Remember the the f the flood came, the rain, the earth was filled with water. And the only people that were saved in that time were Noah and his family. And you know why they were saved? They were saved because they got on board an ark. They were safe from the water. And so they were saved through the water because they were on board the ark. You see, water didn't save people back then, water killed them. Alright? And it would have killed Noah and his family if they were in the water. The water didn't cleanse them of any sin. The water didn't save them. The water was a symbol of God's judgment there. They were saved through the water. That's what that means. We say, what does verse 21 mean? The like figure hereunto, even baptism, doth also now save us. Now, when Peter says the like figure here, he's using a word, the Greek word is the type. We could say the the type is what saves us, or is a figure of what saves us. The type of whereunto baptism doth now save us. And what's he mean there? Well, the baptism that Peter's referring to there, remember, baptism means immersion. So let's go back to the Noah and his family. What saved Noah and his family? It wasn't the water, the water would have killed them. What saved Noah and his family was they were immersed into the ark. They were fully immersed in the ark. They were sealed in the ark. In fact, the Bible says God shut the door. They couldn't get out of that thing until God opened the door. By the way, do you know when you're saved you're sealed in Christ? It was literally impossible for Noah and his family to fall out of that ark. They could fall down in the ark, but they couldn't fall out of the ark. And the same way for you, when you're saved, you are placed in the Christ. You might fall down in Christ, but you can't fall out of Christ. Why? Because you're fully baptized into that that uh into Christ. Noah and his family were baptized into the ark. And Peter is saying that is a type Right there. You see, in the Old Testament, the Ark was a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. Just like Noah and his family were baptized into the ark and sealed there. When you get saved, you are Fully immersed into Christ and you're sealed there. That's what saves you. What saved Noah and his family was not the water, it was being baptized into the ark. What saves you is the fact that you're placed fully into Christ. That's the baptism he's referring to there. He's referring to the spiritual reality of you becoming one with Christ. You're baptized into Christ just like Noah and Assembly were baptized into that ark You see, that's the reality. Look again what he says in verse 21, when he says, whereunto even baptism that is being placed in the Christ doth Also now save us, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh. And there he's referring to water baptism. What saves you is not the fact that your outward flesh is cleansed by water baptism. But the answer of a good conscience towards God, that is to say that when you're saved, all of your sins are forgiven, your conscience is unburdened because the guilt is gone. You have a free conscience before God because you're completely forgiven for your sins. the moment you're placed in Christ. See, Peter there is comparing the spiritual reality with water baptism. And he's saying that the spiritual reality is you were baptized into Christ. That's what saves you. Just like Noah and his family were baptized into that ark, and they were saved through the water. This is not a verse that teaches water baptism. That's a misunderstanding. The bottom line is that you're saved by putting your faith in Christ. And when you put your faith in Christ, you are placed into Him. You are immersed into Him. All your sins are forgiven. You have new life in Christ. You die to the old world. Just like Noah and his family. When they got on that ark, they died to the old world. When they get off that ark, they resurrected to new life. That's all a picture of what takes place at salvation. So the question is, have you fully trusted Christ? You put your faith in Christ, had all your sins forgiven, your conscience completely washed, because the guilt is gone, your sins are forgiven, you are totally saved, you are in Christ. And let me just close by saying this. You know what baptism really is, if I could use an analogy? Baptism is to a Christian what a uniform is to a soldier. You know, when a person goes and signs up for the military, the moment they sign the line, they sign up, they become military at that moment, the moment they sign the paper. In fact if they if they change their mind the day after that and decide they want to leave, they go AWOL because they're military. Now they haven't got their uniform yet, haven't gotten that nice haircut yet. But you know what? They're military. Later on, they get their uniform, and that uniform identifies them with the army. So it is as a Christian. The moment you put your faith in Christ, at that moment you become part of God's family. You're in God's army. The uniform for a Christian is baptism. Baptism doesn't save you. Baptism is your uniform that identifies whose side you're on. It is confessing Jesus Christ to the world. You're saying I identify with Christ, my Savior, who died for me, who was buried for me, who rose again. In fact, we are one. And that's what this signifies. So I hope that you understand that, friend. I hope that you, if you haven't allowed yourself to be baptized, that you'll consider how important that is. If you know Jesus as your Savior, then the next step is for you to follow the Lord in this important area in your Christian life. Let's bow for prayer together today. Let's bow for prayer together. And I just want to ask you, with your heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, do you know with absolute certainty that you are a child of God? That's the first thing. I want you to be sure of that. I don't want anyone leaving under the sound of my voice, those who are here. I don't want you to leave and not have that settled in your heart. That you're trusting in Christ and Christ alone as your salvation. And if you're not, would you write this very moment, reach out in faith to Christ? The gospel isn't an invitation, it's a command. God commands all men everywhere to repent Pray the prayer of the public in the scripture who said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, and save me. And the Bible says he went away justified. He didn't have time to be baptized But Jesus said when he put his faith in the work of Christ, when he realized he was a sinner Jesus said he went away justified. Friend, that's what you must do. Turn from your sin, turn to Christ. Realize you're a sinner. Put your faith in him, and he'll forgive you for your sin. He'll give you eternal life. And once you've done that, follow the Lord in obedience. Don't be ashamed of what you've done, the decision you've made. Jesus wasn't ashamed to identify with you. Don't you be ashamed to identify with him. Father, bless these words to hearing hearts. Use your word to stir people to obedience. Help us to realize how precious our salvation truly is. The incredible oneness that we have, Lord, is beyond our comprehension. That we're one with you and you with us. Thank you, Lord, for what you've done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.