But before we do that, um just a few things. Um first of all, uh I wanna you know we're gonna Aaron's gonna talk about this a little bit during the announcement time in our morning service, but we have a We're launching what is called MBT Ministry by Text. And what we're trying to do is just kind of use text messaging to keep certain groups in our church um informed about things. And and uh of course we'll have a um a group where it includes the whole church where you can get announcements, even um a little like two one minute video of things, you know, but anything that we want to inform you about. How many of you like to get a one minute video of me in the middle of your week? Wouldn't that be a blessing? Just to encourage you. And uh you can't get away from me. And so this ministry by text is something I think would be effective in helping to communicate. to the church, just some things that we want to communicate. But we're also going to have smaller groups in that. And uh the one of the small groups of course would be uh this auditorium bible class. And so this is what I'm going to call it. I know it's been called the pastor's class and the and the pa uh you know it sounds a little egotistical for me to say, well this is the pastor's class. know. So we're going to call it the Auditorium Bible class. And and I'm giving you permission now to get out your phones because I'm going to start this group right here and right now. And I'll tell you how that you can start getting announcements. From me and even we're dealing with the topic of apologetics. I might send you a maybe a little uh link to something that we've been talking about maybe today in class and I'll say, hey, let me text you a link that gives you more information about this or even a little, again, a little video that deals with the subject of apologetics. And so this is what you do. You're going to text this number, 439 That's where you put in for instead of a phone number. Normally you text something to a phone number, right? But instead of the phone number, this is not a full phone number, but this is the number for the text. 43905 And so you'll put that in your um in the top of your uh area there in your, I don't know what you call it, the top of the banner there. And then you'll text the These three letters, A, B, C. Just put text A B through A B C to that number, 43905, and go ahead and push send, and you should get a message back. about that you're in the group. Anybody do that? Okay, anybody get a message back? Okay, you got a message back? So you're now officially in the group So I can actually communicate with you while I'm up here. You know, I can say something like, I can text it in, I won't say it out loud, but it's like you all are not paying attention, sin. Make sure you look good for our visitors that are coming send, you know. But also all through the week I'll be able to just give you a a text message, let you know what's going on. So that again that's A B C Um which stands for Auditorium Bible Class, Text ABC to uh 43905 All right. Now also another thing just to remind you about is you know we want to kind of be a bit informal in here. So we have Some microphones. Some guys got a microphone. In case you have a question, what might be in the lesson and you say, man, I have a question. So all you gotta do is raise your hand. And uh where's Brother Pennington? Right here. He's got a microphone. He'll he'll come to you. That's so that everybody can hear your question. And also Brother Bill Denner, he's there in the back. He also has a microphone, so uh he can also um just come to you. So if you have a question that you might want to ask or if you have a comment that you would like to make, I want to hear it. I want I want some input from everybody here. I want us to be a group together where we're talking, you know, the Apostle Paul when he went and the Bible says he reasons with people in the synagogues. I think I told you last week that the word reason is where we get our English word dialogue, dialogimos, which simply means two you know two people talking, talking back and forth. And so the Apostle Paul did that in the synagogues a lot. He would get input. He would share scripture and people would have questions and he would talk back. And so I want us to be able to do that here in the class. So we're going to talk again this morning about the second part of apologetics. And by the way, I was this is what I've been teaching in my DIG class, so I'm just bringing some of this over and then we'll continue on from what we learned in the class over there. I didn't get it all done We were actually doing, we just got past the introduction of apologetics, but that's what we're doing here. So if you were in our day class and you're here, you're going to kind of get a repeat of some of the things that we've been talking about over there. Let's pray together and ask God to bless this time. So Father, as we come before you, we're grateful for this church, grateful for your for your love to us. And Father, I pray that you'll use this time to be instructive for all of us, that we grow in knowledge and in faith. Not just as an academic exercise, but Lord, so that we can become holy and we can represent you well in this world to be light. in a dark world. So bless our time as we study together. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, now take your Bibles and open to 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 15. This is our Text verse, this is what we call our locus classicus, the classic location for this subject of apologetics. When you talk about apologetics and defending your faith, you've got to go to this verse here because this is the verse that is the key verse that talks about it. And 1 Peter 3. 15. How many of you are there? I want you to read this verse with me out loud. Read it out loud. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Okay. Out loud means you talk out loud. Let's try that again. First Peter three fifteen. Alright, you guys awake first Peter three fifteen. I'm not, by the way, but anyway Verse 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you of reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. And if you haven't committed that verse to memory, that would be a good verse to memorize. That's really one of the pillar verses in the Bible in our Christian faith. And this is a call from Peter to the church, and remember that we told you last time this church was going through severe persecution Uh Rome was on uh at the time of uh at the Roman time in which this was written, uh I should say Nero was on the throne in Rome. And he was a vicious, vicious uh dictator who d who declared war on Christians really when uh he tried to uh You know, we he set this the city on fire, he blamed it on Christians, and it was open season on Christians, and many were suffering, and many were being accused of all kind of things. There were all kind of lies being circulated about Christianity. And Peter is telling the believers here how to respond, how to suffer. In fact, this is a very unique book in that Peter in this letter points to cru of the cross, but he points to the cross not with respect to evangelism and the gospel He points to the cross with respect to how to suffer in justice, how to suffer in a hostile world. And this is the only time this happens in the New Testament. In the New Testament, every time a writer points to the cross, they're pointing to it's an evangelistic purpose. They're pointing to the sacrifice of Christ who died for our sins. They're pointing to the fact that the atonement, that Jesus satisfied the wrath of God for our sins. But when Peter points to the cross in 1 Peter, it's not with respect to evangelism. It's really with respect to how to live in a hostile world, how to suffer injustice. In fact, go back to 1 Peter chapter 2 real quick. Look at 1 Peter chapter 2, and look down at verse Uh well let's let me see. Um let's go to verse twenty, for chapter two, verse twenty. For what glory is it when ye be buffeted for your faults, if when ye be buffeted for your faul You shall take it patiently. But if when ye do well and suffer for it and take it patiently, this is what? Acceptable. Look at verse 21. For even hereunto were ye called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow what? In his steps. You're to follow the pattern of Christ. You're to follow in his steps. And what what specific pattern is he talking about here? Look at verse 22. Who did no sin Neither was guile found in his mouth, who when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not. But committed himself to him that judges righteously. Verse 24, who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sin should live unto righteousness by whose stripes ye were healed. So Peter here is pointing to the cross, right? Very obviously, but he's not pointing to the cross with an evangelistic purpose. He's pointing to the cross And he's saying to believers, here's an example of how to suffer injustice and hostility in a world that is very, very angry. And Rome was angry at the believers And they were going through all kind of persecution. And so Peter is saying, Let me give you some advice on how to deal with this. He points to Jesus. But then along the way, we come to our verse in chapter 3, verse 15, but he says, Always be ready to give an answer. There's all kinds of false ideas out there about Christianity. There's all kinds of lies that that assault the truth that we preach. You're going to have to be ready to give an answer. And so he kind of gives us a little formula here. Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Always treat God as holy. Always have a high view of God Be ready, that is to be prepared to give an answer to every man that asks you. And so this is why we study defending our faith. Because again, how many of you know we still live in a hostile time, right? I mean the world is still hostile against the church. And there are still false ideas, false doctrines, false teachings out there, hammering the foundations of the church There's still lies that are being spread about Christianity and Christians. And so we have to be ready to answer that. And we have to be ready to look to Christ as our example on how to uh absorb the suffering, how to deal with that kind of thing, but also how to answer those that are against us. And that's why we study apologetics. Remember we said that apologetics It comes from the Greek word apologia and it means actually to defend or defense. And so Uh it was a word used nine times in the New Testament. Uh every time it was used kind of with that in mind where you're defending yourself. Paul used it when he was going to appear before Caesar in Rome We said to the Philippians, I have you with me here in my heart when I go to give my apologia, my defense to Caesar with respect to the gospel. And so it's used to talk about giving a defense or giving an answer. It doesn't mean we apologize for being Christians. It means we're ready to give an answer, a defense of our faith, why we believe what we believe. So we talked about what is apologetics last week, but here I want to talk about why apologetics. Why is apologetics necessary? And what value does it provide to us here in the church? Why is this necessary? What I want to suggest to you today are just basically five reasons for Apologetics are five reasons why you need to be a good apologist. Remember, I told you last week you are an apologist whether you realize it or not. You're either a good one or you're a bad one But the call is to everybody who's saved. How many of you here are saved this morning? Raise your hand. All right, you're an apologist. You have to be ready to give an answer. And why you say, well there's a few things here. Ex I got explanation we need to validate the truth claims that we have Uh elucidation, we refute error. Edification, we need to strengthen the brethren. And then evangelization, we need to save the lost. And I think that apologetic serves as a pre-evangelistic tool that removes the obstacles so that people can believe. And then the the last one would be exaltation. And to me that's the that's the highest of these five reasons or the most noble uh or the most important I could say and that is because we want to glorify God. We want to honor God. And so let's talk about these five reasons in a little bit more detail. And so number one, explanation. We want to validate truth claims. This is the first purpose of apologetics. It involves being able to give answers. It might involve philosophical arguments, empirical arguments, historical evidences for the Christian faith. And by the way, what I'll show you, we won't do it this week, but in the week to come or weeks to come, I'll give you their basic basically four different approaches to defending the faith. There's the approach of the the the presuppositional approach, the classical approach, the uh Fideism, and then evidentialism, and we'll talk about those four different approaches, but they all involve These things right here, employing arguments, and when we say argument, we don't mean in a hostile way. We mean being able to reason, give reasons, give answers, give arguments to those who might ask of us And this might include a historical evidence of the Christian faith. Some of the things that we find, for example, when we're out digging in archaeology. Some of you know that I go over in Israel and I participate with Associates of Biblical Research where we dig. And um, you know, we're right now digging Shiloh, the place where the tabernacle was. And why do archaeologists do this? Well, because it helps us to understand that culture and the people, but it also gives light to the scripture And it supports the scripture. Every time uh archaeologists overturns the shovel in Israel, it seems like that the Bible, the historical validity of the scripture is validated even more. When I was down at Johns Hopkins studying Biblical Hebrew, we studied in a room called the Albright Room. You say, why is it named that? Well, it was named after William Foxwell Albright, who was an archaeologist back in the 1930s. And he was, you know, the archaeologist in the scholarly world, but he was very skeptical about the Bible. He didn't feel like that the Bible was was historically accurate. But after years Of digging in Palestine and Israel, he changed that view. And he came back saying, you know what, the Bible is historically reliable. Because what we found, the evidences that we found support completely what the scripture says. And so that's one reason that we use those kind of arguments because it helps support the historical reliability of the Bible. And how many of you know our faith is based on historical facts? Do you understand that? Adam was a real person, historical person. He wasn't a myth. Jesus was a real historical figure who lived in a point in time in a certain area of the world. All of our faith is based on history. You know, I've heard people say the times, well, history, that's old hat. Listen, our faith is based on history. And historical facts. And so when someone attacks the Bible and says it's not historically reliable, what they're doing is they're aiming their guns at the very foundation of our faith. Because our gospel message is based on historical reliability, historical facts. And if the Bible can't be trusted historically, then how do we know the gospel is true? How do we know the gospel is right? And that's why something like archaeology is so important because it defends the historical reliability of the scripture. And so this is what we're doing. We are employing arguments Now I just gave you a historical argument, but there also could be philosophical arguments that are used to defend the faith and other arguments, but what's the goal? The goal is to develop a rational and reasonable case for Christianity against opposing beliefs and worldviews. And again, this is necessary because our Faith is being challenged. It's being assaulted from all sides. There is a book out. I don't know if you're aware of this book called Already Gone. And this was written by uh Ken Ham and Brit uh Beamer and uh I thank God for Ken Ham. I don't know if you ever heard of him. He is the founder of a ministry called Answers in Genesis. And how many of you ever heard of the Ark Encounter? Okay. That's that was that they built an ark, a life-size arc, and you can still you can go down to uh uh Kentucky and see it. And uh I was there last year and for the first time I got to see it, but I thank God for the ministry of Ken Hem. And uh one time he asked me to go down through the Grand Canyon on a rafting trip, seven days through the canyon, and they took with them geologists, and the whole idea was to prove the that the Grand Canyon was carved out not by millions of years. Like a lot of people say, but by the flood that the Bible talks about. And um these geologists studied rock layers and did all kind of experiments, and it was a very, very interesting and rewarding trip. But Ken Ham Put out this this book. It's the first scientific study like it of its time. 20,000 phone calls were made, detailed surveys. It reveals trends that must be dealt with now. It says, of the all the twenty to twenty-nine-year-old evangelicals who attend church regularly, but no longer do so They asked several questions. At what age did you begin to really question the contents of the Bible? And So K3, well 1%, said they started questioning the contents of the Bible in kindergarten, or kindergarten through third grade, we could say. And then grades 4 to 6, 12. 8%. Began to question the contents of the Bible. Grades 7 through 9, 29. 3% began to question the Bible. And then in high school, look at that, 45. 7%. And that that's the key uh area I think there in high school because in college, early early college it's eleven point two percent. So in that one bracket there, our kids right now are being bombarded. And they're and they're being forced really in some cases to really be skeptical or question the Bible. And now young people who stand on the scripture now, they're almost scoffed at, they're laughed at. Um people people will um question their sanity. You mean you believe that book? I've I've had emails lately where people say, I can't believe you still believe that ancient book. Why don't you just believe what Jesus said? That was the next sentence after that. Now think about that. They questioned the Bible and then they say, why don't you just believe what Jesus says? And my response was, well if you can tell me everything Jesus said outside the Bible, please send it to me. What do you know about Jesus outside the Bible? But that's the mindset of people today. So there's these attacks. And there's another question that was asked in this book. If you don't believe, when did you first have doubts? When did you first start to have doubts? Some said that don't know in the elementary school They started doubting 4. 37%. College, there's just over 10%. Middle school, 39%, just over 39%. And again, in high school, uh 43 over 43%. percent began to have doubts. And so this is this is pretty alarming, isn't it? I mean um This is something that should concern us all. And then another question that was asked in the book, would you say questioning was the beginning Would you say questioning was the beginning of your doubt in the Bible? And fift over 55% said yes. Okay? So I just wanted to kind of share that those stats with you to let you know That this is why we need to be able to give a response and an answer. And we need to really fortify and insulate our young people So that they're able to answer. And we have to give them more than just the surface of the scripture. We have to give them the depth of God's Word. We have to be able to answer some of the questions that they might have because guess what? As soon as they get to high school and then college, they're going to be assaulted about all these things. So they have to get these things down, these answers about the scripture. And so we want to validate truth claims. Again, this is what Paul would do in Acts 17. We saw this passage last week. Paul's manner was he went unto them three Sabbath days, reasoned with them out of the scripture, opening and alleging that Jesus might need to have suffered and risen again from the dead, that this Jesus whom I preach View is Christ. So we need to follow the pattern of Christ. You say, why does all this matter? I'll tell you why it matters. Why does truth matter? Because eternity is an awful long time to be wrong. What is at stake is our the souls of our children. I feel like literally in this day we're fighting for the souls of the next generation, the souls of our children. And so we have to be able to answer or validate the truth claims that we teach. Because our children are going to be questioned about this as they grow up. Let me give you a quote here from the book, Defending Your Faith by Dan's story He writes, challenges to the faith may come in the form of a false religion claiming to supersede Christianity as the one true religion. They may come from secular humanism Or atheistic evolution, which claim God doesn't exist and all religions are human creations, they may come from Mormons or Jehovah's Witnesses canvassing the neighborhood It goes on to say, or they may flow from your next door neighbor in the form of objections to the Jesus of the gospels. No matter what form challenges take, when apologetics confronts them effectively, it exonerates Christianity. And that's exactly what we're trying to do. That's what apologetics does. That's why it's important for us to learn, to answer, and to give credible, uh, intelligent answers to those who may question our faith. Now let me talk about the second reason now, elucidation, which is uh to refute the error. This is the second purpose of apologetics, is to refute error. Again, the goal is to defend and to uphold God's truth. And let me give you a verse of scripture here, 2 Timothy 2, verse 24 to 25. And the servant of the Lord must not strive But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. If God per adventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. Now I want you to look at that verse and think about it. Several things I want to bring out about that verse of scripture there. Number one, the servant of the Lord must not strive We talked about this a little bit last week, but we need to be careful how we answer. We don't want to come across as being angry and hateful, right? The word for stribe there is an interesting Greek word. It's a word, how many of you have heard of the word macho? A macho man. That's the Greek word here, macho But it puts the alpha negative on it. In Greek, whenever you put the A in front of a word, it negates it or it reverses it. And so we could say it like this, the servant of the Lord must not be a macho man. I guess you could say or be macho in the way you know when I think of macho I think of um that old there's a commercial that was years ago when I was a little kid about the guy who put a battery on his shoulder and said I dare you to knock it off You know, um anybody remember that commercial? Old enough to remember it. Okay, thank you two of you. But it was almost like it was an at he guy constant attitude. I dare you to knock this off my shoulder And we can't as Christians we can't go around saying, here's the truth, I dare you to knock it off. We can't act like that. We can't have this macho attitude. The Bible says we must not strive, but be what? Gentle unto all men. There should be a gentleness. in our response and our answer. Apt to teach. That's from the Greek word didokos. Skilled in teaching. We have to develop a skill in teaching the truth. And in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. We should have a meek spirit because we should realize that if God didn't open our eyes, we would be in the same position they are I mean it was God the Holy Spirit that revealed truth to us. He's the one who imparts truth to us. And God in his grace has allowed us to have our eyes open so that we can see the truth. And so we don't talk down to others. There should always be a compassion there. When we're talking. Now watch this. If God per adventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. What does that verse tell us about repentance? It's something that God gives. Doesn't that verse say that? If per adventure God will give them repentance. And so we can look at repentance as something that God gives. He can give a person a repentant heart. He can give a person the gift of repentance. And yet at the same time, there's other verses in the New Testament where God commands people to repent. Well you might say, well who well how can God command it if he's the one who gives it, excuse me? How can God command it if if uh if he gives it? Well both are true. We're to work for repentance. From our end, there's a human side of it where we work for repentance and we make a decision to turn from sin to the Lord, but also It's something that God gives. So both are true there. This is a this is an illustration of concurrence in Scripture where both things are true at the same time. You're commanded to repent, but also repentance is something that God does, that God gives there. You have a question? Hold on for a minute. Let's let's get you a microphone so that everyone can hear this. All right. Could you explain how we work for repentance? How we work for repentance? Yeah, um there are several passages in the scripture. Um one of them is you're you're to you're to begin to seek seek the Lord. And then you make a willful decision of your will to turn from sin. In other words, you obey, you employ all the things that the Bible has commanded you to do. and yet at the same time you realize that it's something that God does, that God gives you. I'll give you another illustration of that. This is also true in sanctification. How many of you know that we are to do certain things to grow in Christ? How many of you know that? But also you have to realize that it's God who does it. Alright, same kind of principle there. This little sidetrack, but I think it's worth it. Look in Philippians chapter 2 real quick. Look at Philippians chapter 2. And look at verse number 14. We'll start there. Someone took Philippians out of my Bible. I can't find it. All right. Oh there it is. Philippians chapter two. Look down in verse number um 12. Philippians 2. 12. Wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but not much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. So here's Paul saying to the Philippians, you need to work out your salvation. Now he doesn't say work for salvation, but work it out. In other words, work out of you what God put in you. This is your command. This is an imperative. It's a present-tense imperative. You're to continually keep working out your salvation. This is sanctification in your life. When you got saved, God downloaded righteousness in you. He He gave you his salvation. Now you're to figure it out and work it out. Alright? Illustration I like to use is when my children were learning to play the piano, the piano teacher would give them a song, a piece of music, and they would say, Work it out. Now w I had to suffer for that because I had to listen while they worked it out. And why my wife decided to put the piano the piano next to the bedroom I'll have no idea But they would sit down and they would take this piece of music and they would just work it out, work it out, until finally one day I'd walk home and come in the door and there was this beautiful song being played. You know what? They worked it out. They worked it out. Now God commands us to work out your salvation. This is what you have to do This includes putting spiritual disciplines in your life. You've got to read the scripture. You've got to pray. You've got to be faithful to church. You've got a list of spiritual disciplines that you must do in order to grow. But now look at the next verse. Look at verse number 13. Watch this. For it is God which works in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now notice that. You're to work it out, but also realize it's God working in you. So who's responsible for your sanctification? You or God? The answer is yes. You're responsible for your sanctification, but so is God. God's doing it. Am I doing it or is God doing it? Well, yeah, we're both doing it I'm responsible to employ all the spiritual disciplines in my life in order to grow and be sanctified. Yet at the same time I realize it is God who's working in me both to will and to do of his good pleasure. So, and Paul knew this. Paul said, you know, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ who lives in me. You know, Paul said, I labor more abundantly because of the grace of God, yet not I, but the grace of God that is in me. Now Paul wasn't confused. He understood this delicate balance Between our responsibility and God's sovereign work in us. And this is again a principle called concurrence, and I see it all over in Scripture. And the same thing is true in our own And with this thing of repentance, if you had your hand up, ma'am. Um could someone get her a mic, please, and uh let her ask this question I'm gonna hear it the rest of the day. You may be coming to this, but verse twenty-five that you're on, um, can you explain that phrase that opposed themselves? Verse twenty-five that you have up there uh Second Timothy on the screen. Oh second Timothy the phrase that opposed themselves in meekness and strength instructing those that oppose themselves. Yeah, this is this is, you know, how does a person oppose themselves? Well, they oppose themselves when they when they're not receiving the truth, when they're not submitting to the truth. Okay. When I think about this verse, I think about Romans 1, where it says, For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Why? who hold the truth, and the word for hold there is to hold back. They're pushing back the truth. Okay? A person who pushes the truth away, they're opposing themselves. They're their own worst enemy, we could say. Okay? You know, they are just refusing. It's not that they don't they're not intellectually convinced. It's not a matter of the mind, it's a matter of the heart. It's a stubbornness of the will. It's where they're saying, I don't want the truth. You know, an atheist says, I don't believe in God, but what does the Bible say? God has planted the knowledge of Himself in every man. So what are they doing? They're pushing that away. They don't want to believe there is a God. They don't want to submit to his authority. And by doing that, what are they doing? They're opposing themselves. They're their own worst enemy. And again, it's not a matter of the mind. It's not a matter of their intellect. It's a matter of the heart. They just refuse to submit It's a rebellion against God, really is what it is. That's those who oppose themselves. And that's why God needs to break in and give them repentance to the what? The acknowledging of the what? Of the truth. And we'll talk about that as we go on, but I've said before, in apologetics, all we can do is offer the proof, but I don't have the power to persuade people. I can give you the evidences, I can give you the arguments, I can give you the the proofs of Scripture, I can reason with you. I can't tell you how many times I have graciously debated a a young postmodern person who doesn't believe and I can back them in the corner with truth very gently just give them answers and then at that point you know what some of them will do they'll just they'll just walk away. They'll just bow up, they'll get stubborn. What are they doing? They're opposing themselves. Because they will not acknowledge the truth. Even if they can see intellectually it's right, even if they understand your reasons and your logic and your evidences, they still aren't going to believe And what they're doing is they're opposing themselves. What do they need? They need for God to break through and open the and and give them repentance so that they acknowledge the truth. Does that does that make sense? So that's that's what it's talking about there. Okay. Also moving on in Titus 1. 9 where it says holding fast the faithful word. as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. And so, again, this is the same idea as that we're refuting era. And again, I point back in history to the second century. apologist Justin Martyr who wrote his famous work Apologia and in it he addressed it to the emperor Antonius Pius and his desire was to ref was to um clarify uh the truth in light of the false conceptions that were rumored and spread abroad. Again, there are many lies being spread about Christians back then. For example, it was commonly said that uh the Christians were seditious. They were trying to upset the authority of Rome. It was said that they were atheists because they didn't worship the gods. of the the Roman gods of the emperor. Said they were cannibals because um you know they didn't understand the Lord's Supper. Uh they didn't understand the concept of that. And so It was Justin Martyr who began to refute these errors, and he would address this book to the emperor, and he would say, you know, we're not atheists. We believe in the one God, the God of Abraham. Um and so he just answered these questions. He said, we're not out to overthrow the political structures of the government. If you look at our people, they are civil, they practice civil obedience And I would just say that in every era and every age there were lies and there was a need for apologists to pop up. Now, I don't expect you to be able to see that. How many of you are glad? I'm just I want you to sho I'm just showing you that in these different ages, the early church age, the middle ages, the Reformation, Renaissance, Enlightenment Age. These were apologists who rose up and answered some of the lies that were being put out there. 19th century and now in the 20th century we have uh more uh apologists who are who are answering some of these errors and lies that are out there. C. S. Lewis, how many heard that name before? C. S. Lewis said this, good philosophy must exist if for no other reason because bad philosophy needs to be answered. And that's so very true. But again, we live in this hostile age. We have to learn to refute this atheism that that is out there. Some of you may have heard this guy, Bill Maier. He is very hostile to Christians. Christianity, just an atheist. And this is what he says. He says, we are a nation that is unenlightened because of religion. He said, I do not believe that. Excuse me, I do believe that. I think that religion stops people from thinking. I think religion is a neurological disorder. I am just embarrassed that it has been taken over by people like evangelicals, by people who do not believe in science and rationality. It is the 21st century. And I will tell you, my friend, the future does not belong to to the evangelicals. The future does not belong to religion. Well, he has a lot to learn. Because uh Christianity is here to stay, as we know. But this is the kind of attitude and attack that that we're getting You know, Chris Christians are we're we're irrational. We don't we're not we're non-thinking people. How can we believe these things? Another attack from Richard Dawkins, an atheist, who says this, talking about Christians, mock them. Ridicule them in public. Don't fall for the convention that we're too polite to talk about religion. And so you can see then that these are the hostile attitudes that we must deal with out there. But let me let me just move on to another verse of Scripture. What does the Bible tell us? 2 Corinthians 10, 5. Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. And this is what we have to do. There's all these ideas that are trying to get into our minds. And I think in this verse here, what Paul does is he pictures the human brain like a city with a wall around it. Now in an ancient city, you know, back in the days of antiquity, when an enemy wanted to overtake a city, they would have to scale the wall. So enemy soldiers would put their ladders against the wall and come up the ladder, try to get in, open up the gate so that the enemy could flood in. So if you were a soldier standing on top of that wall and you saw the ladder come up, what would you do? You would cast it down I think in this imagery here, the lies, the false teaching, these are the ideas These imaginations that are trying to get inside of your mind or in the mind of others. And Paul says we have to cast them down. All these ideas that exalt itself against the knowledge of God, and we bring into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ. What do we use to refute or fight against lies and error? Very simply, we use the truth. It's the truth that casts down these these these imaginations, these false ideas that try to get into the mind. Again, quoting from Dan's story here. In his book, Defending Your Faith, cultures and societies change. So we shouldn't expect the problems of this generation to be the same as the former one or the next For example, second-century apologists debated pagans who accused Christians of atheism, incense, incest, excuse me, and cannibalism And he goes on to say, obviously, second century unbelievers either misunderstood or purposely perverted the true meaning of certain Christian beliefs and practices. Today, these accusations against Christians are non-existent. On the other hand, we have others. On the other hand, 20th century apologists deal with issues that didn't plague the second century church Today's unique apologetic challenge includes philosophical naturalism, that is the belief that nothing exists outside the material world, including the supernatural, and the various New Age philosophies that have evolved out of Eastern pantheism He goes on to say, we also have to confront the thoroughly unchurched non-religious individuals who have little outward concern for spiritual things and no interest in all at all in Christianity. At the other extreme, we find militant secular humanists, people out to rid society of any remnant of Christianity. And so on. And so we have new lies. And by the way, every age and every generation, new lies added to the old lies. The old lies never really go away. They just add new lies to it. Or sometimes the old lies are repackaged and recirculated. But every generation has to face the challenges that come against Christianity. And that's that's the that's the bottom line. But let me let me move on here. Another reason for apologetics is to is edification that is to strengthen the brethren. This is the third purpose. We want to strengthen the church. against these attacks. Because again, people can still be persuaded with some of these false ideas that are out there. It can cause weaker believers to stumble If we don't give answers to these things. And so let me give you a passage of scripture, Ephesians 4, 14 And fifteen, that we be henceforth no more children tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the slight of men, a cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive But speaking the truth in love may grow up into him in all things which is the head, even Christ. And so we have to develop spiritual stability in believers. Again, Hebrews 5. 14 But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil. And so we have to strengthen the church from these things. Again, quoting another scholar here, R. C. Sprohl. He said this, the Bible is addressed primarily, though not exclusively, to our understanding. That means the mind This is difficult to communicate to modern Christians who are living in what may be the most anti-intellectual period of Western civilization. Notice I did not say anti-academic, anti-technological, or anti-scholarly. I said anti-intellectual. There is a strong current of antipathy to the function of the mind in the Christian life. And he's right. How many of you know that if you're going to be a good Christian, you have to learn how to think? You have to use your mind. Sometimes I get the idea that when I preach a sermon, people resent the fact that I'm making you think. Sometimes this is this is this is this is true. In a former church I pastored was a very large church. Um I had the deacons called me in one time. We had fifty deacons in that church. It was about twenty-five too many. And they called me in and they and they said, you know what, we want you to back off when you're preaching a little bit. And and I said, Well what do you mean by that? Well It it's too much depth. You know, the people are thinking too much. Um you you need to just you need to ease off. Get a little more stories, you know, try to tell a joke every once in a while. That's honestly what they told me. I had to go buy a a joke book. No, I'm just kidding. I didn't do that. I mean that was that was the mindset. We want you to you know what they were saying? Kinda entertain a little bit more, be be funny. I resent that. I'm funny. How many think I'm funny All right. I mean I I I'm a nice guy. Why why are you attacking me? Anyway, um of course I told the guys very graciously That my call is to preach the word. But there's this mindset out there, and by the way, you have to learn how to think. That's part of discernment. What did Jesus say to the disciples? By their fruits ye shall know them. He was telling them to exercise discernment. Exercise the ability to think, and this is what he's talking about here. We live in this anti-intellectual age where people want to go to church and they want to feel something. You know, they want to feel good when they leave. In fact, I had people tell me from time to time, not here, but other churches where they say, you know, when I listen to you, I don't feel really good. That was what they said. Well my job is not to make you feel good. I hope you feel good. I don't want you to feel bad, but my major calling is not to make you feel good or good about yourself, especially if you're living in sin. You know, I just preach the word. I'm not trying to entertain you. I'm not trying to make you feel good. I'm not trying to make you feel bad. I'm just giving you the truth. You know what? The Bible does all of that. The Bible will do whatever it needs to do with people. But we have to learn how to think in the church because that is our defense. And if we don't learn how to think and be discerning, you know what? We open ourselves up to all kinds of false ideas and false doctrines that come into the church, and those ideas might be very warm and fuzzy and all that. The only problem is It doesn't match the truth a lot of times. And by the way, I'm not against feeling good and emotion, but you know what really stirs my affections and emotion? Truth does. And you didn't beware of any teaching or religion that bypasses the mind and tries to manipulate the heart. When God starts to make changes in a person, he starts in the mind. What does the Bible say in Romans 12? Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of the what? The mind. That's where God starts in the mind. And this is how we strengthen the brethren. We teach them truth. It says here in Jude 3, Beloved, when I I gave all diligence to run unto the common salvation. It was needful for me to write until you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered. Jude says, you know, I wanted to write another epistle about salvation, but I thought this was more needful to challenge believers to contend for the faith and to strengthen you in your faith. And so we can go on with that. But let me just move on for time's sake. Here's another reason for apologetics, evangelize Evangelization save the loss, the fourth purpose. And the goal is not to win an argument, but instead to persuade unbelievers. The end result is salvation of the unbeliever. And so when we're employing our arguments, when we're defending our faith, I'm not trying to win an argument, I'm trying to win that person to Christ. Okay. I want them to come to I want them to come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the purpose of it. But we can't effectively evangelize, as some would say, until we first pre-evangelize in a lot of cases. And this is especially true, I find, in this day in which we live, because I remember I told you there was a day where you can go out and you can witness to a person and you can begin with the notion that they already believe there is a God and that the Bible is the Word of God. You can't assume that nowadays. Because of all we're living in a postmodern world where the Bible has been attacked and many people You uh don't even believe there is a God. And you have to some you have to start there. I think Ken Hamm calls this creation evangelism. You've got to start at creation a lot of times And you've got to remove some of these barriers that they have. You know, that show them that Jesus is the Son of God. The Bible is the work of God. You can't, they're not going to believe any of these things until they first believe that there is a God. And so apologetics paves the way for the gospel. Okay, and this is certainly true. We've seen it in the lives of many. In the early church period, the post-apostolic period, there was Augustine. Apologetics helped him. From Manichaiism. That's this uh kind of a modern uh Gnosticism of this warfare between good and evil dueling together. He had notions of that. But a philosopher kind of helped him reason through that. And that eventually led to his being open for the gospel and salvation. And we could also say this of others, notorious atheists, have been able to be reasoned to God. For example, here's one man who says, It is simply inconceivable that any material matrix or field can generate agents who think and act. A force field does not plan or think. So the world of living conscious thinking beings has to originate in a living source of mind. So here's an atheist and he's reasoning together And he's coming to the point where he realizes that there has to be a creator. Because that's just simple logic. And then we can go on, but again, for the sake of time, I we have to move on quickly here. Another argument would be moral law leads atheists to God. Here's a quote from C. S. Lewis. As an atheist, my argument against God was that the universe seemed so cruel and unjust. But how had I got this idea of just and unjust? A man does not call a line crooked unless he has some idea of a straight line. So you understand what he's saying there. Where do we get the notions of just and unjust? There had to be a lawgiver who Place in us what is right and what is wrong, who set the standard, who says what is good and what is not good, what is right and what is wrong. And so this moral argument about God is what caused C. S. Lewis to turn his head And say, wait a minute, there has to be a God. But again, all of these arguments that are employed that remove barriers are for the purpose of bringing someone to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, again, for the sake of time, I can't go through all of these, but how many of you ever heard of Lee Strobel? Lee Strobel wrote the book, The Case for Christ. He was a journalist who worked for the Chicago Tribune. He was a skeptic, didn't believe in God. He decided he was going to go out and he was going to do some research. to prove that the resurrection wasn't true. And when he did all his research and he was very meticulous in his and his digging, what it did was it didn't prove that there wasn't a resurrection in his mind that proved that there was And it led to his salvation. And he wrote the book, The Case for Christ. And so through that investigation that he did, um, basically uh It it took it removed the barriers and it brought him to real faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So again, let me wrap this up here because we've got to stop. But we're looking at these reasons for apologetics. Why? And uh we talked about explanation Validate truth claims elucidation to refute error, edification and strengthen the brethren evangelization so that the saved will be lost And we're on that point. Next week we'll finish that point. We'll talk about exaltation. And then I want to talk to you about the two major pillars in apologetics today that we have to be able to give an answer to. Alright, the two major ones. Alright? I didn't give you guys a lot of chance to talk. Here I am saying I want you guys to talk some and I'm doing all the talking. Um some of you came in late, I want to just give this one thing before we are done. That is um if you have a phone, uh mobile phone, in order for us to communicate as a class If you can text ABC, which stands for Auditorium Bible Class, you can text it to the number 43905. 43905. And if you text ABC to 43905, you can get announcements from me, and I might send you a little video clip of some of the things we talked about this week. It just kind of keeps us all together. So do that. You got my permission, you take out your phone and text A, B, C, to this number. 43905. Everybody say that. 43905. Just text ABC to that Auditorium Bible class and you'll get texts from me, okay? And if you push in right now, it'll confirm that you're a part of that group. All right. Let's all stand together and have a word of prayer, and we'll be done for today. Father, thank you for the truth. Lord, make us good apologists of your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right.