It's good to see you here tonight. I invite you to take your Bibles, please, and open to the Old Testament passage of Psalm 8. And we'll look at a few verses in Psalm 8, and then we're going to turn to the New Testament, to the book of Hebrews. chapter 2. But look in Psalm 8. We've been looking at a few psalms during the Christmas season that called Psalms of Christmas that are messianic. And we uh certainly see that here in Psalm 8 and verse number 4. What is man that thou art mindful of him, and the Son of Man that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. A young man by the name of Josh Bell emerged from a metro station. He positioned himself, from a metro train, I should say, in a station, and he positioned himself uh beside the wall uh as people were kind of making their way through the subway there. Uh by most measures he was just an average, ordinary young man, a nondescript, wearing blue jeans and a T shirt and a Washington Nationals baseball cap. Wrong baseball team, but anyway. And then from a small case he removed the violin and uh he began to uh pla he placed the open case at his feet. And uh he put a few dollars into the open case, kind of like seed money, and it began to play, and and and as people would come by they would uh some would throw money uh there in that little case. But for the next forty-five minutes In the in the DC Metro, uh Bell played uh Mozart and some of the great classical songs, and uh thousands of people streamed by while he was playing. If they had paid attention, they might recognize that that young man there playing, Joshua Bell, was a world-renowned violinist. In fact, just a few days prior to that, he packed out the Boston um symphony uh orchestra. The seats there were about a hundred dollars apiece or for people to come to hear him play Um and they also may have noticed that what he was playing from was a violin that was a very rare strataverius and worth about three million dollars. Um th this all was an experiment conducted by the Washington Post. They said the reason they wanted to conduct the experiment was it was that what they called an experiment in context and perception. In other words, they wanted to find out if in a common setting at an inconvenient time Would people notice something beautiful and rare going on? Or would they be too distracted with their own life to stop and even take notice of what was going on? Um and and of course uh they really didn't stop and take notice. Uh Joshua Bell was able to make about $32 that night. from people that maybe took a few minutes to stop and listen. Um, but most people were distracted, most people were doing their own thing, most people were, you know, just really consumed with their own life. and really didn't have time to stop and listen to something beautiful or to see something rare. When I read that story, I thought about the beauty of the incarnation. You know, even now today, even at this so-called Christmas time, people are so distracted. They're not really focusing on what Christmas is all about. They're not thinking about the beauty of the incarnation There f and and by the way, you know, we love all the trimmings that come with Christmas, the gifts in the tree and all that sort of thing. But we need to be careful as Christians not to allow those things to distract us from the real true beauty of uh what Christmas is all about, and that's the beauty of the incarnation. The most amazing thing the world has ever thin uh or heard of is when God became a man, when God took upon him uh flesh Now the the the s the uh psalmist here is just overwhelmed with amazement that God would love man so much that he asked the question, you know But why would God visit him? What is man that thou art mind for of him? Or the son of man that thou visitest him? God uh loves mankind so much Um the proud of his creation that God visited man in a very wonderful way And so later on the writer of Hebrews is going to actually take this passage of Scripture and comment on it under inspiration of the Holy Spirit to show us really that what this psalm is referring to here is the incarnation of Christ. This expression, Son of Man, has messianic overtones in it, and the writer of Hebrews is going to let us know about that. But really, we could say that this psalm really part of it is the amazement that the psalmist has over the fact that God would go to such lengths to bless mankind. and the way that he did. And so um we're going to talk about this, the incarnation. This is one of the great pillars upon which our faith rests. Spurgeon said that the Christian faith rests upon three great pillars, the incarnation, the crucifixion, and the resurrection. And so we're going to talk about the incarnation here tonight. Of course, this is what we talk about at Christmas time. Incarnation literally means in the flesh, the idea that one of the great mysteries of all theology, that God became a man. Paul said, Great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. Now, again, the big question is why did God become a man? Why did Jesus leave the glory of heaven to enter into this sin-cursed earth? And this is the very question that the writer of Hebrews is going to deal with. If you look in Hebrews chapter 2, And look in verse number 6, what we see is that the writer of Hebrews is quoting from Psalm 8, and he entertains this same idea, verse 6, but in one certain place testified saying And again he's referring to Psalm 8 here at that certain place. What is man that thou art mindful of him, or the son of man that thou visitest him? Thou matest him a little lower than the angels Thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didest set him over the works of thy hands. And so this is the very question that the writer of Hebrews is uh interacting with addressing why would God um become a man. Now let me give you a little context into this Hebrews here. The writer starts out in chapter one demonstrating the superiority of Christ, that Christ is greater. And he was seeking to persuade Jewish people to embrace the new covenant. that Jesus is greater than anything that they had in the old covenant. The new covenant under Christ was much better than the old covenant under Moses. The Jews boasted of their prophets and the ministry of their prophets. And Jesus and the writer writes, Jesus is better than the prophets. The prophets only had a part of the truth, but Jesus was the full truth revealed. Also, the Jews boasted in the ministry of angels. And the writer says, you know, Jesus is better than the angels because he was the Son of God. Look in chapter one, look at verse thirteen. But to which of the angels said he at any time, sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. What angel did he say that to say that to And the answer is none. He only said that to his son, the Lord Jesus. And so Jesus is better than the angels. The angels are ministering spirits. And uh they're servants to us who are heirs of salvation. Jesus is the Son of God, and God has put all things under subjection to the Lord Jesus. Look at chapter two, look at verse number five For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak. And so God didn't put the world in subjection to the angels, but he put the world in subjection to his Son. And so the writer is saying Jesus is so much better than the prophets. He's so much better than the angels. But now he's anticipating an objection in the mind of a Jewish reader. And the objection might be, now wait a minute. If Jesus became a man and and men humanity or mankind is lower than the angels, doesn't that at least in that point make Jesus inferior to angels? I mean in God's economy it's God, angels, man, uh and and and the and the way God created angels, you know, are spirit beings, but they also could take upon um a physical appearance and take on flesh. We see that in the Old Testament. They're certainly superior to man in a lot of ways. For example, in the Old Testament, we saw stories of angels uh basically conquering armies. You remember the story where one angel killed a hundred and eighty-five thousand soldiers? of the Assyrian army, the uh of Sennacherib's army. And so, you know, angels in a sense are superior to man in his human state. And if Jesus became a man, doesn't that mean that in at least one way he is inferior to the angels that um God created? Now the answer to that question The implied answer, by the time the writer gets done, it'll be absolutely no. Jesus is still not inferior to angels, even though He wa made himself a little lower than the angels in becoming a man. He didn't become an angel himself. He became a man. You know, look in chapter 2, look at verse 16. For verily he took not on him the nature of angels But he took on him the of the seed of Abraham. He was not an angel. He was a man. He c he became a man. And he was of the seed of Abraham. uh a son of of Mary, virgin born son of Mary. And so he was human in every way. And but again the a the question The fact that he became a man, doesn't that in some way make Jesus inferior to the angels? And again, the answer to that question is no. Well why? Well, because of the reasons why he became a man. And then what the writer of Hebrews does is he begins to list Some reasons why Jesus became a man. Five reasons why God became a man. And which makes Jesus superior to the angels because of the reasons that he became a man. And here's the first reason, number one, to regain man's lost dominion. Look at verse number six again, but in one certain place testifies, saying, What is man that thou art mindful of him? Or the Son of Man that thou visitest him Thou matest him a little lower than the angels. Thou crownest him with glory and honor, and didst set him over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. Now again the certain place of course is Psalm 8. And Psalm 8, if you study that very carefully, you'll see that the psalmist pointed out that when God created man and put him in the Garden of Eden, what did God give to man? He gave him dominion over everything that God created. You know, this time of year we sing a song, We Three Kings. You know, first of all, we're not sure that they were kings. We think that they were wise men. And I I like what one country preacher said that if it were wise women, the three gifts they would have brought were were um formula, diapers, and casseroles instead of f gold frankincense and uh like one little boy said Uh in Sunday school, you know, they brought Jesus uh gold, Frankenstein, and Smurfs. Um but anyway, getting back to the point here, we sing about three kings. But the and the Bible does speak about three kings, but not the ones that we sing about. First of all, there's King Adam. Did you know that when God put Adam in the garden, Adam was God's co-region? Adam basically represented was the representative king on earth, and he had total dominion over all of God's creation. Everything was in subjection to Adam. And you know, so therefore, uh he had the crown of what the psalmist said, the crown of glory and honor that God gave to Adam, because Adam had total dominion. Over God's creation. He was a king in God's creation. And all of that was wonderful. Notice chapter 2, verse 8 of Hebrews, thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all things in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. In other words, at the beginning when God created Adam, everything was in subjection to Adam As God's co-regent. Now that is so wonderful, we can't even imagine that Adam had absolute total dominion, and that God would give man such glory and such dominion in the ver in the very beginning. The crown that he talks about in verse 7 is the crown of authority and dominion. Now, but we have a problem. Look at the end of verse 8. But now we see not yet all things put under him. Something happens. In the beginning, Adam had everything in subjection to him. But if you look out now, there's nothing in subjection to man right now. The whole creation is in rebellion against man. And so there was a problem. Man had dominion in the beginning, and now the writer says, we see not yet all things put under him. What happened? Well, there came along another king. We could say King Satan. He entered the picture. He tempted man to sin. We know that story. As a result, sin brought a curse. Adam's disobedience brought Sin, sorrow, and death into the world. All of creation went into rebellion against man. Man lost his crown You might say that Satan stole the scepter that belonged to man. And whereas before the earth gave freely of all of its substance Man had all of his needs met without really having anything to do. He only had to accept it and enjoy it. Now man's effort to master the earth is cursed by sweat and drudgery Before the earth gave naturally, freely of its resources, now man has to work hard. And through toilsome effort, he has to pull out of the earth the things that he needs to survive. He's subject to the destructive powers of natural disasters, hurricanes, tornadoes, tidal waves, floods, volcanic eruptions, earthquakes. There's extreme Heat, extreme cold, poisonous plants and reptiles. All of this was released after the fall. Everything that God gave for man's good And blessing became man's enemy. All the earth is in rebellion against man, and man is constantly today fighting But he's fighting a losing battle. Man is ravaged by disease. It takes all of the skill of science and medicine to try to hold off the diseases that's plagued mankind today. Man's ravished by disease. He's dying in the earth with them. In the end, man is conquered by death. It's a horrible tragedy It's a tragic fall from dominion to depravity to death. And even the earth knows his own condition. In Romans 8. 22, it says this For the whole for we know that the whole creation groans and travails in pain together until now. All of the earth understands this curse that came upon it because of man's sin. One commentator was very eloquent. I want to read to you what he wrote. He said, Man is subject to the earth. He plants, but he's not sure who will read. He builds cities and houses and dams and monuments. But they but they're all subject to destruction by lightning or earthquake or flood or fire or erosion or simple aging. Man lives in jeopardy every hour. Just at the height of professional achievement, his brain may develop a tumor and he becomes, you know, you know, uh an imbecile. Just at the brink of athletic fain, he may be injured and become a helpless paralytic He fights himself, he fights his fellow man, he fights the earth. Every day we read and hear of the distress of nations of political and social conflict Not to mention economic hardship, health hazards, military threats. We hear the whine of pain from dumb animals, and even see the struggle of trees and crops against disease and insects. Our many hospitals, doctors, medicines, pesticides, insurance companies, fire and police departments, funeral homes all bear witness to a cursed earth. And that's so very true. The scepter that man had was stolen, and now Satan is the usurper. The Bible calls him the God of this world. The Bible calls him the prince of the power of the air. 1 John 5. 19 says the whole world lies in the lap of the evil one. You say, what's the solution to all that? Look at verse 9 of Hebrews 2. But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor. That he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. There's that crown. The crown that man lost, the crown of glory and honor. Guess what? Jesus came to take back that crown. And everything that the first Adam lost, the second Adam regains. Look at verse number 10, where it says that they're restored, for it became him, for by for whom are all things, and by whom are all things. And bringing many sons unto glory. And so what happens is through Jesus Christ, we are restored the glory that was lost in the beginning with Adam in the garden. All that glory that man lost. The purpose of Jesus' coming is to restore us that glory. Everything that the first Adam lost, the second Adam is going to restore. And that's reflected in some of the The Christmas hymns that we sing, second Adam from above, reinstate us with thy love. That line in the heart, the herald angels sing, We will reign as kings. And we will reign with the Lord Jesus Christ. Revelation 5. 9, they sang a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and has made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. So Jesus came to this earth to restore that lost dominion for man, to bring many sons to glory, to give us back that glory. But here's number two, and we already touched on it, but to die for every man. Look at verse nine. Again we see Jesus who was made a little lower than the angels, for the suffering of death Crowned with glory and honor, that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. And again, we must remind ourselves that Jesus was born that he might suffer death. That he, by the grace of God, should taste death for every man. We rejoice and celebrate the incarnation of Christ, but it was for the purpose of dying for man. The Cradle brought forth the cross. He came to suffer and die for our sins as our substitute, that he should die for every man. We know that God must judge sin. And God didn't want to judge us. So all the sin that the world was placed on Christ, Christ became our substitute. He bore the wrath of God for our sin. And the Bible says he by the grace of God tasted death for every man But also notice in verse 10 where it says that he became to make the captain of their salvation perfect through suffering. He was our substitute, but also he's our captain. The word for captain here, which is a word that means pioneer or leader, the Greek word here, it's used in other places. It's translated prince. uh in many places in the New Testament. It's used of a man who starts a family, others are born into it, or founds a family, others people are born into it. It's used of a man who founds a city and others come to live in it. It was used commonly of a pioneer who blazed a trail for other people. And so Christ has gone before us. He was, you could say, the trailblazer in our salvation. The captain of our salvation. He came to die. But here's number three. He came to be our elder brother. Look at verse number. Verse 10 again, for it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, and bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captive their salvation perfect through suffering. Look at verse eleven, for both he that sanctifieth, and they who are sanctified are all are all of one. Now we could say it like this. For he that sanctifieth, or the one who saves, and the one who are who ones who are sanctified, the ones who are saved, they're all one. There's that oneness that we have. When we are saved, we are adopted into the family of God, and there is this oneness that we have with Jesus Christ. Now you've heard me talk about this union with Christ before. I think it's one of the great doctrines in the New Testament, this beautiful oneness. We are one. The one who's sanctified, and we who are sanctified, the Bible says we are all of one. That's an incredible thing that we are identified with the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, and Paul uses this in many of his letters to argue why Christians should not live in sin. How can we who are dead to sin continue therein? And we've been baptized into Jesus. Again, the same idea there, that oneness. That's why we walk a practical a holy life because we are one with Christ. Um and so, you know, that's just an incredible truth there, that we're one with the Lord Jesus. And uh whatever we go through, he's he's he goes through with us. He's our brother. We're one with him. You know, growing up with a family with four brothers You probably heard this, you've said it before in the family. You know, you mess with one brother, you mess with all of us. You know, you you have to deal with one brother, you've got to deal with all of us. Because we're all one. You know, we're all the you know in the same family And in a spiritual way, that's what Jesus says. Whatever you go through, I'm going through with you. Whatever trial. You remember the proverb that says, a friend loves at all times. It's good to have a friend who loves you at all times. The only thing better than that is a brother. You know, a friend loveth at all times, but the Bible says a brother is born for adversity. When you're going through adversity, that's when you need a brother. And that's who Jesus is to us. He is our elder brother. And so there's the oneness that we have with Jesus, our elder brother. He came that he might have that relationship with us. But also, here's another incredible thought in verse 11. Look at the rest of verse 11. For which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren. Here's Jesus, and guess what? He is not ashamed to call me his little brother, we could say, or not ashamed to call us brethren. Now I've met some Christians that are ashamed of Jesus, but Jesus here has never been ashamed of you. He's not ashamed to call you his brother or his family member. And so he, in fact, he's so proud of his relationship with you and me. Look at verse 12. saying, continuing the same thought, he's not ashamed to call us brethren, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren. In the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. And this verse here, verse 12, is another quote from another Psalm. This is Psalm 22. It's a picture of Jesus calling believers his brothers in the Old Testament. Again, that's another beautiful messianic verse. That the writer of Hebrews refers to under inspiration of the Holy Spirit to talk about Jesus and our relationship to Jesus. And he says, I'm not ashamed to call you my brother. I will declare your name, Jesus says. How many of you are ashamed to declare Jesus' name? Don't raise your hand. We should never be ashamed to declare the name of Jesus. He certainly not is ashamed to declare us. And that's what he says in verse 12, saying, I will declare thy name unto my brother. In the midst of the church will I sing praise. uh unto thee. So he's calling his brothers, believers his brothers in the Old Testament. And what this is a picture of is Jesus is pictured in post-resurrection joy with his brothers. And uh again, this is just an incredible thing where Jesus says also, and in the midst of the church will I sing, praise unto thee, who's that? That's God the Father. So with his brothers and sisters, he will in the church sing praise unto the Father. Think about that. How well did you sing tonight? Jesus was here singing with us, singing praise unto the Father. That's what he says. In the midst of the church, I will sing praise unto thee. So we see this incredible oneness that we have with the Lord Jesus. We see the openness that Jesus has with us. He will declare our name. But also what we learn from his obedience. Look at verse thirteen. And again I will put my trust in him, and again, behold, I and the children which God hath given me What's the idea here? And again, this is another quote that the writer of Hebrews is giving from the Old Testament. It is Isaiah 8, verses 17 and 18. And here in this verse, Jesus admits that he lives by faith. Just like his brothers, when Jesus was in this world, he learned the obedience of faith. and became a perfect savior. He walked by faith as an example to the rest of us of walking by faith. He was submitted completely to the Father that he might be an example to the rest of us to be completely submitted to the Father. His life of obedience, it was an example to all of us that we should follow our elder brother in obedience It's a tremendous thing to realize that when we're called to walk by faith and to submit to God and to live in dependence on God, we can follow the path that Jesus walked because that's exactly how he lived. You know, uh just uh about a month ago I had my two grandsons, actually three grandsons, but Theo and Owen are closer together, little Levi, still six months old, but It it's just funny to watch those two interact together. And you know, when Theo would say something, two seconds later, Owen would say the same thing. Dia would do something, two seconds later, there's Owen doing the same thing. Just following the path of his big brother. You know. And that's the idea here. Jesus is our example. And when he does something, we should do it too. When he acts a certain way, that's that we should act the same way. He is our elder brother, and he teaches us obedience. That's the whole idea there. So Jesus came to be our elder brother. But here's number four. To defeat the devil. He came to defeat the devil. Look at verse 14. For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part in the same that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil The moment Adam sinned in the Garden of Eden, man became Satan's prisoner. And Satan chained mankind and placed them in shackles. In verse 13, the word for bondage is slavery. Man became slaves in bondage to Satan. And so um so basically the bondage that we're in is because Satan has wrapped us into that ch the chains there. um of bondage. Notice in verse 15. And and delivered them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Actually I should have said the word bondage is in verse 15, not verse 13. Sorry about that. Verse 15 says that we're slaves, and what is the chain that Satan uses to keep us in bondage? It's the fear of death. The fear of death is what keeps man in bondage to the devil. And so what God did, God had to take away from the devil that power of death. And Jesus accomplished that. How? By simply dying on the cross and then resurrecting and showing us that now He has power over death. And all those who trust in the Lord Jesus now, you have victory over death through the death of Jesus Christ. In the death of Christ was the death of death. And death came was conquered. And now that you are uh his brother, now that you are in the family of God and you put your faith in him, now he has given you victory over death. So it's something we don't have to be afraid of anymore As believers, we don't we shouldn't fear death. Now we might fear how death comes about. There are certain things and mysteries about how it will happen, but when you get right down to it, we don't we're not afraid of what's on the other side of the Jordan River of crossing the chilly waters of Jordan. We know that for the believer on the other side, that death is nothing but the the really the believer's greatest day. It's going to deliver us into the presence of Jesus Christ. Which is why we don't fear death because what Christ did. And notice ver verse fourteen where it says that um that he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil. The word destroy there simply means rendered him ineffective. Satan has been rendered ineffective. It doesn't mean to annihilate. It just means that he no longer has power. He no longer has authority. Satan wasn't annihilated. Satan is still around, beloved. He's still out there doing his work. But if you're a believer in Jesus Christ, he has no authority over your life. None. And he's ineffective unless you let him be. Whatever authority Satan has over you, it's because you've given it to him. But as a believer, you have authority over him. You don't need to let him have any victory in your life. He has no claim on your life. You belong to Jesus. And so we don't have to fear Satan. We don't have to fear his weapons because God has given us that victory and destroyed the devil. Here's the last thing. Jesus became a man. God became a man to restore man's lost dominion, to die for every man, to be our elder brother, to defeat the devil. But here's number five. To be a sympathetic high priest. Look at verse 16. For verily he took not on him the nature of angels, but he took on him the seed of Abraham. Verse 17, wherefore In all things it behooved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. So again, the emphasis is there. Jesus did not become an angel. He didn't have a celestial body of an angel. He was of the seed of Abraham. He was a Jew. Why did he come as a man? He wanted to be like us in every respect, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest. The word merciful, compassionate, sympathetic. faithful, means reliable, trustworthy. He wanted to feel everything that we've ever felt. He came not only to save us, And to sanctify us, but also to sympathize with us. In his lifetime on earth, he experienced everything that you and I would ever experience. Remember um Paul wrote to Timothy, Timothy was having a lot of problems. And at one point Paul said, Timothy, stir up the gift of God which is in you. Fan the flame a little bit, Timothy. He was also bothered by heretics. And those that were criticizing him because he was so young. Remember what Paul said, Timothy, let no man despise your youth. Timothy was feeling defeated, and he may have even had an ulcer. Paul said, Take a little wine for your stomach's sake. Take a little medication there to help you out, you know, for your stomach's sake. He had a whole lot of problems, and finally Paul said this. He said, Timothy, remember Jesus Christ. Who was of the seed of David? What was he saying? Timothy, remember that when Jesus came to this earth, he came as the seed of David. He was a man. And everything that you're going through, he knows how you feel He can sympathize with you. He understands what you're going through. He was a man. And when you go to prayer, you can get on your knees and confidently say, Lord, I know that you know how I feel. I know that you sympathize with me. I know that you understand what I am going through. Even temptation, what does the Bible say? Jesus was tempted in all points like us, yet without sin. What does it mean when it says he was tempted in all points? We could say it like this: Jesus felt the full measure of temptation. In fact, I would say that Jesus, no one was ever tempted to the degree that Jesus was. You say, why is that? Well, because he never yielded to temptation. You see, when we are tempted, a lot of times we'll go two-thirds or three-quarters of the way through a temptation and we might capitulate, we might yield. So we never really felt the full weight of that temptation. But Jesus, since he never sinned, felt the full measure of every temptation he ever faced. And yet he did not sin. He understands what it is to go through those things. He understands the weakness of our flesh He was hungry, thirsty, he was overcome with fatigue. He slept, he was taught, he grew, he loved, he was astonished. He marveled, he was glad, he was angry, he was grieved, he read scripture, he prayed all night at sometimes. He sighed in his heart when he saw the grief of other people. He tears fell from his eyes when his heart ached for others. Again, he felt temptation to its extreme. And all the things that we experience, he experienced. And that's why he became a man. Why? So he can come to the aid. Look at verse 18 when we finish here. For in that he himself has suffered, being tempted. He is able to succor them that are tempted. That's an old English word that just simply means come to the aid of. He is able to run to the aid of them that are tempted. So when we go through trials and temptations, Jesus runs to us. He is there for us so that we don't go through that alone. God is not indifferent to us. Whatever hurt that you feel, God is not indifferent to that hurt. He is there going through that with you. He is feeling that with you. That's why he became a man, so that he could run to us, so that he could sympathize with us, so that he could be with us in those difficult trials. So where would we be without Jesus? He's our King. He restored our lost dominion. One day we're going to have that fully restored. He's our Savior who died for our sins. He's our brother who became one with us. He's not ashamed of us. He teaches us obedience. He's our conqueror. He defeated Satan on our behalf. We don't have to be afraid of Satan and any of his wells because Jesus conquered Satan. He's our sympathizer. He came to be a merciful, faithful high priest. And beloved, that's why we celebrate Christmas. That's why we celebrate the coming of Christ. The Son of God became a Son of Man, so that sons of man can become sons of God. And that's the answer to the question in Psalm 8: What is man that thou art mindful of him? And the Son of Man that thou visitest him And this is the reason Jesus came. And this is why, even though he became lower than angels, he is in no way inferior to the angels because of the reasons why he became a man. Let's bow for prayer. And Lord again, we just thank you that this time of year our minds are focused on the wondrous tr mystery of the incarnation. We'll never fully be able to comprehend how all of this happened. This is the greatest miracle that the world has ever seen. And and and you did all of this, Father. Because you loved us. Because you wanted to help humanity. Man that is the crown of your creation. Man that you love so dearly. To give back that dominion that was stolen, to taste death for every man, to be our elder brother, to have that we could have an elder brother, someone to look to. That would be our conqueror, who would conquer Satan on our behalf and sympathize with us in all the trials that we endure. Thank you, Lord, for this. May we never take it lightly. May we never lose Focus on what Christmas is all about. May we never be distracted by the things of this world that we um we miss the transcendent beauty of the incarnation. And Lord, may this draw us into wonder, love, and praise for who you are. And Lord, we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. Amen. All right, brother.