So would you take your Bibles tonight? Open please to the book of 1 Samuel, chapter 19. And as you know, on Wednesday night we're we're just studying the life of David. And it's good for us to study the lives of these Old Testament characters because we learn principles for our own life from these people that are written in Scripture. We learn from their victories, we learn from their defeats, we learn from their mistakes. We learn from their successes. And tonight we're going to look at 1 Samuel chapter 19. And the title of my sermon tonight is The Madness of King Saul. You know, I'm a history guy and I like to read about characters in history. And not too long ago I read about a king named King George III. He was one of England's longest reigning monarchs. He reigned 59 years. A little bit of trivia, did you know that he was the king under which the American Revolution took place? And so he's kind of known as the king who lost America. But also he's called in England the Mad King. Or they call him Mad King George. Now why did they call him that? They call him that because one of the things that w was remembered most about him was that he suffered bouts of deranged behavior. He just was would go mad at times. And for example, I was reading where that there were times when his mental state was frightening Uh he would talk so quickly that he would begin to foam at the mouth. Well you may be used to that here, right? I talk too quick sometimes. Just kidding. Uh laugh when I think it's funny, all right. Thank you for the courtesy laugh, all right? Y'all get with it now. Um he would go through violent phases, sometimes uh directed at his own family There were times when he thought he was already dead, and he would have conversations with relatives that had passed away a long time ago. And sometimes he would have a conversation with himself. And he was speaking to third person. One time he was heard saying, I have to have a new suit of clothes. I will make them black in memory of George III. He was such a good man. And so he had these strange delusions Sometimes they found him walking around and he would just wander aimlessly from room to room and he would unbutton his clothes. and uh sometimes take them off. It got so bad that he was restrained in a straitjacket and uh they gagged him when he said things that were foul He died angry, he died bitter and mad. And historians are still debating what was the problem. They have certain diseases they think was perhaps the cause of this Others say he was poisoned with arsenic. Some say he was just crazy. Period. Well, when I read that story, I thought of King Saul in the Bible. Because if you read about Saul in the Bible, you're going to find that there are some of the same things going on here with King Saul. There's some bizarre behavior that we're going to read about here with Saul in 1 Samuel chapter 18. But unlike the case with Mad King George, we know the reason for Saul's madness You say, what is it? Well it was due his depression and his his uh bouts with anger Was due to the fact that he was not obeying God in his life. And we could even go beyond that and say that he felt like that he could overrule God's purpose and plan. He felt like he could fight against God and win. In fact, that would to me be the definition of madness Madness is thinking you can overrule God's purpose and plan and replace it with your own purpose and plan. I think Saul actually thought that he could do that. But let me just tell you tonight, ladies and gentlemen, you can't fight against the sovereign God and win. Saul thought he could. In fact, there are some kings today that think they can. Just write down Psalm 2. The kings of the earth set themselves against the Lord and against his anointed say let us break their bands asunder did you know that there are Kings today, people in high positions that think they can do whatever they want, they can break the bonds of whatever God wants and do what they want. What's God's response to that? The Bible says, He that sitteth in the heaven shall what shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision. Man does not have the power to overrule the purpose and plan of God. And the Bible is very clear about that. Write down a few verses tonight if you're taking notes. Write down Isaiah 46, verse number 9 and 10, the Bible says, For I am God, there is none else. And it goes on saying, saying, my counsel shall stand, I will do all my pleasure. Isaiah 43 verse 13 Where God says, I am He and there is none who can deliver from my hand. I work and who can turn it back? God says to people today, look, I work and when I do my work, who is the one who thinks he can turn back the work? That I am doing. But yet there are people that think they can make their own plans and they can overrule the plan of God. Let me tell you, that's a prescription for bitterness and frustration and resent in your life when you think you can overrule the plan of God. It will lead to depression. Instead of humbly submitting to God's purpose and plan, you think you're in control and you can do your own thing and you can fight against it. And you know what might happen to some people who do that? They might go mad like King Saul did here in the Bible. Now, I don't know your heart tonight, beloved. I don't know my own heart a lot of times. I have to submit to God to find out what's in my own heart at times But there may be some people here tonight who are stubbornly resisting God's purpose and plan in your life. You're going your own way instead of submitting to God's way. And it may be that you're going through bouts of depression Bouts of anger. You live in resentment and frustration because it seems like every plan that you put together crumbles to nothingness. Nothing works out the way you want it. But in your heart of hearts, you know that God has a purpose and plan for you, and yet you may be resisting that plan. You may be wanting to do your own thing. And instead of submitting to God in your heart, you're fighting against God. Now, friend, that's what's happening here. And 1 Samuel 19 with King Saul. Let me give you a little background. Remember, Saul was rejected as the king of Israel. Now David is anointed as the as the new king. Somewhere along the line it began to dawn on King Saul that David would be the new king. Saul wasn't there when David was anointed. You remember they were trying to keep that a secret. But Saul was not stupid He knew that God had rejected him, and he knew that his kingdom was going to be given to another man, a man who would be a man after God's own heart. And then suddenly who appears on the scene? This young man by the name of David He kills a giant. He's a great warrior. He's skillful with a heart. He is loved by the people of Israel. Women are singing his praises. In fact, they're singing songs that elevates him above Saul in the minds of the people, and he's a natural leader. And the straw that breaks the camel's back in Saul's mind is that the Lord is with him. Saul sees that. Saul sees that the Lord is with David. And in his heart, he knows that David is going to be the next king. However, Saul doesn't like that. He doesn't agree with that. He doesn't like God's purpose and plan. And so you know what he tries to do? He tries to take matters into his own hand. And what is his plan now? It's very simple. His plan becomes one thing, kill David. Because if if Saul's thinking, if I can just get rid of David. Then I can hold on to my own kingdom, I can do my own thing. So it's a very simple thing. I just have to kill David. He wasn't concerned about God's will. He wasn't concerned about God's kingdom He wasn't concerned about any of that. He was concerned about his own kingdom, and he thought that he could fight against God, and he thought that he could win. But God will always uphold his purpose You can't fight against God. Now what I want you to see here in chapter 19 are four means that God uses to uphold his purposes. And really that's what I learned when I read 1 Samuel chapter 18. Here's the first thing. Number one, God uses godly counsel to uphold his purpose. Look at verse 1. And Saul spake to Jonathan his son and to all his servants that they should kill David. There's his one goal now, just kill David. So he tells Jonathan and the servants, let's just kill David. If David's out of the way, then I can have my throne. And I think he talks to Jonathan, thinking Jonathan would be on board with this because who's Jonathan? Jonathan is the royal prince. He's next in line to be on the throne. And so here's Saul trying to take control of the situation. We'll just kill David. We'll get David out of the way. But you know what? Notice how God overrules. Look in verse 2. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David. There's a problem here. See what's the problem? Jonathan is not on board Saul might want David dead, but not Jonathan. And Saul just assumes that Jonathan is as corrupt as he was, but not so. Jonathan is submissive to God's will. In fact, you remember in chapter 18, he took off his royal robe and he gave it to David. That was an act of submission. knowing that David was God's anointed king. And it says in verse 2, Jonathan had great delight in David's. Saul might think he's in control, but he can't even control his own son Jonathan. And so what happens is Jonathan is going to give David counsel. Look in verse 2. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David, and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeks to kill thee. Now therefore I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself. First of all, Jonathan gives counsel to David Jonathan comes and he warns him, my father wants to kill you. So hide. And stay in this secret place. And I'm going to go and I'm going to speak to my father on your behalf. And intercede for you. Now, we have to admire Jonathan here. And there's a sense in which he becomes really to us a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because do you know who's interceding for you and me right now? It's the Lord Jesus. He's interceding to the Father. And so Jonathan here kind of reminds us of Jesus and his actions here. So Jonathan counsels David, David, here's a warning that Saul wants to kill you. Hi here. Let me intercede on your behalf And then he counsels Saul. Look in verse number four. And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul's father. And said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David, because he has not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee were very good. For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine. And the Lord brought a great salvation for all Israel, and thou sawest it and didst rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without cause? So Jonathan, like a lawyer. argues David's case to his father Saul. He uses several convincing arguments as we can see here. Look at David's works. He's always done you good He says, you know, he risked his life to kill the giant Goliath and it was a great victory, and even you saw that And then he says, are you going to kill an innocent person? Will you really shed innocent blood? That would be a serious sin. And so Jonathan is so persuasive Look in verse 6. And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan, and Saul sore, as the Lord liveth, he shall not be slain. So what does God use here to overcome Saul's plan? First of all, he uses godly counsel. Now, again, let's apply this to our life. Did you know there are times that God might use good counsel? from people that God puts in your path to help you stay in uh and into God's way and purpose for your life? He can use people around you. I can recall in my own life when I may have been uh determined to do a certain thing, and all of a sudden God put a person in my life for a certain time that gave me counsel And it kept me from making a decision that as I look back on now that would have been a wrong decision. Where did that person come from? You know, God will put Jonathan's in your path to overrule sometimes the plans that you may have to establish his purpose in your life. Aren't you glad for good counsel that God might give through godly people? That's what we see here in this story. Now, if you stubbornly resist that counsel, you do so at your own pearl. But here, Saul is persuaded and he makes a vow. He said, as the Lord lives, he swears an oath, I'm not going to kill David. Well, we're going to find out that doesn't last very long because Saul's going to change his mind. However, at this point in time, God used godly counsel to uphold his purpose. Number two, here's the second thing. God uses human error. to uphold his purpose. Look down in verse number seven. And Jonathan called David and uh and Jonathan showed him all those things and Jonathan brought David to Saul. And he was in his presence as in times past. And so at first everything's good. Jonathan brings David back. He's in the court again. And everything is as it was before. David is playing his harp. He's helping out Saul. Everything is wonderful. And then war breaks out. Look in verse 8. And there was war again, and David went out and he fought with the Philistines and slew them with a great slaughter, and they fled from him. This all sounds very familiar, isn't it? History is repeating itself Just like with Goliath, David has a great victory over the Philistines. They fled in battle, just like with Goliath. So it's the same thing again. David's a mighty warrior. David has great victory. I imagine those women are still singing that same song that Saul hated. Saul has slain a thousand, David has ten thousands. But notice how things change in verse 9. And the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul. And he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand, and David played with his hand. You know what's interesting in verse 9? is the contrast between Saul's hand and David's hand. I think it's purposeful. Saul has in his hand a javelin. David is playing with his hand. He's playing music with his hand. And so there's a purposeful comparison, again, between the good that David is doing with his hand. and the evil that Saul is doing with his hand. And remember the writer has been comparing the two to show the worthiness of David. And the fact that Saul is, has been rejected. The Spirit of the Lord is upon David. An evil spirit is upon Saul. David had courage to face Goliath. Saul didn't have that courage to face the life. Now here, David is using his hand to do good towards Saul. Saul is using his hand. to do evil towards David. It fits within the overall theme of the unfitness of Saul to be the king. But look down while he's playing the harp. In verse 10, and Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with a javelin, but he slipped away out of Saul's presence. And he smote the javelin into the wall, and David fled and escaped that night. You know what? That's the third time. that David had to dodge a javelin thrown at him. Now here's the question I ask myself. How could Saul miss again? This is the third time. Now, the court where David played wasn't a very big room. I mean it was a relatively small room. Saul is a seasoned soldier. He knows how to throw a javelin. In fact, this may have been, every time we look at Saul, it seems like he has a javelin in his hand here. This might have been his preferred weapon. Every warrior had the weapon that they would like. David, his preferred weapon was a slang. For Saul, his preferred weapon was the javelin. I imagine that Saul was perhaps very good with this javelin since he had it with him all the time. I imagine he practiced, he may have even practiced having David in mind Now I missed two times before. I'm going to get on this next time. Next opportunity I'm not going to miss. How could he miss David again. You say, well, maybe he wasn't trying to kill him. Maybe he was just trying to wing him. No. He was trying to pin him against the wall. He was trying to kill him. The Bible makes it very clear he's trying to kill David. Let me tell you why he missed David, because it was not God's will for David to be killed. That's why. It doesn't matter how much Saul practiced. It doesn't matter how skillful he is with his javelin. He's not going to hit David. You know why? Because it's not God's will for David to die. That's it. You know, think about this with me. Let's just say, let's just suppose for a minute that Saul was able to kill David. Let's just suppose that he throws the javelin, he hits David through the heart, he pins him against the wall, David dies You say, what's at stake there? What happens now? Well, now if David dies, that means God's whole plan of redemption is now done That means that if David dies, there's no son of David, there's no Messiah, the whole plan of redemption that God has put together from the very foundation of the world All of that is over with. All of God's promises that he gave in the Old Testament have failed. And guess what, friends? We're all going to hell tonight. If there's no David, there's no Messiah. If there's no Messiah, there's no salvation, and we're not going to heaven. I don't know about you, but I'm glad he missed. But you know what? God was not going to let Saul hit David with that spear. Doesn't matter again how much Saul practiced because it wasn't God's purpose. Now here's the application for you tonight. Any endeavor that you attempt where God is not in it, you're going to fail Anything that you try to do that's not according to the purpose and plan of God for your life, you are not going to be successful at it. You will fail. It may be human error. You say, well, I'm going to practice hard. Practice all you want to. Get very skillful with what you're trying to do. And put together a really good plan. But I'm here to tell you that if it's not God's purpose, you're not going to succeed. And there are some people that may be running from God, they're doing your own thing And you have all these grandiose plans of things that you want to happen, all these successes that you can see in the future, but the only problem is it's not according to what God wants. And you are setting yourself up for frustration and for failure if it's not what the Lord wants. You remember Peter in the New Testament? Peter had just denied the Lord and Peter said, you know what, I'm going fishing And that's present tense. I'm going back into the fishing business, guys. I'm messed up. I'm not going to be able to do this. And you remember what happened? He went out and the Bible says he toiled all night long And how many fish did he get? None. You know why? Because it wasn't God's will for Peter to go back into the fishing business. God rerouted all the fish in the Sea of Galilee that night. And Peter couldn't catch any fish because it wasn't according to God's purpose and it wasn't according to God's plan and he failed. And the same will be true of you. God will use human error to uphold his purpose. I was reading about the story of one of the great Baptist preachers of the past Charles Spurgeon. Did you know he never went to college? And yet we call him the Prince of Preachers today. But he never went to college, not one day. You know why? He was encouraged by his grandfather and his father to go to college, and he enrolled in college. He was going to go. He was set up it was an interview was set up with the president of Regents Park College And he was to meet him at a house, a certain house called the Macmillan House, and the servant girl let Spurge in one room, and when the president came, she let the president in another, and she never told the other where they were So for two hours they were each waiting in a different room, and after two hours the president left and thought Spurgeon missed his appointment. And Spurgeon thought that was a providence of God. God doesn't want me to go to college. And he did not reapply. And at that time he was 19 years old. And you know what happened next? At the age of 19, he was called to pastor of the New Park Baptist Church, which later became the Metropolitan Tabernacle. That was the church where he preached all his life and had great ministry success. You see, it was not God's purpose for Spurgeon to go to college. And God used that human error To uphold his purpose. God has something different in mind. You see, there are times when God will use human error to uphold his purposes. Throw the javelin if you want to, but you're not going to hit it if God is not in on it. Let me give you the third thing. God uses godly counsel to uphold his purposes. God uses human error to uphold his purposes. But here's the third thing. God uses ungodly people To uphold his purposes. Look down at verse number 11. Saul also sent messengers under David's house. Now David escapes from the javelin episode. He runs to his house. Saul sends messengers, verse 11, under David's house to watch him. And to slay him in the morning with Michael David's wife told him, and Michael David's wife, excuse me, told him, saying, If thou saved not thy life Tonight, tomorrow thou shalt be slain. So here's Saul, he he doesn't give up. He sends messengers to the house of David to watch his house, and when David is to leave the house in the morning. Saul's plan is he's going to kill David there. Now Michael is Saul's daughter, and she knows this plan. Perhaps her father told her about it And he's expecting her to help him out here. Remember, that's one of the reasons why Saul let Michael marry David. Why? Because the Bible says in chapter 18, verse 21, that maybe she can be a snare to him. I can use her to get to David. And so he tells her about this plan, but you know what Michael does? She is going to save David's life. She's going to help him to escape. You see, Saul wanted to use Michael to kill David. God is going to use Michael to deliver David. And so this is exactly what happens. She helps him to escape in verse 12. So Michael let David down through a window, and he went and fled and escaped. Now, some things about Michael here. She's not really a godly woman. You say, how do you know that? Well, look down in verse number. 13. And Michael took an image and laid it in the his the bed and put a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster and covered it with a cloth. So she takes an image, this is a life-size image, and she lays it in the bed, making obviously the messengers think that this was David. By the way, look at the word image there. That is the word, the Hebrew word teraphim. This is the word used to talk about an idol. And this is what it was. It was an idol. This is the same word used in Genesis 31. 19 to speak of Laban's household. And so this was a life-size statue, an idol that was in her house What's an idol doing in her house? Micah was an idolater. She's not a true follower of the Lord. And so she uses this. She places the the goat's hair and you know makes it look like David. And so we see that she's an idolater, but also she's kind of a deceiver. Look at verse 14. And then when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, he's sick And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, and I that I may slay him. And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed with a pillow of goat's hair for his bolster. And Saul said unto Michael, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he has escaped? And Michael answered Saul. He said unto me, Let me go, why should I kill thee? So she deceives the messengers. She deceives her father Saul. And then she lies to her father because Saul says, Why did you deceive me? She said, Oh, David said that if I didn't help him, he was going to kill me. Evidently she doesn't care very much about the reputation of David. And Saul's okay with this because now he has an excuse to kill David, because if you threaten one of the king's royal family, you can be executed lawfully. So this is a handy excuse now for Saul. But here's the point I want you to see. Micah wasn't some godly woman. She wasn't even a follower of the Lord. She was an idolater. She had no problem deceiving. She had no problem lying to her father about her husband. So she's not the kind of person that you would say, boy, here's a person that's a great person of virtue, an example. No, she's basically an idolatry, an ungodly woman. And so here's the point that I want you to see. Sometimes God will use ungodly people to uphold his purpose. She helped David to escape. If it weren't for her, David would have been killed. And so God used her. To uphold his purpose. Someone's saying, now wait a minute, does God really use ungodly people that way? Let me tell you something, friend. All God has to work with is sinners. One one person said that, you know, God can make straight licks with crooked sticks. It's not too hard for God. But then someone might say, Well now wait a minute. What she did was a sin. Does God use sin, at times, an evil to uphold his purpose? And the answer to that, of course, is yes, he does. Now, let me just be very clear here. God never sins, and God hates sin. And he's not the originator of sin. He's not the author of sin, but God will use sin and evil to uphold his own Purposes. You say, well, I wrestle with that. Well, you're not alone. Habakkuk in the Old Testament wrestled with that. When Habakkuk said, God, how can you use an evil people to punish Israel? These people are more evil than Israel How can you use the sinful evil people of Babylon to punish Israel? And ultimately Habakkuk had to accept by faith that God knows what he is doing. Did you remember what Joseph said? Let me ask you a question. Joseph's brothers, did they sin against Joseph? Yes, they did. But later Joseph would say, you meant it as evil against me, but God meant it for what? He meant it for good. And then let me ask you another question. What is the most horrible sin that has ever been committed? Let me tell you what it is. It is the crucifixion of the Son of God, the innocent, pure Son of God, Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question. Did they sin when they treated Jesus the way they treated him? Absolutely. They Crucified an innocent man. That's the worst sin ever committed. But the worst sin ever committed was used by God to bring the greatest blessing that this world has ever known: our salvation God uses sin and evil at times to accomplish his purpose. Listen to what Peter said, talking about Jesus. He said him, Jesus, being delivered by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God, that is this Jesus. This was foreordained by God in eternity past that he would be crucified and die. Yet he says, ye have taken him by wicked hands. Crucified and slain. That is, you're responsible for what you did to Jesus. You'll be judged for that. And yet, what they did to Jesus was determined in eternity past by the foreknowledge of Almighty God. All these things had to happen in order for God to uphold his purpose. And so it may be that there may be someone not treating you exactly right tonight. I'm just saying this. The Bible says all things work together for good God will use ungodly people to uphold his purpose. Let me give you the last thing. God uses godly counsel, he uses human error He uses ungodly people all to uphold his purpose. But here's the fourth thing. God will use his irresistible power and grace to uphold his purpose. Now look down in chapter 19. Look at verse number 18 So David fled and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him, and he said, Samuel went and dwelt in Naoth. And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naoth and Ramah. And Saul sent messengers to take David. And when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, And Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied. And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time. And they prophesied also. Now there's something very interesting happening here in this story. Saul is still determined to kill David. He hasn't given up. And so he sends, he hears that David went to Ramah, and there's a place there at Ramah called Naoth And he's there, and so Saul sends messengers down there to get David. But the reason they don't kill David is because God overwhelmed them with his irresistible power and grace. Now, what does irresistible grace mean? You know, I think that's a term that is really misunderstood For example, some people when they when you talk about irresistible grace, they think this. This is what they think it means. They think it means that you can't resist God. That man doesn't resist God. That's not what that means Men resist God all the time. In fact, that's our first response sometimes. When God starts to convict us, when He brought us to salvation, the first thing He would do is convict us. And perhaps our response was to resist that. And so it doesn't mean that you can't resist God or that man doesn't resist God. Man resists God all the time. We see that in the Bible. So what does irresistible grace mean? It means that there are times when God chooses To overcome all of man's resistance. He doesn't do it all the time. There are times, however, when God says, I'm going to overcome all of your resistance and do what I want to do because I have a purpose. And a plan. Now let me ask you a question: are there illustrations in the Bible where God will overcome a person's resistance to accomplish his purpose? And the answer to that is yes. You ever hear of a guy by the name of Jonah? What did Jonah say to God? God, I'm going to Tarsus. God said, no, Jonah, you're going to Nineveh. Jonah said, no, God, I'm going to Tarshish. God said, no, Jonah, you're going to Nineveh. You're either going to go there by boat or submarine, but you're going. You're going to Nineveh. You ever hear of a man in the New Testament named Saul of Tarsus? He was out persecuting Christians. And on the road to Damascus he wasn't going to a revival meeting on that road. He was going to persecute Christians. And Jesus met up with him and and Jesus said, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for you to kick against the pricks. What's a prick? A stick used to prod a goat on, or a goat, or excuse me, an ox on. It was also called a goad. And it was talking about conviction there. Jesus was saying, how come you're resisting the work that I'm doing. How come you're resisting my conviction? But Jesus overcame all of the resistance that Saul had because Saul had been selected for a special purpose later on in that chapter. The Bible says he has chosen to bear my name unto the Gentiles. God had a purpose for him, and so therefore God overcame all of his resistance. to accomplish his purpose. Now, here is another story in the Bible of God overcoming man's resistance. to accomplish his purpose. Here are these messengers that Saul sends down to Ramoth. They're not just messengers, you know what they are, they're assassins. And what is their task? They're going to kill David. That's why Saul's sending him. But it's not God's will for David to die. But here are these men and they're determined to get there and do what Saul says and kill David. By the way, the word Naoth here is a word that means a dwelling place. And so at Ramah, here's Samuel dwelling there. And there were other dwelling places there. And there were other prophets that were there we saw here in the Bible. So you know what I think this is? This is a this is a school of the prophets. That's what Naoth means. And these dwelling places, these are dormitories or places for them to dwell. Samuel is the president of Ramuth Bible College here. And here are all these prophets studying. And these messengers are on their way down, and they're going to kill David, but something happens to them on the way down there. You know what happens? The Spirit of God overcomes them. And these assassins, you know what they begin to do? They begin to prophesy. Now the word prophesy here The Old Testament uses in a lot of ways, but here the context means they began to speak the word of God. You know, they remind us here of Balaam's donkey. They just begin to speak the Word of God. God so overwhelms them. And now they're not there to kill David anymore because they're so overwhelmed by the Spirit of God. Now Saul hears about it. What does he do in verse number 21? And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers Here's group number two. These assassins come and they're determined to kill David. But you know what happens to them? The same thing? So they're overcome by God's power. And they begin to prophesy, and then Saul sends again the third time. Here's group number three. The enrollment at Rayma Bible College is increasing a lot here. Because with each group descent, the Spirit of God overwhelms them. And they end up prophesying instead of killing David. They're speaking the word of God. And so finally Saul says, if you want anything done right, you've got to do it yourself. So I'll just go myself. Look at verse 22. Then went he also to Ramah and came to a great well. He comes to this big cistern there. He asks the people there, where can I find David and Samuel, where where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold they be at Naoth and Ramah. Verse 23. And he went thither to Naoth and Ramah, and the Spirit of God was upon him also. So it happens to Saul. He begins to go to Rhema. As he heads towards Rhema, you know what happens? The Holy Spirit of God overwhelms him too. Why is he going down there to kill David? But you're not going to kill David because it's not God's will. God's not going to let that happen. And so here he begins to prophesy. You know what's ironic is he this is the man who rejected the word of the Lord. Now he's speaking the very word that he rejected ironically. You know what that's God is saying there? You're not the one in control, I am And I'm going to do what I want to do. I'm going to accomplish my purpose. You're not going to accomplish yours. And I'll make you do things that you never thought you would do. And here's Saul prophesying under the irresistible power of God. And now he's going to do something that's very bizarre. Look down in verse number 24, he's prophesying, but look at before Samuel in verse 24, and he stripped off his clothes also And prophesied before Samuel, in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all night. Wow, what's going on here? The Spirit of God so overwhelms him that he strips off his clothing. And the Bible says he lays down naked. Now, when we see the word naked here, this is not talking about completely naked without any clothing. In the Old Testament, a person who took off their outer garment and took off their shoes were called naked in the Old Testament. So he's not completely naked. For example, Isaiah was naked simply by removing his mantle, the Bible says At the same time spake the Lord by Isaiah, son of Ameth, saying, Go and loose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoes from thy foot. And he did so walking naked. And so here he's called naked by just taking off the outer garment, taking off his shoes. This is exactly what is happening here with Saul. He's not completely naked, but he takes, he strips off his outer garment. What is that garment? It is his royal robe. And what is that royal robe a symbol of? It is a symbol of the fact that he's the king. But under the irresistible power of God, the Spirit coming upon him And Saul prophesying, words coming out of his mouth, controlled by the power of God. Now, under the power of the Holy Spirit, Saul does something that he never thought he would do. In front of all these people, in front of Samuel, in front of the prophets, in front of all those messengers, in front of David, in front of the people of Ramah. He takes off his royal robe and then he lays down, humiliated. The Bible says all day and all night. Why? This was God saying to Saul, you don't want to submit to me, you don't want to accept my will. I'm going to make you. You're not the one in control. You're no longer king. And Jonathan, he willingly took off his royal garments. Saul, he didn't do it willingly, but God made him. He took off that royal robe because God said you're going to do it, and he laid down there, humiliated, stripped of his clothing before everyone By the way, did you ever notice in 1 Samuel how the writer Samuel seems to focus on clothing as to what God is doing? You remember in 1 Samuel 15 when Samuel said, you know, God's rejected you, and then he walked away, and Saul reached out and grabbed his his mantle and then it ripped. And you know what Samuel said to Saul at that moment? He said, the Lord has ripped the kingdom from you. And then later on in 1 Samuel 17, Saul offers David his armor. And eventually David says, No, I I don't need your armor. Message is I don't need your help to defeat the giant. And now here in 1 Samuel 19, he rips off the royal robes that are stripped off of him by the Spirit of God. And later on, David When Saul is still hunting him, will cut off a part of Saul's robe, a little tassel that probably had the royal insignia on it. Signifying by David saying, this is now belongs to me. All of this speaks of the fact that God has rejected Saul That he's no longer king. And so now he's humiliated. Now he's defeated, lain, humiliated before all these And then because of this there was a proverb. Look at the end of verse 24. Wherefore they say, is Saul also among the prophets? That is This is a derisive proverb that is being used by the people in that day as a result of this whole event. In other words, this thing became so well known, so famous. That people would refer to it by using this derisive proverb, is Saul among the prophets? They would use it kind of in a sarcastic way back then. For example, we we do that today, you know. We say, well, so-and-so said they're going to do something, and someone might say, Yeah, when pigs fly. And and that's kind of a little, I don't know if it could qualify as a proverb. But it's a little saying that's sarcastically used. Or you might say, you know, is the is the Pope a Baptist? Absolutely not. Someone might say something and say, yeah, is the Pope a Baptist? Meaning, you know, the implied answer is of course not. And this is the way the proverb is being used. Is Saul among the prophets? Kind of a derisive proverb. Because Saul went mad trying to fight against God's purpose and will in his life. He was only hurting himself. He was only smashing himself against the rock of God's sovereignty when he was fighting against God. Now again, I don't know where you are tonight in your spiritual journey, but I will say this. If you're fighting against God in your life, stop it. Stop it. You know it would have been better for Saul just to submit to God. That would have been the best thing if he would have just said, you know what, this is God's will. It's not going to change. I submit to it. But Saul didn't do that. You know what he does? He fights against God until his dying day. And ultimately it takes his life. But friend, you can't fight against God and win. And so again, if you're here today and you're stubbornly resisting God in your life, the best thing that you can do is just to submit to Him Submit and say, Lord, your will be done. Not my kingdom come, thy kingdom come. Lord, whatever is your will, I submit to it. I submit to it freely. Stop resisting the Lord in your life. That's the message we learn here from this story. Let's bow for prayer tonight. So, Father, we come to you tonight and we thank you for again for the instruction we receive from the Word of God. And Lord, we know that when you determine A purpose and a plan that we cannot resist that. Men may try. But all of the universe will marshal its forces against the person that tries to undo your purpose. And so, Lord, help us tonight to always have a submissive heart to the things that you do and are doing. Sometimes it may be hard for us to accept. And Lord, there may be people here tonight that are wrestling, they're frustrated, they're angry, and maybe even resentment has grown in their heart to a certain degree. Because they're resisting your purpose and your plan instead of joyfully submitting. There may be some people here tonight that are like Jonas sitting on the hill, angry. Because what he wanted to happen didn't happen. Lord, help us to be more like a Joseph, where we're able to say, God means it for good. And may we have that peaceful, sweet spirit of submission in our lives. May we say, I yield. Father, use these words to guide your people, we pray in Jesus' name Amen