Song. Which take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Second Timothy. You know we're studying this letter on Sunday night, Second Timothy, and we're going to look in chapter four, the last chapter of this book, chapter 4, and we're going to look at the first five verses of 2 Timothy chapter 4. And I've titled the sermon tonight, Why I Preach the Word. Why I preach the word. Charles Spurgeon was a great preacher. And on july twenty-fourth, eighteen eighty-one, he preached a sermon from the text of Genesis thirty-nine, verse two, the Lord was with Joseph And he started out the sermon like this. He said, Scripture frequently sums up a man's life in a single sentence. Think about that, because that that's that is so very true. Whatever character of the Bible you study, somewhere in their life, there just seems to be a verse or a sentence that might sum up that person's life. This is called a life sentence. And I thought about that. What is your life sentence? Is there a a verse of scripture, maybe a line in scripture that kind of sums you up? Do you have a life sentence? Sometimes the discovery of a life sentence can change a person's life Well, my life sentence came to me uh not long after I was saved. As some of you know, my family began coming to Grace back in nineteen seventy, um none of your business, but no Kinda kinda base my age here. Uh actually I think it was in nineteen seventy uh seventy eight, the summer of nineteen seventy eight, and Grace was, you know, a a young church then. Um and and the Lord was blessing it. My parents came here and got saved and I started to come to church and eventually I got saved and I remember On a Sunday night in November, Pastor Johnson was preaching, and he gave an invitation for young men to come forward if they felt called to preach. And I remember I was one of the the the ten young men that felt that call. And uh I remember, you know, pastor had us come down the aisle and had a deacon place their hand on our shoulder and pray for us And I went out the next day to really pray about that because I thought, Lord, I I don't want to do this on an emotional uh whim. I I want to make sure that this is really of you. And I remember I just prayed a lot that day. That next day, I had a place where I would go just to pray. And uh I remember that after I spent some time in prayer, I opened my Bible, and it fell upon this passage that we're going to look at here. I wasn't necessarily looking for a verse, and I don't believe you should play the with the Bible like that, like, okay, Lord, speak to me, open up, put your finger in it. I certainly wasn't doing that, but the verse of scripture that kind of caught my attention was here in chapter 4. Look at verse 1. I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. Preach the word That's what captured my attention. Be in sin in season out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. And uh that really became my life sentence, you might say, preach the word. And I have come to believe that this really should be the life sentence of every preacher. Those verses are a solemn charge that the Apostle Paul gives to Timothy. They are in a sense the last words that Paul gives to Timothy because we know that not long after this Paul will suffer martyrdom under the hands of the cruel tyrant Nero. And so with the passion of a uh a a soldier We could say a general, the Apostle Paul just kind of trumpets the charge that I think forever echoed in the heart of Timothy when he said these words here. Preach the word. Cruxanton logon. That's a strong imperative there. And uh the Greek. This is this is, I think, the of all the commands that Paul gives to Timothy here, this is the one that stands above all of them This is the one that's the most important. And so this is important for Timothy to understand this one thing. Preach the word. Now, again, as you've been studying with us here in 2 Timothy, Paul is concerned about Timothy and he's concerned about his faith. Timothy was prone to discouragement. Spiritually, he began to weaken under the weight of the church and some of the burdens that he was bearing. And so because of this concern, Paul just gives him a lot of Exhortation in 2 Timothy, as we've seen, as we studied this, a lot of commands, a lot of imperatives. For example, stir up the gift of God which is in you. Remember we looked at that, chapter 1, verse 6 Don't be ashamed of the testimony of the Lord, nor of me as prisoner. Be willing to suffer for the gospel. Replace fear with power and love and faith. Chapter 1 verse 9. Hold on to the truth. Chapter 1, verses 13 and 14. Be strong. Chapter 2, verse 1. Endure hardness. Chapter 2, verse 3. Study to show yourself approved unto God. Chapter 2, verse 17 15. Flee useful us, verse 22, and then chapter 3, verse 14, continue in the things which you have learned. And now it all kind of leads up to this one strong command that Paul's going to give Timothy here, which is, I think, reigns supreme over all that what Paul said, and that is preach the word. This brief verse defines biblical ministry in one command. We are to preach Now, along with what Paul said in 1 Timothy chapter 3, that those that are bishops or pastors or overseers are to be the docticos that is skilled in teaching. Here in chapter four of the second letter, he says that this is your mandate, this is your calling, this is your main responsibility to preach the word. Now the word for preach here is the Greek word for herald. Did you know that in Paul's day a ruler had a special herald that his whole job was to make announcements that came from the ruler? He didn't have the liberty to adjust the message. He didn't have the liberty to alter the message in any way. He had one job, and that is to take what the king said or the ruler said and announce it to everyone And when he announced what the king said, he did it with the authority of a king. And that is so true as well for the life of a preacher. We are uh preachers are to you know not invent a message. You know, I'm I'm so grateful that God didn't call me to invent a sermon every Sunday. That would be a burden that I could not bear. But God has already given the message right here in Scripture, and my job is to simply study it, make sure I get it right. And to announce it to you, here is what the king says. Because Jesus is the Lord of his church, and Jesus wants to speak to his people in his church, and Jesus speaks to his people when the word of God is correctly. taught and preached to the people in the church. And so what a pity that uh many churches have substituted other things. For the preaching of the Word of God, because it's something that they think will actually build the crowd, it'll get more people in, you know, and they don't rely on the preaching of the Word of God, which to me is a very sad thing. Now there are four reasons why I preach the word that I look here in this passage. First of all, number one, because of the presence of sovereignty. Look again in verse 1 I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. I charge. We could read this, I solemnly witness or charge. Very serious moment. Again, these are we could say the last words of Paul before he dies. And he says that I'm charging you in the presence of God. So notice first of all the preacher's audience before God. and the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we have to remember that whenever the Word of God is taught, that there's an audience before us, but more importantly, there's an audience above us. And God is the one that's listening and watching and making sure that we when we say something, we're not adding to what God said or we're not taking away what God said, but we are correctly communicating exactly what God's people. What God wanted his people to know in the Word of God. And that's such a serious, serious thing. We do this in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ. Every sermon that I preach is first and foremost an act of worship before God. And I hope that it's acceptable. In the sight of God. We preach for his glory and his pleasure. We seek to glorify him. And you know, sometimes the message that is given, it may not be something that people like to hear, but that's really not my concern. My concern is to make sure that God is pleased, is what is said. I'm more concerned about the audience above me than the audience before me To make sure that we're doing it in the presence of God. One time I was in Cambridge over in England. There's a church there that's a thousand years old. There's a pulpit there called the Latimer Pulpit where the great English reformer Hugh Latimer would preach Uh it's hard to believe that pulpit is still there, um, but he would stand and preach. And King Henry VIII one time came to hear Hugh Latimer. And he was very angry and upset with this preacher because he had pointed out some of the sins of King Henry VIII. And uh Hugh Latimer entered the pulpit, and he said these words loud enough for all to hear, including the king This is what he said. Hugh Latimer, does thou know before whom thou art to speak this day? To the high and mighty monarch, the King's Most Excellent Majesty, who can take away thy life if thou offendest. Therefore, take heed that thou speakest not a word that may displease. Then he went on to say this. And then consider well, Hugh, dost thou not know from whence thou comest thou, upon whose message thou art sent even by the great and mighty God, who is all present, and who beholdeth all thy ways, and who is able to cast thy soul into hell Therefore, take care that thou deliverest the message faithfully. And then he proceeded to denounce the king's sins again, right in the presence of the king. You see, he had no fear of the earthly king because he feared the heavenly king more. And he was faithful to the word of God. And so there's the the audience before us, the preacher's audience, but also the preacher's accountability. Look what it says again, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. Now the grammatical construction here suggests eminency that Christ is going to come at any time and he is going to judge. And Paul is emphasizing the unique accountability that we have as opposed to all believers. Now, all of us are going to give an account of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. But the Bible tells us that those that handle the Word of God are going to be judged with a greater severe evaluation and judgment. That's why it's a fearful thing. to uh to do this because we don't want again to fall into severe judgment. James said this You know, don't be anxious to be a teacher, for you know that we will be judged with the greater strictness. James chapter 3, verse number one. It really doesn't matter what man thinks, it really only matters what God thinks. And Paul talked about this in 1 Corinthians 4. He said it's a very small thing. Talking to the Corinthians that were criticizing Paul said Look, it's a very small thing what you think of me. Paul said, I don't know anything in my life that I'm doing wrong, but that doesn't get me off the hook because I know that God is the one who judges. And I'm not acquitted because the Lord is the one who judges. Heaven's court will be the one that will make the final verdict on my life and my ministry. Human judgment is unreliable, it is insignificant. And so we have to, as preachers have to guard into falling into the trap of thinking that if you if the people receive you well, then God receives you well. There's a lot of preachers out there that people like to hear, but God doesn't Because they're not really preaching what the Word of God says. And so that's a fearful thing. So the presence of sovereignty. But here's the second reason why we preach sovereignty. Not only the presence of sovereignty, but number two, the power of scripture. The power of scripture. Look at verse 2. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort. with all longsuffering and doctrine. And so here Paul tells them, look, this is what you should do. Preach the word. Now this comes in the context of what Paul had previously said. If you were with us last week, go back to chapter 3. Look in verse number 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God And is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. And so, because it is the inspired word of God, you are to preach the word. You see, you let me hear a preacher preach, and I'll tell you what he believes about the Bible. There's a lot of people that cry out and say, oh, I believe the Bible is inspired. I believe it's the Word of God from cover to cover. And then I listen to them preach and I begin to doubt whether they really believe that. Because they they mishandle it, they take verses out of context. Do you really believe the Bible is the inspired word? Because if it is, it's going to really shape the way you preach it. Um for me, God put that conviction in my heart as a young college student. Now I heard Pastor Johnson preach a lot, teaching about the inspiration of Scripture. The Bible is the Word of God, and I always believed that in my mind, but God did something in my heart where He just opened my eyes to see that. And I I just can't explain it to you how it all happened, but uh it just became part of me. Hey, this is the living word of God. This is the inspired word of God. And for me, from that point on, it was not really a question on What I was to how I was to preach the the Bible. That was not really a question because this is the Word of God and the power is in the Word of God Then my job is to simply give it to you clearly and let God do His work through His Word. Scripture is God speaking. Um so we believe then in the inerrancy of Scripture. The Bible is without error. And since we believe it's inspired and inerrant then there's no question that we are to be expositional. What I mean by expositional is I'm just simply supposed to expose to you what this says. In fact the the word homiletics, which is the term that's used to talk about the art of uh sermon building, you know, actually the it's from two Greek words. Homas, the same, let it to say. To say the same thing. You know what preaching is? Preaching is saying the same thing that God said. It's saying what God already said. It is boldly saying what God has already said. Here's what God said, here's what he wrote, here's what he meant, this is how it applies to you, and I'm going to tell you what this means so that you can apply it. And so uh it's belief in the sufficiency of Scripture that the Word of God can handle all of your spiritual problems, believing that the Bible is relevant for your life. It can give you what you need. And so a lot of pastors out there, they they say they believe all that, but again, I question it when they they they they import all kind of man's wisdom and man's ideas into the church, into the pulpit And I think inadvertently teach people to put their faith in man's wisdom rather than in the wisdom of God, the word of God. I remember I went to Bible college, I failed homiletics class I know you're not surprised by that. I failed homoletics. And the reason for that is the homoletics professor He said, uh, I want I want you guys, I'm going to teach you guys a certain style of preaching. Here's the style, and he gave us a book by a certain Famous pastor who preached a certain way, and he said, I'm going to teach you to preach just like him. I want you all to preach just like this guy. And we had to go up there and pound on the pulpit and say, you know, I am a devil-hating, shingle-pulling, blessed God, fundamental, independent Baptist preacher, and we had to smack on the pulpit when we said it That's truth. You know, you had to smack it hard, you know. And you know, uh we had to go through all this stuff and and I I just I wasn't really impressed by all that. And uh I remember we he you know he there was just a certain style and I thought, you know, this is not working for me. And I remember I handed in the outline to him and he said, Look, this is not what I'm looking for. I said, Look, I just want to be an expositor of the Word of God. I just want to teach people what the Bible says. And you know what he said to me? He said, expository preaching doesn't help anybody. That's what he said. And I said, if anyone gets any help, it's going to be because of the expository preaching of the Word of God. Well that didn't go over well. So I I didn't actually hand in the assignments the way I should have and I failed the class and um because I didn't want to take it a third time I went ahead and just kind of conformed to get the grade and get out of there. But I failed homiletics the first time around. And uh, you know, God doesn't call us to be original. He just calls us to be faithful to communicate what he said. And uh and so you know it's like one person said, the preacher's not a waiter, the preacher is a waiter, not a chef. God cooked the meal. We're just supposed to deliver it without messing it up. And so expository preaching is just saying what God's word says. Now, we take it apart, we study it And we put it back together in a nice homiletical fashion. I'm for all that, but I don't what I what I mean by that is not to try to impose something into that text that God never intended. Because when you do that, you're not giving the word of God. The meaning of the scripture is the scripture. If you're not giving the meaning of what God intended here, you're not preaching the Bible. And I've heard a lot of sermons that were really good. Good. Man, that's great to listen to. But the only problem is they're not giving you what God said And again, I would hate to be in that person's shoes when it came time for judgment. We have to let the Bible speak, let the text talk. And notice what Paul says again in verse 2, where he says, be instant in season and out of season. We could just say, be ready. Stay at your post. Be always on duty. You know, when it's convenient, when it's not convenient. Sometimes preaching um is not all that, you know, accepted. But that that that's again that's irrelevant. Uh uh you know, we are to stand before God. We have to just preach when it's convenient, when it's not, when it's in season, when it's out of season, all the time. And then reprove, which is the word that would means to convict And this word here actually, we could say, really means to uh, this is the word that's used in the Septuagint, which is the Greek translation of the Old Testament in Numbers chapter 5. About the trial of bitter waters, if a man suspected that his wife was being unfaithful, he would bring her to the high priest who had mixed dust from the tabernacle floor and water. Hate to have to drink that. But he would mix it up in the water and she would drink it. And if she were guilty, she would get sick and she would get sick from the inside. The Bible says she would rot from the inside. It was God's judgment. And the word that's used here, the Greek word that talks about making sick, is the same word that Paul uses right here when he says reprove. So we could say make sick. I've had no one here, but I remember a few times where folks have said, you know, your preaching kind of really turns my stomach, makes me sick. Thank you. That means I'm on course. The word of God sometimes reproves. I remember one time in a big church I preached at a guy He was going to leave the church and he and he took me out to lunch. He wanted to explain. Look, if you're going to leave the church, just leave. Don't take me out to lunch. I don't want to have to look at you the whole lunchtime. And listen to your excuse. No, I'm just kidding. That wasn't nice to say. I I'm sorry I shouldn't say that. Go ahead and take me out to lunch. No, I'll tell you what, just give me a gift card. And I'll take my wife out to lunch. All right. But And he uh he just went into, you know, the reason we're leaving, because when you preach, I just don't feel good about myself. And that's what he told me. As if it was my job to make sure that when he came to church, I was to make him feel good about himself. Let me just tell you folks, categorically, that is not my job to make you feel good about yourself. And come to find out later that this man was living in sin. Well no wonder he wasn't feeling good about himself. All I was trying to do is preach the word. But if you're living in sin, the word of God should make you not feel good about yourself It should reprove you. Paul says, reprove. Rebuke. Rebuke is the idea of confronting error. Those who teach error, you confront it. with the word of God. Exhort means to encourage and to comfort. This is the positive side. There's the negative side. You know, sometimes, you know, when I first came into ministry, I I really was naive thinking that boy, if I just preach the word, God's going to use it and we're just going to, you know, the church will grow. We'll get a lot of people. That's not necessarily true. I preached in some churches where I would preach the word, and the response I got was kind of a tearing down effect. And then it was also at the same time a building up effect. There were some some people that said, I don't want to hear this. And then some people that said, I've been waiting to hear this all my life. So I had both of those things happening at the same time, you know, going and coming, the doors were busy. You know. But but that's the effect of the Word of God, because I want to tell you something, when you preach the Word of God, whatever's in front of you that's not of God is going to tear it down. And when you're preaching the word of God, whatever is of God, God's going to build it up. And that's the effect. There's a negative effect you will reprove, you will rebuke. But there's the positive side you will exhort as well. And uh and it also you will comfort and challenge And so Paul says, look, the power is in the scripture. Just preach that. Now I can say before God, I've never come to the pulpit. With a sermon in my hand and the idea of saying, boy, so-and-so is going to get it today. Because I know that there are some preachers that kind of use the pulpit kind of as a club to club away at their enemies. And I have honestly I can say before God, I'm not perfect. I've made a lot of mistakes. But I've never come to the pulpit saying, boy, I'm I'm aiming at so-and-so or aiming at these people. I never do that First of all, I've been worked over into study by it myself. So studying the word, first of all, should humble you, not make you bold or uh well, I should say bold, but boastful We can be bold as we preach the word, but not arrogant or boastful, because it's already worked me over, and I've already been convicted about my sin. And so I've never come and said, you know, I'm just going to use the Bible as a club and club so-and-so, or club these people. I've never had to do that because all I do is just try to make clear what this says, and you know what? The Word of God will club you itself. It'll do the work. I don't need to do the work, though God's word does the work. And so I just make it clear, and that's what Paul's saying to Timothy. Just preach the word. And when you do, guess what? You'll reprove, you'll rebuke, you'll exhort. Make sure you have a lot of doctrine in there, and be patient. Be patient. You know why? Because it takes time for God to make changes in the hearts and lives of people So be patient. You know, just preach the word. And then also there's another reason why, and that's because of the problem of shallowness. We preach the word because of the presence of sovereignty, because of the power of Scripture, but then also the problem of shallowness. Look at verse number three. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Again, don't assume that if the word is preached, everyone's going to appreciate it. There are some that will not. And Paul talks about, first of all, the shallow periods in the church, for the time will come. And again, the word for time here is kairos. This is not chronological time, but this not clock time, but we could say eras. There's going to come periods, long periods of time. Eras in the church. Where the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. I think we talked about this when we talked about when Tim Paul said to Timothy that perilous times are going to come. And I think Paul's referring to this again, difficult times are going to come. Dangerous seasons, we could say And verse number four, they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned onto fables. That's an invention. People will accept things, stories, philosophies invented by men, doctrines invented by men that did not come from God. That can happen. And again, we look at church history. I think I mentioned this before. A book that was put out. that that talk about this very thing, how that through eras in the church history, dangerous doctrines have come in. In the first and second century, there was Gnosticism, the idea where all matter was evil, all the physical world was evil, all spirit was good. And that had a big impact on the theology of of the church because, you know, Jesus became a man. And the Bible speaks about the resurrection, a physical, literal, bodily resurrection. And Gnosticism attacked all of those things. Salvation came through some kind of secret esoteric knowledge. Secret knowledge rather than faith in Christ. And that was dangerous for a period of time in the church. And by the way, some of that is still around. And then in the third and fourth century there was a development of the Holy Roman Empire and the Catholic Church and sacramentalism or sacerdotalism where salvation came through a priest. through a church, and the church became like a Sarrog at Christ, and you connected to the church. And this all threatened the gospel of grace. Salvation then came through works And that was there for a long time, and damning the souls of people that connected to a church but never found salvation in Christ alone. And it wasn't until the Reformation came in the 16th century that That whole system, the back of it was broken through the Reformation. But then right after that came rationalism, where you know men began to discover things and invent things and the mind became God And Thomas Paine wrote the uh the book The Age of Reason where he basically said that uh the the mind is uh uh is God and he debunked the Bible. And he assaulted all the miracles that were in Scripture and so on. And then there came cold orthodoxy. in Europe and uh there was a lot of Bibles being printed, but basically the church became dead at that time. It was a Cold Dead Orth Orthodoxy that had entered the church that lacked real zeal real zeal. And then there came politicism, where in that time the church became preoccupied with political power. rather than doing the work of God. And then you come into the 1950s, you have ecumenism where, you know, let's all get along. Doctrinal truth was set aside for sentiment. And this was during a time when was introduced the idea of the Jesus ethic where Jesus was a nice guy and he wouldn't say anything mean or judgmental. Makes you wonder what Bible they were reading, if they were reading at all. And then in the nineteen sixties came a dangerous season of ex experientialism where truth is supposed to come from your feelings. What mattered was what you believed inwardly, subjectively. Truth became subjective It came from visions, it came from prophecies, it came from special revelation. You no longer look to the objective word, you look subjectively to what your heart said. And then in the eighties there was subjectivism, the church became very narcissistic. It wanted to become comfortable and more successful and make money And we developed a man-centered theology and a needs-based theology where we find out what the people's needs are, and then that's where we'll minister from. And then in the nineties there was this pragmatism where, you know, whatever method works, the end uh justifies the means or and and so you know this is where it became really famous to go out and take a survey. Let's go knock on doors in the neighborhoods or let's take a survey. Let's find out what Unsaved people want. Let's talk about you know these people that don't go to church and just ask them, hey, why aren't you in church? What would it take to get you here in church? And then let's frame our ministry around what they want And then we'll bring in the church, that's good. Let's let the unsaved world determine how we worship. But basically that's said Let's let the unsaved world, the ungodly, let's let them determine our liturgy in church, how we're going to do things. You know. We don't build a church to impress lost people. We build a church to uh please God. That that's it's not a man-centered theology, it's a God-centered theology. And then so on, all these other things. Shallow periods. And all through that time, there's been a remnant of those that have just stuck to the preaching of God's Word. Just preach the Word. But also shallow people. Look again in verse 3. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned unto fables. Notice the day of verse 3 and 4. They will not endure. They will keep to themselves teachers. They shall turn away their ears. And will not endure sound doctrine. And so, who are the they here? Well, these are shallow people. People that don't want to hear the word. In essence, Paul is warning Timothy that if he preaches the word, it will not be well received by all, but in fact he will get some major opposition to it. This opposition will come from these sallow people. Paul says they have itching ears. You know, they you know, you're supposed to scratch that itch, you know, whatever they want to hear. That's what your people say, give me what I want to hear. And if you do that, you compromise. There's always going to be shallow people who want certain things. In verse 3, after their own lust, they want preachers that will give them what they desire. And by the way, we have a lot of preachers in churches that will cater to that. They'll give it what they want. You know, this consumerist type mentality that has entered into the church. Where, you know, people when they go church shopping, they do it just like they go shopping anywhere else. What can the church give me? What can the church offer me? You know. And we're everyone's so comfortable. We just want, you know, we want everything brought to us. You know. There's some people home that are watching by live stream and the only reason they're home is because they're lazy and they they just don't want to come to church. Now, if you're sick and you can't come, or if you're living in another state or another country and you're listening, we're glad to have you. But if you're home because you're too lazy to come to church, shame on you. Because the Bible says you should be here together in the church, with God's people, encouraging the people of God. That's all part of this consumer mentality that's in church today, where people say, just give me what I want. I can I can have church with my cup of coffee and my robe. You need to get your backslidden heart right with God is what you need. And I and I'm not gonna take that back. I mean that. I mean that. Shame on you. That's a selfish decision. Because you you know, part of you being here is to encourage other believers in the church. They need your encouragement. They need your presence here. And deciding just to I'm gonna take it easy, well that's a selfish decision. And where was I? Some will not endure sound doctrine. They will resist it. Some will replace it. Keep to themselves teachers having itching ears, they will reject it. They'll turn away their ears from the truth. And Paul is basically saying to Timothy, don't bow to that. Don't bow to that pressure that shallow people will place on you. When it comes to preaching, be faithful to preach the word. And then there's one other reason here. Because of the presence of sovereignty, the power of scripture, the problem of shallowness. But here's the fourth thing, the plea for steadfastness. Look at verse 5. But wash thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. In this last paragraph, again, there are four more things Paul says to Timothy. To remain faithful, to be steadfast. God calls us to be faithful, to be steadfast. He doesn't spell success the same way that the world does He wants faithfulness. God doesn't give us a quota of people to reach or numbers that we have to have. He doesn't define success by the results, but by steadfastness, by endurance, by faithfulness to the task. And and and really the idea here is that preaching the word will sustain the preacher as well as the listener. You know I can't tell you how many times studying for a sermon has worked me over. Um where I've had to I I've got convicted. I've had to confess sin. God has dealt with me every time I go to a passage of scripture and study it for myself, it has, it should have, and it does, a sanctifying effect on me. I mean, it it beats me up. It shows me how sinful I am and how I've got to deal with it. Because I can't stand in front of people without having dealt with those things in my own life. And so it should have this sanctifying influence, but also it has a strengthening influence on any expositor of the word Stability, be sober in all things. This is the word here, it means be free of intoxicants. It's the idea of really just self-control. A preacher who preaches the word, who is an expositor, this will help him to To be sober in all things. That is, he'll keep his head while the religious world is losing theirs. He's not going to be the victim of crazes, all these different things that come down the pike as far as church and religious world, all these different fads that come along that come and go, where, you know, this is the newest thing and everybody jumps on the bandwagon and why aren't you doing this You know, this is supposed to be the thing that's going to get us into their millennial kingdom any moment. If we just do these things And ministry is never built that way. It's always by steadfast, faithful preaching of the word and living out the Christian life. And you guess guess what? It's not easy. It's just by just continuing on, faithfully, you know, staying at it. I mean if Pastor Johnson taught me anything, he taught me that. I mean, he had a lot of strong qualities, but I think his strongest quality was his perseverance. Perseverance. Just stay with it. Just stay faithful. And don't be given over to some of these tangents. Some of these crazy ideas that come along. I remember um, you know, years ago when I was working under past year on staff Um there was a guy that came in from Pennsylvania. He was one of these church growth guys that, you know, you know would do all the fancy things, you know, the smoke and mirrors, you know, to get people in church, you know, let's get a light show going up here, let's get some smoke rising out of here, you know And uh he came into the church and he saw the auditorium and and uh he was just he was surprised. And he said to Pastor Johnson, he said, Man, how did you build this church? And Pastor Johnson, as Pastor Johnson would, says, I'll tell you how none of that pizzazz. None of that pizzazz. I'll never forget that. And just straightforward being faithful and and giving the word of God. Be sober suffering. Uh endure afflictions. There's going to come times when trials will come, heartaches will come, difficulty will come. Suffering is part of it all. And Paul said, Timothy, you remember me. You remember what you saw in me. You do that. He said that in chapter 3, if you remember. Just imitate me. You saw all that I went through But you saw how focused I was despite all of that. Just stay faithful despite the suffering, but also soul winning. Again, in verse number five. Endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist. This does does not mean we're called to the office of evangelism, but that we are to do the work. We fulfill our Christian duty of preaching the gospel. and being a personal witness in our own life. And we set the example for the rest of the congregation. And then steadfastness, fulfill your ministry. This has the idea of just bringing it to completion. Just don't quit. And when God's done with you, God will God will let you know. He'll he'll he'll take you home when he's done. And Paul uses himself as an example. Look at verse six. I fought a good fight, like a soldier in a war. I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is hand. I fought a good fight, verse seven. I finished my course. I've kept the faith. Just stay faithful. Just keep staying faithful. And that was the encouragement that he gives us Preach the word why? Because of the presence of sovereignty, the power of scripture, the problem of shallowness, the plea for steadfastness. When I was in England once, I I wanted to just uh I'm kind of a history person and I wanted to do kind of do a Christian heritage tour. So I did some research and found out some of these churches and and and famous Puritan preachers that have influenced me and I wanted to go because a lot of the to see their churches because a lot of those churches were still there. I went to St. St. Stephen's Church of Walbrook. Pastored by the famous Puritan Thomas Watson. I read his book, Taking Heaven by Storm. I went to that church. It was still there. I went to St. Giles Cripple Gate Church, the church of the famous Puritan Jeremiah Burroughs. Who wrote the book, you know, um the The Evil of Sin, an incredible book. I went to the church pastor by John Newton. um who wrote Amazing Grace and stood there in his pulpit there. I went to the place behind St. Paul's Cathedral where they actually burned Wycliffe Bibles. There's a spot there behind the church. where they burned his Bibles. I went to Smithfield. There was a spot there where hundreds of faithful Christians were martyred at the stake there at Smithfield. And I went to that place. I went to Bunhill Field Cemetery because many Puritans were buried there, including John Bunyan, who wrote Pilgrim's Progress, and John Owens and Isaac Watts, who wrote a lot of our wonderful hymns. I went to the grave of Charles Spurgeon. I visited Cambridge and went to the church of Hugh Latimer. I I visited an oak tree that's a thousand years old. I know that's hard to believe. They call it the Wycliffe Oak. You know why? Because John Wycliffe would stand by that oak tree and preach to people that were in the open fields. And that tree was a thousand years old. I took some bark from it. I still have it. I know that's weird, right? But I'm kind of that history nerd and uh you say, why did you do that? Inspiration, just to remind me of a legacy of faithful men who have gone on before me, who were faithful to the truth And you know what? I just want to follow in those footsteps. I just want to be faithful too. I just want to be faithful to the end And just give the word of God. God has not called us to reinvent ministry, but to continue in the pattern of faithful servants who have gone on before us. And that's what we are to do by the grace of God. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you for your word and how it exhorts us and encourages us. And I pray, Father, that we will take to heart these words here of the exhortation to Timothy. Paul wrote it to Timothy, but it applies to us. Even those that are not called to preach, Lord, we are all are called to be faithful to the Word of God. To be faithful to the end, to not compromise what you have taught us, to hold to the truth Lord, help us to do that. Help us not to let up. Especially in these dangerous days, Lord, when we we have to shine brighter now than ever. And yet there are so many that have gone AWOL. Father, help us to be faithful. And we pray all this in Jesus' name