Would you take God's word this morning, please? Open to the book of 2 Thessalonians, chapter 2, as you know we're studying this wonderful little epistle. And would you turn with uh turn with me to chapter 1? 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. And we're going to read a few verses. We'll read a verse 7. Would you stand for the reading of God's Word? Verse 7 is where we'll start. And to you who are troubled, rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them. that believed, because our testimony among you was believed in that day. Wherefore also we pray always for you That our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power. That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ might be glorified in you and ye in him, according to the grace of our God. And the Lord Jesus Christ. Would you please be seated? Thank you so very much. And would you pray with me this morning Father, thank you for your word, and we thank you that it is the inspired, inerrant word of God. And Lord, I realize that in and of myself I I'm insufficient really, Lord, to present any of these things, and I need your help. And so I come before you today and pray, Lord, that you'll help me to make clear this wonderful passage. And may you encourage hearts. May you do your work. May the word Do us work of building, saving, convicting, challenging, and may you receive honor and glory in all that's done. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We've been talking about this one question for the last few weeks. Why do the righteous suffer? And I want to continue on this. This is really part three of this subject that Paul's dealing with here in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. After an extensive tour of the United States, a well-known German pastor, Helmut Thalica, was asked this question. He said, what did he see was the greatest defect among American Christians? And this is his response He replied, they have an inadequate view of suffering. And Talika was right. I've heard many times of Christian psychologists encouraging their clients to rage out at God. Uh, you know, h take a pillow and y and hit the pillow and and and complain about God, rage out against God. And they do that because of the suffering and the tragedies that they have gone through. I've heard of pastors and missionaries who've left their ministries and sometimes have left the faith because of the hardships that they've had to endure, the suffering that they've had to go through. I've seen many local churches quit their ministries and sometimes drop out of church and their faith again altogether because They were perhaps in this church church, they were criticized, or they had some kind of hardship in their life, or they went through some serious trial, and they basically quit on God. We have an inadequate view of suffering. Now I have to confess that I don't feel qualified to preach on the subject of suffering for Christ. Because the truth of the matter is, I've suffered very little in my service for Christ. I've been hit with criticism, I've been hit with verbal attacks. I've had people slander me falsely. I've had people try to get me fired. I pastored a large church where uh a hundred and fifty people met off campus to try to figure out how to get rid of me. Um I was not invited to that meeting. I've had media and internet news articles written against me and so on, but all of that is very insignificant and small when you compare that suffering, which is very small. to the suffering that other noble Christians have had to endure for the sake of Christ. I've never had to go through what many of the Lord's servants go through in countries like Africa or China or India or Egypt and other uh Muslim countries. They suffer beatings, they suffer imprisonment, they suffer rejection by their family, they suffer all kind of deprivation and some even death for the sake of Now, Paul is helping the Thessalonians and us to see that suffering as a Christian is simply a part of the Christian life Paul wrote to Timothy and said, Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. C. S. Lewis said the problem is not why some humble believing people suffer, but the problem really is why do some not. Paul said to the Philippians, For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. There are two gifts that God gives. He gives you one, the gift to believe, and number two, the gift of suffering. Paul Peter also reminded believers that Christ suffered for us and that we might one day have to follow in his steps and suffer for him. First Peter two twenty one. For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. No one suffered like Jesus suffered. And he did it for you. And he did it for me. So the question is, are you willing to bear the cross for Christ? Are you willing to suffer for his sake? He suffered for your sake. Are you willing to go through suffering on his sake? Now it may very well be that you never really suffer much. because you're a Christian or in the Christian life. But the question is, are you willing, if it be God's will, to go through a season of suffering? And the key to persevering through suffering is this. Remember that God is sovereign over it. He has a purpose in all of it. Adonairam Judson, who suffered incredible trials for taking the gospel to Burma, said this, quote, If I had not felt certain that every additional trial was ordered by infinite love and mercy, I could not have survived my accumulated sufferings. Paul reminded the Thessalonian believers of this very thing, that God has a purpose in all the sufferings that He allows His people to go through. Now, in the first letter that Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, he said, this 1 Thessalonians 3:3, that no man should be moved by these afflictions, for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto. And then he said this, for verily when we were with you, we told you before that you should suffer tribulation. And when Paul wrote the first letter to the Thessalonians, of course, he was writing to believers who were going through a season of suffering and persecution. But it really didn't get any better. And so between the time of the first letter and the second letter, the intensity increased. A few months later, Paul writes this second letter about suffering. And actually, that's what he deals with here in chapter one. Actually, Paul's going to deal with several issues. One regarding the second coming of Christ, but also the fact that these believers were suffering. And what he does basically is give us some reasons why God allows suffering in the life of his people. Number one, suffering advances our spiritual growth. We already looked at that These Thessalonian believers were growing in their faith so much so that Paul was boasting about them. They had an overflowing love for each other. They had a glowing testimony of their perseverance. Paul was holding them up as an example to other churches. But then also suffering reveals our spiritual worth Remember, Paul said suffering reveals that we are worthy of the calling, the kingdom of God that God has placed upon us in salvation. But I want to pick up on that. And give you another reason Paul gives us here for suffering. Why does God allow his people to suffer? Here's number three. Suffering redirects our focus to Christ Look in verse number seven. He says, And to you who are troubled, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. Paul, in essence, is telling the Thessalonians to focus on Christ. Keep your eyes on Christ. You know, it's easy for us as believers to get so caught up in the things of this world that we lose our eternal focus. We get so distracted with temporal, earthly things that we take our eyes off of Christ. It's so easy to be distracted because the world offers a lot of distractions. And so, as believers, the key to living the Christian life is to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. That's how you came into the kingdom of God. You look to Christ And this is how we continue the Christian life, by keeping our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. And when we take our eyes off of the Lord, sometimes God will allow persecution or suffering so that we will direct our attention back to the Lord. God will put us through a storm to teach us to keep our eyes on the Lord Jesus Christ. Remember the illustration of this in Matthew 14, Peter? Remember the disciples were in a boat. They were trying to cross the Sea of Galilee. They were right where the Lord told them to go. Jesus told them to get into a boat, go to the other side. Jesus went on to a mountain to pray. And I th I think that he could see them. He knew that they were in the storm. Don't ever think that when you go through a storm you're out of God's will. The disciples were right where they were supposed to be. And they were in the middle of a storm. And Jesus came walking to them in the in the night on that storm. And Peter said, Lord, if it's you, bid me come under the water with thee. And Jesus said, come and Peter stepped out of the boat. He was walking on the water. As long as he kept his eyes on Christ, he was able to walk above the storm. You see, the problem was the storm itself. But as long as Peter kept his eyes on Jesus, he was able to live above that storm and above that problem. But the moment he took his eyes off of Christ, what happened? He began to sink. And so it is in the life of a Christian. You need to keep your eyes on Jesus Christ. And when we take our eyes off of Christ, sometimes we'll the Lord will send a storm to tell tell us to refocus And this is what Paul is saying to the Thessalonians, fix your eyes on Jesus. There are three specific things that he points out First of all, his returning presence. Look in verse 7 again. And to you who are troubled, we could say those who are suffering, going through a storm, rest with us when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels Paul points to the second coming and he says, remember that Jesus is coming again. The word revealed here is the Greek word apocalypsis, which is really a word that means to reveal. to reveal or to uncover, we could say, or to unveil. You see, the first time Jesus came to this world, his to this world, his glory was veiled But then the second time when Jesus comes, his glory will be unveiled. The first time Jesus came, he came in humiliation. The second time Jesus comes, he will come in exaltation. And so Paul uses the expression, the unveiling or the revealing or the apocalypsis of the Lord Jesus Christ. This term is used in several places in the New Testament. It's used much in the book of Revelation. And again, some might say, well, wait a minute, didn't Jesus reveal God when he came the first time? We saw glimpses of the glory of God in Christ the first time he came, like the Mount of Transfiguration. But for the most part, the glory of God was veiled. But when Jesus comes again, that glory will be revealed The fur the first time he came, he came as the Savior. This time when he comes, he'll come as the judge and the king. The first time he came, he came to endure shame. The next time he comes, he'll come to enjoy glory. The first time Jesus came, he came to redeem. When he comes again, he will come to reign. He will not be the Savior at that time. He'll be the mighty sovereign, and he will be the judge. Now there are some who want to say that Jesus already came Some people in their eschatology, they want to push everything into 70 A. D. They want to say, all that happened already, Jesus came in glory in 70 AD. But my friend, when I see what the Bible has to say about the second coming of Jesus Christ, I have to say that not all that Jesus said would happen on the Mount of Olives happened in seventy AD. Jesus is coming again in glory. And the Bible says this, and Jesus said it in Matthew 26, 64. Jesus said unto them, Thou hast said, nevertheless, I sound you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power. coming in the clouds of glory. The Bible says in Revelation 1, 7 that, Behold, he cometh with clouds, and every eye shall see him. That did not yet happen, beloved. That has not yet happened. And again, people who try to force all this into 70 AD, you can't do that. That did not happen. Jesus Christ is coming. And when he comes, he'll come literally, bodily, physically, just like the Bible says. He will be revealed, that is to say, he will be uncovered, he will be seen, he'll come with his mighty angels, he'll come in his glorified state. And the Bible says that when Jesus comes, revealed from heaven, unbelievers will cry out to the mountains and the rocks to fall on them and to protect them from the wrath of the Lamb. Because when Jesus comes again, he is coming in judgment. And so we Paul says, look, remember his returning presence. Jesus will come again. These believers were going through persecution and suffering. Many ungodly were treating them wrong, and Jesus said, look, rest with us. When the Lord comes, he'll come to punish those that are ungodly. And that gives us to the next thing, his righteous judgment. Look at verse 8. And flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. When Jesus comes again, he will come to punish the ungodly. In verse 6, Paul said, It is a righteous thing with God to repay tribulation to them that trouble you. When Jesus comes, he will come as the righteous judge in judgment. I'm ashamed to say that one time I remember I was pulled over for a speeding ticket. Yeah, you that are without sin among you, let him cast the first. I had an old car, it was given to me uh just before I went off to Bible college. My father kind of put together it was a blue Nova And uh he he wa it was barely able to run. My dad was a mechanic, he worked on it. Um it was blue, but it had a black hood and a green quarter panel and uh orange door. Um uh uh Jacob gave Joseph a a coat of many colors. My father gave me a car of many colors. But it was it could run, it was sufficient. But I remember when it got cold in the cold weather the the speedometer needle wouldn't work. It would just kind of wiggle back and forth. So when he got caught, I never really knew how fast I was going. And one time I was pulled over by a police officer and he said, Son, do you know how fast you were going? I said, No, sir, I would really appreciate it if you let me know that Uh that'll help me to judge my speed here. My speedometer doesn't work. Well he gave me a ticket and I had to appear before a judge in court. I was uh again just eighteen years old and uh this is I had never appeared before a judge in court before. I'll never forget that event. I'll never forget the name of the judge. And I'm not going to give his name right now. And I'll t tell you why later, because well when I stood before the judge, um he basically found out I was studying for the ministry. And he kind of sneered at that and criticized, here you are studying for Bible college and you're getting uh pulled over for speeding. And I remember I felt terrible. The next week in the paper, uh the that judge, his face was on the front page of that paper. And he was on the front page of the paper because he was convicted for accepting bribes. I wish I had known that before I went into the courtroom. The article basically said of this judge he was lenient to drunk drivers who were powerful men with political connections. He was the first judge in that state convicted of a federal offense. He was found guilty of lying during his testimony, and he was sentenced to three years in federal prison. I stood before an unrighteous judge. For him, judging was not a righteous thing. But the Bible tells us here in verse 6 that for Jesus it will be a righteous thing. One day people will stand before the righteous. one, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I promise you then he will not accept bribes. And he will not be lenient with sinners. The Bible says in that day, look down in verse number nine. Notice what it says. Who shall be punished? with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Paul said that he will take vengeance on them that know not God that obey not the gospel, and they will be punished with everlasting destruction. Friend, you can receive Jesus as your Savior now. Or you can be judged by him one day, and he can be your judge. I would rather have him as my savior than as my judge. I would rather rather settle my case out of court And that's what I encourage you to do here, my dear friend. Make sure that you repent of your sin, that you place your faith in Christ who died to redeem you. If you disobey the call of the gospel, there is nothing for you but punishment, the Bible says. Now, the gospel is not just an invitation, the gospel is a command. God commands all men everywhere to repent. So He's commanding you, dear sir, ma'am, to repent today, to put your faith in Jesus Christ. If you do not do that You will stand before Jesus one day, and he will be the righteous judge. And there will be no escape. There will be no mercy for unbelievers on that day, only justice. Focus on Jesus. Focus on, Paul says, his returning presence, his righteous judgment, but also his radiant glory. Look down in verse number 10. Notice what it says here. When he shall come to be glorified, uh in his saints and to be admired in all them that believe because our testimony among you was believed in that day To be glorified in his saints. We will marvel at the glory of the Lord and give him praise when we see Christ come. And Christ will not only display his glory when he comes, but in some way we will share in the glory of Jesus Christ. Listen to Colossians 3. 4. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory. And so this is part of our salvation. We are justified. That's a pass. We were declared righteous by God. We are now in the process of being sanctified. That's why God will allow trials and suffering because God uses all of that to sanctify us. It's the process whereby he makes us more like the Lord Jesus Christ. But one day our salvation will be complete when we are glorified. We are made like the Lord Jesus Christ and we share in his glory, and then we will be rewarded, the Bible says. And that glory for some will be greater. than for others. It'll be according to your groans. I've often said this, first the groans and then the glory. And the greater the groans here the greater the glory afterwards when Christ is revealed. Second Corinthians 4. 17, for our light affliction, which is but for a moment worketh for us a far more exceeding eternal weight of glory. And so what Paul is saying is that again The more we suffer here and we do it well and faithfully, the greater the glory one day when Jesus Christ comes again. You will share in that glory. None of us like to groan We all hear groans, right? Someone wrote I as I'm getting older I find myself groaning much more. I groan when I stand up, I groan when I sit down. I groan after I've been standing a while. I groan in the morning. I groan at night. I groan when I see certain things on television. I groan when I have to pay the bills. We groan a lot. This earthly existence, there's a lot of groaning and a lot of sorrow. And we all long for relief from that. On this side of heaven, there will really be no relief. God doesn't promise us to escape the groans of this world. He just says that the glory that you will have one day in comparison to the groans that you have na now, i there's no comparison. The glory will be so much greater. Paul said this in Romans 8. 18, for I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory. which shall be revealed. Paul said, I reckon, that is logizemai. He's calculating in his mind. This is a mathematical term, Paul says, I'm thinking about this, I'm calculating, I'm putting all the growings that we experience in this life on one side, and I'm thinking about the eternal glory we will have on the other side. And when I add these things up, guess what? There's no comparison. The glory far outweighs the groans that we have here in this life. And so Paul says, just remember that. Remember the glory that we're going to have one day when Jesus comes. So suffering refocuses or redirects our focus to Christ. Do you have your eyes on Christ? Are you looking to Jesus? That's the way we live the Christian life. But let me give you the last thing here. Suffering gives us an opportunity to glorify God Here's an opportunity to glorify God. Look in verse eleven. Wherefore also we pray always for you that our God would count you worthy of this calling and fulfill all the good pleasure of his goodness and the work of faith with power Verse 12, that the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. That is that God, the name of Christ, be glorified in your life. Do you realize that when you God entrusts to you suffering or persecution? That you have a unique opportunity to glorify God. If you are faithful and you persevere and you do well, you give great glory to the Lord. And the Bible says that when Christ comes, that he might be glorified in you and ye in him. And so what does it mean to be glorified? That means what we basically We make Christ look good to the world. Now we already know Christ is beautiful. He's awesome. But the world, they don't see that. But when they see a believer Who goes through trials and suffering and they don't quit on God. They shine in the midst of their darkness. What that does is it glorifies Christ. It makes Christ and the gospel look good to the world. When the world sees a believer go through suffering and persecution and they grumble and they complain and they're depressed, what the world says is there's no difference between you and me. That to them they said there's nothing different about the gospel or Christ. But when they see a believer hold on to faith, in fact they see a believer grow in faith, in fact, they see a believer even rejoice. In their sufferings, and hold on to God. Like Job said Job said, though he slay me, yet will I trust him. It doesn't matter what I'm going through. I put my faith in God. I trust in God. I know that I can trust the Lord in this. When people see that, they are amazed. And Christ is glorified. And the world says there really is something to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Whenever I go through sorrow, or ever I'm tempted to feel sorry for the difficulties I have to endure in ministry, I think about some of the great heroes of the faith and how they glorified God through their suffering. Let me talk to you about one man in closing in this sermon here, a man by the name of Adnan Judson. I quoted him already Let me tell you a little bit about him. He was born in 1788. He was converted in his early twenties Adniram Judson and his new bride Anne sailed in eighteen twelve with a group of the first missionaries to go out from the American soil, and they were headed to India and Burma after a difficult four month voyage. They arrived in India only to hear very discouraging reports about Burma. Plus, they learned that they could not stay in India. They spent the next year sailing from India to Mauritius, that is a small country off the coast of South Africa. They went back and forth to avoid deportation. Finally, against all advice, they managed to board a ship and go to Burma. En route to Burma, Anne, Adeniram's wife, gave birth to a stillborn baby. And she almost died herself in that process. They finally arrived in Rangu, Burma, a filthy fly-infested town, and they began the arduous task of learning Burmese. They found that the Burmese people were very committed to Buddhism. They had no interests in Christianity. In fact, they were opposed to Christianity. So the the Jutsins were there alone, struggling to learn the language and struggling with the mission. However, the birth of a son brightened their lives But in eight months their son got ill. With no doctors or medicine in Rangoon, the baby died They buried him in their yard, and they continued with the work of the mission through their tears After six years, they baptized their first Burmese convert. A handful of full, a handful more of Converts trickled in through the next few years. Then in 1824, the British went to war against the Burmese. The Jetsons were in the capital city of Ava. And Adonairam was imprisoned falsely accused of being a spy for the British. He was arrested by a man they called spotted face. He was a criminal whose face bore a spot tattoo on each cheek and therefore he was called spotted face. Now some of these vicious men had the name of their crime branded into their foreheads or their chests. The ears or noses of some had been cut off, some had only one eye, and they delighted to inflict similar tortures on their captives. To arrest a man, they slipped a small hard cord behind the back and around a man's arms just above the elbow. They could yank this cord so tight that it often dislocated the arms. It could cut off the breath. It could even make blood spurt from the nose or the mouth of the prisoner After hauling Judson to the prison, they secured his feet with three sets of iron feathers that cut into his ankles The prison was a sweltering bamboo room with an overwhelming stench to it. There were no windows There were only cracks in the bamboo which light could filter through. At night the prison ruler, a man who had the word murder tattooed on his chest, insisted on being called father He would come in with an assistant, and they would slide a long bamboo pole through the fetters on each man's legs, and hoisted it up with a block and tackle until only the prisoner's shoulders and heads rested on the floor They left them suspended in this position all night while rats would run around on the filthy floor. During this time, Adam Iron Judson's wife Ann was pregnant. She had to walk two miles each way to give food to her husband who was in the prison. After 17 months of this kind of torture. including a move to a further location where he had to walk barefoot over sharp, hot rocks and nearly died. Adenairam Judson was finally released. The Burmese government needed his translation skills to negotiate with the British. Eleven months later, Anne, who had delivered their third child during her husband's imprisonment, she died. Six months after that, their little daughter died. For a period of time, Adonir Judson almost went crazy. He moved out into the tiger-infested jungle. He lived as a recluse. It took him almost three years to recover. And to gain the right perspective. But even during those difficult years, he continued working on the translation of the Bible and some evangelistic material. It took him 21 years from his arrival to Burma to complete the translation of the Bible, and then six more years to do the revising of it. Eight years after Anne's death. Adonairam Judson married again. He married Sarah Boardman, a widow of another missionary. They had eight children. Five survived childhood. Eleven years later, Sarah died. She died as Adniram Judson was sailing back to America. Think about this. After 33 years in Burma, with no furlough, Adnair and Judson finally arrived in America. By himself. While he was there, he met a young woman, Emily Chubuck, who was a famous writer. She was twenty-nine, he was fifty-seven. She went back with him to Burma. After their marriage, they had four happy years together. Adniram Juxson died at the age of 61. His wife, Sarah, returned to America where she died at age 37 of tuberculosis. Now, I've just kind of given you a summary. I haven't really describes many of the other hardships that he and his family had to endure. It would take hours to tell you all of the suffering. all of the hardships that they had to endure over the years. But when Adonairam Judson died, what did he have To speak for his life. What did he leave behind? Well, he left behind a Burmese Bible, a Burmese English dictionary, and a small number of Christians there in Burma. That was it. For all the suffering, all the labor that he had gone through. You might say, Well, that seems like a failure. Really? Today in Burma, which is now called Myanmar, according to Operation World, there are over 3,700 Baptist churches there. with a total membership of over 600,000, plus many other evangelical churches that are there The Burmese church, even though it's going through frequent persecution even there in Burma, it continues to flourish. And guess what? They're sending out missionaries. How do you think all that happened? God used one pioneer missionary and his sufferings. God used all that as the foundation of what he was going to do there in Burma. Now I don't know this to be true, but I like to think that the Lord has Adonairam Judson heading up the official Welcome to Heaven committee whenever a Burmese believer dies and goes to heaven. They got die and go to heaven. They see the Lord Jesus. And right there is Adonairam Judson welcoming them to heaven after all of the labor that he did for the gospel. After reading about men like this and the suffering that they had to go through for the sake of the gospel, how can I complain about my sufferings? You know what? Here's a man who glorified God in his suffering. And I want to tell you something, believer, the greatest thing that you could ever do as a Christian is to bring glory to God. That's the reason you're here. You're here to glorify God. And suffering gives believers a unique opportunity to show forth the glory of Christ to a lost world. And for God to use that in your life and in the life of others. Adonaiam Judson was worthy of the calling of the gospel. So friend, why does God allow suffering? Why do the righteous suffer? Suffering advances our spiritual growth. Suffering reveals our spiritual worth It redirects our focus to Christ. Suffering gives us opportunities to glorify God and the sufferings of this present life Are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And may I remind you before we close again of the sufferings of Jesus? He suffered for you. He suffered and died for you. Will you turn to him? Have you put your full faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? You can have him as your Savior or you can have him as your judge. I plead with you, take him as your Savior today. Let's bow for prayer together. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I would ask you, dear friend, are you here, is your heart open to turn to Christ in faith? Repentance and faith. What is repentance? Turning from sin in the world. What is faith? Turning to Christ. That all happens at one moment. The moment you turn from the world in sin and turn to Christ, you put your faith in him. That's what the Bible calls upon you to do. That's obeying the command of the gospel. God commands all men everywhere to repent. Will you be willing? Have you done that? Are you absolutely certain of that? If not, can I pray for you? How many say, I want to trust Christ today? Is that your prayer? Can I pray for you? I'm looking for you, sir, ma'am. God wants you to turn to him today. The Bible says now is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. If you're here and you're going through suffering right now as a believer, you need encouragement from God and His Word You need grace from God to be able to persevere. Just know this, dear friend, God has a purpose in it. It's not without purpose. He may have chosen you for this so that you can glorify him in a unique way. He wants you to grow in faith. He wants you to turn your focus to Christ and Christ alone. How many say, Pastor, that's me? Would you pray for me that I'll glorify God and my sufferings? Anyone here? God, God bless you, dear friend. God bless you. I want to glorify the Lord. I want to persevere. And the sufferings that God has laid upon me. God will be with you, friend. He will help you. He is with you. Father, bless these, your servants. Help them, Lord, in this time. Give them special grace. Just like you did with the Apostle Paul when Paul said, My grace, when you said to Paul, my grace is sufficient. for thee. And Paul recognized that. That your strength is made perfect in our weakness. May your grace abound in the lives of these Lord who said, I need help. Father, bless, strengthen. And for those that are here that may not know Christ, I pray that they'll see the urgency. Of turning to Christ today, making sure of their own soul salvation. We pray all this in Jesus' wonderful name.