Take your Bibles open to the book of James, chapter 2. Now, if you've been with us on Sunday morning, you know we are preaching through James, and we come to chapter 2. We're going to deal with the verses that was read just a while ago And the title of my sermon this morning is The Sad Case of the Short-Sighted Usher. We see this in this passage here today, James chapter 2. Well you're finding that when he was a student, the famous Indian leader Mahatma Gandhi, he considered becoming a Christian. He read the gospels, he was so moved by what he read. about the life of the Lord Jesus Christ. It it seemed to him that Christianity offered a solution to the caste system that was a part of the people of India. And so one Sunday he decided to visit a local church, and he decided to talk to the pastor and ask for instruction on the way of salvation. But when he tried to go into the church, he was met at the door. This is a church that was consisted of mostly European white people. He was met at the door by some ushers, and they refused to give him a seat. They told him to go and worship with his own people. And so he left. And he never went back He turned his back on Christianity. He said if if that's all that Christianity can offer, then it cannot help the people of India. All because of some foolish ushers. Now that tragic story illustrates a terrible sin that James is writing about here in chapter two. His focus is on the sin of show showing favoritism to the rich and despising the poor. However, the words that James will share with us here apply to all types of prejudice, whether it is based on economic status, whether it's based on race, or anything else. To favor some people and to disregard others based on outward factors or outward appearance is a terrible sin And it plagued the church back in the day of James when he wrote this. And I think it's sad to say that I think that sometimes it plagues the church in America today. and in every generation. This all stems from pride, from the fallen heart of man. Mark Twain once wrote that prejudice is the ink with which all of history is written. And today people make discrimination based on many areas, based on appearance, based on ancestry, based on age, based on achievement. based on affluence and so on. But no matter what form it comes in, partiality and prejudice is a sin against God. It's a sin against the grace of God. And that's what James is going to teach us here in this passage. Now notice the illustration that James gives us in verses two and three. He and by the way, the ch the Jews in this day coveted recognition and honor. They wanted the chief Sikhs to sit in. And Jesus dealt with that problem during his ministry in Luke chapter 14. Desiring the chief seats. And this problem kind of spilled over into the church. And what James is giving us here in chapter 2 is a hypothetical situation of two different men who come to worship in the house of the Lord One is a poor man and the other is a rich man. Notice first the rich man. Notice the description of the rich man. Look at verse 2. For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring. and goodly apparel. Here's the first man. A gold ring. In the Greek this actually literally means gold fingered man. Which is the idea. He's wearing more than one gold ring. And back in this day it was very common for people to flaunt their wealth by wearing a lot of jewelry, a lot of gold. Some things don't change, right? So he's he's wearing a lot of gold. He's got a nugget at every knuckle. He's got a jewel at every joint. And he comes in, and obvious to this usher that he's a very rich man. And not only that, he wears beautiful clothes, again in verse number two. And goodly apparel. That word there is a word that literally means bright or brilliant. It was used in the New Testament to describe the gorgeous robe that Herod uh war. It was used to describe the shining garments of the angels who appeared to Cornelius. Beautiful white dazzling ramen. So it's obvious that this man is a rich man, a noteworthy person. Incidentally, in this day and age, the Romans were a white a toga that was a symbol of status and perhaps this is what he's referring to here this white toga and so his outward appearance is very very impressive You know, some people all they care about is outward appearance. A woman said to her husband when after church, she said, Did you notice Mrs. So-and-so? Did you notice what she was wearing? The husband said, No He said, well, did you notice Mrs. Smith's new dress? The husband said no. Well, did you notice Mrs. Jones' new hat? The husband said no. The wife said, well, I don't know why you go to church. You never get anything out of it. Some people all they're all about show. So we see the description of the rich man. But then notice the despising of the poor. Look in verse number two again. And notice the latter phrase, and there came all and also a poor man in vile raiment. Look at the word vile there in classical Greek. This is the word indicated dry dirt. Apparently, then here's a man that was wearing soiled clothes Uh he really couldn't afford to have them cleaned perhaps. Perhaps he tried wearing a a white toga, but it was soiled Incidentally, did you know that the Romans were the first one to come up with the idea of dry cleaning? That's not anything new. The Romans did that. And when a toga was soiled, it was called sorted Where we get our words sorted today, of course. So here's this man, he comes in, he's not so impressive. In fact, he's already in, he's already seated. But he's wearing vile raiment. Perhaps he's wearing his work clothes because he could not uh really uh uh have time to perhaps change, or maybe this is all that he had Most people back in this day didn't have a wardrobe of clothes. They had one set, and this is what they had to wear. They wore it to wherever they went. So here's this poor man as he comes to the church. And then notice the other thing, not only the despising of this poor man, notice the discrimination of the usher. Look in verse number two. And ye have respect to him That weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place, and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool. So in essence, the usher says to the rich man, Sir, you sit here. He says to the poor man who's already seated, get out of that seat. And you, sir, you rich man, you sit here. Now keep in mind that in synagogues back in this day and in churches, they didn't have a lot of seating, they didn't have a lot of chairs, and sometimes there was only a a small amount of seating, other people actually sat on the floor, or sometimes on a footstool. And so here in this story, this Poor man is already seated, but the rich man comes in and the usher says to the poor man, get out of that seat. This is a good seat And he gives this good seat to the rich man. And he says to the poor man, go over here and sit under this footstool. Don't even sit on a footstool, but sit on the floor. You sit over here. And what is the response to that? What does James say? He says in verse 4, are ye then, are you not then par partial? In yourselves and become judges of evil thoughts. When Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy went to church when he was governor of California, An usher ushered them to the front of the sanctuary and asked two college students to move from their seats. And they moved those college students out of those seats and said, you sit over here off to the side. And they sat Governor Reagan and his wife in the good siege. And the pastor to his credit when he saw that went over to the two college students and said, As long as I'm pastor of this church, that will never happen to you again. To his credit. Well James, this is exactly what James is talking about here. The usher looks at this poor man and says he's not worth much. He makes a judgment. And James calls this evil. Never judge a jewel because it comes in a plain box And notice what he says. It's called respect of persons. Look in verse 1, my brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. Persons. This is an interesting word here in the Greek. It literally means to lay hold of a person's face. It's a compound word, the word face and lembano to lay hold of to seize And it's someone who looks only on outward appearance. It makes a judgment based on a person's face And again, James in verse 4 says, are ye not then partial in yourselves and are become judges of evil thoughts? What kind of message was this usher communicating about the church? James says this is evil. You don't make judgments based on outward appearance. You don't make prejudicial judgments like this. This has no place in the church. What if someone in the court of law, what if a judge in the court of law made a judgment based on just a person's appearance And not on reality, the facts. That would be wrong. Well, I propose to you, and I think James is proposing here, that it's even more evil when this sort of thing happens in the church And so, what I want you to see from this passage then are just, and we don't have a lot of time this morning, but I want to show you three reasons why partiality in the church is wrong. And this is the message that James is giving us here in chapter two. Here's the first reason. Number one, when you show partiality in church, you sin against God's Son. You sin against Jesus. Look in verse 1. My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory! With respect of persons. Now, notice where he first of all he says, my brethren. He's not talking to those outside the church. He's talking to those in the church. We expect prejudice in the world because people are just sinners by nature. But those who are washed in the blood of Jesus Christ, those who know Jesus, this should not be in the church. This should not be a part of the church And so James is writing to the church. And notice that, notice the title. Well, first of all, notice where it says, have not the faith, or do not hold the faith. We could say it like this. In other words, don't hold the faith and claim to be a Christian showing partiality. Don't claim to be a child of God. Don't claim to be a Christian and yet be partial in your judgment. That is inconsistent. That's favoritism. And notice the title that he gives Jesus. He calls them the Lord of Glory. Now, why does he say that? And by the way, I don't want to give you all the technicalities here, but I believe the best way to translate this is hold not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is glory. Jesus is glory. In other words, again, don't claim to have this faith, the faith of Jesus, if you're partial. Who is Jesus? He is glory. In other words, Jesus is a perfect example of why you don't judge a book by its cover. He's a perfect example of this whole thing. You say, why? Well, because Jesus was the glory of God. He was the glory of God robed in human flesh. You remember in the Old Testament, whenever God wanted to manifest his presence, always it was with some Shekinah glory. Remember we see this in the Garden of Eden. The by uh the Jews say it was the Shekinah glory of God that appeared to Adam on the face of Moses when Moses went up into the presence of the Lord And his face lit up with the glory of God, that radiant glory. And then in the temple, when the temple was dedicated, the glory of God came there. It hovered over the tabernacle in the wilderness and so on. Whenever God would manifest his presence, he would always do it with Shekinah glory. But then the Bible says in John 1. 14, the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. He was the glory of God. Now, the disciples could say we beheld his glory. You remember in Matthew 17, the Mount of Transfiguration? When all the glory that was in Jesus began to shine outwardly He was changed there before the eyes of the disciples, and they saw the glory of God. It was in Jesus. But now listen, normally, however, that glory was veiled. When people saw Jesus in that day, they didn't see that glory that was inside. They saw just a typical, ordinary, average person. He was a poorer person. Jesus grew up in a lower class home. He said, foxes have holes and the birds of the air have their nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. He was a homeless person. He was a poor person. He was an ordinary person. The Bible says in Isaiah 53, too, he has no form or comeliness. And when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire of him. In other words, there was nothing about Jesus' outward appearance that would set him apart. To everyone who saw him, he was just a common, ordinary Poor person who had no home. The religious experts in Jesus Day judged them by their human standards and they rejected them He came from the wrong city. He came from Nazareth. Remember the saying in the New Testament, can any good thing come from Nazareth? He didn't grow up in the right town He did not graduate from their accepted schools. He didn't have the official Jewish approval. As a rabbi. He had no wealth. His followers were a nondescript group of men. But despite all of that, he was the very glory of God. He was the glory of God. And by the way, when you receive Jesus, you have this glory in you as well. Did you know that? The Bible says we have this treasure in earthen vessels. So People, when they saw Jesus, they judged them outwardly, and yet inwardly he was the very glory of God. And I think that's why James uses this title. He was the Lord glory. He was the Lord of glory. Who is glory? And there's another reason why he used Jesus, and that is because during the earthly ministry of Jesus, Jesus never showed partiality. The Bible says in Romans 2. 11, God is no respecter of persons. Even Jesus' enemies acknowledged that he showed no favoritism. Write down Matthew 22, 16. It says, And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true and teachest the way of God in truth. Neither carest thou for any man, for thou regardest not the person of men. In other words, they were saying, we uh we understand, Jesus, that you don't use partiality, you don't show favoritism That you're not impressed with riches or social status when Jesus saw the poor widow who gave two mites. He boasted about her, but he passed over the Pharisees who boasted in all their riches. He saw the potential in the lives of all those that were around them. And James is saying, listen, when you show partiality, you sin against God's Son. But here's number two. When you show partiality, you sin against God's Son, but number two, you also side with God's enemies. You side with God's enemies. Look at verse number five Hearken, my beloved brethren, hath not God chosen the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he has promised to them that love him? Now James is saying here that when you side with these rich that were oppressing the poor, James is saying you're siding with the enemies of God. And he uses three rhetorical questions here to prove his point. Now, James is not teaching that the church should ignore and despise the rich because of their riches. That would be reverse discrimination. The church should show God's loving grace to all. No matter what, rich or poor, no matter where they're they've come from, race, place, face, it doesn't matter. All should be shown the love and the grace of God. What he's saying is this: the rich should not be given preferential treatment to the detriment of the poor in an attempt to court them for their money or their influence. That's the point that he's making. And notice the three rhetorical questions. Look at verse 5. Hearken, my beloved brethren. Has not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith? Hasn't God chosen the poor to be rich in faith? That's the first question. This usher in this story failed to see that God has a special compassion for the poor. Abraham Lincoln said, God must love poor people. He made so many of them. Look throughout Scripture and you'll see God's gentle love and compassion to the to the poor. In Leviticus 19, 15, ye shall not be partial to the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty. In Leviticus 23 he said, when you reap your harvest of your land, you shall not make it clean. Let the corners of thy field Go, let it stay there when thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather any gleanings of thy harvest, thou shalt leave them under the poor to the stranger I am the Lord your God. You see, God had a system in the Old Testament that when a man would reap his field, he wouldn't reap the corners, he would leave the corners there unreaped. And then they wouldn't go back in and get the cleanings. Always when you reap the harvest, you always leave some behind God said, don't go back in and get the rest of it. Leave it there. Why? So that the poor could come in. And they could get what they need out of that. That was God's welfare system, you could say. in the Old Testament because God loves the poor, God was concerned about the poor. And there are many, many other verses that I don't have time to give you that shows this. And James is saying, first of all, God chose the poor to be rich in faith. Many of those who don't have a lot of this world's goods, they're rich in faith. And Paul referred to this in 1 Corinthians 1. 26. For you see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. You see, God takes the weak and he makes them witnesses. God takes the base and he makes them believers. God takes the despised and he makes them disciples. He takes nobodies and he makes them nobilities. When they come to Jesus Christ. And James says they're rich in faith. Thank God. Thank God. That's what I am. And God had compassion on me. He says they're rich in faith. He says they're heirs to the kingdom of God. In verse number five, he said, There and heirs of the kingdom which he had promised to them that love him. God has ordained that they become heirs of the kingdom. Jesus said the meek shall inherit the earth. So just remember that. Remember when you're adding up your money, don't forget about the kingdom that you've inherited. Two little girls were adding up their money, both had five pennies, but one of them said, I have ten, because my father promised me five pennies when I get home. Don't forget your assets when you get home. You have inherited a kingdom. Promise to you. But here's the next question James asked. Don't rich men oppress you? Look at verse six. But they but you have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you and draw you before the judgment scene. And in this day many wealthy, wicked were oppressing the poor. William Barclay writes, quote, if a creditor met a debtor on the street, he could seize him by the neck of his robe and nearly throttling him and literally drag him into the law courts, end quote. That's what James is describing here. He's describing this lack of compassion. It's not wealth that James is condemning, but lack of compassion. And understanding on the part of the wealthy towards those who are poor. Again, James is not against rich people. And let me qualify this. Some of the most wonderful Christians I've ever met are wealthy people. And they have worked hard and through their industry, God has blessed them. They've given a portion to the Lord. James is not against rich people. He's against a lack of compassion. He's against not showing mercy. And then he says this, don't they blaspheme the name of Jesus? That's the third question. Look in verse 7. Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by which ye are called The literal rendering of this, we could say it like this, which has been called upon you, or that name which has been placed upon This refers to the practice of a wife taking her husband's name or a child taking the name of the father. The idea is this that as a Christian, you have taken the name of Christ upon you You wear the name of Christ. And this is the idea that James is talking about here, that when they when that when there's partiality against a Christian who wears the name of Christ, it's partiality, it's blaspheming Jesus. It's against Jesus. It's blaspheming his wonderful name. Because the Christian is so one with Christ, he's so identified with Christ. And God has given them that name of His Son. That when you do it to them, you do it to Jesus. Jesus said, in as much as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren, you have done it what? You've done it unto me That's the oneness that he's talking about there. I read about a woman living on the wrong side of the tracks who wanted to join a very fashionable, affluent church. And she talked to the pastor about it And the pastor, of course, was very reluctant for a woman like this to come into his church. And so he suggested that she go carefully think about it for a week. And so she thought about it and came back and at the end of the week she said, Yes, I I I I still want to join. He said, Well now let's not be hasty about it. Go home and read your Bible every day for a week. And then come back and tell me what you think. And she did that and came back and said, Yes, I still want to be a member of the church. He said, Now wait a minute, let's not be so hasty Go home and read your Bible. Or excuse me, go home and pray for a week and then come back and tell me. And she never came back. And one day he happened to meet her on the street. He said, hey, I told you to pray about this. This was six months later. She said, yes, I prayed. And while I was praying, the Lord Jesus said, listen, don't worry about not getting into that church I've been trying to get in that church for years. When you show partiality, you sin against God's Son. When you show partiality, you side with God's enemies against Christ. But here's the last point. When you show partiality, you stand against God's law. You stand against God's law. Look at verse number 8. If ye fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Ye do well. But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors. For whosoever shall keep the whole law and yet offend at one point is guilty of all. Now the word transgressor means to stand against or stand beside. The idea of standing opposite of something. And James is saying when you show partiality, you're taking the opposite side of God's law. What law? The law of love. The law I think that James is referring to is Leviticus nineteen eighteen, ye shall love your neighbor as yourself. And of course Jesus would later on come along and say This is the greatest, the first and greatest commandment, that you love God with all your heart, that you love your neighbor as yourself, because in this all of the law is fulfilled. In what way? When Moses came down from Mount Sinai, he had two tablets. On one tablet it had laws about loving God. On the other tablet, laws about loving your neighbor. If you love God with all your heart, you love your neighbor yourself, you're fulfilling all the law of God. Because if you read carefully the Old Testament laws, you're going to find out that directly or indirectly they relate to one of those two things, loving God or loving your neighbor. They all relate to those things. And the illustration I like to use when the Apostle Paul uses in First Corinthians nine, nine When he gives an example of an Old Testament law, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And then Paul asks the question: Is God that concerned about oxen? That's not the point of this law. It's not oxen that he's so concerned about. It's your neighbor. Because here's the idea. Back in this day not everyone had an oxen. When it was time to reap the grain and and then separate the wheat from the chaff or or the the wheat from the the chaff there when treading out the grain, you would borrow your neighbor's ox. And when you borrowed your neighbor's ox you wouldn't muzzle them. You would let the ox eat as they went along Why? Because you didn't want to give back to your neighbor an ox that was starving, having worked for you, and not you wouldn't let them eat up any of your profits because you muzzled them. And that's not being good to your neighbor. To kind of use it in today's day, what if what if uh I lent you my car on a full tank and when you returned it to me it was on E? That's not being very neighborly. You want to give the car back on a full tank. Because I lent it to you on a full tank. Well when the man lent his oxen to you, he had a full tank. But you don't want to give it back to them on E. That's the idea there. It's loving your neighbor. So all the law has the idea of loving God and loving your neighbor. And if you do those things, then you fulfill the law of love. Now some people might reason and say, well, partiality, that's not really a big deal. The law of love. You know, I after all I haven't committed adultery. I haven't uh committed murder. Now James understands people reasoning like that and James is like a brilliant lawyer. And notice how he deals with that. Look in chapter two and look in verse ten, for whosoever shall keep the whole law, yet offended one point is guilty of what? If you fail to keep even one of those laws, you've you're guilty of all of it. That's the point. And so it is a big deal. It is a sin. D. L. Moody compared God's law to a chain with ten lengths, with a man suspended over a precipice. And DL Moody said, if ten lengths break, that man falls to his doom. But then he says, if five links break, that man falls to his doom. But then he said, if one link breaks He falls just the same to his doom. You disobey one commandment. You have violated all of the law. This is a big matter with Almighty God. You violate his law, the law of love. So notice how he ends this up, and we're coming to a close. Look at verse 12. So speak ye, and so do as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. Look at verse 13, a beautiful verse. For he shall have judgment without mercy that has showed no mercy, and mercy rejoices against the day of judgment. In other words, James is saying, look, you better show mercy. If you want God to show mercy to you one day, when it comes time when you stand before God, I don't know about you, but when I stand before God, I want God to be very merciful to me. So therefore, I'm going to show mercy to others. The idea is the mercy that I show to others is the mercy that God is going to show me one day. And so be merciful, be loving to all, to everyone Let me close with this. From the book on seven habits of a successful man, the author writes about a Something that happened to him one day on a subway in New York. And let me just read to you what he wrote. He said, I remember one Sunday morning on a subway in New York, people were sitting quietly, some reading newspapers, some lost in thought Some resting with their eyes closed. It was a calm and peaceful scene. Then suddenly a man with his children entered the subway car. He said the children were so loud and rambunctious that instantly the whole climate changed. He said the man sat down next to me and closed his eyes, apparently oblivious to the situation. The children were yelling back and forth, throwing things, even grabbing people's papers. It was very disturbing. And yet the man sitting next to me did nothing. He wrote, It was difficult not to feel irritated. I could not believe that he could be so insensitive as to let his children run wild like that and do nothing about it, taking no responsibility at all. And it was easy to see that everyone else on the subway felt irritated. So finally, with what I thought was unusual patience and restraint, I turned to him and said, Sir, your children are really disturbing a lot of people. I wonder if you could not control them a little more. He said the man lifted his gaze as if to come to a consciousness of the situation for the first time. And he said softly, Oh, you're right. I guess I should do something about it. He said, we just came from the hospital where their mother died about an hour ago. I don't know what to think. I guess they don't know how to handle it either. End quote. Friend, you and I do not know what bitter experiences that people have when they come through the doors of this church. We have no idea. What they have been through. And when they come into this place, may they always feel the love of Jesus Christ. May they always feel the compassion of God May they always feel accepted no matter who they are or where they're from. May they feel total accepted. Acceptance. Let me tell you, in this divided world, the world needs to see a united church. And they need to see a place and they need to be able to say, Behold how they love one another. Behold how they love one another. Let grace always be a church where everybody is somebody because Jesus Christ is Lord. Now when God looks at you, it's not through the Blue Book of Society or through the Bank Book of Finances, but it's through the Lamb's Book of Life. And when God divides humanity, he doesn't do it vertically, he does it horizontally. You're either saved or lost. You're either a saint or you ain't. But God wants all of you to know him. He wants all of you to be his child. He wants you to come to him and accept him. You say, well who are you? I tell you who I am. I'm a nobody telling everybody about somebody that can save anybody. If they'll come to him in faith. Let's bow for prayer together. Let's bow for prayer together. We thank you, Lord Jesus, for your wonderful love and grace. We thank you, Lord, that we have been loved and accepted by you. You are the Lord of glory, and we give you thanks and we give you praise. And Lord, I pray that there's someone here today that has never trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. That Lord, they would come to Him today. That they would realize that Jesus is the only way of salvation. He is the way, the truth, and the life. May they feel loved. May they realize that on the cross, your love was demonstrated to them You paid their sin debt so that salvation is a gift. May they come to you today. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, if you're here today and you've never trusted Jesus as your Savior, I want you to know something. Jesus loves you very much. It doesn't matter who you are or where you're from. Or what you've done. He loves you. And he wants to save you today. Would you come to him? Would you reach out to him in faith? Would you pray and say, Yes, Jesus, I'm a sinner. I need you. I'm asking you to forgive me for my sin and be my Lord and Savior. Is that your prayer? Would you lift your hand and say, yes, that's me. I'm coming to Jesus today, just as I am. I want to know Christ I'm looking around, I don't see any hand. Or do you know for sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ? Alright. My second invitation is to the children of God Would you be willing to say here today that this is the type of testimony that I want to have? No partiality in my life. I want to love everyone as they are the way Jesus loves them. May God help me to be that kind of a Christian. Pray for me. Would you lift your hand and say, yes, that's me. I want to show the grace and love and mercy and compassion of Jesus to all Father, bless your word to every hearing heart. We thank you and we praise you. In Jesus' matless name. Amen.