Good to see everybody here tonight. And as you know, we're studying the book of Habakkuk, so I invite you to take your Bibles open to that Old Testament book. If you weren't here last week, I gave some directions on how to get there. I'll give them again Go to the book of Malachi and then turn back three books. So go to Malachi and make a left. You go past a few and then you'll come to the book of Habakkuk. And w we kind of did a little introduction in this book last week and I want to continue. Now this is a minor prophet. It's called a minor prophet because it's one of the smaller books in the Old Testament But the fact that they're called a minor prophet is not because of what they say is not that important. In fact, you'll find out if you read some of these minor prophets that they are incredibly powerful in their message. And that's surely the way it is with the the book of Habakkuk. It is a very powerful book, and uh we saw that the prophet Habakkuk was a man who lived at the same time as the prophet Jeremiah. So just remember that in your mind. When Jeremiah was ministering in Jerusalem, at that same time, Jeremiah was also there ministering in the same city. And tonight I want to just, the title of the sermon is Why God? Why God? That one question right there On February fifteenth, nineteen forty seven, an Avianca Airline flight was flying to Quito, Ecuador They were on their way uh to uh uh having a good safe journey, everything was going well, but suddenly Seemingly out of nowhere, they crashed into a fourteen thousand foot mountain. And the and of course this DC four plane uh Then dropped a flaming mass of metal into the ravine below, not far from Bogotol. One of the people on board that flight was a young man from New York. His name was Glenn Chambers He was called to serve the Lord. He was going to Ecuador to be a part of the voice of the Andes ministry there And that day before he got on the plane, he was in the terminal in Miami, and he wanted to write a final note to his mother. So he reached down on the floor in the terminal, picked up a piece of paper. It was kind of an advertisement or something, and it had the question why on it And he kind of wrote a note around that question, put it in the envelope, and then mailed it to his mother. And somewhere between the the time of his mailing it and before she received it, she received the news that her son was killed in this plane crash. And then she got the letter from her son and she opened it up and when she unfolded the letter, their staring her in the face was this one single word sprawled across the center, why? Why? Someone said that of all questions, this is the most searching question that there is. One man wrote this, it falls from the lips of the mother who delivers a stillborn The wife who learns of her husband's tragic death, the child who is told daddy won't be coming home anymore, the struggling father of five who loses his job The close friend of one who commits suicide. Why? Why me? Why now? Why this? Now I think that if we're honest, all of us had at some point in our Christian life have asked this question, why God? God, why are you allowing these things to happen to me? And if you've ever asked that question, you're not alone. As you go through the Bible, what you'll find that there are many saints in the Old Testament that ask this same question. They asked why God? For example, Rebecca, Lord, why am I like this? She said this in Genesis 25, verse 22. Moses said, Lord, why me? Why are you sending me to be your representative? And then Gideon said, Lord, why has all of these things happened to us? Job said in Job 7, verse 20, Why have you set me as your target? Why do I labor in vain? The psalmist said this, Lord, why do you stand afar off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Why are you so far from helping me? And on we could go. And so the book of Habakkuk, just like we said last week, it kind of opens up with a question mark. And what Habakkuk is basically doing here in the very first part of this chapter is he's asking the question, why? You remember his name Habakkuk actually is from the Hebrew word, which means to wrestle or to embrace. And Warren Wordsby said he's doing both of these in this book. He's wrestling with God, but ultimately he will come to embrace God. He's wrestling with the Lord at the very beginning because Habakkuk is looking at the world around him and he sees a lot of things going on and it's troubling his soul. He's not the kind of person that would walk through life with his eyes closed, blind to everything around him. What's the old expression? Ignorance is bliss. You know, not to know, I just don't want to know. Habakkuk wasn't that kind of person. No, he had his eyes wide open. In fact, look at verse 1. The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did what? See And then in verse number 3, he says, Lord, why do you show me iniquity? His eyes were wide open. He was very aware of everything that was going on around him. And later on in chapter 2, verse 1, he says, I will stand upon my watch. And then he says, and I will see. What the Lord will say. So he was very alert to the things that were go what was going on around him, and a lot of these things caused him to have a burden. In fact, the word for burden here means to lift up, and thus it means something that was very weighty Habakkuk had a very weighty burden that was weighing him down. You might say that he was a perplexed prophet. He was bewildered when he was looking around and seeing all these things that was going on. Maybe you're the same way. Maybe there's some things that happened in your life that's caused you a bit of bewilderment. And you're just wondering why, Lord. In our staff meeting this week, Sherry told me that they had a wonderful It's For You mom meeting. They had a lot of moms down there. We had a lot a lot of new moms that were in there. That's a wonderful thing But the theme of the meeting for this month of October was on infant loss awareness, because the month of October is Infant Loss Awareness Month. And that was something that was proclaimed you may not know this. I didn't know it until I researched it this week, that that was a month that was proclaimed infant awaren uh uh infant loss awareness was uh proclaimed, I should say, by the President Ronald Reagan, in 1988. And so they did the appropriate thing and they wanted to minister to moms who had suffered the loss of a of a baby. of an infant. And Sherry was telling us that at that meeting that night a woman came for the first time who that very day lost a baby through miscarriage. And the and the Lord used that to minister to her. You never know the burdens that people carry. And no doubt that she had many questions in her own mind. Why, Lord? Why does these things Well, I hope that the study of Habakkuk will be an encouragement to you if you're a bit bewildered about things, if you're a bit perplexed about the happenings around you. then I hope that Hobakah will be a lesson for you. He's a good model for all of us that sometimes wrestle with the Lord. Now, the one idea that I want you to get out of this whole message is this. It's not unspiritual to ask God why. In fact, asking why is an opportunity to reassert your faith To strengthen yourself in the Lord, to embrace the Lord. Now let me be very clear. It's not a good idea to go and complain to other people about things that happen to you and complain about God If you remember reading in Psalm 73, the writer of Psalm 73 was complaining about why it seemed like the wicked were prospering and the righteous were uh they were basically struggling And one verse in there says this, if I really said what I really felt, I think I would offend people around me. But basically what he did is he refrained from talking to people around him, which I think is a good practice. Friend, when you're wrestling over faith issues, sometimes the best thing to do is just go straight to God. In fact, that is the best thing to do This is exactly what Habakkuk is doing. When he's asking these questions, when he's giving his complaints, he's not going to other prophets. He's not going to other people. He's not going to the people in the city of Jerusalem and complaining about God What is he doing here? He's going straight to God Himself. When he asks these questions, he goes straight to the Lord. And so what I want you to see here are three whys. that Habakkuk asked God and how these questions really provided an opportunity for him to strengthen his faith. So here's the first Why question? It has to do with prayer. God, why don't you answer my prayer? Look at verse 2. Oh Lord, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? Even cry unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save. So the first question is, God, why are you not hearing me? God, why don't you answer my prayer? Have you ever felt that way? You ever felt like God's ignoring you? God's not hearing your prayer? You're not alone because Habakkuk felt this way? He was praying about things that were happening in his nation. I'm sure a lot of his requests were political requests of things going on around him. I think a lot of his requests were personal. He was praying a lot about things in his own life And it seems like the Lord was not hearing them because nothing was happening, nothing was changing. And you might think, well, maybe he didn't really pray enough. Maybe he quit praying. Maybe he was hit or miss in his prayers. Well that doesn't seem to be the problem because I want you to notice he prayed frequently. The wording of verse two implies that, right? Notice again, O Lord, how long shall I cry? What does that imply? He didn't just do it once, he's been doing it a lot How long? That's time, Lord. I've been I've been asking these things for a long time. He was he was he prayed frequently You ever pray for something for a long time and still no answer came? Sometimes some prayer requests take a long time. before God will answer. I read about Evan Roberts, he prayed for eleven years before the Welsh Revival broke out. Eleven years I read about the great prayer warrior, George Mueller. You may have heard this before, where he prayed for people to be saved for many years. In fact, he wrote in his prayer journal in November of 1844, he said I began to pray for the conversion of five individuals. He said I prayed every day without a single intermission, whether sick or in health, on the land or on the sea Whatever the pressure of my engagement might be, he said eighteen months elapsed before the first of the five was converted. I thank God and prayed for the others. Five years elapsed and then the second was converted. I thank my God for the second and prayed for the third. Day by day I continued to pray for them. Six years passed before the third was converted. I thank God for three, but I went on praying for the two. He goes on to say that he continued to pray for the other two for, you ready for this? 36 years. He just continued praying for the other two. And then he wrote this, I hope in God I pray on and look for the answer. They're not converted yet, but they will be And then in 1897, 52 years after he began to pray, these two men were finally converted. He had already died. But after he died, they were finally converted. You know, there are some prayer requests that you won't get an answer to until after you're in heaven already. But he just kept praying. But now admittedly when we pray and we pray and there seems that as if nothing's really going on, we can get a little frustrated And I think Habakkuk was that way. He was a bit frustrated again in verse two. He sounds that way, Lord, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? How long, Lord, before you're going to listen to me, before you're going to hear me Well you might think, well perhaps he wasn't praying with enough fervency. Maybe his prayers were not passionate. Someone said cold prayers freeze before they reach heaven. Spurgeon said this, prayer without fervency is like hunting with a dead dog. I heard about a new army recruit who was given guard duty at 2 a. m. He did his best for a while to stay awake, but when 4 a. m. came he was just, you know, his head was down, he was asleep. And suddenly he was roused just a little bit. And he could look down and see the the boots of what he recognized was his commanding officer. And he remembered the severe penalty for falling asleep on guard duty. But this young man was smart. And rather than picking up his head He stayed in that position for just a little bit longer, and then he said, Amen. Picked up his head. Some Christians are like that and they're praying. They're not really praying. They're just pretending to pray. Cold and passionless prayers really don't get anything done What did James say? It's the effectual, what, fervent prayer of a righteous man that avails much. Well maybe maybe Habakkuk wasn't praying with enough fervency. Well that wasn't a problem. Because look again in verse number two. Lord, how long shall I cry? Look, circle the first time you see the word cry, and thou wilt not hear. Even cry out unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save Circle the word again. Now it's the same word in our English rendering, English spelling, but did you know that there are two different Hebrew words here for cry? It's not the same word You know, moms can tell you this. When they listen to their children, they know the different kinds of cries. Okay, we fathers perhaps we're not as good at this. as moms are. But mom knows the cry that's an irritation type cry. They know the injury type cry, right? Moms, is that true? You know when a when a pr when your child is crying, uh when it's out of fear or out of just plain uh attention, they just want attention. And and you know, I I marvel at this. I hear a baby crying the mom's sitting there going, No, he he just he just wants attention. And then I hear what I think is the same cry and then she jumps up and runs. But she knows the different kind of cries. Well what we see here is that Habakkuk is crying out, and on the surface it looks like it's the same thing, but on a deeper level, these are different kinds of cries that he's giving to the Lord. He does pray fervently because, first of all, look at the first word cry. That's the word sava and it simply means to help. Lord help me Help me. Habakkuk was saying, God, I just need your help. And God didn't seem to respond. Later on in the New Testament, the disciples had that problem. They were in a boat during a life-threatening storm And you remember Jesus was asleep and they were crying out and they finally said, Lord, don't you care that we perish? It may seem like God is asleep, and you have to wake him up, get his attention. But notice in verse number two how it ends. Lord, how long will I cry? And thou wilt not hear. Seems like God, you're not hearing me. And again, I think Habakkuk sounds a bit irritated here. Why don't you help me? David said the same thing in Psalm 13. How long will thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? That seems pretty blunt. Lord, are you going to forget me forever? How long will thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? And so on. And there were others that had the same idea there. So he's just crying out for help, Lord, help me. But then notice the second word cry. It is a different word, zaak, and it simply means to scream with a loud voice. With a disturbed heart that has the idea of crying out in horror. Now his fervency is building. First he's asking God for help, but now he's really crying out. He's screaming out to God. He's becoming fervent in his prayer. So the problem wasn't the frequency of his prayers, because he was praying continually, and the problem wasn't the fervency of his prayers. Because he was really crying out. He was very passionate in his cries. And notice one of the reasons why he was so passionate. Look what he says in verse 2. I cry out unto thee of violence. That word violence he uses six times in this little book. And it's the same word that's used to describe the condition of the world right before the flood. Remember in Genesis 6 where it says the whole earth was filled with violence. It was just a terrible, terrible uh uh community of violence and wickedness before the flood. And here Habakkuk is using the same word. Lord, all around me is violence. And he was very concerned about it. He was living in a very difficult time. This was probably the time when King Jehoiakim, a very wicked king, was on the throne in 609 BC And Hobakus kind of acting like a mediator on behalf of the righteous people suffering at the hands of violent men. Righteous people were suffering because of the violent people all around. Violence was going unchecked. I don't know about you, but I think sometimes we're living in a very similar place in history today, don't you? Violence all around And then he says, and Lord, it doesn't seem like you're going to save. So he was concerned about that. And he's saying, Lord, why don't you answer my prayer? And so the first question is in reference to prayer. God, why don't you answer me? But here's the second why question, and it's in reference to punishment. God, why don't you judge sin and evil? Look in verse three. Why dost thou show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance? For spoiling and violence are before me. And there are they that that raise up strife and contention. Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth. For the wicked doth come pass about the righteous, therefore wrong judgment proceeds. And it's like Kobak is saying, now God, why aren't you doing anything? It just seems like you're tolerating a lot of this sin that's going on around. Why are you inactive? Why don't you judge them? And notice in verse 3 he describes the circumstances. We said that Hobaku was living in a very hard time, but what we see here is something very interesting. He gives three couplets. Two words uh phrases three times to really describe it. He says, first of all, iniquity and grievance in verse 3. You show me iniquity and cause me to behold grievance. Grievous simply means wrongdoing, iniquity, just trouble. And then there's spoiling and violence. Spoiling against is again is violent treatment. Um violence has the idea of the intent to injure someone, and really it's the idea of brutality and robbery, plundering someone, taking their goods. It's a time when uh murder and Seth is going on. And then he uses the expression in verse three at the end, strife and contention. So what was it like? It was iniquity and wrongdoing, it was spoiling and violence. There's strife and contention. And the strife and contention refers to fightings and disputings. People just couldn't get along We don't see that today, do we? There's no strife or contention in our country, is there? Turn on your television, it's all over the place We just we're so divided. There's so much strife. There's so much contention. And Habakku saying, that's what it's like. That's the circumstances. But look at the consequences. What are the consequences of it? Look in verse 4. Therefore the law is slacked. And when he uses the word slack there, it's the Hebrew word meaning paralyzed. The law is paralyzed, Lord. The law can do nothing. The law is weak. No ability to do anything. Seems like today we have more lawyers and more courts and more judges and more laws. And yet there's more lawlessness than ever. Because the law is slack. Even lawyers themselves admit that our legal system is paralyzed. Sometimes it takes years for them to settle a case. And it just seems like meanwhile people are getting away with murder. Things are happening all around. So the law is paralyzed, the law is perverted. Look in verse four again. He says, Therefore the law is slack, and judgment doth never go forth. That is justice Seems like it's not really happening. For the wicked doth compass about the righteous. Therefore wrong judgment proceeds. The word wrong here to bend or to twist out of sh a shape. It has the idea of perversion there. And Habakkuk is saying that justice never prevails. There's injustice all around. The wicked helm in the righteous. The righteous are surrounded Lord, it's just really bad. Why don't you do something about this? Why don't you help us? That's what he's saying And you know, a lot of times, let me just say this. You know, it's very easy and it's the nature of human nature that we want to blame God for everything. Did you ever notice that? The first thing we want to do is we say, God, why? Now we make the mistakes, but then we want to blame God. What's the Bible say in Proverbs? The foolishness of a man perverts his way, but then his heart frets against the Lord. You make a bunch of bad decisions, and then you say, Oh God, why? Why are you doing this? Well, maybe it's a good idea that we take some responsibility for ourselves. You know what? Israel didn't want God's law Israel didn't want to obey the commandments. They didn't want to follow the Lord. And now they were reaping the consequences of that. Look at their society now, according to Habakkuk. They rejected the law of God, and this is what you get And we can say the same thing for our country. For the most part, our country doesn't want to hear Bible preaching. Our country doesn't want to hear gospel preachers. They don't want to hear the word of God. They don't want to hear anything about the Ten Commandments. We've torn the Ten Commandments down off of our public places. We don't want any reminder of God anywhere around us And then when you do that and you kick God out of government and school and wherever else, you're going to suffer the consequences for it. Don't look up and say, oh God, why? Well, the reason is very simple God says, if you don't want me, I'll let you have your own way. And don't later come and say, God, why aren't you doing something? I read an article this week when I was researching this. I don't know if you ever heard of a boxer. Anybody watch Boxing Still? I don't recommend it, but I'm just saying I was reading this article about a boxer named Ray Boom Boom Mancini. And he was in a ring and he was boxing and he killed his opponent in the ring. A very tragic story. And then after the end of the, when they were interviewing him, this is what he said. He said, Sometimes I wonder why God does things like this. I mean, maybe it was you. Why are you blaming this on God? And so a lot of times our own self-destructive bent is what really causes these problems But nevertheless, here's a back, and he's saying, Lord, why don't you do something about this? Why don't you judge sin and evil? But then here's the third why question. He asks why in reference to prayer And then he asked why in reference to punishment, but then he asked why in reference to patience. We could say it like this, God, why don't you act quickly? Because we see again the expression in verse number two, how long shall I cry? How long? How long do we have to wait, Lord? You ever get impatient waiting on God? Again, this this do you know the word how long this expression is you found 61 times in the Bible in reference to God? God, how long? How long? How long do we have to wait? Lord, how long are you going to be silent sixty-one times? Now again, I mentioned this before, but we live in a society today that teaches us instant gratification. We have an instant society. We we have the invention of push buttons where you can get anything at just a moment's notice and we're accustomed to having things immediately. We get meals now from a microwave oven We have fast food drive ins. We uh we don't have to roll down the windows anywhere, we just push a button We go to the ATM. We don't have to get out of our car. We got instant text messaging on our cell phones. We got instant weather radar on the internet, instant connections. You get instant news, and by the way, y'all stop looking at your phones while I'm preaching. You get all this information instantly, the latest. Everything's instant. And then some of you will stay home and say, I'll just listen on my phone to Pastor Harmon later. You know what? When you try to do that, it's going to call you out You know what, we have to learn to be patient. Even God has long patience. The Bible says the Lord Himself waits. God waits. God's purposes usually cannot be accomplished very quickly. And so here's Hubakah, and he's saying, Lord, how long? Why? Now how does God respond? We looked a little bit, but I want you to look again. Look in there's two ways that God answers him. Look in verse number five. Behold ye among the heathen. This is the Lord now. Now first Habakkuk is given his complaint to God, and now God's going to answer him in verse five, Behold ye among the heathen, and regard and wonder marvelously, for I will work a work in your days which ye will not believe, though it be told you So remember what God's saying to Habakkuk? Habakkuk, you think I'm not doing anything? You think I'm inactive? You're totally wrong. I'm working. Friend, don't you ever get the idea that God is not working, He's always at work. The Lord never sleeps. The Bible says in Psalm 121, He never slumbers, He never sleeps. He's constantly working. And God says, Abacta, I am working a work. And it's such an amazing, wonderful, marvelous work. He said, if I told it all to you, you wouldn't believe it. If I tried to lay it all out before you, you wouldn't really comprehend it. But I'm working. You may not see it, but I am working. And you know what I noticed that God's response here, he doesn't take time to answer each one of Habakkuk's why questions. He just assures Abaka, look, I am at work, and the end is going to be good. And if I tried to explain it all to you, you wouldn't get it. And so here's the next thing that he says. Jump ahead to chapter 2. Look down at verse 4, because again, this is one of the most important verses in all the Bible. And when he says in chapter two, remember, Habakkuk says, I'm going to go to my tower and I'm going to wait for God to answer. So he does that in verse 4 it says, Behold, here's God again speaking. Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him. But the just shall live by what? His faith. The just shall live by faith. And here's what God's calling upon us to do: He's calling us to live by faith, not by sight. Yeah, from where you sit, you look around. Things don't look so good to you, but you know what? God doesn't see the way you see. We're not called to live by sight. We're called to walk by faith. To walk by faith means to look at earth from heaven's point of view. To walk by sight means to look at heaven from earth's point of view. And God's saying, Habakkuk, I'm not inactive and I'm not indifferent. I'm working. And God is a holy God. Habakkuk confesses that. Look in verse 12. Art thou not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? Of course he is. He's holy. He is sovereign. He's from everlasting. He knows what he's doing. And God's reminding him of that. I am working a work. In a sense, what he's saying is it's all going to work out good. You just have to walk by faith. Friend, God doesn't have time to explain every detail of his sovereign providences and all of creation to us We just as Christians we just have to have faith in that God knows what he's doing. And trust God. In fact, if you put verse chapter 1 verse 5 and chapter 2 verse 4 next to each other in this message, it's really kind of an Old Testament Romans 8. 28. God said, I'm doing a marvelous work. You're just going to have to trust me, Habakkuk. You're just going to have to walk by faith. Because the answer will come to you in time. Some of the questions you have, you'll get answered in time. It might be here, you might get some of these answers right here on earth. After a while, looking in the rearview mirror, and you might it might Come to you. It might dawn on you why I'm doing what I'm doing. But sometimes you might not get answers here. You might not get answers until you get to heaven And then you'll see. But meanwhile, what does God call us to do? He calls us to walk by faith. And so my question to you is: can you trust the character of God? Can you trust the word of God? That's really the whole issue here. I was reading about one National Football League running back. His name is Sherman Smith, a great running back. He was uh Played for the uh Seattle Seahawks. They loved him up there. Just a really great person, not just because of his athletic skill, but also he was a dedicated Christian. He loved the Lord And the kind of Christian that was so passionate, they're hard to find. And that's what the way he was. And without warning, he was traded suddenly to San Diego. And while he was there in San Diego, he injured his knee and he couldn't play anymore. And while he was trying to rehab his knee, he asked God why. God, why? I mean I was doing good where I was and suddenly I'm traded and now I'm injured and now I can't play and here I am rehabbing this knee. But while he was in rehab He was able to witness to a teammate, a young man, and he led this young man to Christ. And this young man became a passionate Believer. Very evangelistic. You know what that young man's doing now? He's now an outstanding youth evangelist preaching the word all over the world, leading thousands of young people to Christ. And Sherman Smith looks back on that and goes, you know, I can understand that now. Why God had to do what he did. And you know what? Sometimes we can look back and we can understand, but maybe not. But Habakkuk is saying, look, no matter what, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to trust in the Lord. Now let me just give you some application to this. We saw the why questions, but here Habakkuk is teaching us to live by faith. And faith reminds us that we might not fully grasp God's design for our life, but we still have to trust that the Lord is doing what's best for us. So let me give you a few principles of application. Here's number one. Faith believes that God is too wise to make a mistake. If God's calling you to live by faith, Then you have to understand that he's too wise to make any mistake. The God of the universe has a plan for our lives, and you know what he's doing? He's busy enacting that plan. He's enacting it for all of us. And we don't see the way the Lord sees. Someone said we we view life you know like looking at a prey through a rolled up newspaper. You ever look at something for through a rolled up newspaper? You're not going to be able to see from the uh with a lot of peripheral vision You can only see what's right in front of you. What comes right before you. That's the way we see. But when God sees, God looks and he sees past, present, and future. It's all open and before him In fact, you know what the word providence means? Pro is a word that means before, uh before, and then video, which means to see. Providence is a combination of those two words. To see before And providence means simply this, that God's actions today are based on what he sees tomorrow. He sees everything. And so his actions are based on the way he sees things. And you know what? God is too wise to make any mistake, and that's what faith says. But here's the second application. Faith believes that God is too kind to be cruel. God is never malicious in dealing with us. He's never arbitrary. He always, always does what is best, what is right, what is good. Like Paul said, he works all things together. For good to those who what? Love God. Now notice he didn't say all things are good. He said all things work together for good. You might be going through some bad things right now. But God's promise says, I'll take those bad things and I'll work them out for good. To those who love God. Notice it doesn't say I'll do it for everyone. This promises to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. And what is God's purpose? Part of his purpose. is to conform you to the image of Jesus Christ. But here's the third application. Faith believes that God always knows best and does best in his time. He always knows what is best, and he always does what is best in his own time. The struggles that we have in our life now are for our own good. They strengthen us. I heard about a man who was watching a little cocoon and he saw a butterfly trying to burst out of it. And so he thought that he would help the butterfly out. He was struggling so much. So he took out his pin knife and he cut the cocoon and the butterfly flopped out. But it couldn't fly. It couldn't extend its wings. And it laid there and it died. You see, in God's design, the struggle was there to strengthen the wings so that it could fly. And the struggles that God brings us in our life are meant for our good, to strengthen us. But here's another application principle. Faith believes that God is in control, therefore we can rest. We believe that God is in control, and therefore we rest in Him. Let me give you the last one here. Faith believes that we can cannot trace the hand of God. And so we must trust the heart of God. And again, we can fast forward. This is one of the greatest statements of faith that we find in Habakkuk 3, verse 17, where Habakkuk says, although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall the fruit be in the vines, nor the labor of the olives shall fail the labor of the olives shall fail, and the field shall yield no meat The flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls. Yet will I rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. And so again The book opens up with a question mark, but it closes with the exclamation point. It opens up with worry, and it closes with worship. It opens up with anguish and all that melts into adoration. You see, because the way Habakkuk dealt with his wise is to bring them to the before the who. You see, that's what we do. The wise should cause us to embrace the who And say, you know what? I believe God knows what he's doing. I don't understand it all, and sometimes it might hurt. But ultimately I trust in his character. And that's what Habakkuk was saying. No matter what, God, I'm going to trust you. No matter what, I will trust you. Let's let's bow for prayer. And so, Father, I pray that this would encourage your saints tonight. Or perhaps there are some here struggling over some things that are going on in their life. They just need some encouragement for you. I pray, Lord, that we'll follow the example of this great prophet. It's okay, Lord, to bring our wives to you. To you and to you alone. Lay them before your throne and get lost in the who and who you are. To know that you're a good God and we can trust you. Even though the circumstances look like they're out of control, Lord, we know you are in control. And Lord, may we say like Habakkuk, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. And I will joy in the God of my salvation. So, Father, bless these words to hearing hearts tonight. And with heads bowed, can I just ask you a question? Just two things real quick before we're dismissed. Can I ask you a friend, do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? You might be here tonight, maybe someone invited you to come. Well, I just don't believe it's an accident that you're here. The Lord brought you here to hear his word. And maybe he's speaking to you tonight. You have a lot of questions. There are a lot of things you don't understand. You know what you need to do? Bring your wives to the cross at Christ. Lay them down. This one thing you can know for sure, friend. All of your sins were placed on him at Calvary. He died for your sin so that you could have eternal life in heaven. And if you've never come to the cross, And ask him for salvation, for forgiveness. He's inviting you now to do that very thing. Would you be willing to pray and say, Lord Jesus, save me? Come into my heart, make me your child. And then if you're a Christian, I just want to pray for you. Maybe you are just struggling. Maybe you're wrestling like Kabaka. And all your wrestling needs to turn into your embracing the Who. How many say, Lord, would you just pray for me that the Lord would give me the strength that I need, the faith that I need to just trust him? Is that your prayer tonight, dear friend? God bless you. Let's pray. Father, again, thank you. For your word, may it strengthen and encourage your people tonight, for your glory's sake, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen