We are in the study of Zechariah on Wednesday night, so would you take your Bibles and open please to Zachariah? In case you forgot where that is, go to the book of Malachi and then go back one book. Malachi is the last book in the Old Testament. And we've been doing this study for a while now. We're in chapter 12 tonight, and uh we just have a few chapters left in this study. So Zechariah chapter 12 is where we'll be tonight. And the study is in the form of a question, will Jerusalem survive? Will Jerusalem survive? That's the title of the sermon. On October the 1st, Iran fired 181 missiles into Israel and Jerusalem. You heard that on the news. And many of the missiles were aimed at Jerusalem. The IDF intercepted most of them. However, there were several that landed, and the explosion could be heard all across Israel from Jerusalem to the Jordan Valley. A reporter, state uh state local reporters that were reporting on that story lay on the ground uh during live broadcast. And so it was a very dangerous situation. Nations continue to rise against Israel and arise against Jerusalem. And people ask the question, will Jerusalem survive? Now you might be here tonight and saying, you know, what has that got to do with me? I'm I'm not Jewish and I'm just trying to survive myself getting through the week. What's it have to do with me? Well it's got everything to do with you because your salvation and your future is directly linked to the promises that God made to Israel. Almost 100% of Bible prophecies are related to Israel. Israel continues to be a focal point in today's world. It's in the headlines, not only in our papers here in America, but also papers all around the world. The eyes of the world are focused on that little nation, and well they should be. Because as the Jew goes, as Israel goes, so goes the world. Israel is God's blueprint, is God's plan for what he's going to do in the end days. And here in this chapter, we're going to look at some amazing prophecies about Jerusalem and Israel. And it shouldn't surprise us of the hostility that we see directed against Israel and Jerusalem. Why is that? Well, because in verse 3 of chapter 12 that we see here, the latter part of verse 3, it says, all the people of the earth shall be gathered together against it. We're seeing that today. What we're seeing today, I think, is a foreshadowing of the coming battle in the end days. The clouds of Armageddon are gathering even as we're talking. But with so many nations coming against us, so many people that seem to be against Israel and the Jew, many again are wondering, will Israel survive? Will will Jerusalem survive? And the Bible gives an emphatic answer and it's yes. In fact in verse three there's a warning that God gives in verse three, all that burden themselves with it shall be cut to pieces. If you try to destroy Jerusalem, you better be careful, you may be cutting yourself to pieces. Or smashed to pieces. The Bible teaches us that Israel will be the peace center of the world one day. There's never going to be peace in this world until there's peace. in Jerusalem. And there won't be peace in Jerusalem until the Prince of Peace, Jesus, comes back and takes his throne in Jerusalem. That's the reason the Bible tells us to pray for the peace of Jerusalem. Israel will also be the glory center of the world. The Bible says, one of these days the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea, that the law shall go forth from Zion, and God is going to rule and reign on this earth from Jerusalem. So in God's sight, Jerusalem is his capital city. It's the his most important city uh in the world, not Washington, not Moscow, not Tokyo, not Paris, not London, but Jerusalem is God's important city. And right now there's pressure being put on Israel to sacrifice our sovereignty. and to take Jerusalem, make it an international city rather than the capital city of God's people. Now, again, the reason you ought to be concerned about this is because it's inseparably link inseparably linked to your future. Um now with all that in mind, this section of Zechariah, chapters twelve to chapter fourteen Is one section that is labeled the burden of the Lord or the Word of the Lord. Look at verse one. The burden of the word of the Lord for Israel. Again, this is one unit, these next three chapters. Now the burden, what is the burden? Why does he call this a burden? um this revelation. Well the word burden here is a has the idea of something that is weighty, something that is heavy, something that is very important. We might say that's a heavy message. That's a weighty message. And this is a burden or the word for God about Israel in the coming days And so Zechariah's audience would have been very interested in this subject because you remember they had returned, they were re-establishing Jerusalem and the nation of Israel. They were trying to rebuild the city. They were still in the midst of rubble, many of them. They were still a fragile community, and they were wondering if they were going to survive. They were wondering if they had a future. What's going to happen to their city? Will it survive? And so in this oracle, Zachariah assures all of the people there that the city would not only survive, but it will be around until the end of the age. Although many nations would come against it, God will protect her from her enemies. Now, some say, well, these prophecies that Zechariah gives here, they don't look at them as being future. And my c and they look at them as being already fulfilled. And my question to that would be, when? When were they fulfilled? I think these are yet future for two reasons. First of all, nothing yet in history fulfills this prophecy There's been no coalition of nations or battles as of yet that can compare to what Zechariah is prophesying here. Zachariah describes how Israel will be sifted and purged in the final conflict of the earth's history. shall be forced to face the nations of the earth alone. This burden can't be applied to any of the calamities that we've seen so far. It can't be applied to what Israel went through with under Nebuchadnezzar and Babylon. It can't be applied to Antiochus Epiphanes and his Greco-Roman Macedonian Empire against Israel. Certainly the Messiah has not yet appeared on the Mount of Olives as described in chapter 14. We know that hasn't happened. The Messiah hasn't come and split the mountain in half, like it says. And also there's another reason why I think this is yet future, it's because the repetition of the phrase that we see here is in that day, in that day. We see that several times in this section. In fact, it's used in this these next three chapters, it's going to be used about 17 times. And this is a eschatology expression, an eschatological expression about what is going to happen in the future. Now, we saw in chapter 11 of Zechariah that the prophecy of how Israel will reject the true shepherd. And that happened literally during the earthly ministry of Jesus. And their rejection of the true shepherd will open up the door for them to receive a wicked shepherd, as we saw in chapter eleven. And so this will plunge the nation into a time of severe testing, as Jeremiah talks about in chapter 30, and Daniel talks about it. He calls it a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation. And all this will take place, I believe, during that period of time that the Bible calls the Great Tribulation. The time of trouble culminates in the Battle of Armageddon. And when a contingent of all the armies of the world will come and bring their forces against Israel, and the Lord will uh step in just before Israel is annihilated. Now with all that in mind, I want you to see two reasons why. Jerusalem will survive. Here's number one, the sovereign command of the Father. Just write down the sovereign command of the Father Now in these opening verses, verses 1 to 9, God is establishing the fact that he is sovereign. And I love the way that God is introduced here. Look in verse number 1 again. which stretches forth the heavens. Here's the God who stretches out the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him. Our God is the creator. He is the sustainer of the universe. He formed the stars. He formed the seas. He formed the spirit of man. That means he's sovereign over not only the material world, but also the spiritual world. He's sovereign over everything. Make no mistake, beloved, God is the one who's in charge. It's not going to be man who's going to be calling the shots and writing the history. It is God who is in charge. And we see God is working. We see the expression, I will, I will, throughout these first nine verses. Look in verse number two. Behold, I will make Jerusalem a trembling cup. Verse three, I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone. Verse four, I will smite every house, I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah. Verse six, I will make, verse nine, I will destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. Certainly that hasn't happened God has the authority to make it happen. Jerusalem will be attacked. And Zechariah makes that clear in chapter 13 and chapter 14. The city will be captured. Houses will be plundered. There's a lot of things that Zachariah says is going to happen before the Lord steps in and intervenes. to protect his people. God's only going to allow these nations to go so far, and then God's going to step in and deliver. So in verses 2 down to verse 9, it pictures how God is going to watch over Jerusalem in that day. Notice two things. What I call the pictures of Jerusalem. Verses 2 and 3 uses two images that describe the fate of the armies that come against her. Jerusalem is going to be verse 2. Behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling unto all the people around about. Trembling is the word that means reeling, it's the idea of drunkenness. And a cup is a familiar image for judgment. And so the nations will greedily swallow up Jerusalem like a cup of wine. But instead of that wine satisfying them, it'll make them stagger and fall to the ground. The contents of that cup will make them sick. And the nations will reel around like a drunken man And so uh you know they're not going to get what they expected. It's going to be a judgment from God. History shows that every nation that's ever tried to destroy the Jews has been itself destroyed. And it will be no different when the nations collectively attack God's people in that day, it says in verse number three, and in that day. Here's the uh here's the other image. And in that day, uh I will make Jerusalem a burdensome stone. That's the next image there. A burdensome stone, literally a stone of burden. This is a heavy stone, a stone that's unmovable In fact, if you try to move this stone, you're going to get injured. This stone's so heavy that you might try to move it, but it'll smash you to pieces to pieces. And so God will use the assault on Israel to judge those nations that are itself is coming against it. They're going to gather together thinking they're going to destroy Israel. And God will use that occasion to gather them together because it is God who will be judging them, not Israel that will be destroyed. In fact, it says in Joel chapter 3, verse 2, I will gather all nations and I will bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. This is the work of God. God will gather them all together. So we see these pictures of Jerusalem and how God's going to protect it in that day, but also what I call the protection of Jerusalem. And verses four to nine. God gives a detailed description of his protection. First of all, this is what I call the confused Calvary. Look in verse number four. And in that day, saith the Lord, I will smite every horse with astonishment, and his rider with madness. And so, you know, here God will strike the horses with panic, the riders with madness, they'll end up fighting each other. Scholars differ over whether there'll be a literal Calvary in the campaign of Armageddon or whether the prophecy uses language of the times. to talk about what will happen in the future, language that would be understood by those that would read in that audience in that day. One scholar says maybe God will cause the computer systems to go haywire. Maybe. That happens at times. But Kaiser wrote this, the great Old Testament scholar Walt Kaiser, the writer describes the implements of future war using battle imagery he knew in his own day And just as the writers of the Old Testament describe worship in the future day, when our Lord will be present using familiar terms of worship for their day. And so this will happen, and then God will open up the eyes of the house of Judah, the Bible says, as we see there in verse number four. And uh when God opens up their eyes, they will look to the Lord. So notice the next thing I see here is the enlightened governors in verses five and six. Notice what says, In the governors of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength, and in the Lord of hosts their God And in that day I will make the governors of Judah like a hearth of fire among the wood, and like a torch of fire and a sheaf, and they shall devour all the people round about on the right hand and on the left So what's happening here? The when it says governors, it's just talking about the leaders that time in of Judah. There's different opinion on what this really means. I think what it's talking about is that The faith of those in Jerusalem during that day will inspire the leaders so that the leaders join in this fight. And they'll see that suddenly that Yahweh is their God. And they will turn on her enemy like a fire. A kind of the picture here is like a fire pan in a wood pile. They'll devour all the surrounding people. But then there's also the humble inhabitants. Look in verse 7. And the Lord shall save the tents of Judah first. Before God defends Jerusalem in that day, he will defend the tents of Judah. What are the tents of Judah? That's a reference to the outlying area. And God will defend them first. Why? So that the inhabitants of Jerusalem will have no cause of feeling superior to the rest of the people or think that they did that in their own strength. Look what it says in the rest of verse 7. That the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do not magnify themselves against Judah. They will definitely know that it was divine intervention, not their own strength that gave the victory. But also in verse number eight In that day shall the Lord defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David, and the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of the Lord before them God will protect Jerusalem and so empower its soldiers that the weakest of them will fight like David, the slayer of the giant Goliath. And the nations will not merely be fighting Israel, they'll be doing battle with God because God will be there on Israel's side And so Murel Unger says it like this The Lord will manifest Himself in such deliverance as will honor faith, unite His people, then cause them mutually to make their boast holy in the Lord instead of partially in themselves. And then there's the destroyed enemy. Look in verse nine. And it shall come to pass in that day that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. In that day, God says I will destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem. Jerusalem will survive because of God's sovereign command. Make no mistake about it, God's in charge of all of this. Merle Unger again wrote this: When God sets his mind to doing it, it's a done deal. Very true. When God sets his mind to do it, it's a done deal. Now, God's reason for delivering his chosen people physically is so that he can save them spiritually. That's God's purpose in this. Many people can testify that in their life, God protected them physically Ultimately to save them spiritually. I was talking to a man on the phone today, and he was talking about his life, and and uh God's been working mightily in his heart, and he was talking about all the times in his past when he should have died. And he was in danger, and he was saying, you know, God protected me, God watched over me physically, because I believed God was going to save me spiritually. And I think that that could be said of many, many believers. John Newton, the wicked slave trader, who was saved and became a pastor, and later wrote the hymn, Amazing Grace, How Sweet the Sound. On more than one occasion, he narrowly escaped death before he was saved. Once he fell overboard when he was drunk. And, you know, when you fall overboard on a ship out in the open sea like that, you're pretty much a goner. But someone harpooned him. That's how they saved him. He was harpooned like a like a fish. And he was pulled on board. To get him back on deck. He served, you know, he was hard-pooning, but he survived the thing. That's what God does in his mercy. God saves physically that he might save someone spiritually. If God has spared your life, but you haven't come to faith in Christ, He wants you to turn to Him in faith today. He wants you to come to know him. And there's another lesson here, and that is this. The safest place for any of God's people is in the center of his will. When Zechariah wrote, there were still many Jews that were in Babylon that hadn't yet come back to Jerusalem, and they were probably thinking in their mind, it's not safe to be in Jerusalem. You know, there's no army there, there's no wall around the city You know, the best place to d to be is right here in Babylon where we're safe. But Zechariah is showing that even when hostile nations come against his people, if you're in the center of God's will, you're in the best place that you can be. Because God is a greater defense than walls and a city. Now this doesn't mean that we should throw caution into the wind. There are times when we have to, you know, flee for our lives. We have to be careful. But it does mean that God watches over his people and no one can touch them unless it's in God's plan or according to God's purpose. So will Jerusalem survive? Yeah, it will survive because of the sovereign command of the Father. But here's number two. This is the last reason, second last, the second coming of the Savior. Now, all of this has to do with the coming of Christ, his second advent. And just like You know, his first advent, we see prophecies fulfilled. We'll see prophecies fulfilled with his second advent. And first of all, notice an amazing providence I call this. Look in verse number 10. This is one of the most remarkable prophecies in all the Bible. Look at verse ten. And I will pour upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and of supplication. And they shall look upon me whom they have pierced And they shall mourn for him as one that mourneth for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for him as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn. This is an amazing verse. And you can't explain this verse apart from the incarnation, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, of the one who is both God and man. Think about this with me. Now, throughout this passage, who's the speaker? It's God, right? God's doing the talking. And here, God says, they will look upon me, whom they have pierced. The word pierced here is consistently used in the Old Testament to talk about being run through with a sword or being run through with a spear. Now, the question is, how are you going to pierce God with a spear? How can you do that? God's all the way in heaven. God's a spirit You see, in order for this to happen, God has to become a man. He has to take on human flesh. And the Jewish nation in Israel cannot someday look on this one whom they pierce unless he is then living. Having been raised from the dead. And so this all speaks about the incarnation, God becoming a man, God being crucified, and then being able to be raised in order for them to look upon him one day. Raised and ascended. All that is implied in this prophecy. How was this prophecy fulfilled? Well, this was fulfilled in John chapter 19 of the Gospel of John You remember that when the Jews didn't want bodies hanging on the cross on the Sabbath, they asked for the legs of the victims to be broken. Remember that? John chapter 19, verse 33, and when they came to Jesus and saw that he was dead already, they break not his legs. But listen to this, verse 34. But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side. And forthwith there came out blood and water. And then John goes on to say, for these things were done that the scripture should be fulfilled. A bone of him shall not be broken. That's one passage, but then he quotes out of Zechariah verse 37. And another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced An amazing fulfillment of this prophecy here. Think about this when the soldier thrust the spear to the side of Jesus as Jesus hung on the cross. He didn't know it, but he inadvertently was fulfilling Bible prophecy. He was fulfilling exactly what God said. Here's another illustration of the concurrence between human responsibility and divine sovereignty. That soldier did whatever he wanted to do out of his own depraved, wicked nature, just to s thrust a spear into the side of Jesus who had already died at that time. And yet what he chose to do was a port according to the plan of God to fulfill this very prophecy here. He fulfilled God's plan. This is an amazing providence here. But then I want you to see next an amazing deliverance. Amazing deliverance. Now, in the earlier verses of chapter 12, Israel is delivered from physical harm, but the rest of this chapter and on in the chapter 13 is something far more wonderful. Israel is delivered from spiritual harm. God will deliver Israel from sin. By God's grace, the Jewish people will finally recognize Jesus as their Messiah. Again, look at verse 10. And I will pour upon the house of David and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem the spirit of grace and supplication. Look at the word spirit there. Some interpret this to mean an attitude. But I don't think that's what's being talked about here. I think this is a reference to the Holy Spirit. And so notice all three persons of the Trinity are mentioned in verse 10, if you look at it closely. You see, it's the Spirit of God that convicts us of sin, right? It's the Spirit of God who convicts us of righteousness. That is, we have no righteousness. Our righteousness will not do. He convicts us of judgment to come Unless the Spirit of God opens our eyes to see who we are and parts new life, we're still dead in our trespasses and sins. And it is the Spirit of God who by grace convicts, and he will convict Israel of its sin, of rejecting the Messiah. And then notice where it says the spirit of grace. Grace is God's undeserved favor. Not that we have to work or do anything to earn God's merit. It is just God's undeserved favor. It is the Spirit of God that leads people to supplication. That's a prayer of repentance. You know, it means that when God saves a person, he graciously intervenes in the sinner's heart and causes that person to rock. To cry out, save me, O God. That's the spirit of supplication. God, I'm a sinner. I see who I really am. And I need you to save me, or I'm going to perish, Lord. And so that's what God is going to do for all of Israel. But you notice God's salvation also brings us to see the Savior accurately. It says they will look upon me whom they have pierced. They will suddenly their eyes will be open and they will see Jesus for who he really is. That's all part of God's way of salvation. Again, you know, you can't explain this other than God becoming a man. They'll look at the Savior and realize God became a man and that he is the Savior of the world. He had to be sinless, and he was the sacrifice for sin. There is no salvation apart from Jesus Christ and him crucified, apart from his shedding of his blood. There's no forgiveness of sins. So, you must apply the blood of Christ, his shed blood to your sins. Now, the Jews who will be living during the Battle of Armageddon, they did not physically kill Jesus. True, their ancestors did, but here God says they will look upon me whom they have pierced. We need to apply this to our own selves. You say, well, wait a minute. They didn't pierce him? Yeah, but it was their sins that put him there. And cause him to be pierced. We can also say the same of us. I pierced Christ by my sins. You pierce Christ because of your sins. If you don't see that fact, you don't understand God's salvation And salvation also requires that we look to the Lord in faith. That's what they do here. When it says look on, it means to look on with favor, with high esteem. They'll come to see him for who he is, and it'll be the look of faith, the same look that is talked about in Numbers twenty-one when Moses erected the serpent in the wilderness, and people looked upon it and were saved. They'll look upon their Savior, the Bible says. So verse 10 connects, think about this, the first advent and the second advent. At his first advent, Messiah was pierced for the sins of the world. At his second coming, Israel will look upon and recognize Jesus, the promised Messiah, and put their faith in him. This is an amazing deliverance from God. But then here's the third thing, an amazing repentance. We see true repentance. We'll begin in verse 10. And it's this true repentance of Israel is demonstrated by their deep sorrow. And verse ten, and they shall mourn for him as one mourneth for his only son. And they shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn. Word mourn here to lament or to wail. And notice what it says in verse 11. And in that day there shall be great morning in Jerusalem, as the morning of Hadad Rimon, in the valley of Megedon. And where is what does that mean? Hadad Riman is a site near Megiddo. It's named after two Syrian gods, Hadad and Rim Rahman. But this was a place where the great king of Judah, Josiah, was killed by the Pharaoh, Nico, in a battle there. And when Josiah was killed, they all mourned. And that's what he's saying. The people will mourn, just like their firstborn was taken from them, or like the day when people mourned for Josiah, when he was killed by Pharaoh Niku in that battle. God's salvation produces genuine repentance in the hearts of people. Ongoing repentance is the thing that marks a true believer If you're truly a believer, you'll know it by your ongoing repentance. I'm not just sorry for my sin yesterday. I'm sorry for them today. And I live in constant movement towards God and fighting sin in my life with a continual repentant heart and attitude. That is the thing that marks the people of God. But also notice that this repentance should be personal. Don't miss this. In verses 12 to 14, it's the whole nation that will mourn over their sin of unbelief. From the leaders to those citizens, each clan with their wives and themselves. But also this repentance is not only going to be collectively But it must be personally, individually. Because let me tell you something, I can't repent, or I can't repent for somebody else. Right? I can't repent on my wife's behalf. She has to personally repent for her own sins. And there she doesn't have a lot. Honey. But look what it says here. The reason I mention why is because look what it says here in verse verse 12. And the land shall mourn every family apart. The family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart, the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart, and the family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives Tart And the family of the house of Shimei apart, and their wives apart. So what is he saying here? Because it's saying individually. They have to repent individually. apart by themselves. That is, uh, you know, the the husband has to go to himself by himself, and he has to weep and mourn over his own sins. And apart from him, the wife has to go, and she has to mourn and repent of her own sins and have sorrow over her own sins. And then the families, the children in those families, they all got to have their own individual personal repentance That's what it's saying. So this is a repentance and a morning that's not just collectively for all the people, but it's collectively because each individual must personally repent. For their own sins before the Lord. Let me give you one more lesson and we'll be done. But when I look at this, what I see Is that God uses um God often prepares us for salvation through trials He often prepares us through trials. And what I mean by that is, you know, before God saves the Jews, the Jews fearlessly, He's going to take them through the awful events of the tribulation. And it'll culminate with that horrifying campaign of Armageddon. And again, it's God who will bring those nations together there. It's God that's going to put his people through these trials. And why does God do that? God is softening their heart. God is preparing their heart so that they will turn to their Messiah. That's often what God will do to get people's attention. You might be here going through a dark trial tonight, a deep dark trial. And you're and you might even be questioning God. You might even be wondering, you know, if God's real. Why am I going through all of this? Well, there's a purpose for it. God uses trials to draw people to himself, to bring people to himself. In the chemistry lab, every substance has its melting point And the same is true of the hard human heart. God knows your melting point. And God knows how to bring you to that place where you are broken and melted before Him. Before the trials, we didn't need God. We thought that we were in control. And God has to yank the carpet out from under us by bringing in all the armies of the world against us, so to speak. Which will cause us to cry out to him for help. You know, I think about my father. Today was two years on this day that he went to heaven. And um I remember my father's salvation. And I remember those days. He was going through some really deep dark trials. In his life. And um he was burdened down by these trials. And and then I suddenly I saw him get saved, turn to the Lord. And it was those dark trials that softened his heart. That got him ready. God used that to draw him to the Lord Jesus. Thank God for that. Because the greatest thing that happened in our home was that my father got saved. Because that impacted all of us. So, in closing, will Jerusalem survive? Yes, it will. Because God is watching over it, and God has plans for it And just as God is watching over Jerusalem, God is watching over you. You're precious in its sight. Just as precious as that ancient city. Now, why did God give this remarkable prophecy to people who lived at least 2,500 years before it would take place? Well, it's not so that we could draw up our prophecy charts and read books and see how soon these things would take place. He gave these prophecies to comfort his people as they went through trials and faced threats. He was demonstrating to all that he is a mighty Savior. And that no one can touch his people apart from his purpose. And that's how God wants us to apply it. If you haven't repented of your sins and trusted in Christ. God's kept you alive until now so that you will. So that you'll reach out to Him. And even if you have trust in Christ and you are a child of God, He wants you to know that no enemy Whether tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or sword or peril or even death itself will be able to separate you from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let's go off a prayer together tonight. Just take a moment, friend. Do you know the Lord? Have you truly repented and put your faith in Christ? And maybe you're going through a trial tonight and you need God's grace and help. And just remember that God has a purpose in it. He's drawing you to himself. Maybe you just need to run to him right now. right where you are in prayer and ask God to to be your help, to be your strength To be your salvation. Because that's what He is to us. We can't do this by ourselves, friends. We can't do this by ourselves. We have to have the Lord's strength. Father, thank you for your grace, your magnificent grace. Thank you, Lord, for sending your Son Jesus, the one who was pierced for our sins. Thank you, Father, for constantly watching over us. We know that you allow things to go in our life, but Lord, it's because you're drawing us near. You're strengthening us, teaching us to trust in you all the more. Doing your perfecting work in every heart in life. And we're going to survive. For the same reason, Lord, that Jerusalem will survive, because Lord, you're watching over it. And Lord, your people will survive because you're watching over each one of them. And you're defending them. And you're being their strength and their help. Thank you, Lord, for opening our eyes to see how beautiful Jesus is, the beauty of Christ. Our Savior, our Lord, our Messiah. Thank you, Father, for showing us that and for giving us eyes of faith to see Jesus. Lord, may we continually look to Him all the days of our life. Strengthen us, Lord. Bless your people, we pray in Jesus' name.