Take your Bibles and open please to the book of James, chapter 3, this morning. We're going to continue our series on Sunday morning. We've been studying in James. We're going to continue that study. And we're going to pick up where we left off in chapter 3. We're going to deal with this morning verses 13 down to verse number 18. While you're finding that One time I was preaching in Dering, New Hampshire, and I had the opportunity to stop by the great uh the farmhouse of the great American poet, Robert Frost. Robert Frost died in 1963, but his farmhouse has pretty much been preserved uh since the time that he died. And going out the back of that farmhouse, I noticed that there was a pathway that went into the woods um there in the back of that farmhouse. And I couldn't help but wonder, as I saw that path, if this was not the source of the inspiration for the poem that he wrote The Road Not Taken. Now, that's a very famous poem. Perhaps some of you here this morning had to memorize that poem in English lit class or you know of the poem at least, and it has some very famous lines. The last lines of the poem are very well known, and I quote, Two roads diverged in a wood. And I I took the one last traveled by, and that has made all the difference. You remember those words? Well, this whole poem reminds us that we are travelers in this thing called life. And in the path of life, this path is filled with choices that we must make. We have to make those choices, and then we have to live with the consequence of those choices. Now this concept we see in the scripture. Don't we see that often in the Bible, where the Bible calls upon us to make a choice? Between perhaps a road that that diverges, a fork in the road, we come to, we have to choose to go one way or we have to choose to go the other way. And we see that all over in the scripture, right? Eve made a choice in the beginning She chose, of course you know, the fruit that brought the downfall to mankind. Lot chose the well-watered plains of Sodom. Moses chose to suffer affliction with his people rather to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Elijah on Mount Carmel said, How long halt ye between two opinions? And later Jesus would say there is a broad road and there is a narrow road. You have to choose which road that you will travel. Which gate, the narrow gate, the broad gate, which leads to the broad road, and so on. Now that whole idea we see here in James chapter 3, verses 13 down to verse 18, but it's in reference to this idea of wisdom. And James is telling us that in this world that we travel, there are two sources of wisdom. There are two roads, we could say. that diverge. There's a fork in the road. You're going to have to choose which road that you're going to navigate. There is the wisdom of man and there's the wisdom of God. And you have to choose. And to help us make this choice, what James does here in these verses is give us the contrast between the two. It's very simple. He's going to tell us what true wisdom looks like The wisdom of the world as opposed to heavenly wisdom. So I want you to see two things this morning, two basic points. First of all, I want to talk about the conduct of true wisdom. And then secondly, I want to talk about the contrast. between two ways. Okay? So let's talk about the first thing, the conduct of true wisdom. Look again in verse 13. Who is a wise man? And endued with knowledge among you, let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. Look at the word wisdom there. That is the word is the Greek word is Sophia And it actually means skill in living. Now, I want to define wisdom before you because it's one of those concepts that sometimes it's hard to really get a handle on. I've heard all kinds of different definitions. But let me tell you what I think the biblical understanding of wisdom is. It is not theoretical, it is practical. It is not measured by degrees, it is measured by deeds. We could say it like this. It is not a matter of acquiring truth in lectures, but applying truth to life. We could say it like this. It is the choices that you make. It is the sum total of the choices that you make. Now, think about this. Our life is made up of the decisions and the choices that we have made What you are here this morning is the sum total of the choices and the decisions that you have made up until this point in your life. Whatever circumstance you're in, whatever situation find you, it is the to is some total of choices that have been made. And so in a very real sense our life is made up of choices. Almost everything we do And our life is a matter of choice. When you get up in the morning, you choose what to do. You made a good choice this morning. You chose to come to God's house after probably staying up late. Uh you you could have chosen like some people did this morning. We don't know. We won't mention their names, but They chose to stay home or to not come to church, but you chose to come. Where to work? How to speak to other people. And then so on. We can just there's a multitude of things. There are some choices we make that are very quick. We have to make them on the spot. And there are some choices that we make that we made a long time ago, and that one choice is a choice that continues to guide our lives. But just like big doors swing on small hinges, big events can sometimes swing on small choices that we make. And so therefore the choices that we make are very important because they make up our life. Now, in the ancient world, wisdom was simply viewed as making the right choice Choice. That's it. That's wisdom. Wisdom is making the right choices in life. And by the way, this is why wise people were so valued in the ancient world. This is why in the ancient world you find all kind of wisdom literature in different cultures in Egypt and in Babylon and in all the other places you find wisdom literature because the wise man was a certain sect of people. prophets and priests and kings in Israel and in other cultures you also had a label called the wise men. And these wise men were men that were Supposedly men filled with wisdom, and it could help people, especially young people, learn to make the right choices in life. Now, there's a distinctiveness, however, that Christianity brings to this idea of wisdom. Christianity came along, and really it started in the Old Testament with Israel. Christianity came along and said wisdom is not just making a right decision, it is making a righteous decision. It is making a godly decision. That's the twist. And therefore, true wisdom begins with fearing God. The Bible says in Proverbs, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of what? Wisdom. And so if you want to make Not just the right choices, but righteous choices and godly choices. It starts with fearing the Lord. And so we could say wisdom is this. Wisdom is a reverential attitude that leads to right. actions or right choices. Now, today there are many people who claim to be wise. Many people who claim to have wisdom, go to the average bookstore and look at the how-to section. Look at all the books that are there on that. And you get all kind of philosophies. Out there people that can tell you how you can do this or how you can be that or how you can concede uh and concede in this and so on. Many people claiming to be to be wise. There are many Dr. Phils out there, if you will. Many psychologists, psychiatrists, and so on that claim to have wisdom. But James asks a very practical question. Look again in verse 13. Who is a wise man? And endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. James says, if you claim to be wise You claim to have wisdom, then show me. Remember James is the show me book of the Bible. He says, don't just talk about it. Show me. If you're wise, show me out of a good conversation. Now look at the word conversation there. That is one of our uh Old English words in the King James and and when it was the King James translators chose this word in the day that they chose this word, it actually meant a lifestyle or manner of life. It's not your talk. When you say conversation here, it's not how you talk. It's how you live. It's how you walk. And so he's saying, James is saying, therefore, if you have real wisdom Let me look at your life. Let me see your life. Because true wisdom will be seen in a godly lifestyle It's what you do. Look at the word good there. Kalos, it means beautiful. Out of a good conversation, a beautiful life, a commendable life, a moral life, a godly life. Look at the lives of many well-known philosophers and thinkers that are out there and see what kind of life that they live. And what you'll find if you study the lives of these so-called wise men You'll find out that they lived a very morally corrupt life. And they many times were very depressed. Nietzsche, the German philosopher, and spent the last ten years of his life in an insane asylum And we could go down the list. I don't want to name off all these philosophers. You can just look at it for yourself, but trust me when I say that when you look at their life, there was nothing really godly about it. And so James is saying, if you have real wisdom, there will be a godliness about it. But then secondly, there will be a gentleness about it. Look again in verse 13. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. Look at the word where it says meekness there. That's a Greek word that actually means gentleness. It's one of the beatitudes and one of the fruits of the Spirit. And it doesn't mean a person who is mild or weak. A lot of times when we think of meekness, we think of weakness, but that's not the biblical concept. In fact, the biblical concept is strength under control. This word was used of a horse, a wild horse that had been tamed, and the strength of that horse is under control. That's the idea here. Another illustration I could give you, let's just say there's a piano up here, and I lifted the piano. Now I know that look, you're looking at me saying, no way, you can't lift that piano. But it would be strength if I could lift it up, but it would be even more strength if I could set it down gently, because that's strength under control. That's the idea of meekness here. It is strength that is under control. And if you have the wisdom of God, James says you'll be a meek person, it doesn't mean you'll be weak. No, you'll be strong, but that strength will be completely under control. You ever see people that have been given authority or power and for the first time and they begin to use that power to club other people and to bully other people and they're not gentle, they're not meek, they have this newfound power and they don't know how to control this newfound power. And they're just like a bull in a china shop Knocking everything over, that's not meekness. You know what I thank God about? I thank God that he is so gentle. He is the most powerful person there is, and yet he's gentle. The Bible says, David said in the book of Psalms, thy gentleness has made me great. Think about our Lord Jesus Christ. The power of Christ. And yet he was gentle. Paul said in 2 Corinthians 10, 1, now I, Paul, myself beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ. So, James is saying, if you have wisdom, show me by your godliness. Show me by your gentleness. That's the conduct of true wisdom. But then write down number two. Here's the second point. The contrast of two ways. Because in verses 14 down to verse 18, James is going to show us the contrast between these two paths. Remember, I said you must choose. Which path you will take when you come to the fork in the road. That great theologian Yogi Berra once said this. He said, when you come to a fork in the road, take it. Well unfortunately you can't have it both ways. With all due respect to Yogi Berra. You have to choose. Which way you're going to go. And James is going to show us this very thing. So let's compare the two roads. This is what he does. First, notice the way of worldly wisdom. What is the characteristics of worldly wisdom And by the way, when we go through these words and I and we you know you can spend so much time on each of them, but we're not going to do that. We have to go through them quickly. But I want you to kind of make a checklist in your own mind and say, is this me? What is the characteristics of worldly wisdom? Well, he says it's envying. Look at verse 14. But if you have bitter envying, the word envying is the idea of selfish ambition, the idea of promoting yourself You know, that you're better than others. Remember, even the disciples were arguing who would be the greatest in the kingdom, and many times Jesus had to rebuke them over that. Too many people are trying to promote themselves. But then there's the word strife, which actually means rivalry, uh party spirit, was used by Greeks to describe a political candidate out getting votes for himself You see, that's the world's wisdom. The world says, get all the support you can. And when things like this enter the church, people say, I want to Get people behind me so I can promote my own agenda, my own selfish agenda. That's not the mind of Christ. Christ was selfless. He saw he esteemed others better than himself When he came to this earth, he left the glory of heaven. He left his own privileges and great and glory and came to earth. But then there's the word boasting. Again in verse number 14. But if you have bitter envy and strife in your hearts, glory not. Notice where it says glory not. That's literally means stop being boastful. That's the way of the world. It's arrogant pride To boast. Friend, we only have one thing to boast about, and that's the cross of Christ. Paul said, God forbid that I should glory, except it be in the cross. That should be our only basis of boasting. And yet, sometimes even when we report the blessing of God, we can do it in a way where we're boasting if we're not careful. Paul said, I only want to glory in the cross. Virgin said this, you will never glory in God until first of all God has killed your glorying in yourself. And then there's the word deceit. Look in verse number fourteen. Glory not and lie not against the truth. And what James is saying here is that any person who claims to be wise and they're filled with envy and pride and arrogance and Boasting and they're on a campaign for self, trying to win votes, they're not really true in their wisdom. They're lying against the truth. They are being deceitful. And the word for truth here is synonymous with the gospel. This is not part of the gospel, James is saying. A person who conducts their life like this is not living according to the truth of the gospel. Then notice in verse number. 15. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, it is sensual, it is devilish. Notice those three adjectives together. Earthly, sensual, devilish. You know the Christian has three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. And they're all included in these words right here. Earthly means literally of the earth, that is of man. Sensual is the word suke, it's where we get the word psycho for psychology and it's translated natural and it has the idea of this natural fallen flesh. This wisdom that is from below, from the earth, comes from our fallen flesh It comes from man, and at worse it comes from the devil. It's devilish. And the Greek word there is where we get the word demonic. Devilish. I heard one time of a preacher that wanted to use reverse psychology on his church, and he decided one Sunday he was going to get out and get on a devil suit and tell people, hold up a sign, say, Don't come to this church, don't come to this church You know, it's using reverse psychology. People come to church, see a guy in a devil outfit with a sign saying, Don't come to this church. Well the people got alarmed and they called the police. The police came and put the man in handcuffs, took off the mask, it was the pastor of the church. You don't ever have to worry about me doing that ever. But what bothers me is not the preacher in a devil suit, it's the devil in a preacher's suit. And James is saying, you know, if you are pre if you are preaching men's wisdom and not the wisdom of God, it's devilish. It's devilish. So then it also leads to disorder. Look in verse number 16. For where ending in strife is, there is confusion. And every evil work. Notice the word confusion there. It just means disorder or disturbance. It's disorder. And then every evil work, the word evil here, just simply means worthless. It's worthless. It's good for nothing. We could say it like this. There's no value in earthly wisdom. There's no value in it. Now that's the way of worldly wisdom. That's one path. Let's look at the other path. Again, we have to look at it quickly, but look in verse 17. But the wisdom that is from above. In contrast to this wisdom that is earthly, sensual and devilish, there is the wisdom that is from above. And what is it like? What does it lead to? First, pure. This is a word that means undiluted, unmixed by any impurity, and it speaks of the motive of the heart. A person who operates in the wisdom of God. It leads to a purity of motive, not selfish ambition, it's in contrast to the strife and envy that you read about No, there's a purity of heart and motive that wants to seek the glory of God. Peace in verse seventeen, first pure, then peaceable. It leads to peace, not rivalry, but peace in relationships. And then it's gentle again in verse number 17. That's the word that we um saw, but it's really different from the word meekness. It's really a word that's really hard to translate. This is someone who's just um he's willing to give people a pass. Maybe if you've been treated wrongly in return, you just automatically forgive And you give them a pass and you say, you know what, I I want peace. This is not a big issue. They're just peaceable, gentle. And then reasonable. Look at verse 17. Easy to be entreated. What does that mean? This is someone that's easy to live with in the sense that you can come to them, you can talk to them. They're not stubborn. They'll listen to reason Do you ever work with someone that you know they're just not entreatable? You can't talk to them. They already have their own mind made up. There's a stubbornness there, they're not willing to listen, there's no willing to be reasonable about things The wisdom of God is easy to be entreated. And then it's also full of mercy. In verse 17, full of mercy. Whenever in the New Testament it says you're full of something, that means you're being controlled by it. To be full of the Spirit is to be controlled by the Spirit. To be full of mercy is someone who is controlled by mercy. They're constantly being merciful to others. The Bible says, be ye therefore merciful as your Father in heaven. And then in verse 17, it leads to good fruits, that's good works. Remember, James told us about this, that if your faith is real, it's going to lead to good fruit or good works in your life. And then it is impartial in verse 17, without partiality. And this is someone who is decisive, unwavering, undivided. You remember in James chapter 1, we talked about the double-minded man. He's like a wave of the sea. He's driven with the wind. He's up and he's down. He's constantly wavering. This is the opposite of that This is someone who is decisive, who is firm, who makes a decision based on truth, and stays with it And then not a hypocrite in verse 17 without hypocrisy. And the word literally is in the Greek not a hypocrite. Now the word for hypocrite Literally means one who wore wears a mask because in the ancient days, if you were an actor on a stage, you wore a mask. Whatever part you play, you wore a mask for that part. The person behind the mask was different than the person with the mask itself, we could say. And so a hypocrite is someone who is sincere, transparent, real Not wearing a mask to impress others. They are who they are. And they speak the truth transparently. Now there you have it. Two roads. Man's wisdom, earthly wisdom, heavenly wisdom, God's wisdom, and James gives them a contrast here. Which one will you choose? Man's way is envy and strife and boasting and deceit. It's earthly sensual and devilish. It leads to disorder and evil work. It's worthless. Heavenly wisdom is pure, peaceable, gentle, reasonable, merciful. It is full of good fruits, impartial, that is firm and decisive, it is sincere. Which one will you choose? Look at verse 18. I think this is an important verse. Look at it closely. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. You say, what is this? Very simple principle. This is the principle, you reap what you sow. You reap what you sow. The fruit of righteousness is sown in peace And them that make peace. That is, you sow. Here's the point. Whatever choice you make, you have to remember you're going to be sowing. And you know the principle of sowing and reaping? You reap what you sow. If you sow peace, you reap peace. You sow righteousness, you reap righteousness. You sow envy and strife and boasting, that's what you'll reap. And another thing about the principle of sowing and reaping, you reap what you sow, but you reap more than you sow. You'll get a whole lot more of this back. So James is in a sense saying, be careful which road that you choose, because you're going to reap what you sow. One thing about a farmer, he doesn't go out at the end of the year at the harvest, having laid back, not planted any seed, go out and say, Oh, look at this bountiful harvest. Farmers don't do that. If they don't sow a seed, they're not going to reap anything. And the farmer has to make a choice to sow. And so here's the point, you have to make a choice. Make a choice on what you will sow, which roads will you travel. You say, how do I make that choice? Where does it start? It starts at the cross. It starts at the cross. I don't know about you, but I want my life to be governed and operated by the wisdom of God. Not the wisdom of man. In 2017, I want to sow purity and peace. I want to sow all these good things that James mentioned. You say, how do you do that? Well let me show you one passage in closing. Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Would you look at this verse with me? I want to go here just before we close out this morning. We go to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18. And this is an important passage of Scripture. When you talk about the wisdom of God versus the wisdom of man, you can't help but go to this passage. I'll tell you why. Because the Greeks, especially the Corinthians, that Paul's writing to loved Philosophy, which is the love of wisdom. They love man's wisdom. If you read the 1 Corinthians, you're gonna find it was a church filled with problems. And you know why? Because many of them were choosing man's wisdom. And Paul was trying to show them: look. God's wisdom is superior to man's. Look in verse 18 of chapter 1. The preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But no, that's what you're saying. It's the power of God. The word for preaching here is not curuso or uangelion, the normal words for preaching in the New Testament. It is logos. We could say it like this, the logic of the cross. To them that perish is foolishness. You know, the world doesn't understand God's wisdom. Because where does God's wisdom begin? It begins at the cross. And here's God's wisdom. God's wisdom says this. You need forgiveness from your sins. That's why you have guilt. And where do you get this forgiveness? It starts at the cross. Two thousand years ago God's Son, the virgin born son of God, Jesus Christ, the sinless Son of God, went to the cross and he bore the sin of the world and he paid the sin debt. And so therefore, if you want forgiveness, you must go to the cross, receive the finished work of Christ, ask Jesus to be your Savior. Put your faith in what Christ has already done. And you get forgiveness. You get release from the guilt that's weighing you down, that is plaguing your conscience. You get full release. And that's where wisdom starts. Now to the world this is foolishness. They don't get it. But Paul says to us it's the power of God. Look at verse 19. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise. And will bring to nothing the understanding of the fruit. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this world? Had not God made foolishness the w wisdom of this world? For after that in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God. It pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. You're not going to find salvation through worldly philosophy, Paul says That's not the way that God communicates his wisdom. It's not through the philosopher. It's through the preacher. Who preaches the word of God? Paul said, God saves people by the foolishness of preaching. It's the preaching of the gospel, the word of God. That's where it begins. Look at verse 23 For we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling block, unto the Greeks foolishness, but unto them we are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. Christ is the wisdom of God. He is the power of God. Friend, I didn't get wise until I went to the cross. And that's where you get it. It starts there. And then through the Word of God, He gives us His wisdom. And through His Spirit, He imparts His wisdom. That is so much superior to the wisdom of this world. So far superior, Paul says. One time when I was in Louisiana pastoring a church on Monday night, I would go to a hospital there. This was a hospital for people who were depressed, people who were suicidal. People who couldn't cope with the problems of life. And they allowed me to come there on Monday nights and just meet with people and just preach the gospel or share the Word of God to the people that were there. It was a wonderful opportunity. I remember one night I went in, there was a crowd of people, I began sharing the gospel, and there was one lady there. Who right in the middle of the sermon, she spoke out and she said, God can't help me. I said, Yes, ma'am, he can help you. She said, God can't forgive me, my sin is too great. She was just loaded down with guilt. And I said, ma'am, I don't know what your sin is, but I assure you this: God can forgive you. He will forgive you. If you turn from your sin and come to him, he will forgive you. She said, I murdered my boyfriend. Now remember I this was a big issue there at that time. It was made all the media, front page news, on the news reports. I didn't know it. I wasn't paying attention. I didn't know what was going on, but this was a big issue in that day, in that time. And so I said to this woman, I said, ma'am, let me just tell you, and I share with her from the scripture about Moses, the murderer. And how God forgave him. And I went on and listed other people in the Bible and told her that all of her sins were placed on Christ at the cross And that if she would just turn to him, she could get full forgiveness and pardon from all of her sins. And release from the guilt that she was bearing. Now I'll never forget, this was so very dramatic, and this really Doesn't happen to me all the time. In fact, that's the only time I ever remember this happening. Right there on the spot. And by the way, everyone's listening now. We're having a conversation. And everybody around is listening. And she dropped down on her knees and she began to cry and weep. And she began to pray. And she prayed out and she said, God, please cleanse me and forgive me. And she called upon Christ for salvation. And there was so much emotion in her prayer, it was causing other people to get emotional that were listening. She poured her heart out before God. And there was a puddle of tears there right at her knees. And she got up. And I'm telling you, when she got up, she looked different. You could tell that the guilt was gone. The burden of sin had fallen off of her. She was just different. There was immediate release and joy. And everyone could see this. And they were amazed by it. Now I came back the next week and when I came in the next week I was met at the door by doctors with uh with legal pads and pens. And they said, what did you tell Deborah? What did you tell her? And you know, I know what they wanted. They wanted to know what was the psychology behind What is the wisdom that you shared with her? We would like to know what you said because there was such a marked difference, and they could see it, everyone could see it. Such a difference. with her. And she was there that day and there was such joy in her heart. Let me tell you what I didn't say. I didn't give her Freudian psychology. That's right now. I didn't give her Carl Jung or Russo or Carl Rogers or B. S. Skinner Behavioral Modification. That's all the wisdom of man. And it can do nothing for you for forgiveness of sin and release of guilt. Only God can forgive sin. So you know what I said to them? I said, Well I told her that all of her sins were placed on Christ at the cross and that she could find forgiveness at the foot of the cross. At Calvary. And she prayed. And she asked for forgiveness. You know what they said? Oh that just doesn't make sense. And it just affirms what the Apostle Paul says here. For the preaching of the cross and in that perish is foolishness. But unto us who are saved. It is the power of God. Now there are two roads you have to choose. Choose which road you'll go on. But for me, I say like Joshua as for me in my house. I'm going to serve the Lord. I'm going to choose the wisdom of God for my life. Let's let's bow for prayer together. So, Lord, we thank you for the cross. We boast a glory in the cross of Christ. In Christ we see the power of God and the wisdom of God. And we thank you and we praise you with all of our heart. We thank you and we praise you. For forgiving us, for making us your children. And Lord, I I choose your wisdom. And I pray that those who are here today will make that same choice if they haven't already made it to find the wisdom of God and it starts at the foot of the cross. And I pray, Lord, if there's someone here that's never been to Calvary for forgiveness of sin. That today they would find that forgiveness. Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. And I just want to ask you, have you been to the cross, my friend? You have a choice to make. There's a fork in the road It's before you. You can choose the wisdom of man or you can choose the wisdom of God. What will you choose? What will you choose? And no choice is a choice. So, friend, would you come to Christ today if you haven't already been to the cross for forgiveness and salvation? Would you come today? Would you pray this prayer and would you say, God, please be merciful to me, a sinner? Save me. I come to the cross today. I ask for your forgiveness. Please come into my heart. Save me. Lord Jesus, save me. If that's your prayer, would you just lift your hand? Say, that's me coming to the cross today. Coming to the cross for salvation. I choose the wisdom of God in my life today. Anyone here To be willing to pray for me, preacher. Alright. Father, bless these words to our hearts And in 2017, may we sow in our lives the wisdom of God. May we reap blessings because of your goodness. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name. Amen.