All right, y'all may be seated. Thank you so much. Good singing. And I invite you again to take your Bibles tonight. You remember we can we're talking about a subject that we began last week. And open to 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 14 through 16, and we're dealing with the issue of um why is unto salvation is what I'm calling this. And this are just principles to learn to evangelize children and our grandchildren and these are really just principles that all of us can learn and need to know. as we really seek to evangelize anyone, very frankly, but we're really focusing in on our family and our children because that's the desire of our heart as parents and grandparents. We want more than anything for our family members, our children and grandchildren to know Jesus Christ. Amen? And that's the thing that we pray for, that's the thing that we long for. And so we also have to be diligent as parents and grandparents and relatives to Share the gospel whenever the Lord gives us that opportunity, that open door. Now you remember that we were considering just a few principles from God's Word on evangelizing children. And I just want to just spend the first part of this reviewing what we talked about last week in reference to this. And then we'll pick up where we were last week from last week and we'll continue on. But the first principle that we talked about, and by the way, this is all based on 2 Timothy 3. Verses 14 down to verse 17. In fact, let me just start off by reading those verses again. 2 Timothy 3, 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of. knowing of whom thou hast learned them, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus And all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished unto all good works. Now the first principle we talked about was number one, teach them early. Paul said of Timothy, Timothy, you remember that from a child you have known the Holy Scriptures, and we said that the word For child here is breathos. It's a word that really refers to the earliest child. Sometimes it's used in the New Testament to refer to a baby just being born, sometimes a baby in his mother's womb or a very small child. And so the idea is that from the very beginning we should begin teaching our children the Word of God. The Bible says in Isaiah 28, whom shall he teach knowledge and whom shall he make to understand doctrine? Them that are weaned from the milk and drawn from the breast. It's incredible to think about how early our children can begin to learn the Word of God. And so we talk about beginning early. It's never too early to start teaching the the Word of God. But then number two, teach them the trustworthiness of Scripture. Paul said, and from a child you have known the holy scriptures which were able to make thee wise unto salvation. And that literally reads these sacred writings. Timothy from the uh the the earliest point learned the sacred scriptures from his his his mother and his grandmother who were godly women and the the only scripture that Timothy had at that point we we know is the Old Testament because Um the New Testament had not been written completed at that time. And so when he talks about the Holy Scriptures, he's talking about the Old Testament. And I think specifically he's referring to the Old Testament law and even the Ten Commandments. Why? Because the law and the Ten Commandments are able to prepare a heart for salvation. And that's the next thing that we talked about. Teach them the Ten Commandments. Now why? And we talked a little bit about this. Why? Well, because the Ten Commandments prepare the heart. It kinda it's like a farmer plowing up the soil before he plants the seed. The Ten Commandments is that plow that plows up the heart that gets the seed of the gospel um ready to be received in the heart of any child. You see, now why why is that? Well, remember what Paul said in Galatians 3. 24 that the law was our schoolmaster to bring us to Christ And the word schoolmaster there, we we talked about that word, Padia Gogas, is really a guardian, a tutor, but me more than a tutor, just a guardian that's assigned to a child during all those early years until the child reaches to a mature state where he d he no longer no longer needs that tutor or that guardian. Um and Paul said that's what the law is. The law is like that schoolmaster that disciplines us, that gets us ready. to the point to where we're ready to go to the next level. And that with the analogy that Paul is using there is the gospel. It gets the law gets us ready for the gospel. You say in what way Well, the Ten Commandments, for example, teaches, first of all, I think the most important lesson that any person could ever learn about God, and that's the holiness of God. And that's where the gospel starts, beloved. The gospel starts with the fact that God is a holy God. And since God is holy, that means God will judge all sin. And everyone needs to understand that. Sometimes people have this image in their mind. Oh, you know, God wouldn't send anybody to hell. Oh yeah? God's a holy God And God's a just God, and God will judge sin. And so we have to start there. And the Ten Commandments brings us face to face with the holy character of God, and then it does another thing about us. It teaches uh us how sinful we are. It teaches them that God demands perfection, which none of us are able to produce. And since none of us are perfect, since all of us break God's holy commandments, that means that we are all hopeless without a savior. That's why we need a savior. And so it teaches us to fear the Lord. It teaches us that we are sinners. It brings us face to face with our own sinfulness. No one ever comes into the kingdom until they first realize how sinful they are. Right? You only go to a doctor when you realize that you have a pain and you may be ill, right? And what do you do when you go to the doctor? What does the doctor do? The doctor will diagnose your illness. And then hopefully he will be able to either give you healing or point to someone who can heal you. And that's what the law is. The law is like a doctor that diagnoses our illness, but the law does not have the power to save us because the law was never meant for that purpose. The law diagnoses us as sinners. It shows us how hopeless we are in and of ourselves. And then the law points us to the only hope that we have, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. But first, people have to understand that they are sinners. And I would just say this. This is one of the most difficult things to prove to people when you're sharing the gospel with them. Because there's something in the heart of man that wants to say, you know, I'm not really all that bad. I mean, compared to some of these other people, I'm not bad. I mean, I can't be all that bad. You know. Um and what we do is we try to compare ourselves among ourselves rather than comparing ourselves with God's holy law and the holiness of God. We can always find somebody that's that's worse than we are But people don't want to believe that they're sinners. They don't want to believe that that they are already under the condemnation of God because we have broken God's commandments. And that's why this is so very important You know, religion teaches man that he can get to God on his own doing some kind of ritual. That's why religion is so damning to a soul. Religion will not save you. Religion will damn you What we need to know is how sinful we are, that we need to come to God, broken over our sin, repentance, and that's what the law does. It prepares the heart for the gospel. That's what the Ten Commandments does. It shows us how we need a Savior. And so that's why that's so very important. But then here's number four, the next principle I want to move on to, and that is teach them the demands of the gospel. Paul said to Timothy, from a child you've known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise. unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. And I think one common pitfall in evangelizing children is sometimes we oversimplify the gospel. Or sometimes we might have a canned approach that doesn't really deal with the demands of the gospel, and we don't want to do that. We don't want to oversimplify the gospel. Like adults, children must be able to understand the gospel clearly before they are saved. And so this involves grasping concepts like Good and evil, sin and punishment, repentance and faith, God's holiness and wrath against sin The deity of Christ and Christ's atonement for sin, just exactly what did Christ accomplish on the cross with his death on the cross? and then the the resurrection of Christ and the Lordship of Christ. These are concepts that has to be understood. Now certainly we need to use terminology that children can comprehend and we need to be clear in communicating that message. But when Scripture talks about teaching children spiritual truth, what the Bible emphasizes is thoroughness. Be thorough in the way that you teach and give the Word of God time to work. Uh you ever read Deuteronomy chapter 6, verses 6 and 7, where Moses is teaching the parents to teach the children the Word of God, and he says, you know, it should be all through your house when you lie down, when you rise up You should talk about it all the time. You should be and the whole idea there in that passage is be thorough. Be thorough When you're presenting the Word of God, don't oversimplification to me is a greater danger than giving um t uh t um too much detail. And so we don't want to oversimplify. We want to make sure that we clearly give the demands of the gospel. And what the gospel requires of us. So we have to teach these concepts, concepts of repentance and putting your full faith. and what Christ has accomplished on the cross for us. And you know, one thing that we want to avoid, we want children to come to faith in Christ. We want to clearly communicate the principles of the gospel Don't oversimplify it. Make sure that they are able to understand the concepts and don't coerce a profession of faith. I think this is a common Pitfall because children are so trusting, they'll respond to anything you say. That's a wonderful thing. That's a good thing. But also, it can be a dangerous thing if they don't clearly understand the gospel. So we need to be careful in the way that we communicate it. Um you know, you can normally get a a positive response from a child And again, that is a good thing because they are so trusting and they do have faith and they do have that loyalty factor and that that trusting factor and that's all good, but Again, we want to make sure that the gospel seed is clearly planted in that heart, that they have a true understanding of what it means to come to Jesus Christ and turn from sin and turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I think that the idea there is just plant the seed of the Word of God and give it time to work in their heart, understanding that God will do that work. Let God the Holy Spirit do that work in their heart. Let them understand those concepts. You know And let God do that work. And when the time is right, and when they're ready and they fully understand, help them and lead them on to put their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's number four, but then number five, I would say this. Teach them the biblical evidences of salvation. Teach them the biblical evidences of salvation Look at verse 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. What's the evidence that someone is generally repentant of their sin and believe in Christ? It's the same in the child as it is in an adult, and what is it It's going to be a transformation. Now, admittedly, it's kind of hard to see transformation in children who are obedient to their parents and grow up in a Christian home But according to the scripture, here's the thing that you look for. A true believer will persevere and follow Christ. They don't make a profession of faith in Christ and then walk away from the gospel or walk away from the truth that they've learned and just leave it all behind and forget it all. What does that reveal? That's not true salvation. Paul said to Timothy here, Timothy, you continue in the things which you have learned. Now, Timothy is now an adult. He hasn't walked away from the things that he learned as a child. The gospel that he learned from his mother and his grandmother as a child. He continues in those things. You know, many times we teach the gospel and we're not thorough enough and we call for response and we can normally get it and then we we tell a person, here's the daytime, and the place when you made a decision. And we give them that and then we try to give them assurance and saying, here's the day, time and a place when you made that decision. Now I'll just let me just say this, I don't want to confuse anyone. If you can remember the actual day, time and place you trusted Christ, that's wonderful. That's good. But that's not a source of assurance for your salvation. Now again I say there are some people that remember the specific day, time, and place when they prayed and they trusted Jesus and there was an obvious transformation in your life and you look back to that time and some people call it a spiritual birthday and that and that's all good. That's all fine As long as you realize that that is not the basis of your assurance. The basis of your assurance is, are you obeying Christ right now? I don't see anywhere in the Bible where it says a daytime and a place is a biblical basis for a person's assurance. I can't remember the specific daytime and place when I got saved. I do remember that I I saw the gospel change my father's life, and I do remember hearing the gospel, and I do remember opening my heart, and I do remember saying that's what I want And I do remember saying, yes, Jesus, I put my full faith in you, but I can't tell you the the specific moment that all that happened. Now I did wrestle with assurance of salvation for a long time as a teenager, and God helped me to get that settled in my heart. But if you want to know the assurance of my salvation, I would just say this. I'm this very moment believing on Jesus Christ as my Lord and my Savior. All of my hope is in the finished work of Christ And I'm believing on Christ right now, present tense. Whenever the word you the Bible talks about believing in the in in the scripture with reference to a person, it's not believed past tense, heirist It's believing present tense. What are you believing in right now? What is your hope in right now? You see, that's the issue. The issue is, are you believing on Christ this very moment? And is there in your life a pattern of obedience that shows that you are a ch a child of God? And this is where I think it gets a little bit dangerous because This is what we do. Here's a daytime and a place. And then when they fall away and they're they're walking and they're not walking the things of the Lord and they're totally away from God We say, well, you know, you remember the daytime of praise when you prayed that prayer, therefore you're going to heaven. And we make up another category of Christians. Well, they're just a carnal Christian. I don't see anywhere in the Bible where it allows for a Christian to live an unbroken pattern of sin and call them just carnal Christians. A Christian can lapse into carnality. And God will r he'll spank them, he'll chastise them, he'll bring them back. A person may struggle over sin and go through lapses in their faith and be brought back. It can be a process in their life But if a person makes a profession and just goes out and continues to live like the world in an unbroken pattern of sin, and the only thing that they're pointing to is for their assurance of salvation is a daytime and a place. There's no record of obedience in their life There's no real change, there's no real desire for the things of God. I don't want to be guilty of giving that person a false assurance. I would much rather say, look, you need to examine your heart to make sure that you're saved. That's why as a parent, I don't give my children assurance. I don't say, oh, you're safe. You're good. No, I don't do that. That's not my job as a parent. I want them to wrestle with it. I want the Holy Spirit to work in their heart. They need to get their assurance from looking at the scripture. Looking at their life and from the inward work of the Holy Spirit in their life, giving them that assurance. I don't want them saying, oh, you know, Dad said I'm saved. And so my you know my daddy's pretty smart. He knows the Bible pretty well. So you know he says I'm safe, so I'm safe, so you know I'm good. I I that's not my job. No, you know, you say, well, my child, they wrestle with insurance. Thank God. Thank God. Because that to me is a sign of life. What scares me are people that never wrestle with it. They never wrestle with the issue of assurance. This never seems to be a problem for them. They they they make a decision at one time and then never go back and they never revisit it. Yet there doesn't seem to be a pattern of obedience in their life. There's no desire for the things of God. They're not perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. And yet There's no doubt about them in this with reference to their salvation. Those are the people that I worry about, very frankly. And let me just say I I'm not trying to get people to be afraid. I want you to have a biblical assurance of salvation I would to God that everyone has a true biblical assurance of their salvation. I want everybody to know Jesus Christ and go to heaven. But what I'm afraid of is this false assurance that people have. This made up care uh category of Christianity called carnal Christian, where again I don't see that in Scripture Again, a true believer can last for a time into carnality, but that will not be the permanent pattern of their life. You know why? Because if they're a child of God, what's God going to do? He's going to bring them back. He's going to chastise them. And so we need to be careful as parents that we teach our children, here are the biblical evidences of a child of God. And you need to examine your life. True believers continue in the Word of God. Listen to what Jesus said to it. He said, if ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. If you continue my word, then are you my disciples? So that's the evidence of salvation, knowing that I think that again, you know, um we need to be careful to just show them these signs and say, look, examine your own life and make sure that you know the Lord Jesus Christ. Um are you continuing in the Word of God? Are there evidences in your life that show uh somewhat of a transformation? Remember, John is writing to believers to help them understand Assurance, go to 1 John real quick. Look in 1 John, look in chapter 1, and look down at verse number 5. True believers, not only will they continue in God's word, but true believers will confess their sin. They'll have a time of confessing sin. Look in 1 John chapter 1, verse 5. This then is the message which we heard of him declare unew that God is light. And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. You see that there? Now, what's John doing? He's trying to show the difference between someone who says they are saved and someone who's truly saved And why is he doing that? Because there's been a lot of confusion in the church that John is writing to, because there were people in the church that said they were true believers and they went away and they walked away into another gospel another doctrine. And John says they went out from us because they were not of us. Had they been of us, they would have no doubt continued with us, but they went out that it might be made manifest they were never of us. And and it and they left the people back there at that church confused. And John says, Let me help you with your con your confusion. Here's the difference between a true believer and a mere professor. A true believer Will confess their sin. God is light. If we say we have fellowship with Him and we continue to walk in darkness, We lie and do not the truth. That's John saying, you know, you're not a real believer if you just continue to walk in darkness And walk in darkness is synonymous for not with not knowing Jesus. Walking in the light is synonymous with being a believer, because once you're saved, what happens? God opens your eyes and you see the light of the glory of the gospel, right? And so now we walk in the Word of God. We walk in the light. If you say you're a believer and you continue to walk in a pattern of unbroken pattern of darkness You lie, you don't have the truth in you. You're not a believer. Look what he says in verse number seven. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, We have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. That is, there's a new sensitivity to sin in our life. We know when we sin and when we sin we ask God for forgiveness and we confess that sin. Look at verse number Eight, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. There will be a new sensitivity to sin in your life Here's the difference between a true believer and someone who's not a real believer. Someone who's not a real believer will say, What's sin? I don't have any sin. There's no sensitivity to sin in their life whatsoever. A true believer, you know what the true believer's doing? Constantly confessing sins Because there's an awareness of it. God, I did this, please forgive me. And by the way, we're not confessing sin because we're afraid we're going to lose our salvation, because we know that when we put our faith in Christ, there's no condemnation to those that are in Christ Jesus. You say, why do we confess sin? Because sin can't break, we can't lose our salvation, but sin can cause us to lose our fellowship with Christ. And that's the thing that we don't want to lose. Why? Because once we're saved, there's a new awareness also of the presence of Christ. He is the dominant person in our life. And we want to fellowship with him. We want to pray to him. We want to see his face. We want to please him. And when there's sin in our life, we realize it because we're convicted of it and we're confessing that sin and we're saying, Lord, I want to deal with that in my life. We're constantly judging sin in our life. Why? Because true believers have a new sensitivity to sin in their life that they never had before, and so we are constantly dealing with it in our life. That's all part of sanctification A person who's not saved says, what sin? I'm pretty good. I can't remember the last time I sinned. You just did. And so there's no sensitivity whatsoever. And that's something to be concerned about. Now again, three times in these verses we see the expression, if we say, if we say, verse 6, verse 8, verse 10. In other words, there are people making false claims. They might say one thing, but their lies reveal something opposite of what they claim. And John says, we can deceive ourselves, and the truth will not be in us. And so the truth being in us, again, that's when the truth is in us, that's a synonymous term for salvation. We walk in the truth, we walk in the light. Those are all terms that talk about true salvation that John uses. But when the truth is not in us, that means John says you're not really a believer You're not really saved. And John is very um he's very uh you know, either or here. It's e black or white, right or wrong. You know, there's no middle ground with John. There's no gray areas. You're either saved or you're not. You're either walking in the light or you're not. You're either confessing sin or you're not. You either know Jesus Christ and you have fellowship with him or you don't And this is what he's saying here. These are the things that we need to realize of a true believer. And so a true believer also will obey God's commandments. Look again, we're in 1 John. Look in chapter 2, and look down in verse number 3. And hereby we do know that we know him. Here's how you know that you're a true believer, and you've heard me talk about this verse before. If we keep his commandments You say, I want to know that I'm a real believer. Okay, are you keeping his commandments? And the word for commandments here is talking about the commandments of Christ, not the Old Testament commandments, not the Torah, it's not the law, it's Entoley, it's the commandments of Jesus. Are you obeying Jesus? Is there a desire in your heart to obey Jesus? Why? Because look at verse 4. He that says I know him, what does I know him mean? Again, it's a synonymous term for salvation. Who are believers? Believers are people that know Jesus. I know him. That's salvation. If we say I know him, and keep it not his commandments is a what? It's a liar and the truth is not in him. And so John again he's very clear here. You're either walking in his commandments, you're obeying Christ, or you're living a life where you're ignoring the commandments of Christ. You're not worried about what Christ says. And if you say, oh, I know Jesus, and you're ignoring his commandments and you're not obeying what he says, John says, no, you're a liar. That's not true. That's not true for a believer. And I again it's just a little word study here in verse number Three, hereby we do know. Look at the word know there. It's gonosco, by the way, experiential knowledge, not Oda, which is knowledge gained by you know books or theories. The word know here is that we know him, and here's and the word is also present tense. We can say it like this. Hereby we continually know. Here's how we continually know. Here's how we continually have assurance Look again in verse 3, that we know him. The word know there is now a perfect tense in the Greek, whereas the first time the word no is used, it's present tense. Perfect tense means something that was completed in the past. with continued results. In other words, we can say it like this. This is how I continually know. This is how I continually have assurance that I have already come to know Jesus, that I've already been saved. What's the thing that continually gives me assurance that I've already come to know Jesus? If I keep his commandments, if I'm obedient. So the question is, do you have a heart to obey the Lord Jesus? Are you wanting to do what he says? Now when I first got saved, I wasn't sure everything that the Lord wanted. But I I can tell you this, as a newly saved teenager, I just wanted to do whatever Jesus said. I wasn't sure what it was, but I knew I wanted to do it. You know, um and and that was my heart and that is still my heart. I want to obey Christ. And that's going to be the heart. And by the way, we don't do it perfectly. This is not talking about perfect obedience. This is talking about just an overwhelming desire, not a legalistic obedience, but a loving obedience. Lord Jesus, I want to obey you. And those times when I don't obey the Lord, and when I fail, because I'm still a sinner, I still have the sin nature in me, and I still battle against sin, and there are times when I'm not obedient. What happens at those times? I I confess it to the Lord. I say, God forgive me. I messed up. I wasn't obedient here. And so what will I do as a true believer? I'm going to confess it. I'm going to get it right. I'm going to get back up. And I'm going to try to do better by the grace of God. And that's all part of sanctification. That's all part of perfecting holiness in the fear of the Lord. It's a constant battle. It's a constant struggle. And there are days when you have good days, and there are days when you feel like, man, I can't get anything right here. But we're dependent on the Lord, and we're continuing to want to obey the Lord Jesus. That's the desire of a true believer. And that's the desire of someone who's truly saved. So when a person gets saved, I say, look for the evidences of true salvation in their life. They're going to continue in the Word of God. They're going to have a new sensitivity towards sin in their life. There's going to be a desire in their heart to obey what Jesus says. If none of those things are there, Then you have to wonder, is true salvation really a taking place there in that person's heart? Another thing about a true believer is they're going to want to, they're going to love God's people. They're going to love the people of God. And again, John says this very thing, you know, this is how you know that you're a child of God. You're going to love God's people. Look down in verse number chapter two. We're in chapter two. Look at verse number eight. Again a new commandment I read unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past and the true light now shines. He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there's none occasion of stumbling in him. The characteristic of someone is truly saved, you're going to love your brother. You're going to love God's people. That's going to be something natural in your heart. If you say that you're a believer and you hate your brother, there's hatred in your heart. An ongoing continual hatred, not a love for others. John says, you know, that's not walking in the light, that's walking in darkness. And so there will be a love for the people of God. And John, by the way, in 1 John, he keeps coming back around to these same things over and over again. You're going to know Jesus. You're going to experience his fellowship. You're going to want to confess your sins and keep in fellowship with Christ. You're going to want to obey his commandments. You're going to love God's people. All of these things are characteristic of someone who's truly saved, who knows the Lord Jesus Christ. True believers do not live in a continual, unbroken pattern of sin. Look in 1 John chapter 3, look down at verse number 9. Look what this says here. Whosoever is born of God does not commit sin. That's present indicative. We could say it like this. Whosoever is born of God does not continue to live in an unbroken pattern of sin. Why? For his seed remaineth in him. And he cannot sin. That is to say, he cannot continue to live in an unbroken pattern of sin. Why? Because he is born of God. And again, that's where the verbs here in the Greek really kind of help you to understand the translation a little better. He's not saying that we can't sin, period, because as believers, obviously we can. But what he's saying is we don't live in an unbroken Pattern of sin. We we don't live like we're not believers. We don't we don't ignore our sin We try to live a holy life, and when we do sin, we confess it. But if you're living in a unbroken pattern of sin, that reveals that you've never truly been saved. You've never truly been born of God. I remember one time a woman asked me to counsel her son, and her son um was a an adult now. He had gotten saved in the church. She said he got saved when he was a little boy in church. But now he was out of church. He hadn't been to church in years. He was living with a a woman that wasn't his wife. Uh had a child through this woman that wasn't his wife And he he was strung out on drugs, uh, you know, couldn't keep a job down, was beating his wife, just having a terrible time, and she asked if I would counsel with him You know. So I said, sure, I I I'll do what I can to try to help him. Brought him in and started talking to him, and the first thing I did was, you know, I started questioning. You need to make sure that you know that you're a believer in Jesus Christ. You know what? He got offended He got offended because I would even dare question his Christianity. Question his salvation. And then he left. And then his mother came back and she was mad at me. How dare you question my son's salvation? He went forward in a church, he prayed. I remember the time. We wrote the date down. We know. And I just told her very gently, I said, ma'am, if that was my son, I wouldn't talk to him any different than the way I talk to your son. And I said, you know, I read her Galatians where it says, you know, if you continue in these things, you're not a part of the kingdom of God. And he was living in those unbroken patterns of sin. And yet there seemed to be this assurance that they had that he was a true child of God. But what does John tell us here? Whosoever is born of God does not continue to live in this sin. Why? Because his seed remains in him. That's the seed of righteousness. That's salvation. The incorruptible seed of salvation has been planted in you. And somewhere along the line, righteousness is going to grow in you But if that's not happening, then that reveals that you're not a child of God. And so Again, believers will not live in a continual broke unbroken pattern of sin. God will deal with them if they're a child of God. Or they'll deal with the sin themselves if they're a child of God. You see, true believers do good works. What did James say? James said, you know, um, faith without works is what? Dead. Now, he's not saying that you get saved by works, but he's saying that the kind of faith that saves you will produce good works after salvation. That reveals that that faith is a genuine faith. How do we know it's a genuine faith? Because after you're saved, you're going to start to do works that show that your salvation is real. If there's no works there, James says that's dead faith. Can that kind of faith save them? James asks that rhetorical question in James 2. 14. What kind of faith, James? The kind of faith that is dead that shows no fruits after it. Can that kind of faith save? And that's a rhetorical question. And the answer is of course not. That's not genuine faith. That's not the kind of faith it saves. And so um You need to teach children the biblical evidences of true salvation so that they can evaluate their own life because you know what The Bible calls upon us all the time to evaluate ourselves. Paul said to the Corinthians, examine yourself to make sure that you are in the faith. To make sure you're in the faith. And by the way, whenever I say that to true believers, they never get offended. You don't the only people that get offended when I say that. Y you guessed it. Why would you want to get offended if I said, look, make sure that you know Jesus? That doesn't offend me. I want you to make sure you know Jesus. Evaluate yourself. Peter said, give all diligence to make your calling and election. Sure. Give all diligence. He's writing to a church, he's writing to believers. Make sure of it. Don't just take it for granted. Why? Because Jesus said in Matthew 7, Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, haven't I done all these things and you know all this? They point to their works, and Jesus said, I never knew you. I never knew you. That's why we have to examine ourselves, look at the evidence of salvation, and then ask the Holy Spirit to work. You know, there are two sources of assurance. There's the outward objective evidences if we see that our life lines up with what the Scripture says with respect to obedience and loving others and doing good works under the glory of God. Those are the outward evidences of salvation, but the inward evidence is the Holy Spirit. who works inside of us, who puts rest in our heart and gives us peace and tells us that we are children of God. That's the inward subjective part. of salvation assurance that comes. And by the way, I can't give that to you. I can't give you the inward work of the Holy Spirit. That's something that you have to get from the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will bear witness with your spirit that you are a child of God. And again, I can't give that to you. I can't give that to my children. You get that from the Holy Spirit. And so you have to work it out and you have to make sure of your own salvation. So you teach them to get their assurance from the Word of God and from the Holy Spirit. That's where assurance come from. Paul said, you know, and has been assured of Timothy the things that you've been assured of. Continue in the things that thou hast learned and has been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast And so again, that's the Holy Spirit. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry above a father. Let me ask you a question. Has there anything ever been something in you That wants to well up in your soul and cause you to cry out to God and say, God, you are my father. You want to run to God like a child runs to his father. And you want to say, Abba, Father. Will you pour out your heart to the Lord in prayer? Well, that's not of the flesh. That's of the Spirit. And that's the Holy Spirit bearing witness with your spirit. Because that desire to cry out to God as your father is an inward witness, and it's an inward work of the Spirit that you are a child of God. You see, that's the work of the Holy Spirit. Because as the Spirit bearing witness with our Spirit. That's the Spirit of adoption, crying out. We know that we've been adopted into the family of God, and now we have the privilege to go before the throne of God and cry out out of Father. That's the work of the Holy Spirit in the heart of the believer. And then uh we're past time here, but the kids don't get out until 8. 30 anyway, so I'll just give you this one more thing and I'll let you go. It's an excuse to move on to take extra time. But anyway, uh number seven, teach them through your own consistent example of godliness. Paul said, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. Timothy, you continue the things you've you've learned and you've been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And I would just say this as parents and grandparents, we can't just give the gospel. We have to live the gospel. We have to live it out. Children don't just learn the gospel by the things that we say. They learn the gospel by looking at our life. By watching us. Because we live out the gospel every day. That's what they see, they should see in us. And so do they see that in you? Again, I go back to my time when I saw my father come to know Christ. I saw the transformation. I saw the fruits of salvation. I saw the hunger for the Word of God. You know, I saw, you know, the change in his life. You know, my dad's not a perfect man and that sanctification process is still working in his life. You know, but I saw the changes. I saw the difference. I saw things that I thought I would never see The hunger for the Word of God and the desire to do what's right before the Lord. And then, you know, so children should see the gospel in our life. Are we living out the gospel? Because that makes an incredible impression on the lives of children. They know whether or not we're sincere. They know whether or not we're real. Adrian Rogers used to say most parents vaccinate their children with a mild form of Christianity so they don't catch the real thing. It's pretty sh pr pretty harsh. We don't want to do that. Paul could say to the Philippians, brethren, be followers together of me. In 1 Corinthians 11:1, he said, Be ye followers of me, even as I am of Christ. And the word is mimic. Mimic me. Can we say that to our family? Just just mimic me. You want to know how to live the Christian life? Watch me and do what I do. We should all be able to say that to our family. Just watch me and just do what I do. Not, you know, do what I say, not what I do. That'll never work. Watch me, mimic me, do what I do. If you want to live a Christian life, just watch me. What did that guy say in Proverbs? My son, give me thine heart. Give me your heart, and then here's the second thing, and let thine eyes observe my ways. Give me your heart, listen to what I say, and then watch me Let your eyes observe my ways. Watch the way I live. And that's what every one of us should be able to say as we're teaching the gospel to our families. Let's bow for prayer together. So, Father, as we study your word and we learn these things, pray that you'll deal in our own hearts. Lord, we want to know how to share the gospel, how to give it, how to live it in front of our family. So that not only is the gospel taught, it's caught by those that watch our lives. That sharing the gospel is not just with our tongue, it's with our life. And everything that we do. So, Lord, help us in this. This is not easy. We need to examine our own heart, first of all, to make sure we are where we should be in our spiritual walk. And then Lord help us to live it out and to share this gospel with those that mean the most to us, our precious family. Help us, Lord, to share the word, to live the word, to pray over them each one until they all come safely on board the ark. Because we know that this whole world is headed for judgment. And we want them to be safe in Christ. So Lord, help us in all these things, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.