Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to uh the book of 2 Timothy? As you know, on Sunday night we've been looking at 2 Timothy. And tonight I want us to look at uh chapter 3, verses 14 down to verse 16. And the title of my sermon tonight is Wise Unto Salvation. I want to just talk about this important thing of evangelizing children. And uh I think uh Paul has something to say about this in 2 Timothy 3, verse 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect. thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Now, I think again this is uh these verses I want to focus on that speak about Evangelism of children are most specifically verse 15 and we'll look at some of the others as well. In a not too uh recent edition of the USA Today, there was a letter to the editor and this is what it said, will someone help save my son? He went on to say, My son is two years old and is a reflection of complete innocence. His vulnerability to this harsh, violent, ignorant, and uncaring world just rips my heart apart He knows nothing of the killing within the schools that are supposed to prepare him or prepare children for the world. He knows nothing of the abuse that happens within the homes of children just his age. As he plays with his toys, he is oblivious to the tragedies that occur every day across the country. As he clutches his blanket, Sleeping soundly, dreaming of the mommy and daddy who love him, he has no idea of the complete social and moral decay of our country. And then he writes this, does anyone care anymore anymore? Will someone please help help save my son? And when I read an article like that, my heart kinda goes out to a man like this and really to all parents of children, small children. I I I look at the world today and I look at what our children are facing and it just brings a burden to my heart. I think of my own grandchildren. And uh what kind of a world are they going to have? All the challenges of this sinful world that they face. It is so important that we instill in our children at the youngest age the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. I can't tell you how important this is. There is definitely a war on our children today. It is a war. It is a satanic war against our children. And that's why this is all the more important for us. to be committed to bringing the gospel to children. I think it's appropriate that we talk about this right on the eve before we start VBS. But the truth of the matter is, and I thank God for VBS, it's a wonderful week. But we need to be committed every week. To trying to reach children. And within our Sunday school with whatever means necessary to reach them with the gospel So I want us just to look at seven principles from God's Word on evangelizing children based on this passage of scripture that we're looking at here today. Number one is teach them early. Teach them early. Look at verse 14 again. From a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures. Child is brefos, is the Greek word here. The word has been used in the New Testament several ways. First of all, it's been used to talk about a child that's not yet been born. Talk about a child that's still in his mother's womb. It was used that way in Luke chapter 1, verse 41, talking of John the Baptist who leaped in his mother's womb. And then it's used to talk of a newborn babe in Luke 2, 12. The same word is used to speak about Jesus, the babe in the manger. And so the word has the idea of a child from the earliest beginning. From the earliest beginning. And that's important that we start early with instilling into children the Word of God. I read that where research on brain development is clear that the first three years are critical to a child's future success. I believe That children are able to grasp uh strong and difficult even theological concepts at a very young age They are very, very intelligent, very smart. And so we have to start early. I believe the children can grasp the understanding of sin, what sin is. We have to teach them that. We have to teach them that God is holy and we'll talk about that. I think that they are you know under able to understand the idea of God's forgiveness for sin. of what Jesus did and why he died on the cross for them. And I think that children have that simple faith that they can place in the Lord Jesus Christ And so one educator said this, give me a child until he's seven. I don't care what you do with him after that. I just if you just give me the first seven years, then then you can have w you know whatever after that. Doesn't matter And there's some truth to that. So we have to begin early. Charles Fergent on the conversion of children said this Let none despise the stirring of the spirit in the hearts of the young. Let not boyish anxieties and juvenile repentances be lightly regarded. I at least can bear my personal testimony to the fact that the that grace operates on some minds at a period almost too early for recollection. And so Spurgeon was talking about even in his early years how the Word of God had such an impact on him. And so I believe God has given children a great capacity and propensity to learn spiritual truth at a very early age. And some of the reasons are: first of all, there's that curiosity factor. Children are very curious. Why? Why? You know, my grandchildren, especially Theo the oldest, why, Paul Paul? Why? Give me an explanation. And you know what? He doesn't forget anything and I tell him. And uh he remembers all that. Sometimes, by the way, children will quote back to you something that you forget, that you told them. You know, just to remind you, especially when you do something wrong. Right? And so they have this great curiosity factor. And by the way, for every question, there's a Bible answer to that question. For every question that a child asks There is a biblical worldview that you can give in answering that question. There is a biblical answer. It's a great opportunity to teach the truth of God's Word. A little boy came to his father and asked, Dad, who made God? The father, kinda engrossed in the evening paper, said, I don't know, son. And the little boy said wouldn't be put off. He said, Dad, why is the earth round? And the father said, I don't know, son. Uh and then the boy played for a minute and then he said, Dad, is there life on other planets? And the dad said, still reading his paper, I don't know, son. And finally the little boy said, Dad, do you mind me asking all these questions? And the dad said, Of course not, son, how else are you going to learn if you don't ask questions? When the children ask questions, we have to have answers. And for every question that they ask, there is an answer from the Word of God. There's that curiosity factor, there's that memory factor. You know, children are like the sponge. They just soak it in. They retain everything that you tell them. They have a great ability to memorize things. Some of them say, if I can just remember like children, you know, uh we seem to forget everything, but children they soak it in and they remember. Um, you know, the the Greek word katao is where we get the word today catechism. And what is that? That's a systemized way of teaching using the question and answer method where you just ask questions and then you have the answer. Um this is the way that they would teach children and uh in the early church they would have a catechism of doctrine where they would ask a question like who is you know who is God and then they would give a theological answer and what does it mean when it says God is holy and then they would give an answer and children were required to remember All of these things, all of these bits of doctrine about God, and it frames their understanding of theology and who God is. And for some reason the church has kind of gotten away from that. But it's such an important thing to teach children that because they are so very um able to remember things. But also there's that humility factor. Little children are so humble You didn't have to grow up to become a proud egotistical adult, right? Stubborn and proud. And when they you know we get older we have this pride, this abominable pride that God has to break through sometimes to get to us. But not so with children. Children are so humble, and so therefore they are so easily taught. In Mark ten fifteen it says this verily I say unto you, whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a child He shall not enter therein. You know, we we we try to do the opposite. We try to make children become like adults before they can come into the kingdom. But God said, no, adults have to become like children. before you can get into the kingdom. You have to have that humility factor. And also they have that transparency factor. Children are painfully honest. If you want an honest opinion, go to a child and ask They'll tell you honestly whatever is on their heart. In fact, we have to be careful when you know telling our kids, you know, look, whatever you do, don't say this. You know, sometimes growing up with my kids anyway. I don't know with your kids, but I would have to warn them in advance, you know, because they're so honest and blurt things out. They're so transparent. But also they have that trust factor. They have this wonderful ability to believe. Children are great in faith. And here we have to be careful because you know children will latch on and believe what you say, but and it's very easy to get a decision out of a child. And we don't want just children to make decisions. We want children to truly understand the gospel and all that goes with it. And not just, you know, give them a few minutes of the gospel and then have them raise their hand and count them up. as being converted. And again, I believe that children can be converted, but I believe it takes a lot of training and discipling for them to make sure that they understand all of what the gospel teaches. So we have to be careful not to elicit a decision too early before the heart of that child fully embraces and understands the message. of the gospel. They will listen to you. They will follow you. They can be easily molded at that age. And so there's a lot of responsibility there. on us, but we must begin early, molding them with the Word of God. Many of God's greatest servants were instructed early and salvation came in childhood. Let me give you a list. Polycarp, the great church father, was nine when he got saved. Matthew Henry, the great ma uh commentary, uh Matthew Henry commentary. He was eleven when he came to Christ. Jonathan Edwards was seven. Isaac Watts, the great hymn writer. He was nine when he came to faith in Jesus Christ. Henry Drummett was nine. E. Stanley Jones, the great Methodist missionary. uh was eight years old when he came to faith in Jesus Christ. Corey Tinboon asked Christ to be her Savior at age five. W. A. Quistwell, the famous Southern Baptist pastor, was saved when he was 10, but he said he felt God calling him even earlier than that. And he says, you know, I wasn't converted. I hadn't yet been saved, but I knew that God wanted me to be a preacher. And on we can go. There are so many others. Here's the second point I want you to see. Teach them the trustworthiness of Scripture. Again, look at verse 15, and that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. And so Also in verse 16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And so the Holy Scriptures literally reads here in Greek the Hira Gramata, the sacred writings. And so we have to teach children that the Bible is the Word of God. Timothy, you know this. You've known the holy scriptures at the very earliest age. I believe Timothy's mother and grandmother taught him a respect. For the holy word of God. And we have to teach that same respect to our children today. You know, the Bible has been under attack through the years among evangelical Christianity. First there was an attack on the inspiration of Scripture, and I think that we have dealt with that in the church, but it that attack just continues on. This was a long, hard battle, and I do believe the battle was won, but we have to continue to emphasize this now. And I think the attack is even more dangerous and insidious than in days past. Even in so-called Christian universities or Christian colleges, they are doubting whether the Bible is the Word of God. Uh they doubt creation was you know creation was done in six days, even though the Bible makes pretty clear that that's how it happened. And and inadvertently they're being taught in even so-called Christian places To question what the Word of God says. That's a very dangerous thing. It's a very dangerous thing. The attack now is on the sufficiency of Scripture. You know, is God is God's word sufficient to teach me how to live and deal with the problems of life? We tell kids, you know, you know, well the Bible is the word of God. But sometimes we say, oh, but it's not enough. You also need some of these other things to help you live your life. Oh no, they don't. What they need is what the Bible teaches. All that they need for life and godliness is taught in the Scripture. You don't need to go outside the Bible to find something that will satisfy their emotional needs or their psychological needs or their spiritual needs. We have to stand upon the Word of God. It is sufficient. Sufficient. And we need to teach children that to turn to God's Word in the most difficult times of life. Children are going to either decide to choose the wisdom of man or the wisdom of God. And they're being bombarded with society today that's telling them that the wisdom of man is greater than the word of God. And that is so dangerous. Because what will happen is their heart will depart from God. It'll depart from trusting in God and what God says in his word. And so You know, we have uh we allow psychology and so-called experts to tell us how to train our children instead of uh just trusting what the Bible says. We trust in so so-called man-made philosophy rather than what God says in his word. And all of that is empty and it's vain. And there's no answers, there's no resources in that We trade that in for the incredible wisdom of God that He gives us in His Word. So we have to teach our children that the Bible is the very Word of God and it is sufficient for them. And all of life. That's such an important message to teach. Again in verse 16, all scripture is given by inspiration. Theonustos. It means God breathed, right? From the mouth of God. It's inspired and it is profitable for what? Doctrine. That is teaching. Teaching truth. Reproof. It rebukes us for doing wrong. Correction. That tells us how to do what is right. Instruction in righteousness. That is the whole process of training and educating in righteousness, educating a child in righteousness in this case And so, and by the way, we teach that lesson by not only verbally telling our children, but how you treat God's Word. in your own home, how you treat it in the in life. If they see you have a reverence for God's word, The way you hear it, the way you read it, the way you use it, then that will translate also into their lives, not only for parents, but also for grandparents. And then here's number three. Teach them the Ten Commandments. Teach them the Ten Commandments. Again, verse 15. That from a child thou hast known the Holy Scriptures Which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. The sacred scriptures that Paul refers to here was obviously the Old Testament. Uh wasn't a while back one famous pastor of a megachurch said that we need to unhook from the Old Testament. Really? Well, that's not what Paul says here. When Paul says that from a child you have known the Holy Scriptures, you have to remember at that point the New Testament canon was not complete at all. When he's referring to the whole holy scriptures, he was referring to what at that point? He was referring to the Old Testament. That they had at that point. They had the complete canon of Old Testament scripture. But much of the New Testament had not yet been complete or canonized at that point. So when Paul mentions this here, he is referring to the Old Testament. And Paul is saying, look, learning the Old Testament will make you wise unto salvation. What part? Well, listen to Psalm 19, verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The law here is the Torah, referring to the first five books of the Bible, and I think Paul is referring here specifically to God's moral law. How does God's moral law help a child get saved? We get a little more clue as to what Paul's referring to from Galatians. Write down Galatians 3. 24. Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ that we might be justified by faith. Now the word schoolmaster here Also he uses the word tutor. Some people call it a tutor, but the word school uh schoolmaster is a Greek word Padia Gogas, Padia Gogos. And what that means basically is a guardian. And it's more than just a tutor. I think I've told you about this before, but did you know that among the Greeks and the Romans They would hire a trustworthy person to be the tutor or the guardian of their children. And you know what his job was? His job was to discipline them everywhere they went, teach self-control, to discipline. So if you were a wealthy Roman family and you wanted you had a child You would hire a Padia Gogas, a guardian, and this this guardian will be with them all the time. It was responsibility, this guardian, to get them up in the morning, to get them ready for school. It was the responsibility of this guardian to go with him to school, to make sure he got there. It was the responsibility of this guardian to sit in the class with this child And to make sure that they learned and they were listening. In fact, do you know one thing that the Padeagogoths always carried with them? A rod. A rod. You know, a rod in the Old Testament, you know, what what is a verse? Um, foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction will drive it far from him. That word rod there is a Hebrew word that means the end of a branch. It was a switch. I thought my mother invented this witch. Not so. It's in the Bible But here the Pedia Gogas would would carry the rod. And if, by the way, in class, if the child got out of hand, it wasn't the instructor or teacher who corrected them, it was the tutor that was with them. Whack You know, we should get back to that, don't you think? Um but anyway, this this this guardian would be with the child until that child matured to the point to where they no longer needed him. Why? Because they learned self-control. They learned discipline They grew to manhood and they would receive the Roman toga, you know, as a symbol of manhood But that slave, that tutor, that guardian was with them constantly and disciplining them and getting them ready for Adolescence and then adulthood, manhood, and once that happened, they were no longer needed. And this is the word that Paul uses here when he talks about this. They these guardians were responsible for the whole process of disciplining and helping to teach and instruct this child more morally. You say, what's this got to do with the law? Well Paul is making a comparison here. He's saying the law, specifically the Ten Commandments Is the guardian, is the teacher, is the disciplinarian. And when that you get out of line, you get whacked by the law. You get beaten down because you realize what a sinner you are The law specifically the Ten Commandments prepares the heart for salvation, making them wise unto salvation. You see, how does it do that? And by the way, it was a master stroke of the devil to get the Ten Commandments thrown out of the public schools. Um That list of commandments is the thing that reminds the child of several things. What does it teach? First of all, it teaches them that God is holy. God is holy. And let me tell you something, beloved. That's where the gospel starts. Gospel doesn't start with, oh, you know, God wants to do something wonderful in my life. It's not where it starts. God might want to do something wonderful in your life. You know, and the gospel doesn't start about, you know, got Jesus giving me all the things that I want and making me happy. That's a kind of an Americanized version of the gospel that's not the gospel. The gospel starts with the fact that God is a holy God. And you better learn that first, that God is holy. And so, and we don't emphasize this enough with our children. We teach them God is love. And truly God is love. But the first lesson they have to learn is the lesson that Israel got at Mount Sinai. God is a holy God, and sinful man can't approach a holy God, and God hates sin. He hates sin. It is a fearful thing to sin against the Holy God. They have to understand that. They have to see that. But also it teaches them that God demands perfection. In order for you to be accepted on your own by God, He requires you to be perfect in obeying all of his commands, which guess what? None of us are, as we talked about this morning. It teaches them to fear God. The Bible says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It's the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Jonathan Edwards, the great preacher of the Great Awakening, said the first doctrine we should teach children is the doctrine of eternal torment. So man, that sounds harsh. He felt as if there was a lack of the fear of God in the hearts of youth. And that was back in his day in the 1600s. If that's true back then, it's certainly true now. We have a generation of young people that have no fear of God. No fear of God. They don't co recognize the concept that God is holy. And He will judge sin. He'll judge their sin. So there's no understanding of that. People think they can just sin and get away with it. Not with the holy God, you're not. Every sin will be judged. Every sin will be judged. And there is a real hell. We don't like to talk about it. A lot of preachers don't like to preach about it. It's such a horrible subject. We don't like to think about any of our loved ones or friends dying without Jesus Christ going to a a place of eternal torment, but beloved, rest assured the Bible teaches just as clearly as it teaches there's a heaven, it teaches that there's a hell. And people need to understand that those who do not repent of their sin go to a place called hell for eternity. And it's a fearful thing. And that's what should cause people to fear. And this punishment from God comes from a holy God who hates sin and he judges sin. You see, we we focus so much on the the the love of God and the good news about the gospel that we don't really get it across because You know, young people they snuff at that and they and they get this idea that oh well I'll call upon God whenever I'm ready. He'll come running to my rescue whenever I call upon him. Hey, wait a minute here You come to God on his terms, not yours. He's not some heavenly Santa Claus that's waiting to give you a toy whenever you stop touting. He is a holy God. And we need to recognize that. Also, you know what the Ten Commandments does? It teaches them that they are sinners. The law brings us face to face with our sinfulness. That is what's necessary before salvation can take place. Before anyone can truly be saved, they must understand sin. And they must understand how sin is offensive to a holy God. They've got to be able to grasp that concept. So, children, they're able to grasp this concept, but we must teach them that And this breaks us because of our sinful condition. That is to say that the law, once we see that We compare ourselves to these commandments and that we can't live up to any of these things. It should break us It should break the fallow ground of our heart and make us ready to come to the mercy of God and salvation. But they're not going to come to that mercy until first they grasp. This first concept of their sinfulness. And one of my favorite illustrations about this is the great reformer Martin Luther. Uh and you and you may know the history of his life where that he was uh in one one day in July in the year fifteen oh five, he was a university student at that time, traveling along a parked road, suddenly there arose a violent thunderstorm And a bolt of lightning came crashing down next to him, and he cried out in terror to Saint Anne. He was Catholic then and he believed that the saints could help him. St. Anne, he cried out to St. Anne, help me. St. Anne, if you help me, I'll become a monk. St. Anne was the patron saint of minors, and Martin Luther's father was a minor, so that was his patron saint. Well, he did survive that. And shortly afterward, he fulfilled his vow and became a monk, an Augustinian monk. And as a monk, and by the way, Luther was studying to be a lawyer before that. So he had kind of a legal mind uh and legal concepts in his mind of crime and punishment and so on, and all that kind of transferred over into His thinking about God and about sin. He as a as a monk he had an acute awareness of the holiness of God. He could see that clearly in Scripture. And he set out to please God and to assuage the wrath of God on his life somehow, so somehow. So he set out to be a perfect monk. He fasted for days. He indulged in all kinds of forms of self-flagellation. He went beyond the rules of the monastery and self-denial. And yet the harder he tried, he tried to obey all the Ten Commandments rigorously. He sought to obtain grace and salvation through his own merits, and yet the harder he tried. The more sinful he felt as he compared himself to the Ten Commandments. And he went to confession every day. Every day. He would go to confession one day and spend six hours in confession. Then he would go back the next day and spend eight hours in confession. His superiors thought he was just trying to get out of work. I mean, how much trouble can you get into in a monastery? So why go back every day? But he was not playing any games. His heart was tortured because he knew that God was holy. And he knew that he was a sinner. And he knew that he did not stand a chance before a holy God. And there was torment in his heart. There was no peace. And one of his fellow monks said to him Man, you must all this confession you do and all the things that you're doing, man, you must love God. And his response was, Love God. I don't love God. I hate God. I hate God because here is this holy God in heaven, and he gives us these commandments that none of us are able to fulfill. And then he condemns us to eternity in hell because we're all helpless sinners, unable to obey his laws perfectly. I don't love God. I think it's unjust. I think it's unfair. So his superiors said, well, let's let's send them on a pilgrimage to Rome, hoping this would help them. Catholics believe by going to Rome and looking on some of the sacred relics that were there, that that kind of brings grace. But and Luther took that pilgrimage to Rome, but it only made him worse because when he went to Rome, he saw all the corruption in the church there. He saw priests entering into brothels. He saw the corruption of the church selling indulgences, getting money out of people where the Pope is promising them to get their loved ones out of hell if they paid this much money. He saw people ascend the Santa Scalia, the holy stairs. These were supposedly the stairs that were that Christ went up during his road going to the cross. Constantine's mother supposedly went over to Jerusalem, the Holy Land, dug up these steps and brought them back to Rome, and they were set up there. And tradition says that you can still see the bloodstains of Christ on those steps. Which I doubt. But according to the Catholic Church you could do that. And people would go up those stairs hoping to and somehow get themselves right with God. And Luther did that. He went up those stairs on his knees praying. Hoping that he would find relief to his soul, and he he couldn't find it. And he was worse when he got back from Rome. And finally his superior said, Let's give him a book to study to teach and lecture. Maybe that'll get his mind off of things. You know what book they assigned him? Romans. Romans. And Luther began to study Romans in the original Greek. And he came to the verse of scripture in Romans, the just shall live by faith. And suddenly he realized at that moment, like a lightning bolt from heaven, he saw it. It was gloriously simple. It was simply glorious. That it's not our righteousness that God wants. Our righteousness is filthy rags. But it's faith in Jesus Christ, and he gives us what Luther called an alien righteousness, a righteousness that is not of our own. That it comes through faith in Christ, not works, but faith. And what he understood that salvation is by faith in the finished work of Christ. He said, it seemed to me as if I was entering into the portals of paradise. And his whole demeanor changed Because suddenly he understood it. But you know what prepared him for the gospel and caused him to reach out with both hands and fully Embrace the mercy of God and the gospel. It was his understanding of his sinfulness before a holy God. And that understanding came through his Study of the law, the the Ten Commandments, and he realized he was a sinner. And his heart was broken. And when he saw the mercy of God, he embraced it You know why if people are not embracing the gospel and embracing the mercy of God? Because they don't think there's anything wrong with them. They don't think there's nothing wrong with us. I mean, you know, this generation today, you talk about sin. What's sin? They don't get it. They don't get that God is holy and they're a sinner before a holy God. That is the lesson that has to be driven in to every heart. So the Ten Commandments prepares the heart for the gospel. But then here's number four. Teach them the demands of the gospel. Teach them the demands of the gospel. Notice again what Paul says. From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise. unto salvation. Listen, this through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. It is faith in Christ Jesus And again, one common pitfall in evangelizing children is the oversimplification of the gospel. Sometimes canned or programmed approaches to child evangelism, which often abbreviates the gospel, downplays the demands of the gospel, or leaves out key key aspects of the gospel. We have to guard ourselves against that. Again, children are able to understand these concepts, but we have to be thorough in teaching them these things. And that's our job. They have to understand good and evil. They have to understand sin and the punishment of God. They have to understand repentance and faith. They have to understand God's holiness and his wrath against sin. They have to understand the deity of Christ and the atonement and what took place on the cross and the resurrection and the lordship of Jesus Christ. They're able to grasp all these things. We have to be thorough in teaching them these things. And so oversimplification is a great danger rather than giving them too much detail. Sometimes we have a tendency just to oversimplify. But we want them to fully understand all of these things and don't coerce a profession of faith. This is a common pitfall. Whether it's parents or workers. That present the gospel. If you oversimplify the gospel and then coerce a decision, it's very easy to get a child to respond and raise their hand. But have they really fully embraced it and understood it? This happened to me when I was a child. I went to a a Sunday school as a child. My mother sent us there as kids We rode a bus, went to a Sunday school class, and there was, you know, this same thing that happened to me, where I, you know, supposedly had made a decision and then they baptized me. But I really didn't understand all the concepts of the gospel. I knew that I, you know, hey, yeah, I want to s I I want Jesus, of course. But as far as me being a sinner and understanding God is a holy God, those were things that I did not really comprehend or embrace. And it wasn't until later that I understood the gospel. Children will almost always respond in whatever way they're, you know, we ask them. But that does not mean or guarantee real acts of faith. Again, they have to understand these concepts and we have to be thorough in teaching them that. But then here's number five. Teach them the biblical evidences of salvation. Teach them the biblical evidences. In verse 14, Paul says, But continue thou in the things that thou hast learned. And has been assured of, Timothy, you learned these things, and you also got the assurance of these things The evidence that someone has genuinely repented of their sin and believed in Christ is the same in a child as it is in an adult. It's the same thing. There'll be a change in the sense that there'll be this desire To obey Christ. They're going to want to obey the Lord Jesus. Paul told Timothy here, continue in the things. Timothy's now an adult. But he has not forsaken or walked away from the things that he learned as a child. That has continued in his life. Many times we teach the gospel, we're not very thorough, we call for a response, which we normally get. We then write down a date, a time, and a place where they prayed the sinner's prayer, and then we attempt to give them their assurance at that moment. If you ever doubt it, just remember this. This date, time, and place. And again, I don't see in scripture anywhere where when you write down a date, a time, and a place where you made a decision, that is biblical assurance for salvation. And I'm not saying that God doesn't do something at a certain day, time, or place. I'm just saying that's a weak assurance of salvation. What's the greatest assurance of salvation? The greatest assurance is Obedience. You want to obey Christ. Now later, when they walk away from the faith, we assure them they're saved, but they're just a carnal Christian Oh, you're saved because you made a decision at this point, and now you're walking away. However, at least your name's written in heaven So this person goes all through life thinking that they made a decision, and regardless of the fact that they have no desire to obey Christ whatsoever, and they live like the rest of the world, they still hold up that little certificate and say, Well, I made a decision here, I know I'm going to heaven. And then they go and live however they want. And there's no biblical back verse or backup for that kind of thinking where, you know, if I just make a decision, I can go out and live however I want to. I'm still a child of God. Is that what the Bible says? Hereby, 1 John 2. 3, hereby we do know that we know Him. Here's how you know that you know him. You want to know how you know him? And the first word know in the Greek is perfect tense. Here's how I know perfect tense is something completed in the past with continuing results. This is how I Or I should say the first know is present tense. Let me get it right, Jerry. Present tense. Which is, here's how I continually know that I've already come to know him. Perfect tense. How do you continually know that I've already come to know him? What did John say? If we keep his commandments. That's how you know if you're obedient. And he's not talking about keeping them perfectly. He's not talking about a perfect obedience. He's talking about a desire to obey Christ. Even though we might slip and fall short, we get up, we confess. And we continue on trying to obey Jesus because now that we're saved, the desire of our heart is to obey Christ, right? This, according to John, is assurance. Hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, I know that I'm saved, and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. I didn't say that. John said that. You can say that you know him all you want to, but if you're not keeping his commandments, or if there's not a desire in your heart to follow Christ and obey his commandments, Then that's not there's no basis for you to have assurance. What you you're basically on a daytime and a place and then you want to live in disobedience the rest of your life? And think that you're a true believer? And you're not convicted over sin? God doesn't chastise you when you get out of line. I don't know about you, but when I get out of line, God chastises me. I mean, you know, and he makes it clear. And if you're a child of God, he's going to do that to you. And so we have to be careful. True believers continue in God's word. Jesus said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, if you continue in my word, then are you my disciples indeed? True believers confess their sin. We have a new sensitivity to sin now. And so that's why we practice confession. We don't say what sin? What's sin? What are you talking about? We say I'm constantly confessing my sin, saying, Lord, forgive me for this. Because we have this new sensitivity. If we say we have not sinned, we make them a liar, and his word is not in us. True believers obey God's commandments. 1 John 2 3, as I said, true believers love God, and they love the children of God. True believers do not live in a continual unbroken pattern of sin. 1 John 3. 9. Whosoever is born of God does not Commit sin again, present tense verb, whosoever is born of God does not live in a continual, unbroken pattern of practicing sin in their life. That's the way you can translate that. Why, John? For his seed, God's seed, remains in him, and he cannot You can't stay in that unbroken pattern of sin in your life. What's the rest of the verse? Because he's born of God. Because he's born of God. You're gonna You're going to want to get right with God. You're going to want to confess that sin. True believers do good works. And when I say good works, I don't mean for salvation, but you do good works because you're saved. That's the evidence that your faith is real. And then here's the last thing, and we have to wrap it up. Teach them to get their assurance from the Word of God and from the Holy Spirit. It's not my job to give assurance. I can't give you some holy saying, oh, bless you, you're truly a child of God. Where do we where do you where does any creature get that op that idea that you can do that? Oh yeah, yeah, you're you're saved. Don't worry about it. You're saved. Really? I mean that you think that's your job to do that? That's the Holy Spirit's job, beloved. And you know what? If you're not sure of it, you better get uh your own assurance and you better wrestle with God until you're you get that assurance. In fact, that whole experience of wrestling and getting assurance, that is spiritually healthy for you to do And I'm not going to take that experience away from you and give you some kind of papal blessing that you're a child of God. That's not my job. My job is to point you to the gospel and tell you to repent and believe, and then show you the evidences of what a true child of God lives like what does the Bible say? What are the objective evidences from Scripture that show that you are truly a child of God? And I'll show you that. And I'll say, here it is, and you have to measure your life according to that. And then you have to depend upon the Holy Spirit, who will come and give you an inward subjective assurance that you are a child of God. Why would I want to play Holy Spirit and do that? It's not my job to do that. My job is to make the gospel clear, make the demands of the gospel clear, and teach them. That they get their assurance from God and they get their assurance from the Holy Spirit. What did Paul say to the Corinthians? Examine yourselves. Make sure you're in the faith. Poll it and say, Oh, I remember when you guys got saved. Stop doubting it Remember I got there? We wrote down some times and remember there, Corinth? I got it written down here. I got a whole list of you guys. Stop worrying about it. Is that what Paul said to them? No, he said, examine yourself. Make sure you're in the faith. Said you better make sure. What did Peter say? Wherefore, the rather, brethren, give all diligence to make your calling and election sure. Peter said, You better be diligent about it, and you better make sure. Timothy received assurance, but it was not because Paul gave it to him or his grandmother or mother. It was through the Holy Spirit of God. And then I would say, be careful. Once a child has made a profession, they understand the assurance of salvation. what what the Bible requires of those that are truly children of God. They understand assurance. They have that biblical assurance. And then teach them what baptism really is. What does it symbolize? Don't rush them too quickly into that. This has a tendency to place our stamp of approval on their profession of faith once they get baptized. You know, uh we were basically saying to them, okay, we believe that your your testimony is real and and so on. And and and when that happens, that there's a tendency then for them maybe not to wrestle with this issue later on. So that's why I say be careful. I'm not saying children can't be baptized. They can be. But again, we have to be thorough in the work that we do. And making sure they understand all of these things. That's why I think by the way, this is a you guys want another sermon tonight? Are you guys in a rush? I'm just kidding, we'll do this another time. Let me get on the soapbox just for a minute here. This is why infant baptism to me is so confusing for children. I mean, I don't see it anywhere in Scripture. And then, you know, they're baptized as an infant. And then you're saying they'll believe later on. I just think that confuses the issue for children, but that's a subject for another day. But One more point, I said that was the last one, but here's the last one. Teach them through your own consistent example of godliness. Second Timothy three fourteen, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. You can't just give the gospel, you have to live the gospel before them And so Timothy saw faith lived out before him by his grandmother, by his mother, and his spiritual father in the faith, the Apostle Paul. He saw that. And so what kind of Christian do you want your children to be? Well then you have to be that yourself. You have to be that yourself. It starts right there. One little girl was following her dad through the clumps of newly planted Augustine grass, and she said, Dad If you don't get your feet muddy, I won't get my feet muddy. And that goes for all of us. We want our children to walk a godly walk. We have to lead them. Let's bow for prayer together. Father, thank you again for your word. And Lord, it is our heart's desire that we see many, many, many children come to faith in Christ. My heart's burdened over this, Lord, as I look out and see the attack on children today. What a responsibility we have. What a job that lays before us, Lord, to get the gospel into the hearts of every child. So Lord help us in this. And I pray, Lord, for this week of VBS that you'll bless all the workers and the work that they've done already to prepare. But the work that we'll go on this week of teaching Spiritual truth, teaching the Word of God. May it be planted in fertile hearts, and may the seed of God's word bring forth fruit for your honor and for your glory and we pray in Jesus name