It's always good to end the Lord's day in God's house, and uh I invite you to take your Bibles and open to Romans chapter two. We are studying Romans now, and uh we come to Romans chapter two And as we study Romans, what you're going to find is that in the very first part of Romans, Paul makes the bad news really bad. I wish I could come here and tell you tonight all we're going on to the gospel. We're not there just yet. Last week, if you were with us, we looked at Romans chapter 1, where the second part of Romans chapter 1, Paul deals very thoroughly with the idea of God's righteous judgment and his wrath on sinful men. And he gives reasons for the wrath of God. He gives the revelation of God's wrath. We saw in chapter 1, verse 18, where God's wrath is continually being revealed from heaven. That's present indicative that is constantly being revealed. And why? Because of all of the unrighteousness of man who hold the truth in unrighteousness, that is, they're pushing away truth And because of that, God's wrath is being revealed against mankind. And then Paul went into some of the reasons for the God's wrath and the results of it, where God just gives man over to his own lusts of his own heart And there's a downward spiral that continues. And so Paul kind of picks up here in chapter 2 talking about the judgment of God. Again, what he's going to do here in these first few chapters is really show how that everyone is really without excuse when it comes to God's judgment. No one's going to escape it. In case you think that you may escape uh judgment, uh that's just not the case. I heard about W. C. Fields. Remember him, the old comedian, movie actor? He was laying in bed in the hospital. And he was reading a Bible. A friend came to visit him and he knew that W. C. Fields was not a religious man, not even what you would say a moral man. And so he was shocked to see W. C. Fields reading the Bible. And he said to him, why? What are you doing? Why are you reading the Bible? And W. Seafield answered with a classic answer, as only a comedian could. He said, I'm looking for loopholes here. And let me just tell you that there are no loopholes in the Bible. In fact, this is what Paul's going to establish here. He's going to establish that when it comes to God's judgment There's no loopholes. When God judges, it's righteous. When God judges it's it's right, it's holy Now the question is, who's Paul talking to here? We're going to look in verses one down to verse number sixteen. And the question that many commentators disagree on is this issue is that who is the primary audience that he's writing to? Is it is he writing to Jews or is he writing to Gentiles? There are some who are of the opinion that Paul is referring here exclusively to the Jewish people After all, the Jews were very self-righteous in Paul's day, and they believed that by performing certain religious and moral works, they produced a righteousness. And this kind of goes perfectly along with what I was talking about this morning when we talked about the the Pharisee and the publican both going to the temple. That same kind of self-righteous spirit is what Paul's taking aim at here Again, there were a group of Jews that believed by keeping the Mosaic Law they could earn God's special favor. And they felt that even if they failed They might forfeit some earthly reward, yet at the same time they were exempt from God's judgment. They believed that everyone would be judged except for Jews, just by virtue of the fact that they were Jews. In fact, there was a common tradition among the Jews. They claimed that Abraham sat at the gate of hell, keeping out all Jews regardless of their deeds. Tripo the Jew the Jew alleged to have said this. He said, quote, they who are the seed of Abraham according to the flesh shall in any case, even if they be sinners and unbelieving And disobedient towards God, share in the eternal kingdom. Just by virtue of the fact that you're a Jew, even if you are unbelieving and disobedient, you will be there according to some. And so many Jews believe that they were immune to God's wrath. They were immune to God's judgment. And so we can imagine how many of them when they if they heard Paul speak Romans 1 or read Romans 1, they would probably say, that's right, amen. Go get them. Get them, God, judge them. But that's not us. The self-righteous Jew never dream that he's under the same condemnation as everyone else. And so there are many who argue that Paul is writing to self-righteous Jews Jews here at the beginning of chapter two. And then there are others who say that, well, he he's writing to moral Gentiles They say that really he's referring to Gentiles who lived according to a high moral standard, and there were some back in Paul's day, certain philosophers that lived according to a moral code that believe that they were better off than those who committed the sins that Paul talked about in chapter one. And so for them they would say, that's right, those who do those things that Paul talked about in chapter one, they're worthy of God's judgment. But us As for us, we don't do those things. We're not that bad. We're not like them. So the question is, who's he talking to? What's the answer here? I think that Paul primarily had Jews in mind, but I think that really he's referring to anyone who looks at themselves as better or more righteous than anyone else In fact, why do I say that? Look in verse 1. Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man. Whoever thou art that judges, whoever you are, whatever class that you place yourself, O man. Whoever you are that judges, you yourself will not escape the judgment of God. Now Paul is using here in Romans 1 The diatribe form of writing. And what is that? That's where Paul enters into an argument or a dialogue with an imaginary opponent. You ever talk to someone who's not there? Don't raise your hand. Someone that you pretend is there, who's an opponent, who's arguing against you. And this is what Paul's doing here. He enters into this dialogue. with this imaginary opponent and he's he's he's thinking about all the arguments that could be used against him and and and the truth that he's laying out. What are the possible arguments that could be rendered against my argument? He's having an imaginary debate against this imaginary opponent who represents anyone who thinks themselves of being righteous. Now this imaginary opponent is in full agreement in Romans chapter 1 with everything that Paul said, but when you get to chapter 2 He's no longer in agreement. But Paul puts everyone in the same category. Look in chapter 1, verse 20, where he says that they're without excuse. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are What? Without excuse. And then you look in chapter 2, verse 1. He says, Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man. You're in the same category. Those of you that think that you're going to be exempt from God's wrath or judgment somehow, you are without excuse as well. And so the therefore in verse one refers back to everything that Paul said, specifically the statement for the wrath of God is revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of They are also under the wrath of God. That is the self-righteous. And so this represents people who have a moral life. It could be people who are religious but not truly saved. Perhaps people who trust in baptism or trust in church membership or being born into a Christian family or who trust in the sacraments of the church. or any kind of high ethical standard. No one can be saved unless they understand that first they're guilty before God. That's the whole point that he's making here. The outward moral person who is friendly, who is charitable, a philanthropist. But it's is very good with others. They are in fact harder to reach with the gospel than the out and out sinner. You know why? Because they don't think themselves fed. They think that somehow God will give them a pass, that God will overlook them R. Ken Hughes wrote this, inherent in the common thinking that because everyone is doing it, it's not so bad as long as we do not commit the biggies. We will be okay is the assumption that God does not mean what he says or says what he means. And that's true. Somehow there is in the heart of man this secret thought that in the day of judgment, surely God won't judge me that harsh Surely he'll see that I'm not that bad a person. Surely he will give me some kind of an exemption. Surely he's not going to judge me the way he says. And that's what Paul's taking aim at right here. And what he's going to show us here in chapter two, then, are really three arguments that show there's no loopholes. God's judgment is right. And we need to be understanding of that. We need to be prepared for that. And so let me give you the three arguments. First of all, we're going to talk about God's righteous standard. God's righteous standard. And again, as Paul presents his case, he he takes us inside the mind of the self-righteous person. He anticipates his argument. And then Paul answers that. So we see in verse 3 really the argument of the self-righteousness. Look at verse 3. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things? And doest the same that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Do you actually think that you will escape? Look at the word think there, logismi, that's related to our English word logic. And it has the idea of calculating or estimating. He's saying the self-righteous person falsely calculates or estimates his standing before God. He calculates according to his own standard Not according to God's standard. And he thinks, again, that somehow he's going to escape judgment. That's his secret hope. Donald Gray Barnhouse kind of gives a good word here in his commentary, kind of a forceful paraphrase. Ready for this is what he writes. Quote, you dummy Very scholarly. You tell me, do you really figure that you have a hope that that you will be let go? That you can get out of it, that again uh that up against God you can get away with it. You don't have a ghost of a chance. End quote. It's Donald Gray Barn House He continues by saying this: there is no escape. Do you understand? No escape ever. And this means you, the respectable person, sitting in judgment upon the other fellow creature and remaining unrepentant yourself. And so there is the uh basically the argument of the self-righteous. But notice the argument of Paul. Look again verse one. Thou Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man. Whosoever thou art that judges, for that for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself, for thou That judges doest the same things. And so what's Paul say? His argument is very simple. Look, your own judgment condemns you The very fact that you judge another reveals that you have a standard of right and wrong. And you're doing the same things And again, I think he's referring to the self-righteous Jewish person who looks down on others and thinks they're better. And Paul says, You might judge them, you might look down on them with your judgment, but the very fact that you render judgment means you understand the standard of right and wrong, and you're doing the same thing. Which means really you're kind of hypocritical in your own judgment because you're doing the same thing. In fact, you may be doing worse. You know it just reminds me of, remember when Da David's been with Bathsheba and Nathan came and gave him the parable about the rich man and his one little Uh and the poor man had one little ulamb, and the rich man stole the ulamb, and David got angry, and he said, That man shall die. And Nathan said, You're the man. You did something far worse than that. The very fact that you're rendering a judgment is a judgment against yourself. And there's another argument that Paul uses, and that is simply that God's standard is higher than man's When God judges, he judges not just the outward actions. What does he judge? He judges the heart, right? He looks at the inward heart. He sees what we think and how we feel, and he judges our motives of the heart And so his standard is higher, Paul says. But also when God judges, he judges according to truth. Look at verse 2. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to what? Truth. Against them which commit such things. Truth, in other words, it's perfect. He makes no mistake. There is no possibility of an error in God's judgment. God will not be fooled by the person who appears before him, the self-righteous person, because his judgment is perfect You know, and we live in a world today where sometimes we watch what happens in courtroom cases and we hear judgments that are rendered, and sometimes we we we have a sense of was the r was the right thing really done there Was justice really served? Is what happened there was the person who had the best lawyer and the most money won that case, the one who had the lawyer that could argue the best? And we have seen cases where that we felt like that justice wasn't really done because judges make mistakes, and judges are less than perfect. However, beloved, God is a perfect judge. And when God judges, it will be according to truth. That's what Paul says right here. And you know why? Because God doesn't need witnesses. God doesn't need the testimony of other people. And why is that? Because God is omniscient. He sees all. He knows all. He knows the deepest thoughts of man's heart. That's what David meant in Psalm 139 when he gave that great psalm where he talks about the omniscience of God. And if you read at the end of that psalm, you know the really the whole purpose of the Psalm is because David was judged wrongly by someone And you ever have someone that misjudge you? You ever have someone that accused you of something that's really not true of you And you really there's no evidence that you can bring to defend yourself or or, you know, get get yourself off the hook against this person's judgment. And the only thing you can do at that time is go before an omniscient God who knows you and knows your heart and say, God, you know me. Search me and know me and see if there's any wicked way in me. That was happening with David. David was being misjudged. There were accusations rendered against him. And David went before the perfect judge, God, and he said, God, you know me. You know my heart. You are the perfect judge. You know everything about me. And that's what Paul's basically saying here. When God judges, it will be according to truth, because he is the perfect judge. And so we see then God's righteous standard. That's one argument that he uses, but then right down number two, there's God's rich blessings. Look at verse 4. Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? And again, what Paul's doing here is he's getting back into the mind of the self-righteous person, and he anticipates their arguments, and we see here then the argument of the self-righteous would which would be something like this Surely God's not going to judge me because look at all the prosperity in my life. Surely God can't be angry at me because look at all of the blessings that's happening, look at all my material prosperity. I must be in favor with God. But here's the thing. Material prosperity is not a measure of your spiritual standing before God. The quality of a man's life and character can't be determined by a circumstance. And so, you know, w man has the tendency to flatter himself And to think that since all these good things are happening around me and I'm making good money and all these things are well, that God must be uh smiling on me. And what they don't realize is that often God will allow people to enjoy a measure of blessings in this life because he knows after that there's going to be eternal punishment. Listen to this psalm. Write down Psalm 92, verse 6 and 7. Listen to this. A British man knoweth not Neither does a fool understand this. Here's something that a foolish person doesn't understand. When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish Why does that wicked spring as grass? Why do all the workers of iniquity flourish? This is why. It is that they shall be destroyed forever The reason God is allowing them to enjoy a measure of the blessings of this life is because God knows that's all they're going to get. Because after that They will be destroyed forever if they haven't repented of their sin and trusted in Jesus Christ. Anthony Burgess in his masterpiece, Spiritual Refining, he wrote this. He said, Therefore, we may not trust in our prosperity, because God Many times gives a man all the good things he shall ever have in this life only. And afterward there is nothing but everlasting woe and misery. It may be that thou which stinkest a demonstration of God's love to thee is an argument of thy wickedness You might think that God's given you a demonstration of his love, and there's a certain extent where that's true. It's the common grace of God, but it's also God allowing you to enjoy the measure of blessings here in this life, because after that there's nothing but judgment and eternal damnation. But here's what Paul says. The riches of God's goodness and forbearance and long suffering, that shouldn't be A measure that says, oh, I'm right with God, or God's not going to judge me. What should that do? That should lead you to repent. The very fact that God has given you blessings. should endear you to him. It should draw you to him. It should make you to repent of your sin. That's what Paul says. The goodness of God, his forbearance. What's forbearance? The very fact that God hasn't judged you immediately for the sins that you committed, the very fact that God's being patient with you should cause you to repent. Not that you've gotten away with sin, not that God's wrath is not against you, but that God is Being patient with you, and he continues to give you blessings. And friend, all those things should cause you to come before God and humble yourself. And ask for his mercy. The goodness of God should bring that about. But instead, that's not what happens What happens? Look in verse 5. This is the answer of Paul in verse 5. But after thy hardness and impenitent heart You treasure up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath, and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Paul says the self-righteous have despised the goodness of God. The word despised Cata froneo. Froneo means to think. Cata means down, to think down, to to look down or to wrongly estimate the value of something, to despise or to disregard. That's the idea there. And what does the lost person who is self-righteous in their own moral lives, what do they do with the blessings that God gives and the forbearance of God and the long-suffering of God and the patience of God? They think lightly of it. They look down on it. And what are you doing by doing that? Paul says, what you're doing is you're treasuring up, you're storing up wrath from God. Wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. This is from to me one of the most Scary, fearful verses in all the Bible. Rather than becoming sensitive to the Lord, what happens to the person like this? They just grow harder. They take the blessings of God for granted. I I can't imagine Just not thanking God just every day for just the blessings of life, the very breath that you breathe. The food that you eat, all of the all the things that God has freely given. And rather than looking at that as something from God and thanking God and being grateful and causing you to run to God in repentance and And and to pour out thanksgiving unto him. There are people that just look so lightly on this. They disregard this. They don't think God will ever judge them because look at all these things God's given me And it instead of bringing repentance, it causes you to grow harder against God. Again in verse 5, but after thy hardness. Look at the word hardness there. Sclerotese. It's where we get our medical term sclerosis. You ever hear of arteriosclerosis? That refers to what? The hardening of the arteries, right? This is the word here. Paul is referring to a hardening. But it's not a physical hardening of the heart. It's a spiritual hardening. You're hardening your heart against God because you're not valuing the goodness of God and his patience. You're counting it lightly, you're looking down on it, and what you're doing is you're hardening your heart And you're treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath. In other words, you're responsible, you're doing this for yourself. Is what he's saying. You're stirring up divine fury that will break loose on the day of wrath. And I believe that the day of wrath will be for those who do not know the Lord. And feel like they're going to get out of judgment. That's going to be the great white throne judgment that's written about in Revelation chapter 20, where God will bring in all those who do not know him before him, and he will judge every man. And notice what Paul says, how he's going to judge. Look in verse 6. Who will render to every man according to his what? According to his deeds. When God judges, he will judge men according to their works, according to their deeds. And God will judge the lost person who refuses to repent according to his deeds, and based on those deeds, there will be eternal judgment. Out of God's presence, separated from God for eternity. And then even for the righteous, for the child of God, when God judges the child of God and wants to reward us It'll be according to our deeds, according to the things that we have done. God will give rewards. And so this concept of judging according to deeds is all throughout Scripture. We see it in the Old Testament Write down Jeremiah seventeen ten, I the Lord search the heart, I test the conscience, even to give every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings And Isaiah says the same thing, Isaiah 3, 10. Say to the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they eat the fruit of their doings. But woe unto the wicked, it shall be ill with him, for the reward of his hands shall be given him And we see also the same thing in the New Testament, when the Son of Man comes in his glory with his Father and His angels, then he shall reward every man according to his works. Those who are lost and have not repented, he will judge them according to their deeds, and those who are saved who are righteous, he will reward them according to their deeds. And so this is the principle of judgment. Now Paul gives a contrast. We see the actions of the believer. Look in verse 7. To them who by patience continuance and well-doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life. And here he's referring to the actions of the believer. This is characteristic of believers. What do they do? They just persevere. They just continue in well-doing. There's going to be faithfulness in the life of those who truly know the Lord. You're not going to quit on God. You're going to continue to faithfully serve and be faithful to Him. And why do you do it? Paul says for glory. That's the highest and most wonderful goal of any believer. He seeks to glorify God, as Paul said, whether you eat or you drink or whatever you do. We're living for the glory of God. And then he says, honor here, and in a sense of honor is the result of glory. It's the divine honor that God gives. It's the Lord saying, Well done. That's why we serve. We serve for the glory of God. We serve for the honor that He will bestow upon us when He says, well done. But also immortality, he mentions in verse number seven. What's that? That's the We will dwell in eternity in a immortal body, that glorified body, will be like the Lord Jesus Christ in the resurrection, where there'll be no corruption whatsoever. We long for that. We want that. Aren't you glad that when we get to heaven, one day God is going to give us a brand new glorified body? I mean, you know, I'm looking at this body now and I'm like, man, I I'm I'd be glad to get that glorified body. I mean this one's not really doing all that well sometimes. It it's hard to get older, isn't it? And I some of you are looking at me like, I don't want to hear it from you, man. I mean, w we're a lot older than you are. I know, but it's not necessarily the years, it's the mileage. I put a lot of mileage on this body. But one day, God, we're going to dwell in immortality, the Bible says. It'll be wonderful. We'll have a brand new glorified body. That's why we just stay faithful here now. That's why we just persevere now. Doesn't matter what others do. I'm going to be faithful to Christ. Why? Because the glory is for the glory of God. It's for the honor He will bestow upon me. It's because one day He's going to give me a brand new, glorified body. All those things who are source of motivation for the believer, just to stay faithful. But then Paul gives the contrast between the unbeliever, we see the animosity of the unbelievers. Look in verse number 8. But unto them that are contentious And do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish. And so here he's giving characteristics of the unbeliever They are contentious. That is the idea that they have a constant animosity against God. They're not obeying the truth. They're self-seeking. They want to do their own thing. They're not surrendered to the will of the Lord. They're not obeying God. If you want to know the one word that separates a believer, a true believer, from an unbeliever, it says obedience. A true believer is obedient to his master. An unbeliever is not. They're doing their own thing. They obey unrighteousness, he says here. And then as a result of that, we see then the anger of the Lord. What's God's reaction? Look again at the last part of verse 8. Indignation. And wrath, look at verse nine, tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile. And this is the anger of the Lord. Since people remain stubborn in their disobedience, what's that going to bring? Indignation? From the Lord, wrath, the same word that we see in chapter 1 of the wrath of God. Tribulation, it's the idea being put into a a place of suffering, anguish. I think all of these words are expressions that are used in other places in the New Testament to speak about the eternal punishment in hell And I want to tell you, beloved, even though it's not a very popular doctrine, there is a real hell. A real hell And that's what he's referring to here. Those who continue in stubborn disbelief and disobedience, this will be the result of that. So we see then God's righteous standard We see God's rich blessing. But here's the final argument that Paul uses. We see God's revealed law. Look down to verse 12. For as many as have sinned without the law shall also perish without the law. And as many as have sinned in the law, Shall be judged by the law. God's judgment will be perfect because it's according to his revealed law. Now again, Paul anticipates that some might think that God is unfair. Because the Jews have a written law. They have something that God's given them, a written law, and the Gentiles have none. And this raises the question: does God judge everyone the same? And the answer to that is no, he doesn't judge everyone the same. What you see here are two groups in verse number twelve As many as have sinned without the law shall perish without the law. As many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. If you didn't have exposure to God's revelation, you'll be judged as one who didn't have that exposure. If you did, you'll be judged as one who did. In other words, God will be absolutely completely fair in his judgment. In the eternal judgment, God will show his equity. in impartiality by dealing with men according to the light that they have received. That's why the greater light, the greater revelation of truth that you have received And have rejected the greater the judgment that will be rendered against you. And so it's a very fearful thing for someone to come and hear the truth of God and be exposed to it and yet just walk away from it. You're going to be judged more severely. Remember what Jesus said when he was condemning the Jewish cities where he did many of his miracles? He said it's going to be more tolerable. For Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for you. You know why? Because you received greater light. You received greater revelation So when it comes time for judgment, you're going to be judged more severely. I heard one seminary professor say one time that people that are in hell would give everything they owned if they could so that one less sin would be rendered against them in uh in their account, so that their suffering would ease. Because there will be degrees of suffering in eternal punishment. And this is what Paul is saying here. When God judges, he will judge those who have the law. uh uh a accordingly and those who do not have the law he will judge them accordingly. So we see these two groups that are mentioned here, and we see the two reactions. Look at verse thirteen. For the hearers of the law are just For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. That is, you reveal that you're truly God's child by obeying what God's law says That's what Paul says there. But look at verse fourteen. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things are contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves. And again, Paul is answering the argument. That some may make that the that for God to judge people who did not have a written law is unfair. And what Paul says is, no, they had a law. It may not have been a written law, but it was an internal law. And we know that they understood right and wrong just by the very things that they did. Again, this is answering that one question. How can God judge if there's no law? It says in Romans 4:15, where there is no law, there is no transgression. But the answer of it is we see here in verses 14 and 15. People are responsible even if they don't have a written law, even if they haven't heard a written law. Because they have a law within themselves, and that is revealed by their behavior. In fact, there are four things that make them without excuse. What are they? We saw one of them in chapter one. What was it? Creation God's so revealed Himself in creation that people are going to be without excuse. And then there's conduct. We see that here in verse 14. When the Gentiles who do not have a law do by nature the things contained in the law, these not having a law are a law unto themselves. Even though they don't have any written law. They don't have any external code. They have an internal code. And we see that because they behave that way. Even those who don't have that outward law know right and wrong And we see it in the way that they behave. We see examples of this all throughout history. So there is this inward law that all men have, and that's what Paul refers to. And also there's the conscience, look in verse 15, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts The meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. They have creation as a means of judging. They have their own conduct reveals there's an inward law, but they also have a conscience That either accuses them or excuses them. And we know that that conscience, the Bible says, is the inward light that God gives Now we know that the conscience is not an infallible guide, it has to be taught, but the conscience is taught according to the inward law that God puts in every man. There's a sense where every person has a sense of right and wrong Because God has written that within them. And the conscience is that alarm system inside them that when they go against that inward written law That conscience will remind them that this is wrong. Even the conscience itself, Paul says, is a revelation that They understand that there's a law. That conscience that God gives us is to work on our behalf. We know as Christians the Bible tells us obey our conscience. You can sear the conscience by not obeying it, by hardening yourself By being insensitive to what the conscience tells you, and when you do that, you harden your conscience. But the unbeliever also has a conscience. And over the long period of time, sometimes that conscience can be dulled, yet I still believe it's there. It's there in every person, because Paul says it right here. That's that inward law. And then there's contemplation. Look again in verse 15 where he says, their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing them. In other words, in us is the ability to contemplate or reason. What someone does is right or wrong. When we see someone do wrong, when we hear of an injustice, there's an inward sense of anger, isn't there not, when we hear that? That is that inward law, that is that sense of conscience that is telling us that this is wrong. We can reason that way, we can contemplate according to the law that God has placed in our heart. And so, what's the uh what's the end of the argument? There's no excuse. God will judge the Jews according to the written law that's given them. God will judge those who don't have the law according to the inward law that they have. that God has placed in them, so that all will be rendered uh uh uh uh according to those things. Judgment will be rendered according to those things. And finally the assessment, look in verse 16 where he says, In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel. Again, no loophole. You won't escape it. You will be judged. God's judgment will be perfect. It will be fair. It'll be according to the light that you have received. If people haven't gotten an outward written law, there's an inward law that God's given them, and God will judge them according to that. But no one's going to escape. There will be a judgment coming. Now again, this is all bad news. You know, this is not a sermon that makes everyone feel good. But this is purposeful on Paul's part. Now he's going to get to the gospel. He's going to get to that in chapter 3. He's going to show you the wonderful good news, the grace of God, the love of God, the mercy of God. But Paul knows that you're not going to really appreciate the good news until you're fully informed about the bad news. You have to understand that. No one's going to escape judgment But we do know this, that there was one who took our judgment for us, Jesus Christ. Thank God that we can, just like this morning I was talking about the publican that came to the temple and said, God be merciful to me. Thank God that God, even though He's a holy, righteous judge, has given a way for us. To find mercy from his judgment, and that's through Christ. That's the only hope is the righteousness of Christ. What Christ has done for us. But again, Paul is preparing people for that wonderful gospel message: that there's justification that comes through the redemption that is in Jesus Christ. But again, here in chapter two, he takes aim at the person who feels themselves self-righteous before God, that some somehow God's not going to hold them accountable, or God's not going to judge them severely. And if you think that, friend, you're deceived. Don't go to God based on your own works. Go based on what Christ has done for you. One of my favorite hymns is the hymn Rock of Ages. Where it says, let me hide myself in thee. That's the way we go, we escape judgment. We hide in Christ. And there's one line of that song where it says, Nothing in my hand I bring, simply to thy cross I cling. That's it right there. This morning I was preaching about the Pharisee and the publican. You know what the problem with the Pharisee was? He was bringing stuff in his hand to God. He was approaching God with all of his works in his hand, thinking himself to be righteous. But the publican had nothing in his hand. He simply clung to the cross of Christ. And friend, that's what we must do. And that's what really Paul is calling upon us to do when we read passages like this. Where God's judgment is thorough, it's severe, it's coming, and we better prepare ourselves for that. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. And so, Lord, verses like this and passages like this cause us to fear you all the more. We fear your wrath. We know, Father, you are holy. In fact, we delight in your holiness. We delight, Lord, all that you're doing in our life. And so, Lord, as we come before you, we we thank you, Father, that not only you're a God that's holy, but you're a God that's merciful. A God that's loving, and that we can hide ourselves in your mercy and your love because of what Christ has done for us on the cross. And Lord, I pray if there's someone here tonight that has never done that, That Lord, they would come to the cross, that they would bring nothing in their hand, but simply come and cling to the cross of Christ where their sins were paid for by the precious blood of Christ And beloved, if you're here tonight and you've never trusted the Lord Jesus, I just want to invite you to do that right now. Would you come to the cross and say, Lord, I'm not bringing anything in my hand I know that you're a holy God and that you will judge righteous judgment. And I'm not claiming to be righteous on my own. I have no excuses. I'm a sinner. And I'm coming to you tonight and I'm asking you for your mercy. Forgive me for my sin. Cleanse me and come into my heart. And friend, if that's your prayer tonight, can I just pray for you? Would you just lift your hand and say, that's me. I just need to come to Christ. Father, thank you again For the warning of Scripture. May it prepare our hearts, Lord, to hear the gospel and to love it all the more. And to share it with others who don't know Christ. We pray all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.