So take your Bibles tonight. It's good to see you here. Uh go to First Corinthians chapter sixteen. It's been an unusual week, hasn't it? How many here do not have power in your house? Anybody? There's one brother. I suffer with you. We have no power in our house either. We've been without electricity since Friday. So the very fact that I'm here tonight is the grace of God And uh but hopefully that'll change pretty soon. But it's good to be in God's house where there is light. And we're gonna look tonight at first Corinthians sixteen. This is the last sermon out of First Corinthians, I can tell you that for sure. Because we run out of verses after tonight. And we're going to be dealing with uh the last verses from verse fifteen on down to verse twenty-four. four. We come to the end of Paul's letter to the Corinthians. And as he's closing out this letter, there are many interesting comments that Paul makes at the end of the letter. And one of the things that he says it's very interesting if you look at verse Verse 21. He said, The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand. With my own hand. And this is what I want to talk about tonight. Paul says, I give you this salutation, this greeting with my own Now let me just remind you that even in places like this in the scripture that may to some seem a bit uh inconsequential, it is very very important that we're not sure. We look at these words and these verses because every bit of scripture is inspired by God. Every word is inspired by God. Every letter is inspired by God And so I believe that these things are here with a purpose, and we can learn instruction even from closing comments in a letter like we see here from the Apostle Paul. And so what did Paul mean when he says, I write my the I close this letter, I give this greeting with my own hand? When Paul wrote letters, he normally dictated them to a scribe. as some call them a an emanuensis or uh someone who is just simply right down on um the uh uh uh papyrus. Sometimes they would use papyrus or sometimes it would be animal skin um vellum that they would use, but they would write down with great skill because of course you know back then they didn't have paper like we have today and so They always took very careful skill in the writing. But this is the point in the in the letter which Paul where he takes the pen from the hand of the scribe and he writes these last lines in his own hand Now, think about that. Why does Paul do that? Let me just by uh way of introduction to this term and give you a few thoughts on this. I think first of all, number one is for authenticity. He wants everyone to know that this is genuinely a letter that is from the Apostle Paul. Did you know that in this day it was not uncommon for a letter to be forged? This happened before. False teachers and hucksters wrote a letter pretending to be from the Apostle Paul. And you can imagine how someone could do a lot of damage to a church Writing a letter, supposing it to be from the Apostle Paul. In fact, just go to Second Thessalonians real quick. Just go to the right, look, turn over a few pages. Go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, where the Apostle Paul actually refers to this happening one time when he writes to the Thessalonians. Someone had deceived the believers into thinking they were already living in the day of the Lord. And so look in chapter 2, verse 1 of 2 Thessalonians. Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him, that you be not Not soon shaken in mind or troubled neither by spirit nor by word nor by letter as from us As that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means, for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition So someone uh in that assembly received a letter, supposedly from Paul, purporting that the day of the Lord had already come. And this you can imagine had a uh a Well there are some that were instantly shaken by this teaching. And they were deeply troubled in their heart. They were wondering, had God changed the program Was the apostle Paul wrong in what he taught and promised regarding the tribulation? So in order to calm their hearts and to stabilize their faith, Paul explained that they were not in the day of the Lord That the Lord had not yet come. And there would have to be certain things that would happen before that would take place. And so that's the reason behind 2 Thessalonians. And the word there that we saw to be unsettled is literally talking about someone who has been shaken by a storm. Shaken up by a storm. Now we can kind of relax And this is what he's referring to here in a spiritual sense. Many in the church had become alarmed, they had become shaken because someone wrote a uh letter as if from Paul. And had done some spiritual damage there. It was a forged letter that caused confusion. That's why. Look in 2 Thessalonians chapter 3, look down at verse number 17, where it says, the salutation of Paul with my own hand. Which is the token in every epistle, so I write. So why does Paul then take up the letter, or excuse me, take up the pen at the end of the letter and write with his own hand for authenticity? That so that they would recognize his signature, so that they would see that this really is a letter from the Apostle Paul. It's not forced as something that is authentic, something that is genuine. When Paul wrote to the Galatians in chapter 6, verse 11, he said to them, See what large letters I'm writing to you with my own hand. And Paul I think in this case in the book of Galatians I think that Paul wrote this whole letter with his own hand. If you remember the book of Galatians was I think a letter when Paul wrote when he was somewhat angry at the Galatians because they had so soon abandoned the gospel. For another gospel, Paul said. And I think he wrote in large letters. We could say that they were uncio letters. If you study Greek, you know there are capital letters. Which are called Usials, there are small letters which are called minuscles. I think Paul wrote these all in capital letters because he was so angry a sanctified anger we could call it because they had basically forsaken the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and uh you know whenever you get an email and it's all in capitals you know that should have Shouting at you, right? There's a sense in which Paul was writing with such passion. And so when he signed the letter at the end, he said, You see what large letters I'm writing with my own hand. So I think one reason for this is just authenticity. But there's a second reason I think, and that is just authority. I think another reason is just to let them know that this is coming from an apostle It carries the weight of authority, the authority of the Apostle Paul. Paul was in essence saying, accept the letter with all of the authority that it And indeed the Apostle Paul did have authority, authority as a man of God, but also authority as the apostle And so he had all of the authority of God behind him. Now, this was one of the problems that he was facing there at the church at Corinth, if you remember. They were not a very submissive church They had problems submitting to Paul's authority. At one point you might remember when we were studying in 1 Corinthians 4, Paul asked this question. He says, What do you wish? Do you want me to come to you with a rod or with love? Or a spirit of Gentleness. Your parents ever say that to you? You want the belt, or can we talk about this? That's in essence what Paul is saying. Do you want me to come to you in a harsh way to discipline you Or do you want me to come with gentleness and love? And why did Paul have to say that? Because they were arguing with him. They were not accepting his authority. And they were not accepting many of the servants of God. That were sent there. And so remember there were cliques that had formed among the church at Corinth. Some were saying, Oh, I'm of Peter, and others saying, I'm of Apollos, and so on. And so there was all this going on, and the Corinthians were an abusive congregation. And in fact, later on in 2 Corinthians, Paul will also mention how they treated him If you can imagine this, they had treated the Apostle Paul with contempt at times. If you can imagine that. They made fun of his appearance. They made fun of his speech. They said he wasn't really an apostle. I think I told you that before. They accused him of being uppity and unstable and vacillating because he didn't keep his word and so on. And so Paul wanted to sh uh Basically imply to them that this letter has authority. Sign this with my own hand, the hand of an apostle sent by God that has authority So authenticity, I think, was one thing, authority, but also acceptance. I think acceptance. It was a way as if Paul was saying, accept this letter Because it comes from me on a personal level. And they were criticizing him. And uh let me just say that servants of the Lord are due a measure of respect from God. God's people. They're to be respected by the servants of the Lord. Now I explained this to you last week and I won't go into great detail again, but I think the thorn in the flesh that Paul spoke about in Second Corinthians was a man there in the church that was undermining Paul's authority, that was causing people to not listen to him. Help 'em. And this is just a hard thing for any preacher to bear that influence is is is not there because people aren't listening. I think that was his thorn in the flesh. You know, you can determine a person's spiritual life by how they treat a servant of the Lord. You can determine, I know this sounds self-serving, but so let me qualify this, okay? You all treat me great. Alright, so I don't have an axe to grind up here. Alright, everybody okay with that? I you know, you all treat me at least some of you that are smiling at me, some of you that are frowning at me, you probably don't treat me so great. But the rest of you, no seriously, Grace, you know, Grace is just It's just a wonderful church. And that's a tribute to Pastor Johnson who's been here uh pastoring this flock, he and his wife, and you know we're we're actually entering into the blessings, aren't we? Entering into the labors that they have labored all these years. And and so, but it's just a wonderful group of people. And so just know I'm not I'm not up here because I have an axe ground. I'm just preaching through First Corinthians, all right But but this is what's here. And I think this is what Paul is emphasizing here, that it's a serious thing to disrespect the servants of God. God. And Jesus warned that. You remember he warned against the Pharisees. He said, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. He said, For you build the tombs of the prophets, and you decorate the monuments. Of the righteous saying, if we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn't have taken part in shedding their blood. And Jesus said, You bunch of hypocrites You say that back then, but you're now persecuting me and my disciples. You're doing the same thing now. Oh, if we had lived back then, we wouldn't have done that to the prophets. And now you paint their tombs white. As if to honor them. And Jesus said that's hypocritical, and he warned them because they had no respect for those that the Lord had sent, servants of the Lord. Write down first Thessalonians five twelve. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. And be at peace among yourselves. And I think that goes together. When you esteem the servants of the Lord very highly, you are at peace among yourselves. These last words that Paul's going to give here in First Thessalonians kind of go along that line where how we regard servants of the Lord, how whether What's our attitude to be in the church? And so let me give you six quick uh quick principles here with reference to that. And here's number one. Remember their service. Remember their service. Look in chapter Chapter 16, look at verse 15. I beseech you, brethren, that you know the house of Stephanus, that it is the first fruits of Achaea, that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of The saints. Now Paul ends this letter commending Stephanus and his household. Now who was he? These were the first converts of the Apostle Paul, not only in Corinth, but the Bible says also in all Achaea, that's the southern providence Of Greece, where Athens and Corinth is located. Most of the Anthinians were skeptical and they rejected the gospel that Paul preached. You remember that when Paul went to preach there at Mars Hill Well some of them laughed at Paul. Others said, Well, hear you more on this. But the Bible also says in Acts chapter 17, verse 34, some joined him and believed. There were some there when Paul confronted those philosophers, those Greek philosophers there at Mars Hill that actually believed. And from Athens, Paul went to Corinth, where he spent the first few weeks witnessing primarily to the Jews. Just write down Acts chapter 18, verse 6. It says, And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook out off uh his garments and said to them, Your blood be on your own heads, I'm innocent. From now on I will go to the Gentiles. And Paul would always do that. He would first go to the Jews, and if the Jews wouldn't hear, he would shake the dust, and he would go to the Gentiles. Well, a few Jews believed. A few believed But uh but most of the converts, however, were Gentiles. And the first among them was this man named Stephanus and his household. He was one of the first persons in Corinth that Paul personally baptized. And he didn't baptize personally many, but this man was one of them, along with Achaicus. And Fortunatus. They came to visit Paul, these three men, and uh came to Ephesus at the time uh when they came to see Paul at the time that this letter was written. They delivered the letter To Paul, there was a letter mentioned that they brought from Corinth back to them. In fact, go back to First Corinthians chapter seven and verse number one and just kind of over Now concerning the things wherever ye wrote unto me. So obviously these men brought with them a letter to Paul when they visited him there at Ephesus. Delivered that to Paul, and it had the list of all the things, the questions that they wanted Paul to deal with in that letter But now the household were saved. And Paul calls them the first fruits. These men are the first fruits of that area, that region And of course we know the first fruits is the the harvest, the first part of it that gets ripe first before any other part of the harvest. And Paul calls these men the first fruits. The first fruits was a sign of what was to come And Paul is basically saying we came in that region, we preached the gospel. These were the first fruits. We saw them come to Christ. And that gave a sign that there were many more that were going to come And so this was a faithful man of God, he and his whole household. Now what did he do? We learned about who he was, but what did he do? Look at Again at verse fifteen where it says um look at the latter part of verse fifteen and they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. Love the way that's worded. They addicted themselves. Very strong word here, addicted. Tasso. It's a word that means a uh assigned or appointed to designate a specific person or persons to a specific work or office. That's how that word is used in the New Testament. It's used in Romans thirteen one to talk about human governments that are appointed or established by God. And so this is an intense form of that word. They were addicted. They were, you could call them ministry addicts. Is that okay to use that? That? Addicted to ministry? Ministry addicts? Now we talk about people today that have all kinds of addictions. You know, drug addictions and alcohol addictions and so on. But here's a good addiction to have. that the Bible mentions. They were addicted to the ministry. Now how did this happen? They just began to see needs in the church And they just began to spontaneously assign themselves to help meet those needs. They saw something, they just jumped in, they began to serve. That's what they began to do. They appointed themselves, you could say. That's what the word means. They saw need and say, well, you know, I'll just appoint myself to take care of that They just took the initiative to serve fellow believers. They spontaneously assigned themselves to help in any area where there was a need that they saw among the saints there served in the world. Their service was self-motivated, their service was self-assigned, they saw something a necessity, and they just went at it And the Bible commends them for that. Paul commends them for that. They just saw a need and they met it. They started to serve. And this is a wonderful thing to see. And by the way, this is the way it should be. And Frank, can I ask you very graciously, are you serving the Lord in any area? You say, I'm waiting for someone to tell me what to do. Well, if you see something Go ahead and take care of that. If you see a need and the Lord leads you to take care of that need, friend, just jump in, just serve. You know, some of the most wonderful days in my Christian life were when I first got saved here at Grace and um I was asked to go down and and and ride the bus uh to go down and minister to in interc City Children. I was fifteen years old at the time. Sherry was on the bus and she asked me if I would be a bus runner. Now I think she made that up to be honest. with you. I don't think there was anything such thing as a bus runner. She invented that title. It it made me feel important I think when she did that. Oh I'm a bus runner. What does a bus runner do? A bus runner runs from the bus to the house, knocks on the door, gets the kids, and runs them back into the bus, and then runs them to the church Sunday school class after they get to church But I gotta tell you, I I love doing that. Just fifteen years old, um, and I it was just a joy to be able to do that, to serve the Lord in that capacity. I also remember um Pastor Johnson, uh my first job here, I know somebody already said this, but I was the janitor here when I was 15, and Pastor Johnson paid me $50 a week to be the janitor. And I want to tell you to a 15-year-old, that was big money, buddy. That was a lot of money. I was so proud to get that. But I remember that what that did for me was that it got me here at the church every day. I was here Every day because there was always something that needed to be done. And I loved it. And it was just a wonderful experience. I remember that Pastor Johnson uh would always leave his Bible and notes on the pulpit pulpit after Sunday night. I noticed that was cleaning up for Sunday night, getting ready for the school the next day, you know, going through the classroom systematically. I'd come in, clean have an iPad now, but I still do that. And uh the sermon from the Sunday was still in the in the pulpit there. And when it to an empty auditorium, I would re-preach that sermon And I thought I did a better job. Of course I had already heard the sermon. No, I I'm just teasing. But I I would repreach that sermon and I just remember those were wonderful days. But you know, the thing was is that what really brought the joy was just seeing a need and being able to serve. I think sometimes as Christians, we rob ourselves. When we don't just jump in and serve the Lord. And this is what Paul's saying about this man and his household. They were ministry addicts. They were just serving. William Barclay writes this. He said in the early church, willing and spontaneous serve Service was the beginning of the official office. A man became a leader of the church not so much by any man-made appointment as because of his life and work marked by the In other words, what he's saying is, you know, what what actually caused that person to be placed in that position was he just started serving And the Lord just kept them there serving. And this is what happened with Stephanus. He just began to serve and meet needs. And it led to him doing one thing after another And then serving. The word for ministry here is the word where we get the word deacon from, which simply means just to serve. And so he was just addicted to it. You know, we need people in the church that are addicted to ministry. They just want to serve the Lord. And Paul calls attention to this because he wants the Corinthians to remember this service. Paul purposely points it out. He says, I beseech you, brethren, that ye know the house of Stephanus, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints. The implication is that God's people should honor such people and should appreciate people who serve in the church in that capacity. And I know there are many people here that are like that. Paul commended a papyritus for the same thing because he was had a servant's heart. So number one, remember their service. Let's move on. Number two, respect their authority Respect their authority. Look at verse number 16. Notice what he says, that ye submit yourselves unto such And to everyone that helpeth with us and laboreth. Now obviously this man had a position of authority in the church or Paul would not uh urge such submission here. He says, I beg you, brethren, submit yourself to such a one. Be submissive. And again, this is the thing that caused Paul much heartache. Anytime a church is unsubmissive to spiritual leadership, it causes problems. It causes a lack of peace. And it does not bring the blessing of Almighty God upon that church or on that ministry. I think I told you of Jonathan Edwards, the great American pastor and theologian, who passed for a church that was just not Submissive to him. And yet he stayed there very faithfully until they voted him out. And then he went out and worked among the Indians until later he was made president of the college at New Jersey, which later became Princeton. And there he died. However, he left that church with a broken heart because of the the lack of submission among the people. All of us as believers. We should be submissive all the time. The Bible says wives are to be submissive to their husbands. Children are to be submissive to their parents. Believers are to submit to government and ordinances. Younger men are to submit to older men. In fact, we're to be submitted one to another, the Bible says. In fact, that is a characteristic of being filled with the Spirit The more spirit-filled you are, the more submissive, humble attitude that is going to characterize you. And Paul himself was a man who modeled this submission. That's why he could say, just follow me as I follow Christ. And by the way, there was no more submissive person that ever walked the earth than Jesus Christ Himself. Absolutely, totally submitted to the will of the Father. He submitted himself to governmental authorities, even though they were corrupt. He submitted himself even to the death of the cross, the Bible says. Write down Hebrews 13, 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are seeking, they are keeping watch over your soul. And so Paul wanted them to be selfless and submissive. But here's the third thing. Number one, he says, remember their service. Respect their authority, but number three, refresh their spirit. Look at verse 17. I am glad for the coming of Stephanus. and fortunatus and acetus for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied for they have refreshed my spirit and you Therefore acknowledge ye them that are such. And so when these men came to Paul, they just refreshed Paul He was just filled with joy when he saw these men come to him. Why? Paul says they made up for your absence. Now remember, Paul wanted to go to Corinth and stay there for a while He wanted to go there and take care of the problems that were there, but he didn't get that opportunity. The Lord providentially did not open that door. I didn't get to go and come among you. They they made up for it by the coming of these three men. Paul saw that as a representation of the entire church I think that when they came, when he says they had supplied that which was lacking on your part, in other words he was saying, I think that when they came, they brought him a just a gift Because they were supporting the Apostle Paul. Even though at times Paul said, I didn't ask for your money, I didn't want it, and at times he turned it away. And other times he asked for it when uh the time was right and when it was appropriate And so these men when they came, they just encouraged him. They refreshed him. Verse eighteen, the word refreshed on Apollo This is the same word Jesus used when he said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Same exact word. They brought rest to his soul. Paul's friends, they helped him. And this is another thing that we can learn from this, to refresh and encourage others that are in the And again, I don't mean for this to sound self-serving, but church members need to make it a point to encourage And refresh those that are leaders that serve, and that's all of those that serve, the staff, show your appreciation for those who have labored And again, by the way, I just commend you because you do that already. You really do. And it's a wonderful thing, it's a very refreshing thing to see. Um too often believers only share problems and burdens. with their leaders and rarely do they share the blessings. And so we need to make sure that we share the blessings as well as some of the problems and the burdens You know, I I had mentioned this morning, I think, in my Sunday school class, you know, we've been without power for a few days. I've had several people come up and say, Hey, do you need a generator? We got a generator for you Yeah. It's just encouraging. Now what would be even more encouraging if you just come over tonight and just put it in, you know, I'm just teasing. I'm just kidding. Actually we're not gonna be staying here tonight, so don't worry about it. But again, I'm just saying this is an illustration of your love and your encouragement. And this is what Paul's saying about these men. They so refreshed me I'm so grateful to see people give cards and letters to other believers, uh thank yous and and letters of encouragement. I want you uh to encourage you to continue to do that with one another because God uses that to refresh one another. That's exactly what Paul's talking about here. They're coming, and what you sent to me by way of them, that's refreshing. And so this is another thing, refresh their spirit. But also, here's number four, recognize their calling. eighteen. For they have refreshed my spirit and yours, therefore acknowledge ye them that are such and the word acknowledge here, uh epigonosco is a word that's used to speak of recognizing someone for or for something that they really are And uh it's the same word used in fourteen thirty-seven where Paul tells them to recognize that the things which I write unto you are the Lord's commandments That this is from the Lord. And so now he tells them to recognize these people for who they are. Recognize them for being called of God. That these are genuinely God's called servants. I grant you that sometimes there are men in the ministry who are very superficial and are all about feathering their own nest. They're all about doing things for themselves Uh they they are really just kind of in it for their own namesake. But irregardless of that, there are servants who are genuinely called of God. that have the Lord's seal on their life, that have the Lord's approval on their life, and on that calling. And and and by the way, this was something that I wrestled with young when I was a younger minister to really know whether or not I'm called in the ministry. I don't want to just do this or go through the motions or anything like that. I want to know that the call is real And you know what, again, talking about my earlier days here at Grace, you know, I think one of the things that the Lord uses in the church is he uses the discernment of older saints to help a younger person discern them And when I was a young man growing up here at Grace, there were many older saints that came along the side and said, I sense this calling. on your life. I needed that to help me discern whether this was really of God. Because again I didn't want to do this on my own. I wanted to make sure this was of the Lord And this is the confirmation of the church. A church can't call a person into ministry, but it the saints in the church can sense what God is doing. And this is something that's very true in church life. And Charles Spurgeon pointed that out in his book Lectures to My Students. He called this the outward confirmation of the family of God. That they confirm that the calling is real. And here is what Paul's saying about these men. He said, I want you to acknowledge these men. I want you to know, uh let these men know that they are genuinely from the Lord. These are genuinely. God called servants, sent to the church gifts to the church to serve and to minister in the church, because again, we don't want to do this without the Lord's call Calling without the Lord's blessing. And Paul says, I want you to appreciate these men for who they are. But let me give you the fifth thing. Remember their service, respect their authority, refresh their spirit, recognize their Calling, Paul said. But here's number five, regard their warnings. Regard their warnings. Look at verse 22. If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be what? Anathema. Maranatha. And this is a warning that Paul gives right at the end in this letter. And again, I think the church of Corinth had an element in it that was creating problems. They were disrupting things in the body. They were not acting in love. You remember, Paul wrote a whole chapter on love, and he continually goes back to that about ministering in love. And here he gives a warning If any man does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema. What Paul is basically saying by that is that love is the distinguishing mark of a true believer Someone who's genuinely of God will love. It's evidence of true salvation. It's evidence of true calling in their life. It's a warning to be discerning about those who surely who do not love the Lord. Paul says, beware of them. Beware of those who don't love him. And then he pronounces a curse, anathema, which means a devoted to destruction. Literally we could say, let them go to eternal judgment. Let them go to eternal hell. Now again, remember who Paul's talking about. He's talking about those that troubled the church, those that were causing problems in Corinth, those that were teaching the rich that were doing that. I think he's referring to the false teachers that were troubling the church. This is why Paul pronounces this strong anathema on These people because they do so much damage to the body of Christ. You remember Paul did this in Galatians, when he said, If any man come and preach another gospel, let him be accursed, even if it's an angel from heaven Let him be accursed. And why would Paul pronounce a curse? Because he loved the truth and he loved the people of God. And he didn't want anyone to come in and spoil that. And Paul knew that there's dangers all around, spiritual dangers. Paul said to the Ephesian elders, I know that when I leave, grievous wolves are going to come in, not sparing the flock. That was always his major concern that there be some that would come in and trouble the body of Christ and not love the Lord Jesus Christ. And so, friend, we have to be careful that we have to guard the church from those that would cause trouble, that do not love the Lord, and they don't love others. But then here's the last thing. Remember their service Respect their authority, refresh their spirit, recognize their calling, regard their warnings, but here's the last thing: receive their love Receive their love. And again, these are Paul's final words. Look at verse 19. We can back up there. The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you. They were obviously with Paul in Ephesus With a church that is in their house. They had a church going on. As many churches started in that first century, they started in a person's home. Verse 20, all the brethren greet you Greet ye one another with a holy kiss. And again, this was characteristic of a sign of fellowship. You know, the kind of the kiss on both cheeks that was part of that culture. And Paul mentions that. And and so it's really just a a uh uh a way of greeting one another that was part of that culture that was affectionate and pure. And and Paul says to do that with one another And then notice down in verse number 23, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. My love be with you all in Christ. Jesus. Amen. That's a good way to end this letter. This letter was severe in some places. Some places he was very stern, very harsh. Very firm. He rebuked them many times. He used sarcasm with them sometimes to get his point across. And yet Paul wrote when he wrote this letter He wrote it in love, and he wanted them to receive his love. And and and so this is the end of the letter then that Paul gives us. And really it's an exhortation to just be good followers of Jesus Christ, good followers of the servants of the Lord, treat them with respect. Remember their service, respect their authority Refresh their spirit, recognize their calling, regard their warnings, receive their love. We close with this. S. I McMillan in his book, None of These Diseases, tells us story of a young woman who wanted to go to college. But her heart sank when she read the application that she had to fill out. She read the question on the application blank that said This are you a leader? And she knew that she wasn't really a leader. So being honest and constant Conscientious, she wrote no. And then she returned the application expecting the worst. To her surprise, she received this letter from the college. It said this: Dear applicant A study of the application forms reveals that this year our college will have 1,452 new leaders. We are accepting you because we feel it's imperative that they have at least one follower. You get the idea there. Sometimes we like to call ourselves the leaders, but what the Lord really needs are just good followers. He needs good followers. And this is Paul's final word to the church. Be good followers. If you're a good follower, you're going to be a good leader. And if you're a good leader, you're going to learn the value of being a good follower. And this is Paul's exhortation to them. And this is something that we need to learn as well. That we follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Follow the great leaders that God has given us here in the church as they follow. the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we come before you and we are thankful. For men like the Apostle Paul, great leaders. We're thankful for the leadership that you provided our church with Pastor Johnson and his steadfast Leadership through the years, and the others on staff, Lord, who have provided great leadership to our church. Lord, we regard them as gifts from you, and we're grateful Help us, Lord, to take to heart what the Apostle Paul tells us here. To take these things to heart, to remember their service and respect their authority. Refresh their spirit, receive their love. May we be followers of them as they follow Christ. Give us a humble, submissive spirit Lord, make us ministry addicts. There's so much that needs to be done. So many people that need to be reached. So much work. And frankly, Lord, sometimes I'm exhausted thinking about it all. And this I know, Lord, that I cannot do this on my own. We need your help. We need others, Lord, that are willing to jump in And serve. So, Father, Lord, I pray that you'll do that, that you'll place upon the heart the desire for these who are your children to serve you with diligence, with love, with excellence. To be followers, to be submissive followers of your word. And may we be blessed. May we see people come to know Christ. People perfected in their sanctification and their walk. And with heads bowed and eyes closed before we close out our service tonight, I just want to ask you, friend, do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? You know, all the service that we do here at Grace is so that you might know Christ. So that Christ would be manifested in you, revealed in you, so that you would grow in the In the sanctification, be conformed to the image of Christ. But first, friend, it starts with you knowing Jesus as your Savior. So I want to ask you tonight, do you know Jesus? Have you trusted him? Are you sure of that? If there's any doubt we're going to be here after the service, please come to us. Let us help you settle this matter in your heart And then if you're here tonight, maybe the Lord has spoken to you about some area of service that you need to do. Might be something where the Lord has pointed it out to you and you alone. There's a need here. We need you to jump in. The church will grow and be blessed as people begin to employ their gifts for the glory of God and use it for his glory. And may that be so. Everyone can do something for the kingdom of God. God. And so Father, take these words and speak to hearts and bless hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen.