Beautiful song. Thank you so very much. Would you take God's word tonight, please? And we've been looking in the book of Philippians on Sunday night, so I want you to go there. And uh go to Philippians chapter number two. And I want you to look down at verse number 12. We're going to look at two verses tonight. Philippians chapter 2, verse number 12. And Scripture says this, wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of His good pleasure. What does Paul mean when he says, work out your salvation? This has been an issue that has confused many. They've struggled over what exactly Paul's talking about here. Salvation comes in three stages. There is justification. The moment that you put your faith in Jesus Christ, God declares you righteous. That is an instantaneous action that takes place. That is an act that happens in the past. And then after you're justified, we're in the process of being sanctified. How many of you here tonight know that Jesus saved you? Raise your hand Alright, that means now that you are in the process of being sanctified. Salvation through justification is an act. Sanctification, however, is a process. And it's a lifelong process. And we're all going through that process. It's a day-by-day process. And then there's glorification. That's the third stage of our salvation. That will take place One day when we are in the presence of the Lord, that means that the salvation will be complete. Everything will be finished. We will be just like Christ. That is a future act. So justification is in the past, sanctification is in the present Glorification is in the future. Justification is an act when we put our faith in Christ. Sanctification is a process that we're in right now, and glorification will be another act that will take place the moment we are in the presence of the Lord. The question that has haunted many theologians is this: In this matter of sanctification, in this second stage of salvation, how much of it is our part and how much of it is God's part? In other words To be sanctified means to be made more like Christ. So how much of that is my responsibility, and how much of it is God's responsibility? How much do we do? And this has led to two extreme views of sanctification that are out there. One view says this, that, and it's called Quietism basically. And the quietist view basically is the view that we're to be passive in the process of spiritual growth. That it's all the work of God. God does it all. And so we're just supposed to let God do everything. According to this teaching, the Christian must exert no energy or effort because feeble human effort only hinders the working of God's mighty power. You must simply believe and you must surrender fully to the Holy Spirit. And so we could say that quietism is kind of a spiritual pacifism in where where God becomes wholly responsible for the believer's behavior or the believer sanctification and you're basically saying, God, here I am, you do your work on me. It's all your responsibility, God, to make me like Christ. And so you have slogans like this, this is a popular view of sanctification that is out there. You have slogans like, let go and let God. Ever hear that? Or I can't, he can. That's another slogan of this view. Quietists are also called deeper life. You might have heard the deeper life movement or the Keswick movement that has all come out of England. There is a a uh an evangelical preacher in England named J. C. Rowell, who was uh one of the great preachers of of his day, and he wrote a book basically Talking about this view of sanctification. It's a book called Holiness. If you ever want to get a good book and read through it, it's a great book to get. But he felt like this view of sanctification was not biblical, where you say basically, okay, God, it's all up to you I'm not responsible for anything myself. God, you're the one who has to do it all. And so that's one extreme of sanctification. And then there's the opposite extreme. The other extreme is called pietism. And this is the teaching that the believer has to work hard. Now it's it's the extreme, it's all up to you. It's all according to you. You have to practice extreme self-discipline. This you stress is aggressive Bible study, self-discipline, holy living through diligent obedience, rigid self-denial. And so a Pietist is someone that will adopt a extremely high uh set of standards for their life to govern every area of their behavior, govern your your clothing, govern your uh you know your your hair, how how long your hair should be. Guys, some of you guys look like you need a haircut tonight. Anyway, uh all these things, all these difficult, you know, areas, they have it all down to a science. They're very methodical in their list of do's and don'ts. You may have heard of the of the Methodist. Have you ever heard of Methodists? They developed that name because they were so methodical in the way that they approached their Christian life. Pietism was a major influence on John Wesley and others in the Methodist movement in the eighteenth century in Great Britain. And don't get me wrong, I'm a I'm a fan of John Wesley. He's did so many wonderful things for the church, especially their in uh Great Britain. But he was influenced by this view of sanctification where all of it rested on him And we still see the fruit of this Pietist movement influencing modern churches in America. There's the Holiness Movement and other movements like that that adopt this particular view of sanctification in America. So we we basically then have two extreme views. On one side, we have the quietest view that downplays human effort. On the other side, we have the pietist view that overemphasizes human effort. And so we have the quietist that is passive and laid back, and we have the pietist that is active and diligent. The quietest view can lead to apathy. The pietist view can can lead to pride because after all it's all according to you and you're doing it all, and you we had a tendency for those who are pietist to be filled with pride. But the question is, which view is right? Which view is biblical? Well look at Philippians chapter 2 and look at verse number 12. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. And if you read verse number 12, Paul comes across like he's a Pietist. And so you say, well, yeah, that's it. It has to be us. We have to work out our salvation. We have to do it. It's all according to us and our effort and our labor. We have to work out on it And so we say, yeah, that's it. Well look at verse number 13. For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now verse 13, Paul sounds like a quietist. So you say, oh, that's it. We just got to let God do it all. Let God, he's the one working in us. So which one is right? Is it the quietist view or is it the Pietist view? It seems like Paul himself really can't make up his mind. And what Paul does here is he presents to us a perfect balance between these two views. The work of sanctification is not monargistic, that is to say, there's only one person doing the work The work of sanctification is synergistic. That is, it's where God is working, but also man is working together with God in that. And so it's it's not either or, it's both. Both of these things come together. Paul doesn't try to harmonize these two. Paul just simply affirms that both of these things are true when they are together. But if you hold on to one and let go of the other, it becomes an extreme view that comes becomes really out of balance with the truth of Scripture and it leads to error. So you have to hold on to both. So in this area of sanctification, whose responsibility is it? Well, it's God's, but it's also mine. It's both, both. One without the other is error. It's an extreme that brings frustration. Again, a quietist will sit and wait for God to do it all. He'll get frustrated when God doesn't do all that he thought he should do, and he begins to doubt God, thinking that God is unfair, and he's tempted to give up, saying, God, you you've let me down, a quietus will rust out And a Pietist is so active and diligent in his disciplines and he begins to be self-sufficient and he loses sight of God. He gets in the flesh as he does his work. He gets proud, he gets arrogant. He's intolerant of others that don't follow his same list of do's and don'ts, and he will burn out. But in each case Sanctification is really short-circuited, and the work is not really done. It's stymied. But as you read Paul's epistles, you'll notice how Paul holds to both of these things. Each of these things. For example, look in uh look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 real quick. Just flip over a few pages to the right. You'll come to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And I want you to look down at verse number twelve and notice what Paul says here to the church at Thessalonica. Actually, we'll just start at uh We'll start at verse number 14. Now we exhort you, brethren, mourn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient towards all men. See that none render evil unto for evil unto any man, but ever follow which is good, both you among yourselves and to all men. And and again, what's Paul doing here? He's giving a list of responsibilities that you have to do in your own sanctification Look at verse sixteen. Rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God which is in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit, despise not prophesying, prove all things, hold fast to that which is good. Abstain from all appearance of evil. That's just a list right there. Are you guys doing this? Because you're responsible to do this. You say, manna, I don't know how I can do all of that. Well, look at verse number twenty three, and the very God of peace sanctify you holy, and I pray your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at verse twenty four. Faithful is he that have called you who will also what? Don't worry about it. God's gonna do it. God's going to do it. Now you have to do all these things, but remember God's going to do it. You say, well, who does it? Me or God? Yeah, that's right. Both. You do your part. God will do his part. It's both of these things together. Just write down a few verses. First Corinthians fifteen ten. Listen to this. But by the grace of God, Paul says, I am what I am. Whatever I am, it's all by the grace of God. And his grace which was was bestowed upon me was not in vain But I labored more abundantly than they all. Paul says, Look, I am what I am by the grace of God, yet I also labored really hard And then Paul goes back and says, yet not I, but the grace of God. Well which one is it, Paul? You're going back and forth here. I am what I am by the grace of God, and yet I labored harder, and yet it wasn't I that did it. It was God who did it all. Sounds like Paul's confused here Galatians chapter 2 verse 20, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live. Yet not I But Christ liveth in me. In the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. So again you see Paul going back and forth, I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but it's Christ. So again, he's showing the balance. He's showing that both of these things are true. Again, Colossians 1, 28 and 29, whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus, whereunto I also labor, striving according to his working Which worketh in me mightily. Paul says, I'm laboring to the point of exhaustion, but really uh it's according to his mighty power that is working in me. And so the bottom line is We have to understand that it's both. This this whole idea, this this is called what theologians call this concurrent work concurrence where there's two things operating at the same time. Both are equally true, and there's a bit of a mystery in there. We admit that, and yet the scripture affirms both of these things to be true. In this matter of sanctification, it is all God who does it. He is working in us. It is his mighty power. But we can't sit back and just say, here I am, God. We gotta do our part. We gotta enact all of those spiritual disciplines. We gotta pray. We've got to read the Word of God. We've got to be in church worshiping together because there's a grace and a sanctifying Process that comes when you're in God's house with God's people, I can't explain it, I can't describe it, but you can't get it any other way It's a work of grace that God does in all of our hearts as He conforms us into the image of Christ. And so you have to be faithful to do all those things that God has commanded us to do, and yet we know that while we're doing it, it is actually God who's working in us. It is the mighty power of God that is working in and through us. So it's really two sides of the same coin. Two sides of the same coin. And this is what Paul shows us here. So I want you to I want to, in the time that we have left here, I just want to look at these two sides. of this coin. Here's the first thing. We have to be diligent in our responsibilities. You understand that? You got to do your part in this thing of san sanctification. So again, look at verse 12. Wherefore, my beloved As you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your salvation. Just work out your salvation. That's a present tense imperative, meaning keep on continuing to make the effort to work out your salvation. Some have mistakenly concluded that this means work for your salvation. But you can't do anything to work for your salvation. Jesus has already done all of that work. Salvation is putting your faith in the finished work of Christ. It's what He has already done. It's not work for your salvation, but work for Uh it says work out your salvation. We are to work out of us what God has already put in us The moment you put your faith in Jesus Christ, God has downloaded into your soul the gift of salvation, and you don't fully comprehend and realize everything that God has given to you when you got saved and he made you a new person. You know what you do the rest of your Christian life, you figure out what all that you have in Christ. People talk about the second blessing. You know what the second blessing is? It's understanding everything you got in the first blessing. And and then you'll get another blessing after that. And a blessing after that because you keep on continuing to understand everything that you have when God gave you salvation. I remember years ago Uh a dear man in this church uh gave me a software package. It was a computer program uh that uh it just had all of these these things in this computer program. It was really designed for preachers and scholars, you know, to use and study. And and I mean he just gave it to me. I downloaded it on my computer, but I'll be honest with you, it was intimidating to know. And I I couldn't really figure it out. And I would uh I was I would try to learn all that I received in this software package. And I would go out to a conference and see a book and say, hey man, I want that's a good book. I want to buy that book, and I'd buy the book, only to find out that I already had it in my computer It was already in that software package. And I can't tell you how many times that happened. And so I decided to figure out everything that I got in that software package. And that's what salvation is. God has given you so much. People are looking outside of Christ for things that God has already given you in Christ. And what you need to do is to stop searching outside of Christ for things that God has already given you, and what you need to do is you need to work out your salvation. You need to work out of you what God has already put in you. That's what the idea here is. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Now another illustration I'd like to give about this is uh You know, my my children uh they were homeschooled, my wife uh basically had them all learn piano. Um And uh especially my one son Jeremiah when he was learning to play the piano and and uh actually him and Abby and and and some of your parents that have done this, you know how this goes. They get a new piece of music and they have to figure it out on the piano Right? They have to work it out. Now the only thing I resented about that was that the piano was right next to my bedroom door. And so I I just, you know, and they're sometimes trying to take a nap and I'm here out there going bing, bang, bong, bing, bong, you know, and and I'm like, wow They got a new piece of music and they were just, you know, day by day working it out, working it out, working it out. One day I come home and I thought, someone left a CD on. And it wasn't. It was one of my children beautifully playing that piano, that same song. And what they had done is they had worked it out. They worked it all out. And that's exactly this an illustration of the process of sanctification. God has given you so much. And he's basically saying, okay, now work it out. I've given you this. You need to keep on working on your salvation. Work out of you what I've already put in you. Now, how do we do that? Uh well we get a few clues here. First of all, our pattern, notice again in verse number twelve, wherefore that points back to what Paul had already talked about and then We talked about this last time we looked at Philippians. It was all about Christ and the selflessness of Christ and how he laid aside his rights and his privileges as God and he came down to this world to die for our sins. His supreme selflessness is the pattern. Right after that, Paul says, Wherefore, my beloved? Again, this points back to Christ. Who's the model? It's Christ. Don't compare yourself to other Christians and say, I'm doing pretty good. Compare yourself to Christ. How close are you to Him as far as in your Christian walk? How Christ-like are you? That is our pattern. To be selfless like Jesus Christ. But then also our position. Notice where he says, wherefore, my beloved, this is Paul's reminding this church that they were well beloved. They were the object of God's special love. And that's true also of you. If you are a child of God, you are the object of God's love. And this is important to remember, especially when you're working through this process of sanctification, because every once in a while you're going to get frustrated. Because we all fail and we we fall and we say, you know, surely God is going to give up on me. Well, let me assure you that that will never happen because you are the beloved of God. And God's going to, he that begun a good work in you, he's going to perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. He's not going to let up on you. And so remember your position. You are the beloved of God. But then also notice our priority, as ye have always obeyed. And here Paul commends them for their obedience to God and his word. And and this is really if you want to really boil down the Christian life in one word, it's very simple. Obedience to Christ. Obedience. Are you obedient? That's what God expects of us. Sometimes people say, how do I know that I'm a real believer? Well, you're just going to want to be obedient to Jesus. And if you have no concern about obeying Jesus, then you need to doubt your salvation. Because when God saves you, He changes you on the inside, and now you have new affections, you have a new heart. Now you just want to do whatever Jesus your Lord tells you to do. You might not know everything that he wants you to do, but the heart says, Lord, whatever it is, I want to do it. Just let me know what it is. That's our priority. As you have always obeyed, Paul says. But then also notice our perseverance, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Paul expected them to obey God's word, whether he was there with them or not. Which tells me that this thing, when the pastor's gone, people kind of get a little bit lazy. That goes all the way back to Paul's day. Paul says, look, I'm not with you right now. But I want you to obey as if I were there. Not as in my presence only, but in my absence. I want you to turn it up more now that I'm not there. And that there's a tendency for people to depend too much on spiritual leaders Don't get me wrong, spiritual leaders are a gift from God to encourage people along in the church, but make sure that your faith is in Christ. And know that what you do, you do for Him to please Him and for His glory Not for the glory of any man, but for the glory of Christ alone. And Paul's saying, I want you to persevere. Not just because I you know as when I'm there, but even much more so when I'm not there, I want you to persevere You have to learn to solve your problems on your own. You have to work learn to work out your salvation on your own Now I don't mind answering people's questions. People a lot of times will text me or call me or give me an email about a theological question. I'm okay with that. But there's also a part of me that wants to say, look, study Work it out. That's part of what your calling is. I'm going to start charging you for every theological answer I give you Of course I'm kidding. But I want you to figure it out. This is what Paul's saying to the Philippians. I want you to work on it, work it out. Persevere. But then he knows what he says with fear and trembling. Fear is phobia. Trembling, trauma. And these words together talk about a healthy fear of God. This is the thing that motivates us. I don't want to do anything that will cause God to be displeased with me. I don't want to do anything to bring God's anger down on me. And as a child of God, I can never lose my salvation because God will we're saved and you're secure in Christ, but you can lose blessings. And you can bring down God's chastisement on your life if you don't obey Him. And so Paul says that you're working out your salvation. Make sure that you do it. with fear and with trembling. And so we have to be diligent in our responsibilities. That's one side of the coin, but let's look at the other side in the few minutes we have left. We have to be dependent upon his resources. We have to be dependent upon his resources. Look look at verse 13. Here's the other side of the coin. For it is God Which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. We see his person, God. And in the Greek construction, in this sentence, it places the emphasis on God. God, He's the one working behind the scenes. He's the one giving us the desire and the ability. You can see what you know, you can see we can work because He has already been at work. All we can do is respond to what he has already done. He is in the background. He's working. Thank God for that, right? God has worked in us, and He is working in us, and He will continue to work in us. How involved is God in our life? How involved is a potter shaping the clay? And when a potter shapes a clay vessel, He's got his hands right in there in that clay. He's involved. And let me tell you something, dear friend. God is involved in every area, every detail of your life. He is working Just like a potter is shaping a vessel, God is working in your life. He may use trials, he might need different circumstances, different pressures, different things, but he's working And he's conforming you as a vessel to be like his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. He's intimately involved. It is God. His person, but also his power, which worketh. Look at the word work there. Worketh it's energy, where we get the word energy. As Christians, we need to realize where Where our energy comes from, where our power comes from. God is the one supplying that energy. He's the one supplying the power. God never runs out of energy. It's never a energy crisis in heaven Never a blackout in heaven. God provides all of the power that we need, but we see his person, we see his power, but we also see his presence. Is God working in you? Now think about this. God dwells in you. Think about that. We have all power because God is in us. Listen to Ephesians 3. 20. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us. God is in us, and He is working. Again, that's just an incredible thought. In the Old Testament, God had a uh a building for his people, but in the New Testament, God's people is his dwelling, is his building. We are the temple now of the Holy Spirit of God. He lives inside of us. That's where the power comes from. But also notice his purpose to will and to do God energizes our will and works. He works through our desires. Really, this is simply the grace of God. God's grace. working in our life. You see, it's not only the grace of God that saves us, it is God's grace that works in us to conform us and to give us the desire, the will, and the ability to do the things that He wants us to do. It's God that works works in you both to will and to do. Spirosodiatis is the Greek uh Scholar said this, grace is like God's power generator, and we are like the conduits which carry his power to its intended purposes by the Holy Spirit of God. Grace is that dynamic quality of God that gives us the desire and the power to obey God. It is his grace working. It's his enablement. I like to think of it like this. It's God fixing our wantu. You ever notice how people have a broken wonder? They don't want the right things. They want the wrong things. Do you ever notice how people do what they want to do? That's just a general rule that I've learned in church with people. People do what they want to do. That's just the bottom line. You can try to, you know, work around that, but people do what they want to do. And the problem with sinful man is this wonder is broken. So we want the wrong things. You know what God's grace is? God's grace is the thing that gives us the right desires. So that we respond to those desires. That's the grace of God. It is He that works in us to will. He gives us the right desire, the will to do His Good pleasure. So it's God fixing us with his grace. But then also, again, we see his pleasure, his good pleasure. God works mightily in us, but he does it to satisfy him. He works according to what pleases him. And so in closing, beloved, how does sanctification work for us? Well, it's my responsibility But it's my response to his ability. That's what it is. I've got to do my part. I've got to get into the Word of God. I've got to pray. I've got to meditate in Scripture. I've got to, I've got to mortify this sinful flesh. I've got to exercise self-control and I've got to you know pray and seek God. I've got to be in public worship and fellowship and all those things that are needful to help me grow I've got to do all that. It's my responsibility, but I also realize that God is going to give me the ability He's going to give me the grace to do everything that he wants me to do. So again, working out our salvation is our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability in our life. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for this reminder in Scripture. That we're to work out our salvation. Thank you for the unspeakable gift that we have because of Christ. The salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. Father, may we not be lazy. And Lord, may we not proceed ahead thinking it's all on us But may we do our part, realizing that, Lord, you're going to work in us mightily through your Spirit. As we seek to perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord, as we seek to To enact in our life spiritual disciplines that will make us more like Christ. Father, work mightily in us and may people see Christ in us. May we work out our salvation with fear and with trembling, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen