Would you take uh God's word and please open to the book of Philippians this morning? The book of Philippians, look in uh chapter two, and I want to read uh two verses with you. Would you stand for the reading of God's word, Philippians chapter two? Look down at verse number twelve. Wherefore, my beloved As ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Thank you so much. You may be seated And let's would you pray with me this morning? Father, thank you for your word. That we have the inspired and errant word of God that teaches us of our Savior Jesus Christ and the grace, Lord, that you've given us in salvation. Lord, help us to learn more of that. Thank you for what we've heard this morning. Thank you for these wonderful gifts and for these wonderful servants of the Lord. We know, Lord, that we're just really Stepping into legacy of our founding pastor, Pastor Johnson, we remember him this morning and his faithfulness to preach the word. And we we thank you for that example that you've given us. And Lord help us to be faithful to follow after those godly footsteps in our own life. Thank you for these servants that you've placed here at Grace that are so very faithful. Thank you for this church that is so gracious and kind. and generous towards the servants of the Lord. Lord, bless each one here today, and we give you the praise and the honor and the glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Well I want to do just a about a a a short sermon series maybe for the next two or three weeks on some passages out of Philippians. I guess we could call this pursuing the prize. Because what we really are called to do now as believers, once we're saved by the grace of God, is we are to pursue Christ's likeness, right? That's what we do. When we come and we worship here, we get our eyes on the Lord, we focus on the glory of God, and the Bible says as we focus on God's glory, We're changed into the same image from glory to glory by the Spirit of God. So there's a process that takes place in the life of every believer after they're saved, and it's a process of sanctification. We come here to church. We don't come here to be entertained. We come here to worship our God and to hear from his word and to learn how we can be more like our Savior. Salvation is in three stages. Of course, we know that there's justification, which is an act. It's the act whereby God makes us or declares us righteous in Christ by faith. The moment we put our faith in Christ We are positionally declared righteous. That's an act. And then there's the future part of our salvation, which is another act. When Jesus Christ comes back, the Bible says we're going to be made just like him. There's no more sin in our life. Amen? That's glorification. We have a future glory awaiting the believer. But we live right now in the in-between time between justification and glorification. And that in-between time is what is called sanctification. Now justification is an act. And glorification in the future is an act, but sanctification in the present is a process. And it's the process whereby God makes us more like Christ and less like the world. Now The question that has haunted theologians in this process is this. In this matter of sanctification, how much of it is God's part? How much of it is our part? You ever ask yourself that question? How much does God do, and how much do we do? How much is God responsible for, and how much are we responsible for? And in answering this question, it's led to two extreme views of sanctification. One view is called quietism. Now, what is quietism? Quietism is a teaching that the Christian is supposed to be passive and quiet in the process of spiritual growth. He's supposed to let God do everything. According to this teaching, the Christian must exert no energy or effort. Feeble human effort only hinders the working of God's power, according to this view. Quietists believe that Christians must simply surrender fully to the Holy Spirit of God. And so quietism is a spiritual pacifism in which God becomes wholly responsible for for the believer's behavior. The believer must never exert personal effort. And so quietists have adopted slogans like this. You've probably heard it, let go and let God I can't, but he can. And so quietism is a view often espoused by those who follow what is called the deeper life movement or the higher life movement. Uh this is what caused the great preacher J. C. Rile, who uh preached during the Victorian era in in England, in Liverpool, and he wrote a a book called Holiness, but really it was a it was a a series of sermons that he Priest in reaction to this view of sanctification. He felt that this was not biblical, it was dangerous, it was neglectful of uh biblical admonitions of self-discipline, which means we battle, we battle, we say no to the world, we say yes to Christ. We When the devil in the world comes and urges us to yield to temptation, we have to learn to stand, even though we don't feel like it. And so J. C. Rao kind of reacted against this view. And then there's the other extreme. So we have quietism on one side, but then there's another another extreme view, which is pietism. And this is the exact opposite. Pietism is a teaching that the believer must work hard and practice extreme self-discipline. And so this view uh emphasizes a Bible study, it emphasizes self-discipline, it emphasizes holy living through diligent obedience, rigid self-denial And so it's not unusual to see pietists adopt extremely high and rigid standards that govern every part of their life, everything from clothing to lifestyle and so on. And for a pietist to do this, they normally live by a list of do's and don'ts. And so they were very methodical in their approach to this thing of holiness and sanctification. In fact, it was a pietist movement under the Moravians that influenced Jonathan or John Wesley And uh he later founded a movement called what, Methodists, right? Because he was so methodical in this thing of holiness. and sanctification. And we still see the fruit of the Pietist influence uh in the American Methodists and a number of holiness movements. So you have two extremes here, right? You have You have quietism on one side, you have pietism on the other. The quietist downplays human effort, while the pietist will over-emphasize human effort. You have the the quietist who is passive and laid back, and then you have the Pietist who is active and diligent. And the quietist will say of the Pietist, oh, that view produces pride. And the pietist will say, the quietist, well, your view produces apathy. And the quietist will say to the pietist, well, your view leads to self-sufficiency. And the Pietist will say to the quietist, well, your view leads to irresponsibility. And so they're having a little argument there. Now, which view is right? Which one is correct? Well, look at Philippians chapter 2 and verse 12. See what the Bible says. In verse 12, wherefore, my beloved As ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Now in this verse, Paul sounds like a Pietist, right? He's telling you, you need to work out your salvation. So you say that's the right view right there, then. The correct view of biblical sanctification is the pious view. We have to work out our salvation. Well now wait a minute, look at the next verse. Look at verse 13. For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. Now Paul sounds like a quietist here. He's saying it's all God working in us. God is the one who's doing it. So which one is right? Which view is correct? Seems like Paul can't make up his mind here. But what Paul is doing here is he's presenting us with a perfect balance between the two. The work of sanctification in our life is not monergistic. That is, it's not just on one part. It is synergistic. It is God and us working together in this thing. of sanctification. So the best way to say it is both of these are true. They're both true. Do we need to depend upon God? Absolutely. Do we need to do our part and practice rigid self disciplines and things in our life, spiritual disciplines? Absolutely. And if you emphasize one and forget the other, you have the tendency to go off into an extreme or error Paul doesn't try to explain how these two harmonize together. He just affirms that both of these things are true. It is true that we need to work out our salvation. But it's also true it's God the one who's working in us. to the will and the do of his good pleasure. Apart, they're an extreme, but together they form a perfect synergy of sanctification. One without the other is error and it brings frustration. So if you're a quietist, you could sit around and you could just wait for God. You say, God, here I am, make me like Jesus. And you're not really doing any spiritual disciplines in your life. You're not doing the things that you need to do, and a quietist will rust out while Pietist will be so active and and so disciplined they'll be self-sufficient and and they'll lose sight of God and they burn out. In either way, the sty the the process of sanctification is stymied But when you read the Apostle Paul and many of his letters in the New Testament, what you find out is that he holds to both of these things concurrently. Both of these things are true. Let me give you an illustration. Look at 1 Thessalonians 5 and just flip forward a few pages to 1 Thessalonians 5, and I want you to look down in verse We'll start in verse 12. But look what it says here. Paul's writing to the Thessalonians, and we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you. And are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Verse 13, and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves. Look at verse 14. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient towards all men. See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit. Despise not prophesying. Prove all things, hold fast to that which is good, abstain from all appearance of evil. Wow, that's a list of things there, isn't it? These are all spiritual disciplines, things that we need to do in our life. And notice what he says again in verse 23, and the very God of peace sanctify You holy, and I pray your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus. As you do all these things, I pray God will sanctify you. And you look at that list, you say, Wow, that's a pietist list right there. All these spiritual disciplines, things that we have to do. But then look at verse number 24. Here's the good news. Faithful is he that called you, who also will what? Do it. He'll do it. He'll do it. You say what I well, do I do it or does he do it? Yes. Just write down 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verse or chapter 15, rather, verse 10. Paul says this: listen to what he says: By the grace of God, I am what I am. We could all say that, right? Whatever I am, it's by the grace of God. And listen to this. And his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain. When God saved me and He gave me His grace, that wasn't a wasted investment. Why, Paul? Because I labored more abundantly than they all. I worked hard. When God saved me and He Gave me his grace. I labored after that. I worked on my salvation and all these other things. I serve the Lord. And then he goes on to say, yet not I, and yet it wasn't me. But the grace of God that was in me. God gave me his grace. It wasn't in vain. I worked hard. Yeah, but it really wasn't me. It was all God. Which one was it, Paul? In Galatians 2. 20, write this verse down. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I live in the flesh. Paul, you're really confusing me here. You say the the life that you live, and yet you say it's not you, it's Christ that lives in you, and then you say the life that you live in the flesh I live, he says, by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. It seems like he's jumping back and forth. I'm crucified, yet I live Yet it's not I, it's Christ who lives in me. And the life that I live, I live it by his strength, the faith of the Son of God. Write down Colossians 1, 28 and 29, whom we preach, he says, warning every man, teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. And then he says this, whereunto I also labor, striving according to his work which worketh in me mightily. And the word labor here is the idea of working to exhaustion. striving, agonizmai, where we get the word agony. I'm agonizing, I'm straining. Paul labored to the point of exhaustion. He agonized. But it was according to The mighty power of God. Listen to what he says, which worketh in me mightily. And so what we see here is a concept that I often see in theology, and I see it all over, to be honest with you. It's called it's a concept called concurrence, where both of these things are both true. They're equally true. There may be a bit of a mystery there in it, but we know that both the Bible teaches both of these things equally And we have to embrace it, both of them. And so we see this in our sanctification, but we see this whole concept in other areas of theology, for example, in the deity of Christ. Was Jesus 100% man? Yeah. Was he a hundred percent God? Yes. Well, those things were both true concurrently. And isn't there a mystery there somewhat? Sure. Because as God he knew he knows all things, but as man he grew in wisdom. Can you explain that for me? They're both true. What about the Bible that you have? Did was it inspired by God? Did God write the Bible? Yes. Or did man write the Bible? Yes. Yeah, man wrote it and God wrote it. It's a hundred percent from God. Every word is the word of God. So much so that Paul said All scripture is given by inspiration, it comes from the very mouth of God. Yet at the same time we see the personality of the writers We see all that coming out in their ruddy, we see their background, we see their personality, we see their the influences of their life And we see the personality of the writer who chose those words, and yet the words that he chose were the words that God had already chosen from eternity past. You have both of those things working together. The Bible is written by man and yet it's inspired 100% by God concurrence. They're both working together. We see this in fulfilled prophecy. God says something is going to happen. God will predict something will happen a hundred years into the future. And that thing happens exactly the way God said it would happen. And yet the person who the pieces in that whole providence that come together, God's not forcing them to do anything. They're doing what they want to do of their own free agency, and yet the things that they choose to do are exactly what God said were going to happen And yet God's not in any way coercing them or manipulating them. He's letting them do what they want to do, and yet what they choose to do is exactly what God determined would happen. That's concurrence. So we see it all over. We see it here in this area of sanctification Your sanctification is 100% your responsibility. But I've got good news, God's going to do it for you. Okay? You confused? Well, let's look at this a little further. Go back to Philippians 2, look at verse 12. So let's look at both sides of this. Notice in this work of sanctification, number one, we must be diligent in our spiritual responsibilities. We're just going to look at two sides of this coin. This is our part. We must be diligent in our responsibilities. This is our part. Again, look at verse 12. Wherefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your salvation. Work out here is a present tense imperative verb. We can translate it translate like this. Keep on continuing to make every effort to work out your salvation. Now, some have mistakenly concluded this to mean work for your salvation. No, it's not work for your salvation. Or work towards your salvation, or work at your salvation, that's not what it's saying. Salvation does not come by works. We know that, right? For by grace are you saved through faith, and that's not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. So what he's saying here is that you work out your salvation. You're working out what God has planted in you. You can't work it out until God's given it to you. So you work out what God has placed in us. And the word work here means work to full completion. Just work it out. Now that you're saved, you know what? You got a lot of things to work out. You've been downloaded with the grace of God, with the Holy Spirit, with all these resources. Now you've got to figure it out. You gotta work it all out. And that's your job. And you know what? That's a lifelong process of working it out. Reminds me of uh, you know, when I was going through uh school and I went through algebra and I don't understand why you would mix the alphabet and numbers together in the first place, but Some of you kids might remember when the teacher would put a uh a problem on the board, it was kind of hard, and they would say work it out. Work it out. That's your homework. Come back the next day. See if you got the right answer. And you'd go home and you'd start working on that thing and try to figure out the right answer. No, that's not right. No, that's not right. And you know, you spend time on it and finally you come back and you tell the teacher, here it is, and the teach and you the teacher say, go to the board and let me see, and you put it up there most proudly, and he say, No, that's not it. Gotta keep on working it out. Finally you get to the problem. You you get to the solution. That's working it out. And it doesn't come easy. I think about this when I think about my children that learn to play the piano. For some reason my wife decided to put the piano right next to our bedroom door. That was not a good decision. Because, you know, sometimes in the evening when I wanted to lay down for a little nap, my children would be out there working out their music problem. You know, when they get it you get a new uh you get a new piece of music and uh they would just start hammering on that piano and boy it sounds really bad. And then one day I walk in and right before I get there I hear this beautiful music and think someone is playing a C D. And I get there and it's not, it's one of the kids has learned to work that music out. And they've worked it all out. You know That's what it's like in the Christian life. God gives us salvation. And now we have to put all of our effort and working out what God has put in us. And so this is what he's talking about here. It requires labor on our part. It requires toil. But he gives us some help here. Look in verse 12. He says, we have a pattern. He says, wherefore, my beloved. The word wherefore points back. What's it pointing back to here in Philippians 2? It's pointing back to Christ. All of the first eleven verses in chapter two are all about Christ, and all about how selfless Christ was and how he laid aside his own glory to come to earth and to die for us. This is an act of supreme selflessness. And there's a sense in which Paul's pointing to Christ. If you want to know how well you're doing, measure yourself next to Christ. You know, a lot of times we have a tendency to mem measure ourselves next to other believers and feel good about ourselves. Well, you know, I'm not great, but at least I'm not like, you know, brother so-and-so. Well he's not the measure for you. He's not the standard. The standard is Christ. You want to see how well you're doing. Measure yourself with Christ. He is the pattern for us as we work out our salvation. But also notice our position. Wherefore, my beloved And Paul calls them beloved because they're God's people. They are the object of God's love, God's special love. I've got good news for you. You're a child of God, and he loves you incredibly. In fact, you're not working after salvation in order for God to love you more because God cannot love you more than he loves you right now. And he will not love you less. But we remember this because in working out our salvation, we're going to make a lot of mistakes. And we're going to fail a lot. And we're going to sin a lot. And there's times when we can beat ourselves up. And sometimes we have a tendency to look upon God as if he's in heaven and he's waiting to whack us with a divine hammer anytime we mess up. And that's not God's attitude. That's not Christ's attitude towards us. We are his beloved. And he has compassion. And if there's any time he has compassion, it's when we fail. And he's there to help us and pick us up and forgive us and help us on as we work out this salvation. But we see our pattern, our position, our priority. What is it? It's obedience. As ye have always obeyed. This is the whole essence of the Christian life. You know what the Christian life boils down to? Obedience. Obeying Christ. Jesus said, Why call me Lord and do not the things that I say? It's all about obeying Christ. It's obeying Him. That's how you know you are His. Because you have a desire to obey Him. The Bible says in Hebrews 5:9, and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey Him. Who are Christians? They're people that obey Him. Obedience is our priority. We have a heart of wanting to obey him. In fact, the Greek word here, hoop, ekuo. Akua where you get the word acoustic, something did you hear? Hoop kind of hyper. In other words, it's the idea of welcoming, of hearing a command and running to do it. There's an ank an anxiousness in the heart of the believer to do what Jesus wants them to do. That's our priority. But then our perseverance Look what he says again in verse twelve. Not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Paul said, I know that when I'm there, I see you doing well, I see you obeying, but what is it like when I'm not there? You know, if we're not careful in the Christian life, we can depend too much on our teachers around us or the people that have discipled us. And that's not a good thing. Now we need those folks because God has put them in our life. Don't get me wrong. Thank God for the people that have discipled us, that have taught us. But friend, your ultimate teacher is the Lord Jesus, and He's the one you're trying to please. You should be obedient. You should be serving the Lord, whether they're around or not. Paul says, look, it doesn't matter whether I'm there or not. You need to be working out your salvation. And then notice I call this our pitfall with fear and trembling. What do you fear in verse 12? You fear sin, because sin is the only thing that can hinder you in this whole process. And so you don't want to offend God. You don't want to bring his chastisement on you. So there should be a healthy fear of God as you do this and a fear of sin. And so all of this is on us. We work it out. We understand our pattern is Christ. We understand that we are the object of His love. We are the beloved. We understand that our priority is just obey Him in all things. And do it. Continually. Doesn't matter what other people around us are doing. Our focus is on Him, and we do it with reverence, we do it with fear, we do it with trembling. That's our responsibility. Let's look at the other side. Here's point number two. We must be dependent upon his resources. Now look in verse 13. For it is God that is his person. And the construction here places the emphasis on God And I think there's kind of a play on words. Paul said that they were to work out because God works in. We can work out because God is the one working in us. He's the one behind the scenes. He's the one supplying us the power. He's the one giving us the grace. It's him working in us. And notice the power for it is God which worketh energyo. Any spiritual strength you have, beloved, it comes from God. Any victories you're able to attain, it's because God was doing it, working it in. It was his power. The psalmist said, God has spoken once, twice. Have I heard this? That power belongs to God. It's God who is working his energy in us, his power. But also notice his presence. It is God is working in you. He's in you. Next time you're tempted to think that you can't get victory over a certain thing in your life, just remember this one thing. God is in you. He's in you I mean the power that created the cosmos is in you. You can get victory It's his power working in you, and then we also see his purpose both to will and to do And this is really the grace of God, isn't it? Grace is that dynamic quality of God that gives us the desire and the power to obey Him. He fixes our want-to, our want-ter. You know, you ever notice people do what they want to do? They just do what they want to do. Always time to have people come and give me all these excuses and I find, you know what, you do what you want to do The problem is you don't want to do the right thing enough. And that's where God's grace comes in. God's grace is fixing the broken water inside of us. You know, I wish I had some device where I could do that myself. You know, or for parents. You know, I parents come and say, My kid wants a baby, well here's this this is a this will fix your child's broken winter Here, just give him this. Put a little dial on his forehead, just turn his winter up a little bit. You say, son, go take out the garbage. I don't want to. You turn off the dial. Oh, I'd love to take out the garbage. I'd love to do it. Fix that one too. Problem is you don't have the right one too Grace is God fixing that, giving you the right desires. And what are the desires towards to do God's good pleasure? To do his will That's God's grace working in us. You see, that one-to has been broken ever since the Garden of Eden. When Adam messed it up for every one of us. He fell into sin, and ever since then man has had a corrupt heart and his desires are corrupt and evil and sinful, and we still have this sin nature inside of us But God's grace is the thing that fixes all of that. It was A. J. Ironside that said this. It is the grace of God working in the soul that makes the believer delight in holiness, in righteousness, and obedience to the will of God. For real joy is found in the service of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then we see, lastly, his pleasure, both to will and to do his good. God works medically in us, but he does it to satisfy him. He works according to what pleases him. So, working out your salvation is us, we have to be diligent in our spiritual responsibilities, but it's also God. We must be dependent upon his spiritual resources. Working out our salvation is our responsibility, but it's our response to his ability. And that's what it boils down to. And so let me let me just close with this story. There was a Texas wealthy oil man who found a sweetheart and decided to marry her, but he went to the preacher and said, I don't want one of those long drawn out Wedding services. I want you to make it quick. He said, in fact, I'll pay you a thousand dollars if you make the service one minute. By the way, if anyone wants to pay me that I can do that. I'll do it in thirty seconds. But So the oil man agreed. He said, I'll do that. I can do that. So the the big day finally came and they came down the aisle and the preacher looked at him and he said, You want her? He said, Yeah, I said you got her. She said, You want him? Yeah, you got him. Now pronounce your husband and wife. Boom, it was gone. Over with. You say, what's the point? The point is this, a wedding doesn't take very long, but a marriage lasts a lifetime. And you know what? It really doesn't take a long time for a person to be saved. It can happen in a moment. The moment you put your faith in Christ. But you know what? It takes a lifetime to work out The grace that God has given us. And that's all part of this process of sanctification in our life. Are you working it out? Work it out. God's given you so much. Just work it out. Let's pray together. So, Father, we thank you for these precious verses that help us. And I pray, Lord, that it would inspire your people here today. In this process, Lord, of working out our salvation, sometimes it gets really hard. And Lord, we fail. We fall. We can get discouraged. We wrestle. We strive against sin, only to fail at times. We seek to pursue holiness in the fear of the Lord, but there are low times in our life, Lord, when it just seems like sin catches up and gets the best of us. And we're we're trying to work it all out, Lord. We're trying to apply all of the resources that we have in Christ. And yet, Lord, we take great comfort to know that you're the one working in us. That Lord, you'll never give up on us. That you're working in us both to will and to do your good pleasure. So Lord, while we work out what you have worked in, may we take great comfort in knowing. that we are in this process and may we not give up. May we do all that we need to do in obeying you in all things. And yet trusting you with all our heart. And I pray, Lord, most of all, for the person who may be here today that's never been saved, they've never really come to Christ for salvation. Maybe they're trying to work for salvation. Lord, I pray you'll help them to realize that salvation is not by works. It's not by our works. It's by the works of Christ, yes, who took all of our sins upon Your shoulders, Lord. And you've worked it out by dying for us. You've paid our debt of sin on the cross. Lord, I pray that you'll remind that soul here that might be trying to work for their salvation that all they need to do is place their faith in your finished work on Calvary. And may they do that this very moment. May they reach out in faith and say, Save me, Lord Jesus. Yes, I put my faith in you and you alone. Give them eternal life. And let me just say, friend, if you're here and that's your prayer, I just want you to know we're going to be here afterwards. Please come and let us pray with you. Let us help you to know that you know Christ. And if you're here and you're a believer, I pray that this will just give you great comfort as you pursue the prize of Christ's likeness in your life. Father again, bless these words to every hearing heart we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.