Thank you. Take God's word this morning, please. And open to the book of Nehemiah, chapter number eight. The book of Nehemiah, chapter eight. And uh we're going to just look at a few verses here in this wonderful chapter in the Old Testament. I know you've been standing. Could I indulge you to stand for the reading of God's Word just for a few verses? And I promise you can sit down for the rest of the service. Nehemiah chapter 8, look in verse 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And then spake, and they spake unto Ezra, the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. Thank you so much. You may be seated. We've been doing a series on worship, and I want to continue on that theme this morning. I want to talk about worship and the word Two little ladies were walking out of church one Sunday and the one lady said, you know, my preacher, he he preaches uh for a long time. And her friend said, Well, actually he doesn't really preach for a long time. It just seems like it's a long time. I certainly hope you don't feel that way here at Grace. I won't ask for a show of hands. But I wonder what uh they would have thought about a service that was about six hours long. And there was a Bible reading, and then after they were finished the six-hour service, the people requested more. That was the remarkable situation that we find here in Nehemiah chapter 8. I think it would be accurate to call this a revival. This is one of the revivals in the Old Testament, or we could say just a time of renewal. And it was all centered on the worship around centered around the Word of God. Centered in the worship was the script, the reading of Scripture and the exposition of Scripture. In fact, Eric Kidner says this. He said, this day was to prove a turning point. From now on, the Jews would be predominantly a people of the book. A people of the book, and may that be said of us as Christians. But sadly, today, God's word is not central in worship services and religious services around the nation. God's word has been replaced in some places with other things. Sometimes it's been replaced with performance. It's more about performance and getting people to have a certain emotional uh state in the service. Sometimes it's around music. Thank God for music. I love our music here. Um but sometimes in some churches it's all about music and there's really no time for the word of God. and the exposition of Scripture. Other churches, it's tradition, but there are many things that could that have replaced the centrality of God's Word. But when God's word is no longer central, then the worship becomes shallow, and there's the tendency to drift towards the things that are more familiar. or emotionally effective in a worship service. And this passage here that we're going to look at today demonstrates to us how God's word must be central in our public worship. Remember before we talk about how that Jesus said the Father is seeking worshipers who worship in what? Spirit and in truth. Well, today I want to focus on the truth part of that statement. And in Nehemiah chapter 8, we're given one of the clearest pictures in all of Scripture of what true corporate worship looks like when it is centered around the Word of God. Now Nehemiah's intention in coming back to Jerusalem was to rebuild the walls. But that was not his only intention. He wanted God to do more than that. So when you get to Nehemiah chapter 8, The walls have already been rebuilt. But now Nehemiah focuses on rebuilding something else. He wants to rebuild the spiritual life of the people and of the nation. And the instrument that he uses to do that is the word of God. So the whole second half of the book of Nehemiah, another spiritual leader really is the key person And that is Ezra. Nehemiah calls upon Ezra the scribe to come forward and lead a spiritual renewal to the people of God. And so Ezra calls a great assembly. We see this in the beginning of chapter 8. And from a pulpit, he will proclaim the word of God to the people. So what happens here in this story is that Ezra and Nehemiah make God's word central. And when we see the result of what takes place when that happens. If we want true worship in our churches, it must be rooted in the Word of God And the reason I say that is because in early church history there have been questions that there were questions that arose, and even since then there have been some, on what is the manner of worship that we should conduct What is the proper form? What are the things that we should do? And there's a principle that Protestants came up with called the regulative principle. And the principle simply states that all the worship should be regulated according to the Word of God. What does the Scripture teach us about the elements of worship? And so this is so important today because we have seen a revolution of what corporate worship should be. There's a lot of different things that are taking place in worship services But the question is, is that what God desires in worship? And so what we're going to see here today are just some things uh that make the word of God central in the worship of God. So let me just give you the first one. Number one, there's the reading of God's Word. This is what we see here in this passage, the reading of God's Word And again, there's a rally that people come together publicly. Look in verse 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate There's an assembly of all the people. This was a square on the east side of the city of Jerusalem called the Watergate. Archaeologists have discovered that location and remnants of that gate there But that was a place where it was central in the life of the people back then for obvious reasons you needed water, and so they would gat gather there to get that It seems like an appropriate place for them to hear the life-giving water of God's word. And this is what's going to happen here. And notice in verse 1, they gather together as one man. There was a unity among the people here, a unity of purpose, a unity of desire, they wanted to hear God's word. Because look at the request In verse number one, it says that they, and they spake unto Ezra the scribe, to bring the book. They there is the people. Remember, in this day they didn't have a copy of the Word of God. Priests would have it. They would have a scroll that they would read from. But these people here wanted to hear from God, and therefore they wanted to hear the word of God. True worship begins when people want to hear from God And the way you hear from God today is simply through the Scripture. It is through the Word of God. And when people are truly hungry, you don't have to point them to food, they'll find it. And spiritually, the same is true. When there's a hunger for God's word, that's what you're going to desire. That's what you're going to want. Those who are truly the people of God want to hear the Word of God. There's a danger in the modern church today, and that is indifference towards the Scripture, the Word But then there is the reading. Look at verse 2. And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month. And so he be he brings them all together. Notice that it's men and women and all that could hear with understanding. This is referring to really children as well. if they were able to listen and to understand what was being said. So picture in your mind the families are gathered together here. I love to see families together in worship. And here all the families are gathered together. And look, as soon as that child is able to under to hear and understand, they should be under the sound of the word of God in the worship service. And then Ezra begins to read, look at verse number three. And he read therein before the street, that was before the water gate, in the morning until midday. Think about that, morning until midday, that's a long service. That was about six hours long. Now nowadays we don't want our services to go too long. In fact, if I start getting long-winded, I know I can see people looking at their watches And all that sort of thing. But and man many times if I go too long, uh people will begin to lose their attention and daydreaming. But notice that the people here, they the Bible says in verse 3, they were attentive. They didn't grow bored. They didn't grow indifferent. They were listening attentively. So we see that the reading of God's Word is such an important part of the worship service. Later, Paul would say to Timothy in 1 Timothy 4. 13, Till I come, give attendance to reading and to exhortation. and to doctrine. The public reading of Scripture was foundational in the worship in early Israel, and it was foundational in the church, and it should continue to be so. When scripture is being read aloud, there's not simply just the transfer of information. You are hearing the voice of God Because Scripture is the Word of God. It is the voice of God. John Stott said the first element of worship prescribed by Scripture is the public reading of Scripture. And so these people were excited to have God's word read to them. There was the reading, but I want you to see the second element. There was the reverence for God's word Because what we see happen here is Ezra stands upon a pulpit. Look in verse 4. And Ezra the scribes stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they made for that purpose. He stands up, he begins to read, drop down to verse number five, and notice what it says. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above the people, and when he opened it, all the people stood up Now scholars estimated that there was perhaps 30 to 50,000 people in this assembly. And when the word of God began to be read, they stood up. Now why did they do that? This was not a command. This was instinctive on their part. This was this was a reverence that they had, an expression of their reverence. You know, today when you go to a court, when the judge walks into the courtroom, everybody stands up. And why they do that, not necessarily because of that judge, but it's the authority with which he represents. And that's why people stand up. And when the Word of God is open, it's appropriate to stand and honor the divine authority. That is speaking from the Word of God. And then notice also in verse number six, and Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands. And they bow their heads and worship the Lord with their faces to the ground. Notice the connection. The word of God is open. It's read, God is speaking, God is being revealed, and worship follows that. True worship follows that. True worship is the proper response to divine revelation. It's the proper response. They believed that what Ezra was reading then was indeed the very word of God. They knew that they were not hearing from man's ideas That's why when I get up here on Sunday morning and I have the time that I have, I'm not giving you my ideas or giving you my thoughts about the events of the day. You need to hear from the Word of God. You need to hear from God So I just try to make that clear. They knew that they were hearing the very word of God, inspired from the mouth of God. Later, Paul wrote to the Thessalonians, And he said this, he said, For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when you heard the word of God, ye heard it of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God Which effectually worketh also in you that believed. And notice in verse 6, if people said Amen, Amen. It's okay to say amen. Pastor Johnson used to say that saying amen to a preacher is like saying sick em to a dog. And they also said in in Nehemi chapter five, verse thirteen, Praise the Lord. It's also good to say praise the Lord. Amen. Praise the Lord. Please stop there. Don't go too far past that because I can't understand everything some people say. Don't talk back to me when I'm talking. I'm just kidding But it's all appropriate. It's all under the Lord, right? We're we're praising God. We're we're thanking God. We're praising his word And so here are the people, they're showing honor and they're showing reverence to God's word. I think our churches today have a desperate need to recapture that reverence for God's Word. I think sometimes we get so accustomed to being around unholy things that we lose that sense of holiness when we come into the house of the Lord. And I wonder sometimes if in America we don't here in American churches we we kinda have a tendency, if we're not careful, to be so casual because we have God's word and we And we think lightly about it, we take it for granted. But I've been to some countries where they don't have access to scripture like we do. I remember years ago when I was in Cameroon, Africa, speaking at a seminar, I brought two suitcases of Bibles with me and said I'm up in front of me before I was going to teach those ministers there and said, look, if anybody needs a Bible, please come and get it. And I'm telling you, there was a rush to the front, press me against the blackboard. And I mean in sixty seconds all those Bibles were gone. I was not prepared for that kind of a response. And all day long I would speak. There was a chapel there that could see 500. It was filled. And I would speak an hour and they say, well, can you do it again? And I speak another hour. I did it six hours. And I said, I'm I'm I think I'm done. They said, well, can you do another hour? And I said, well I need to rest a little bit. My voice was leading me. So I said, let's come back in a few hours. And I came back. I found a crowd of people around the chapel there. And it and uh I thought, well, someone forgot to unlock the door. And when I got there, I figured out the door was unlocked. The chapel was completely filled, and there were people all around the chapel with the windows open, waiting to hear the word of God. Now that is not a testimony to me. That's a testimony to the Scripture. Because anyone who would come and give them what the Scripture says, they were hungry for it. They were hungry for it. That's a reverence for the Word of God. But then there was also the revealing of the Word, the reading, the reverence, the revealing, and we see in verses seven and eight how that Ezra began to And the and the Levite priests that were with them began to make the word of God clear. In fact, look down in verse number 8. Notice what it says. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctively And gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Now, there's nothing magical about just reading the Bible, although I think you should. But you have to have understanding. That's what matters. And I think verse 8 is one of the clearest verses in all the Bible on biblical preaching. Um if you look at that, in fact when I at Faith Seminary teach on uh expository preaching, I teach on homiletics. This is the verse that I'll go to and say this is what biblical preaching should be. Look again at verse eight. So they read the book of the law of this of God distinctly, that is to make specifically clear, and gave the sense that's from a word that means to give insight, to give meaning. And cause them to understand the reading. Again, that means to assist and understanding, to help them. And so that is what preaching is all about. I call that expository preaching. You're simply exposing what the Bible says. There's a word that perhaps you don't use much that they're used in seminaries called homiletics. Homiletics is teaching, preaching, but really the word homiletics comes from two words, homo, the same, letics, to say, to say the same thing. What is preaching? It's saying the same thing that the text says. It's not me giving my own ideas or importing things that I want or opinions. It is giving what God says. It is saying the same thing that the Scripture says. And to make it clear, to help you to understand. You know, much of the Bible, we can understand that it's really not that difficult. There are difficult sections of the Bible. People I don't think really struggle with understanding if preachers will simply make it clear. They'll understand it. Mark Twain once said, it's not the parts of the Bible that I don't understand that bother me, it's the parts that I do understand that really bother me. We can understand scripture and it has to be properly interpreted. There are principles to interpret it literally. We believe in the literal historical grammatical interpretation of scripture. That is to say, I just want you to understand how this was received to the audience back then. And we and when we say literal interpretation, we're saying we take it at face value. When you get a letter in the mail and you read it, you don't try to read into it something that's not there. You read it literally. I mean if you get a letter from the IRS and it says you owe ten thousand dollars, I would suggest that you read that literally. I don't suggest that you would read it and say, oh, the ten thousand is a is a symbol that means something else. It's a number of completion, and what it's saying is that my bill is paid in full No, that's not correct interpretation. You have to take it at face value. You have to say, you know, what is the scripture saying And sometimes you have to understand the culture and the history in which it was given and the grammar, because the Bible was written originally when it was inspired in Hebrew and in Greek, and so maybe understanding a little bit about those words Helps transfer that understanding to us. But having said all that, what changes you is when you understand God's word. You can't truly worship a God unless you understand who He is. And that's why we have God's word. It reveals to us the greatness of God and the perfections of God and the glory of God. And the deeper I Go in the scripture, the greater you're going to be able to understand who God is, and so therefore the greater you're going to be able to worship Him and give Him the glory that He is worthy of, and He is worthy of it all. He's worthy of all of our praise. So it has to be accurate, it has to be clear, it has to be applied to life. Notice something interesting in verse number seven. Notice what it says toward the end of verse 7, the Levites caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So the Levites were the men that were named there previously in verse seven, who were on the platform with Ezra. So evidently what happened was Ezra would read for a time, and after reading for a time He would disperse these Levites among the people, and they would go out there, and they would help the people to understand what he just read See part of the problem was is that the Old Testament scriptures was in Hebrew and many of these exiles had returned from Babylon. They no longer spoke. Hebrew. They spoke Aramaic or maybe same some maybe some other uh version of Babylonian back then, but they didn't really have a full understanding of Hebrew and so these men would go and they would make sure that everyone understood what was being Red. And again, that's the job of a preacher. My job is just simply to help you by the grace of God to Clearly understand what God says in his word because again, this is the Lord's church and the Lord wants to speak to his church, and how does he do that? He does it through his word He does it through his word. So when you have an understanding of that, God is speaking to you. There's the revealing. of God's Word. They read the Word, they explained the Word, they applied the Word. And then there is the response from God's Word that we see take place here. And what we see in the rest of the chapter really are two responses First there was repentance. Look at verse number 9, and notice what it says toward the latter end of verse 9. And all the people wept when they heard the words of the law. Sometimes when God's word is given, it shows us areas of our life that are in need of correction. There are times when God's word will rebuke us. God's word is like a hammer that breaks the rock. And I know sometimes people at the end of the service will come and say, Man, you were aiming at me this morning, weren't you? Well actually, no, I wasn't. Maybe God was. Maybe God the Holy Spirit was, but let me just assure you that when I'm studying Scripture, I I'm confronted a lot of times with areas and weaknesses and sins and failures in my own life that I have to deal with before the Lord And that's what God's Word does. And so what happens here, sometimes it brings tears. And these people here respond with tears. And these are tears of repentance. They saw their sin. They saw their failure. And they wept before the Lord. True worship is not always a celebration. Sometimes it's a confrontation. Where God confronts you about your sin. There is repentance. God's word is like a mirror. I don't know about the mirror that you look into, but my mirror does not flatter me. My the mirror that I look in tells me the truth. Okay? And that's what a mirror does. That's why James compares the Word of God to a mirror. And so there is repentance, but there's another response, there's rejoicing. There's rejoicing. Because look in verse number 10. Then said he said, that is Ezra. Unto them, go your way and eat the fat and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared. For this day is holy unto our Lord. Neither be ye sorry, for the joy of the Lord is your strength. Ezra and the priests encourage the people to rejoice. And this is always the pattern that we see. When there's true repentance, there's always going to follow that rejoicing. True rejoicing. That's why Jesus said, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. When there's true repentance in your heart, and you deal with issues that God brings to your attention, there follows with that a great joy. After conviction, there is comfort. And when it says the joy of the Lord is your strength, the word for joy there is talks about a deep gladness of heart. It's distinct from the fleeting happiness of the world. This is a deep settled joy. And this joy is a byproduct of knowing God through Scripture. The joy of the Lord is your strength. It's important to understand that worship, biblical worship, is not just stuck in sorrow. Yes, there is repentance, but there's also joy. Yes, there is confrontation, but there also is celebration. And we're celebrating God's grace because the same word that exposes sin also teaches us about the grace of God. The grace that we have in Jesus Christ, and that's what we rejoice in. And so there was rejoicing But let me give you the final thing here. There's the reading of the word, the reverence for the word, the revealing, the response, which was repentance, followed by rejoicing. But then finally the renewal from God's Word. Because what takes place is that there is a renewal in the hearts of the people. Verse 12 says, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them. The renewal in their hearts took place as a result of God's word being central, being read to them, revealed to them, the repentance that followed and rejoicing, and now there's this renewal that takes place. Because they understand what God says, and they begin to obey. And what we read about from verses 13 down to verse 18 is that the nation of Israel returns to God's word. They happen to read that in the law there was a feast that they were supposed to celebrate on the seventh month, on the fifteenth day. They were to celebrate this feast. This was called the Feast of Tabernacles Or to boat or shi s uh uh taboot what? Anyway, uh I was talking to Gary back or I mean Jeff back there because he is Jewish and he knows the Hebrew word. That's why I was deferring to him. It's the feast of Sukkot. That's the word that I was looking for. The feast of Sukkot. Sukkot is the Hebrew word that simply means a booth. Now what would they do at this feast? Well, for seven days they were supposed to live in a booth, just like a tool shed, you know, we would say today. Maybe not so well constructed. It was a temporary shelter And what they were to do is they were supposed to go into the woods and cut down palm branches and and and other kind of branches. And as they would put up this temporary shelter, they were to decorate it with these branches, and they were to live in there for seven days. Now why did God require them to do that? Well they did that because it was a time of remembrance. Just like we had the Lord's Supper and we remember what Jesus did on the cross. This whole feast was designed to get them to remember That at one time as a nation, they dwelt in a temporary shelter when they lived in the wilderness. When they traveled through the wilderness for f for 40 days. But they were covered. By the God's glory, because the glory of God led them through the wilderness by day and by night. And so the the decorating of the booze Those branches, the palm branches, represented the glory of God. And how the glory of God covered them during that time. Seven days going through the wilderness. Or uh for forty years they went through the wilderness, but they're doing it for seven days uh commemorating that time. In fact there were some people that built their sucote their booth on the top of a of the roof of their house. But the Bible says all the people began to do that. Why did they do that? Because they read it in the Word of God. They were supposed to do that That was a time of remembrance. And what was taking place here was a renewal in the hearts of all the people of obedience to God. And that's what revival is. It's a renewed sense of obedience to the Lord, a renewed dedication to obey the Lord. And this is what's happening here. And so there's a national renewal that's taking place here in Israel. And it all started in a public worship service where God's word was central. I would propose to you that this is exactly what our nation needs today. I know that there are a lot of liberal revisionist historians that want to tell you that our nation was not founded upon the Word of God and biblical principles. I simply disagree. If you look at history. Let me give you one j just one story. On April the thirtieth, seventeen eighty nine George Washington, the first president of this country, placed his hand on the Bible and he took the oath of office as President of the United States, and he's the one who added the word, so help me God. That was not part of the original statement, but he added it, and presidents since then have followed that by adding those same words, so help me God. And that was on the morning of April the 30. And bells were ringing out all throughout. That was in the city of New York. That was the capital back then, not Washington, D. C. But let me tell you the first official act that he did as President of the United States. He led a procession of congressmen and senators down the street to a little chapel not far away called St. Paul's Chapel there in New York. And the first official action that he did is in a joint session of Congress, he read the Word of God today He read from Scripture to them. And then he prayed a prayer of dedication. You might say that St. Paul's chapel there in New York was the dedication ground for our country because there they dedicated the country to God on that day. Sadly, we've gotten away from that. We've gotten far away from that. Just like in the Old Testament when Solomon dedicated the temple and he prayed, that was a dedication ground. And later on, after Israel disobeyed the Lord, what happened? That whole temple was torn down. It was a heap of stones. It's no accident, I think, that that chapel there in New York, St. Paul's Chapel, was ground zero on 9-11. It was there that that became Apollo Bricks when 911 took place. I don't think it's an accident. That was a place where this nation was dedicated to God by the first president and the nation has gotten so far away from God. That it was, I think, a form of judgment upon this country. And I think what we need is to give back to God's word. When you get back to Scripture, a reverence for the Word of God and seeking the God of this Word as a country, as a nation. We're far from that. We have congressmen that say things like, and I can quote his name, but I won't, but he said, you know, this Congress is not concerned with the will of God. Well it oughta be. It oughta be. This is what we need to get back to. But regardless of what America does, I do know this, the church definitely needs to get back to making God's word central in his worship. Central. When Pastor Johnson started this church years ago with a handful of people, and the the the education building over there part of it was the original building. He was a handful of people and with great faith. Pastor Johnson had the gift of faith, I think. He was a starter. He knew how to get things started and get 'em going. And with a group of people and faith in his heart, they didn't have any money, but they prayed and they claimed that this property And that building for the Lord, and you know the rest of the story, right? Uh God honored that. Pastor Johnson, I remember him telling me these stories. My first position here was janitor. I was his janitor, I'm proud to say that. Cleaning his office and that story. I remember him telling me a story. There were two pulpits in that original old building. One on the left side, one on the right side. And some of you might remember the story. That when he went into the building, he said, Jerry, I took that one pulpit out and I put the other one right in the center. And do you know why? Why? Because God's word needs to be central. in the church. And he started grace that way, with that idea that God's word is central And the preaching of the word is central. You know why? Because this word of God, the written word, exalts to us the living word, Jesus Christ. And it's all about Christ. And if we want to know who Jesus is, you just learn in Scripture who He is. So that's why it's so important. May God help us to never stray from that. To keeping God's word central. Because through the written word, the living word, Christ is exalted. And when Christ is seen and known, when we see the beauty of Christ through Scripture. People get saved, and God is worshipped in spirit and in truth. Let's bow for prayer together. Friend, if you're here today and you've never put your faith in Jesus Christ, with your head bowed and eyes closed, I just want to give you this invitation. Our Lord Jesus came into this world and took upon him the sins of this world. He who knew no sin, the Bible says, became sin for us. If you've never reached out in faith and put your faith in Christ, I just want to encourage you, I want to invite you to do it today. The Bible says now is the accepted time. Now is the day of salvation. And salvation is a prayer way. Like the man who went to the temple and said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said, that man left justified. You can leave the church today justified, having your sins forgiven, counted righteous because of the work of Jesus Christ and what he did for you on the cross. If you haven't done that, would you just, in your heart, just pray that prayer, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Save me. Pray that and he'll save you today. We're going to have a moment of invitation. I'm going to ask us all to stand together. We'll sing two stanzas of our invitation hymn, Just As I Am. If you have a need of spiritual need, we'll have ministers here in the front that will meet you. Take you aside. Pray with you So if you have a need, why don't you come? Do what the Holy Spirit says. We're here for you. We want you to know Christ. We want you to be loved. So do as the Holy Spirit leads you this morning as we pray, as we sing this song.