Would you take God's word this morning, please, and open to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 6 and verse number 9? Matthew chapter 6 and verse number 9 And I started a series last week that I'm calling Worship Matters, talking about matters of worship in the church and how we need to be in line with what Scripture says regarding worship. So this morning I want us to look at a verse of Scripture, Matthew chapter 6, verse number 9. And notice what it says, after this manner, therefore, pray ye, our Father which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. It was in the summer of uh s 1741 when the Great Awakening was going on. There was a young preacher that stood up to preach in a church in Enfield, Connecticut, and his name was Jonathan Edwards, you might remember that name, because he preached a sermon that is a now now it's famous for its name, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. And uh this was not he was not dramatic. When Edwards preached a sermon, he was not someone who would run around and he wasn't very dramatic. He didn't shout, didn't use a lot of oratory in his preaching Uh he just simply read from his manuscript in a calm and a measured tone. And yet as he described the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man and the reality of divine judgment. Something incredible happened there in that service. Eyewitnesses began to record how that uh people trembled. Some wept openly. Others in the service, when they heard the message, cried out for mercy. And it is said that some even clung to the pillars of the church, fearing they might slip away into eternity. under the weight of the conviction that they were under. Now why did all of this happen? You might say, how could a man reading from a manuscript, a sermon in a calm tone, bring that kind of a reaction? It wasn't certainly because of of um emotional manipulation. A lot of preaching today is designed to manipulate your emotions. It wasn't because of the music And it wasn't because of some kind of an atmosphere there. It was because for a brief moment, people were confronted with a right view of God. They saw his holiness. They felt the weight of his name. And they realized at that moment that they were not treating God the way he deserved. And so I believe that is missing in a lot of our worship services today. You know what we need in worship? We don't need more energy. Energy is fine. We don't need more energy. We don't need more creativity or innovation in our worship services. We certainly don't need more user-friendly strategies to get people into the church. What we need to have is a right view of God. When God is seen as holy, then his name will be treated as holy. Now in this prayer that Jesus gives us here, the first thing that he tells us to do after we call upon our Father, which art in heaven, We see both the sympathy of a father and the sovereignty of a king when we call upon our God. But the very first thing that Jesus tells us to do is to pray, hallowed be thy name. Now, hollow it here, this is an imperative in the Greek. It's not indicative, it's not a fact, it's not that we're just stating a fact that God you are holy. It is a command And the sense of it is like this, Father, your name needs to be treated as holy. That's the idea behind this here. This first petition is actually a command. And it should be the concern of every person that comes to God. This should be our primary concern that we hollow the name of God. That is an important thing for us to understand. This is the very first thing Jesus tells us in this prayer, so it's not a very it's not a small matter. Scripture makes it clear that God's name is holy and we are to treat it as holy. Yet how many times in our world have we seen the name of God profaned? Or treat it as less than holy. We certainly see it on the outside of the church. Sometimes we even see it on the inside of the church. But we need to treat his name as holy. Several years ago there was a magazine article about a truck driver who had been arrested here in Maryland for drunken disorderly conduct, and he was verbally abusive to the officers that arrested him So much so that by the time they got this ple this man to the judge, the police officers were really wanting the judge to throw the book at him because of the way that he had acted And the judge found that in the law books all he could really do for being drunk or disorderly was give him thirty days in jail and a hundred dollars for uh a uh fine And that he wanted to do more, so the judge began to look, and he found an uh an old law in the state of Maryland. that basically said that you could be fined $100 and you could spend 30 days in jail for blasphemy. And since this man was, when he was arrested, was using foul language and he took the name of the Lord in vain, he used blasphemy, the judge decided to tack on the other uh month in jail and 100 more dollars. He pulled he pulled out this old law. And this whole article was uh the story of the editor protesting this judge doing this That the judge would take this old, antiquated puritanical law that had been on the books for many, many years and use that to punish this criminal. They were furious that anyone in America in this day would be penalized by the law for publicly blaspheming God's name. That's how far we've come in this country. This is commonplace. It's almost like it's okay, but it's not okay. That man should be glad that all he got was an extra thirty days and a hundred dollar fine, because if he were living in Israel when he did that In the Old Testament, guess what would have happened if they followed the letter of the law? Anyone who blasphemed the name of God would be stoned. That's how serious this issue is. It would have cost him his very life. How a society treats the name of God is a reflection of the spiritual climate of that society. And unfortunately, our climate is not very good. In Scripture, there is nothing more central than treating God as holy. to hallow his name. So I want us to think about this subject this morning, and there are three things I want to talk to you about. First of all, the meaning of hallowing his name. What does it mean to hallow God's name. The word hallowed is from the Greek word hegaizo, which means to set apart or to treat as holy So we treat God as holy. We sanctify him. It doesn't mean that we make God holy because God is already holy. And don't you think that you could ever do anything to make God more holy? We are sinners, we can't do that. All we can do is to recognize the holiness of God and then to treat God according to His holiness. We treat his name with reverence because the name of God represents his character It represents his attributes, his nature. In Exodus chapter 34, when Moses said to God, show me your glory. Show me your glory. You remember this was after Israel sinned with the golden calf. And Moses wanted to know that God was going to forgive them completely. And Moses was still learning about God and he made this request, God, show me your glory. Show me who you are. And what does the Bible say that he did right after that? He proclaimed his name to him. His name. Two times. The Lord. The Lord. That is to say, Yahweh, Yahweh. And then right after that you see uh You see 16 Hebrew words that describes God's mercy, and sixteen Hebrew words it describes his justice. And what is that telling us here? that God's name is who he is. It is all of his attributes, all of his perfections summed up God's name is who God is. To hallow God's name is to recognize who God is. Let me give you an illustration in the Old Testament of how we are to hallow his name. You remember if King Hezekiah, Sennacherib, the king of Assyria, had surrounded Jerusalem. They were going to take over that holy city. And what Sennacherib did was something that he shouldn't have done. He crossed the line because he he put out letters to the and and gave them to the people of the inhabitants, the citizens inside the city of Jerusalem. And in those letters, he was Describing how he conquered one nation after another, and how they called upon their gods, and their gods weren't able to help them. And so your God's not going to be able to help you, he said in the letter, and in that letter he blasphemed the name of God. And you know what Hezekiah did, Hezekiah got a hold of that letter. And the Bible tells us that he went into the temple and he spread that letter out before the Lord. And he read the words to God. And then this is what he prayed, 2 Kings 19:19. Now, therefore, O Lord our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand. That all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the Lord God, even thou only. So his prayer wasn't primarily, Lord, save us. His prayer was, God, exalt your name. Save us out of his hands, and in doing so, that everyone will know that you alone are God. Besides you, there is none else. Why was he praying that way? He was hallowing the name of God. His whole prayer was centered on God exalting his own name. And you know what the Bible says? The Bible says God answered that prayer in 2 Kings 19, verse 35. The Assyrian army was struck down, and God alone received the glory. What does it mean to how God's name it is it is the passion of our heart that God's name be treated as holy. As holy. That should be the passion of all of our hearts. That we hallow his name. But here's secondly I could call this the motivation or the majesty of hallowing his name. Why God's name must be hallowed. What are some of the reasons? Well, again, because his name is holy. Since God's name represents who he is, and since God is holy, it is to be recognized and treated as such. In Isaiah chapter 6, verse 3, there's that wonderful vision that Isaiah had of God being lifted up. before the throne. And the Bible says that in that vision there were cherubims flying around and they were crying out, Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. Now in English, if we really wanted to emphasize something, we have ways to do that if we're writing in English. We could underline it. Or if you're typing, you could use bold print, or you can use italicized, or you can put a bunch of exclamation points after something that you say, or you can do all caps. You ever get an email with all caps? That's someone shouting at you by the way. through the through the keyboard. We have different ways that we can emphasize something, but in the Hebrew language there were no punctuation marks like that. They didn't use underlining or italicized words or anything like that. If you wanted to really emphasize something in the Hebrew language, what you would do is you would just simply repeat it. You would repeat it. A second time is emphasis. But if you repeated something the third time, that was the highest, that was the superlative of repetitions, scholars would say. That was the way that you truly emphasize something to the highest degree. And this is what we see here. This is what I want you to see. And by the way, we there's other places where we see this in the Old Testament. For example It says in uh Ezekiel 21, 27, I will overturn, overturn, overturn, God says. When God says overturn once, you better watch out. When he says it twice, you better really watch out. Three times, you're in big trouble. I'm going to overturn. We see it in the book of Revelation where an angel says, whoa, whoa, whoa, talking about the judgment that is going to be poured out. But in each case, it is a great emphasis that is being placed there. But here's the thing that I want you to see. Nowhere in Scripture do we see the expression, God is love, love, love. Although God is a God of love, thank God for that. Or God is mercy, mercy, mercy, or God is patient, patient, patient. We don't see that threefold repetition in any of the attributes of God except this one attribute Where the Bible says God is holy, holy, holy. Only holiness receives this treatment. Some are wondering why three? Well, the number three signifies completion or perfection. It's as if heaven is saying God is not merely holy. He is perfectly and exhaustively holy. Some say it may be implication implication of the whole of the of the Holy Trinity, of God the Father is holy, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, holy, holy, holy Holy. It could be that. But I think that this is really one of the things it's doing is telling us that this one attribute of God is his defining attribute. We have to see everything else, all of other God's perfections are through this thing of God being holy. Now you know in theology there are people that try to re-define God. I remember when I was going through seminary and I was doing my uh PhD, my my professor told me to write on it an issue, a a theological problem that was out there at that time, where in theology God's nature was being redefined and what they were doing was they were lifting out the attribute of love And they were defining all of God's characteristics through love. And so therefore, if God is a God of love, then God's not really going to send anyone to hell forever. So you see how they they kind of lighten the judgment of God. And when you see when you use love as the primary attribute of God through which all others are viewed, there's distorted views of God. Listen, you want to know what the defining attribute of God is? It is His holiness. God is a God of love, but it is a holy love. God is patience, but it is a holy patience. God is a God of wrath, but it is a holy wrath All of God's attributes are defined through this one defining attribute, and that is that God is a holy God. And if you misunderstand God's holiness, you misunderstand God. We hallow his name because his name is holy, but also because his name is glorious. Just write down Psalm 8 verse 1, O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all of the earth. The psalmist doesn't merely say God is excellent. He declares that his name is excellent. God's glory uh is excellent. And God will not share his name or his glory to another. And here's that leads us to the third uh point. Because his name is jealous. He will not share his glory with another because his name is jealous. Write down Exodus 34, verse 14. Whose name is jealous is a jealous God. And this is one of the most arresting statements in Scripture. God doesn't merely possess jealousy, but his whole name is bound up in it. Now I know that when we think of the word jealousy today, we have a tendency to think on a negative term and negative terms about that word, but not so with God, because God's jealousy is a holy jealousy It's a holy jealousy. And it's jealous in this sense. He's right he's righteous, he has a righteous zeal to protect his own glory and the e s uh the exclusivity of his In other words, we worship God and God alone and no one else. All the other gods are false gods. So God is jealous about his own glory, exclusive worship And in Deuteronomy 6. 14, Israel is warned not to follow other gods, because it says this, for the Lord thy God is a jealous God among you. You say, if you believe in religious freedom, it depends on what you mean by that. I believe in the freedom of everyone to worship the one true God. I'm not for people worshiping other gods, because there are no other gods. And God demands worship exclusively because He alone is God, and His name is jealous I I I told you before I was asked to pray one time down in Annapolis to open up the Maryland Senate and I had to submit the prayer beforehand and after I submitted it that the day before they called me and said, You can't pray this prayer in the Senate. Because you mentioned the name Jesus, and we can't have that name mentioned in the Senate. But if you can pray without mentioning the name of Jesus, you're welcome to pray in our Senate. And I said to them, basically, there is no such thing as prayer without the name of Jesus. And I told them, you forget it. I'm not going to go and play hypocrisy there in your Senate And you want me to offend God by not using that name? And pretend that I'm praying? God is jealous. You can go in that Senate. You can mention the name of other false gods and no one would be offended. But you don't mind offending God? You can forget it. God's name is jealous. He alone deserves our worship and our praise. And so God's name is jealous. But also because his name is weighty. His name is weighty. They the the word for glory and the uh Old Testament is kabod. That word actually means to be heavy or to be weighty. And from that idea From that word, we get this idea of God, his name being weighty. That is to say, it it has the weight of honor, it has the weight of dignity, it has the weight of reverence and respect. If your neighbor knocked on your door, you would answer that door. That's one thing in the way that you would answer that door would be casual and and friendly. If the police came and they knocked on your door, you would probably answer it in a different way Not the same as your next door neighbor. Why? Because that badge brings a little more weight, a little more authority. So you may be a little bit less casual. when you answer the door with a police officer or the governor of the state of Maryland knocks on your door. I know what some of you are saying I'm not going to answer it. If if if he comes to your door, you're gonna open that door with a different amount of respect. Why? Because of his authority. Because with him now comes more weight. So you answer let me tell you something. There's no higher weight or authority than God. And the name of God. So that's what it means to hollow God's name. we understand that the weightiness of it. So we see the meaning of Halloween's name, we see the motivation or the majesty of it. But here let me give you the final point here, the manner of hallowing his name. In a practical way, how do we do this? How do we honor, how do we treat with sacredness the name of God? This is really the heart of the sermon. And let me just give you a few ways this scripture tells us this. First of all, by reverent worship. By reverent worship. The Bible says in Psalm 29, verse 2, give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. To hallow God's name begins with how we worship Him. Are we engaged in worship when we come to God's house? You know, throughout the Old Testament, God never allowed his people to rush casually into his presence. If you read the Old Testament, you'll find that God required preparation. He required intentionality. He was deliberate in some of the commands that he gave. For example, when Israel approached Mount Sinai, this is what God said to Israel. God was dwelling on Mount Sinai, they were getting close to the mount, and God said in Exodus 19, verse 10, Sanctify them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their clothes. And God gave other commandments. Here's how you to approach me. You better be orderly, you better be ready, you better be prepared. Why? Because they were about to meet with the holy God. And you can't come with an irreverent, careless, casual attitude. If I were invited to the White House, uh I wouldn't go there with uh jeans and a t-shirt and flip-flops. I just wouldn't do that because it doesn't show the dignity of I'm talking about the the office, maybe not necessarily whoever's in the office. But the office itself demands a certain amount of protocol and dignity. And so it is in the way that we worship the Lord our God And I'm not s focusing so much on apparel, although that is important that we come showing respect, but it's more the attitude of the heart. It's the attitude of the heart. Reverence is not external formality, it is an inward recognition of the weight of God. A. W. Kozer said this, we've lost our spirit of worship, our ability to draw inwardly to meet God in adoring silence. Reverence is not outdated, beloved. It's not outdated. By reverent worship, but also by sincere prayer. And here we go all the way back to what we our original text where Jesus taught us to pray, hallowed be thy name. And again, this is the primary cause of all of the prayer. This is why it's at the very beginning. All the rest of the requests flow out of this one idea that God's name be hallowed. What do we say after that? Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. You know why I pray thy kingdom come? Because I know that when the kingdom comes, the more people know Jesus as their Savior, I'm praying that Jesus will reign in their hearts and lives And as their Lord, and when that happens, God's name is hallowed. I pray for the kingdom to come because I want the name of God to be treated as sacred. God's name is not treated as sacred for those people outside the kingdom. His name is being blasphemed all the time. But when they come to know Jesus Christ, their name, God's name then is treated sacred. So I'm praying for the kingdom to come. You know why I pray for God's will to be done? Because the greatest way that I can sanctify and hallow the name of God in my life is by doing His will. And praying that his will would be done. That's why I pray that, because I want his name to be hallowed. You know why I pray, um, give us this day our daily bread? Bread stands for all of life, everything that sustains me. Because when I am completely, totally dependent on God for everything in my life, I'm dependent upon Him to take my next breath. That's the daily bread. He sustains my life every day by giving me everything that I need. And when I express that absolute total dependence upon God, I am hallowing his name. I'm counting him as sacred and as holy. That's how we hallow the name of God. We pray, give us this day our daily bread. You know why we pray, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors? Because how can I treat God as holy? How can I hollow his name if I have sin in my life that I'm holding on to? How can I hollow his name if there's someone that I haven't forgiven That's why we pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. I can't hollow God's name if I yield to temptation in my life. If I allow Satan to win over and have the victory in my life, I am not hollowing the name of God if I do that So all of our prayers should be centered around this one idea. How do we hallow the name of God? By reverent worship, by sincere prayer. Here's the other thing by holy living. And again, this flows out of what I've already said 1 Peter 115 says this, be ye holy, for I am holy. This is God the Father commanding his people. I'm holy, so you need to be holy. That's what it means to take the Lord's name. Remember in Exodus 20 when God entered into a covenant relationship with Israel? Israel took God's name upon themselves in that covenant that they made with God. They wore upon themselves the name of God. They were now priests of God. They were to represent represent the glory and the light of God to all the dark nations around. They took the name of God upon themselves. But you know what they did? They took his name in vain. Because when they began to live, it wasn't in a way that honored God. It wasn't in a way to show forth the character of God. They were taking the name of God upon themselves, but they were living in a way that violated him. His name. That's taking his name in vain. And you still do that. I know when we think about taking God's name in vain, we have a tendency to think it's words. You could certainly do that with words, but it's more your life. If you call yourself a Christian, you call yourself a follower of God, then you've got to reflect that in the way that you live Because if you're not living a holy life, you're taking God's name in vain. A family name is either honored or dishonored by the behavior of its members. So we hallow his name by living a holy life. But let me just give you the last one here. And there are more, but by bold witness. Let me just show you this one passage as we close. Look in 1 Peter real quick in your Bible. Open 1 Peter and look in chapter 3 and look down at verse number 15. 1 Peter 3:15. Peter's writing to believers who were going through a difficult time of suffering in their life. And he's giving them some instructions of things that they were to do while they're going through their trials. First Peter 3. 15 says this, but sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Does that sound familiar? Same word. Hollow his name in your heart. Sanctify God in your heart. Treat him as holy in your heart. Well, how do you do that? Look at verse 15 again. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asks you of the reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and with fear. How do we hallow his name? We live in a way that's worthy of his name. And then when people come to us and they want to know why we have the disposition that we have. Why we're able to go through difficulty, not in a defeatist mode, but triumphantly, even rejoicing. You know, as Martin Lloyd Jones had said, some Christians are a really bad advertisement for God. Because they don't ex they don't show gratitude, they don't show joy, they don't show honor in the way they live their life. They're they're they're not a good advertisement for Christianity. But when you go through trials triumphantly and you give God glory, and people come to you and they want to know why. Peter says, look, you know what? You need to always be ready to give an answer. To every man that asks you of the reason or the hope that is in you, how is it that you have such hope? How is it that you have such confidence? How is it that you live the way that you live, even despite the difficulty and the darkness that you're going through? You know how you hallow God at that moment? You tell them about the hope that you have in Jesus Christ. And you are ready to give them an answer. You're ready to share with them the power of the gospel, the life-changing power of the gospel of Christ. And by doing that, you are treating God as sacred and holy, because what you're saying is there is no answer outside of God. All these things of this world, that's not going to bring you through. That's not going to give you hope. There is hope in only God. Only in God do we have hope because He is able to help us overcome whatever trial that we're going through. So don't fear man, fear God, and give an answer. This is what he's saying. Always be ready to give an answer. Give it in meekness, give it in fear. When you share Christ with others, you are hallowing the name of God. So let me ask you here this morning, is God's name holy to you? Are you hallowing his name every day of your life? The first thing that you should be concerned about doing each day of your life is treating God as holy and hallowing his name by how I live my life. By the decisions that I make, by the prayers that I pray, all of it is centering around treating God as holy. Honoring that holy name, that weighty name. Let's bow for prayer together Father, thank you for your truth. Thank you for how our Savior taught us to pray. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. We pray these things not because It's just something that we're supposed to say. We don't pray, give us this day our daily bread, just because it's a it's a it's a format that we're taught. We're motivated to pray these things because of the ultimate priority at the very beginning of that prayer. Hallowed be thy name Hallowed be thy name. May this be the passion of our heart, Father, to recognize the beauty of your holiness and to treat you as holy. And thank you, Lord, that through the blood of Jesus Christ, that righteousness that you have can be shared with anyone that comes. Anyone that comes as a sinner can be absolutely completely forgiven of their sins by a holy God because of the blood of Jesus Christ. And with heads bowed and eyes closed, friend, I just want to ask you, do you know Christ? The Bible says without holiness no one will be able to see God. The problem is none of us have any holiness So you know what God did? God sent his son Jesus to die for your sins on the cross. And on the cross, Jesus took all of your sins. And when you put your faith in Jesus, he gives you all of his holiness. And that's called being saved. Putting your faith in Christ. And if you haven't done that, Father, I want to invite you to do that. And if you're here and you're a believer, I want you to determine in your life that you're going to live every day to sanctify the name of the Lord God in your heart. And to hollow his name in all that you say and all that you do. We're to have a moment of invitation. If you have a spiritual need, friend, you come. Our ministers are going to be here in the front. If you want to know more how about how you can be saved, you come. Let's all stand together. We'll just sing a few stanzas of our invitation hymn this morning. Alter Jesus. Sing it together