Part of what we want to do as we study the life of David is to compare our own life and just see, do we have a heart that seeks after God like David does? And we want to learn some lessons for our own life. So look in 2 Samuel chapter 6, and while you're finding that, I heard about a little boy sitting in church and he saw a large flag bearing a number of gold stars. And eternity whispered to his dad, and he said, Dad, why is that flag have gold stars on it? He said, Son, each of those stars represent someone who died in the service. And the little boy had a puzzled look on his face. And after a minute he said, Dad, was it the morning service or the evening service? Well, we we kind of laugh at that, but did you know that in the Bible there was actually some people who died because they didn't worship God in the right way? When you think about that, we understand that God takes worship seriously. For example, in the book of Leviticus, Nadab and Abahu, we know the story. They were sons of Aaron. They took strange fire and they offer uh they offered it upon the altar of incense. Only fire taken from the brazen altar that was considered sanctified fire could be offered on the altar of incense, and because they got careless, God took their life. You say, well that yeah that's Old Testament, you say, you know Uh well yeah that's true, but you know in the New Testament there are stories of that. You ever hear of Ananias and Sapphira? Because they made a commitment to the Lord and then they lied to the Lord. God took their life In 1 Corinthians, Paul told the Corinthians, he said, that's why some among you have died, are asleep, because they were coming in a very careless way to worship the Lord at the Lord's Supper. And so all of this tells us that God takes worship seriously, and so should we. It should be done in the right way, in the right manner, with the right spirit. And what we can learn here from 2 Samuel chapter 6 is the heart of David was the heart of a worshiper. And we also learned some lessons about how we can worship God Right. In fact, the title of the sermon is Worship Done Right. We want to make sure that we do it right when we come to worship the Lord. So I want you to see five lessons tonight from 2 Samuel chapter 6 regarding worship. And here's the first lesson. Write down number one, worship should be done seeking his presence. We should come seeking his presence. Are you seeking God's presence tonight? Look in 2 Samuel chapter 6 and look in verse 1. Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Abel Alah of Judah. to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwell between the cherubims. And they set the ark of God upon a new card, and they brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah, and Yuza and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab dray the new cart. And they brought it out of the house of Abinadad, which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God. And Ahio went before The ark. And David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments made of firwood, even on harps and on salt trees and on timbrels and on cornets and on symbols. Now what's David doing here? David is bringing the ark of God into the city of Jerusalem. Now, if you were here with us last time, you know that in Chapter five, David captured Jerusalem from the Jebusites and he made it his capital city. This was to be the place, the central place where the people of God would come and worship the Lord. David made Jerusalem not only the political capital, now he's making it the religious center for the nation. And why does David do this? Well, this was something that God desired. God wanted a central place for all the tribes of Israel to come and worship the Lord. Jerusalem was a good location for many reasons. In fact, just write down Deuteronomy twelve, verse five, but unto the place which the Lord your God shall choose, out of all your tribes to put his name there, even unto his habitation, shall ye seek And thither shalt thou come. God said, I want you to find a place that will be the place where I will put my name, and all of you shall come to worship me. This was something that God had desired all the way back in the book of Deuteronomy, again in verse 11 of chapter 12. Then there shall be a place which the Lord your God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there. And thither shall ye bring all that I command you, your burnt offerings. And your sacrifices and your tithes and so on. So you get the idea. This was a place under the leadership of God that David chose to be the central place of worship. And the first thing to do to make this the central place of worship, the capital city, was to bring the ark of God there. So we see in verse one, David takes this very seriously. How many soldiers does he bring? Notice it says uh thirty thousand. All the chosen men, notice that, whenever the Bible uses that phraseology, it's talking about soldiers. And so he was pretty serious about this. He brought 30,000 soldiers with him. Now the reason David could do this is because the Philistines, you saw, were defeated twice in chapter 5. They were not a threat at the moment. And uh and so this is a a good time for David to do this uh with the Philistines being defeated. And so David brings all of these army Soldiers with him, and this is an important event in the life of Israel. You say, what is David doing here? Ultimately, what David is doing is he's seeking God's presence You say, how so? Well it's the Ark of the Lord. Now what's the Ark of God? Most of us here know, but in case you don't, it was a rectangular box of wood. It was about three and three-quarters feet long by two and a quarter feet wide and two and a quarter feet high. It was overlaid with gold. There was a lid on it. On top of the lid, there were cherubims with outstretched wings. In the middle was called the mercy seat because the priest Once a year would sprinkle the blood of the Lamb on that mercy seat. It would be located in the Holy of Holies in the tabernacle. It was an incredibly important sanctified piece of furniture inside the Ark of the Covenant. In earlier days there were the Ten Commandments, Aaron's rod that budded But the the the main thing that we need to see about this is that this ark represented the presence of the Lord In fact, God ordained that this would be the place where God would meet with them. It was a symbol of God's holy presence. The Lord told Moses in Exodus 25, 22, and there I will meet you. This will be the place where I meet you. The place where the blood is sprinkled, where mercy is shown for sin, that's where I will meet you. More importantly, this ark is a type of the Lord Jesus Christ. The materials, gold, represents the deity of Christ, wood represents the humanity of Christ. They represent then Christ as the God Man, the function of the ark with the mercy seat templifies the work of Jesus who would be the Lamb who would be slain, whose blood would be shed for our sins. And so this this Ark represented the Lord Jesus Christ. And when we gather as God's people, we gather unto the Lord Jesus, don't we? We gather in His presence. It's because of the person of Christ that we can even gather before God because of His work on the cross for us. And so when David was seeking the ark, he was seeking the presence of God. This is what we do every time we come to church, at least we should be doing. We're seeking God's presence in the corporate assembly of the church. We're seeking the Lord. And by the way, God's holy presence is an awesome thing. It's an awesome thing. Notice again in verse six or verse two of chapter six how it's described, it says that this ark Of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts that dwells between the cherubim here. The cherubim are angels who dwell in the presence of God They're they are awesome in their appearance, be asso being associated with fire and lightning. And the only the only human eyes that could see this were the eyes of the high priest there on the day of atonement. And so this ark Had with it the name of God. This was an awesome thing to have this ark and the presence of God there to worship. You know, uh and by the way, God made it very clear that to worship in his presence is not to be taken lightly. It is a awesome thing. I think we live in a day of flipping Christianity where we bring God down Where some call him our buddy in the sky, and we use that kind of terminology about God, we've lost a proper sense of fear and awe before the presence. I was reading about one pastor who was talking about a pastor friend of his who told him that Jesus appears to him in the morning while he is shaving and he talks to him And the his the pastor friend heard his friend tell him that, and he was kind of incredulous, and he said, And you mean you still shave when he appears? I mean, because if Jesus really did appear, the idea was that would you just keep shaving? Or would you fall down on your face before the Lord? In the book, The Ultimate Priority, the writer says this. He said, I am certain that if the people today who claim to have seen God really saw him, they wouldn't be lining up to get on the latest Christian talk show They would be lying prostrate on the ground grieving over their sin. And I think that's true. As we gather to worship, It would transform us and our worship if we would focus on the fact that we are gathering in the holy presence of God. And we need to keep that in mind. And when we come to church, we come primarily to meet with God. It's not primarily to meet with our friends, although fellowship is very important, and we encourage one another, certainly. That's important. But primarily we come to meet with God. Fellowship is another blessing, but we come seeking his presence. And so number one, worship should be done seeking his presence. But here's a second lesson we learn from this chapter. Number two is worship should be done with reverence. It should be done with reverence. Now look what happens in this story. Now when David gets the ark, what does he do? He puts it on a cart. Right? And then he begins to bring it back from Kerjithiram, to uh the which is west of Jerusalem, and kind of a long journey back to Jerusalem. Look what it says in verse 6. And when they came to Nashan's threshing floor, Yuza put forth his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the ox shook it. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Yuzah, and God smote him there for his error, and there he died by the ark. of God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon Yuzah, and he called the name of the place, Perez Yuza, to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day. And he said, How shall the ark of the Lord come to me? So David would not remove the ark of the Lord unto him into the city of David, but David carried it aside into the house of Obad Edom the Giddite And the ark of the Lord continued in the house of Obed-Edom the Giddite three months, and the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all of his household. Well, since the ark is a symbol of the presence of God, you would think that they would treat it with great reverence, right? You'd think they would treat it exactly the way it was prescribed in the scripture, right? And on the surface, as you read this passage, you think that's the case. However, it's not being treated right. In fact, it's been a long time since the ark was actually treated in a proper manner. Now when David came to bring the ark back home, you'll notice that nowhere in the scripture do we read that he prayed about it on how he was to do that. Surely the Lord wanted the ark in Jerusalem, but how to get it there That's another story. And David doesn't pray about it. He doesn't read the scripture and follow the prescribed method. And by the way, this was just another abusive way in which the ark had been treated over the years. If you look in 2 Samuel and back into 1 Samuel, if you go back 75 years, you're going to find a series of abuses against the ark of God. For example. The Israelites, how did they treat the Ark? If you look don't do it because later maybe. 1 Samuel chapter 4, how did they treat the Ark of God? They treated it like a good luck charm. They weren't worshiping the Lord. True worship of God had long since passed. Eli's sons were corrupt. And what happened? Israel got in trouble. The Philistines came against them in war. And Israel got afraid. You know what they said? They said, Oh, let's just take the ark of God out in front of us into the battle. That'll take care of everything. And they were using it as a good luck charm. And what happened? God allowed them to be defeated. God allowed the ark to be taken by the Philistines. When I think about that, I think there are some people like that today. There are churchgoers who attempt to use the church to Kind of has a good luck charm when they get into trouble, things aren't going right, so they think I'll just go to church, I'll rub God the right way, and maybe he'll solve all my problems for me. Maybe he'll take care of all these things in my life And for them, worship is nothing more than a good luck charm where they try to get God on their side. That's what happened here in Israel. They know nothing of the presence of God. But then there was another abuse, the Philistines. What did the Philistines do with the ark once they got it? They treated it like a trophy. The Bible tells us in 1 Samuel chapter 5, they took it into their temple of their God, Dagon, as if to say, we defeated the God of Israel. You remember that story when they came in the temple the next day, what happened? Dagon, that idol was fallen down before the ark. They thought, oh, there must have been an earthquake. They set it back up. They came in the next day. Guess what they found? It was fallen again. This time the head was cut off with the statue and the hands And that wasn't an accident. And the Bible says they didn't worship Dagon anymore after that. How were they treating the ark here? They were kind of treating it as a trophy. And God was very harsh with the Philistines. The Bible tells us that they got tumors inwardly. Whatever town it went to, people suffered, sickness, and they started kind of playing hot potato with it. Here you take it. No, not you. You take it They were just passing it around because they were not comfortable in the presence of a holy God. You know, there are some people that are like that today. They they're not comfortable in the presence of a holy God They don't like to be reminded about his presence. But then there was Abinadab, he had the ark. We saw this again in in 2 Samuel 6, verse 3. They took the ark From the house of Abinadad. Did you know that it was there in his house for 70 years? 70 years there But you know what? You know what's interesting? We don't read about any blessing on the house of Abinad. What happens? They take the ark to the house of Obed-Edom in chapter 6, verse 11, and what does the Bible say that God does to his house? There for three months, and he just is blessing them all over the place. But it's been in Hinad's house for 70 years. We don't read about any blessing happening there. It's like nothing happened I think in the household of Abinadab it was no big deal to have the ark there. Oh, that's just a really interesting piece of furniture, isn't it? I mean look at the gold features on it. It's pretty cool. But that was it. They weren't seeking God. And again, there are some churchgoers like that. They come into church for years where God is present, but it has no appreciable effect on their life, even though they might come into the presence of God. Why? Because they don't come seeking God. Amen. Did you know that you can come to church and the very presence of God be there? And it have no impact on your life, it glanced right off of you Because you're not seeking the Lord. He had the ark in his house for 70 years. And nothing really happened. And then here's use up. Now the ark is being transported. And we see it, we already saw this in verse 6. There's a rough spot where the ark is threatens to fall onto the ground. And Yuza, what does he do? He reaches up with his hand to steady the ark. And God strikes them dead. Now there are some people that would think this is God being a bit touchy here, a bit harsh. In fact, David gets angry at the Lord, the Bible says. And uh what you know, with the question that a lot of people ask is what was so bad about Yuza, what he did, he was just trying to help it. Any wagon driver would have done the same thing with any valuable piece of furniture under his care, wouldn't he? And yeah, that was Yuza's problem. He saw no difference between the ark and any other piece of furniture. He he was treating it the same way. Well you might even say that Yuza was overly familiar with the ark. He was used to having it around. Why? He's the son of Abinadab. It was in his house for ever since he was a child. He grew up with that thing in his house He's used to having it around. To him, it was just like another piece of furniture. There's nothing special about it to him. He became overly familiar with this. It was commonplace. He should have known better. He should have known that this was a holy, sacred piece of furniture. He should have known what the Bible had to say about it And when I read about user, I think of some people in our in church today, they grow up in church and they get so used to having holy things around them that for them it grows common And they lose that special sense of holiness. Everything becomes commonplace. And they become flippant and careless. And their attitude before Almighty God. Read about a seminary student who was bragging about going out and getting drunk the night before he was to conduct a service. That horrifies us. God didn't take his life, but he's on dangerous ground as far as I'm concerned. You better be careful. And again, there are those who have a problem with what God did to use. They really need to get the biblical perspective on the holiness of God. And the sinfulness of man. Let me read to you what R. C. Sprohl said. I think he makes a good point here. He said, What Yuza did was an act of arrogance. Here's a quote: He assumed that his hand was less polluted than the earth. But it wasn't the ground or the mud that would desecrate the ark. It was the touch of man that would do it. It's a good point. We need to take God seriously. Now again David got angry but he got angry because this was embarrassing. Remember he's got thirty thousand soldiers with him. He is he's happy, they're bringing this art back, all of a sudden use it, touches it, and he dies. You talk about putting an end to the parade. That squelps things right there. Scared everyone. And David was embarrassed. But the problem wasn't that God hadn't done things David's way, but David hadn't done things God's way. And this leads us to the third thing. Worship should be done seeking His presence. Worship should be done with reverence. But here's number three: Worship should be done in accordance with God's truth. It should be done God's way in accordance with God's truth. Because look what happens now in verse 12. And it was told King David, saying, The Lord hath blessed the house of Obed Edom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of God. So David went and brought it up, the ark of God, from the house of Obed-Edom, into the city of David with gladness. And it was so that when they bare the ark of the Lord that had gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatling. Now what's going on here? Well David got into trouble the first time he tried to move the ark because he didn't follow the instructions of God's word. So David, evidently, he begins to research and read the scripture. And he comes to realize that you can't put the ark of God on a cart. That's not the way you transport God's ark. There's a prescribed way in which to do it. Moses was very specific. The Levites had to carry the ark with poles. It had rings on the side, the four corners of the ark. You slide poles through it, and the Levites carry it That's God's prescribed way. And David got the idea then of doing it the right way. You say, where did he get the idea of putting it on a cart? Well remember the Philistines did it that way. And they seemed to be okay with that. You know where he got the idea from? He got it from the world. But then he went home and he read his Bible. And he said, we've got to do this God's way. And he did it God's way. You see, there's there's three implications to this. David changed his approach to worship is what he did. He was bringing the ark back, he wasn't doing it right, he did it wrong, and then he went back and he changed. So let me give you some implications from this. First of all, worshiping according to God's truth means that we follow the word and not the world. The world's way was to put it on an ox cart. And David did exactly the way the world told him to do it, or he learned from the Philistines, but it wasn't God's way. We learn to worship the way God wants us to from the Word of God, not from the world. You know, we live in a day in which the church has become like a local shopping mall. We try to provide whatever the customers want. This consumerism mentality has gotten into the church. And normally when people come to church, they want to know, what can you offer me? You know, and then the church today in America says, oh well, we offer you this and we've got this and we've got this, and the other church down the street says, Oh, but we have this, and it's at a lower price than this It's this consumerism mentality. You say you're being light. No, I'm being serious. Chuck Colson in his book called The Body He attacks this cater to the consumer mentality on the part of the American church and churchgoers. And he points out how if the customer is king, then the church has to set aside truth And instead develop the right marketing strategy. And you fall into the trap of trying to make people happy instead of making people holy. Which is what God wants. I believe that we oughta cater and s our church according to uh what attracts God. What pleases God. That's what worship is all about. It's not pleasing man. It's not taking a survey out with people who don't know the Lord and say, Hey, what's it going to take to get you in church? Well, if you do more this and do more that, I might come. That's man-centered. That's not real worship. You see, we could we uh try to make a church where God is welcomed. And when God comes, you know what he's going to do, great things. And he will attract people, he will bring people to the house of the Lord. And so worship that's according to God's truth must be according to the Word of God, not according to the world. But here's the second thing: worship according to God's truth means that we repent and change when we're wrong. And that's what we see here of David. Think of how humiliating this must have been when Uzziah died, and he's bringing the ark back. 30,000 people go home in a cloud of gloom. Most of us would have stopped right there and said, That's it, I'm not doing this anymore. Not going to try to bring that ark back. I mean Obed Edom, he has that for life. You want to go worship God, go to his house. No, that's not what David did. David found out where he was wrong and he was willing to change. You know what that takes? That takes humility. And it takes repentance. Pride keeps us from admitting that we were wrong, and we don't change because we lose faith, but we meet to be like David who humbled himself. And he searched his heart and he realized how he did it wrong and he repented and he changed and he did it right. That's all part of worship. But then also we worship according to God's truth, and it means that we come to Him by way of the ordained sacrifice. Notice now that when David brings the ark into Jerusalem, which he begins by offering a sacrifice And then when he finally gets it to Jerusalem, he ends by offering a sacrifice. We see that in chapter six, verse seventeen. On the first attempt there was no sacrifice, and a man died who tried to approach Jerusalem the presence of God without a sacrifice. But here David offers sacrifice, and this illustrates what the rest of Scripture makes clear that the only way into the presence of God is through an acceptable blood sacrifice. And that sacrifice is the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the only way we dare draw into the presence of God. You know what this means? This means that Christ and his death on the cross must be central in our worship. We must make much of the cross of Christ when we come to God's house. That is the basis in which we come to the Lord. That's why we have the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper is a remembrance of the cross of Christ And where we meet with the Lord in a very special way. It reminds us that our worship must be reverent, and it required the death of God's Son. Let me give you a fourth lesson. Worship should be done seeking his presence. Should be done with reverence. Should be done according with God's truth. But here's number four: worship should be done with joy. Should be done with joy. Look at verse 12. And it was Colt told King David, saying, The Lord hath blessed the house of Obad Edom And all that pertaineth unto him because of the ark of God. So David went and he brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed Edom into the city of David with gladness. Notice gladness there. Now there's great joy And worship includes not only the side of reverence, certainly, but also there's the site of joy, great joy and gladness. In fact, the word Played or celebrate, we see it in verse 5 and in verse 21. It comes from a root word meaning to laugh. You see, our God wants his people to be filled with the holy joy in his presence. And that's what we see of David, don't we see that? Notice two things about his joyful celebration. It's done with intensity. David, look at verse 14. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. All his might. He dances before the Lord. Look at verse 15. And so David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with a shouting. And with the sound of the trumpet, there was shouting. Notice there's intensity with all his mighty worshiping God. They're shouting. They're blowing the shofar, the trumpet. This is not just sitting in church and reading over the bulletin hoping the preacher gets done pretty soon. Daydreaming until, you know, it's finally over. Thank the Lord. You know, corporate worship should be done with all of us, all of our faculties. All of our mind When we come to God's house, we worship God with all our mind. When we look into the scripture and see the wisdom and greatness of God, we worship him with all our mind. We worship him with all our heart, all of our emotion. This is what we see here with David. Corporate worship should be done with intensity. I believe that at the end worship is a sin. I believe it's a sin. We're gathered in God's holy presence. The risen Savior is here, is he not? So why are we apathetic? There's a lot to get excited about. When we come to God's house. But you know, all of us have that tendency in us towards apathy. And if we're not careful, we'll slide into this ho-hum routine worship where we're going through the motions and we're not giving our heart. Let me let just I think the greatest verse in the Bible in worship is Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you by the mercies of God that you what? Present your body, a living sacrifice. By the way, the word present there is a worship word, like an Old Testament. worshiper would present their sacrifice at the altar. We are to present ourselves before God as a living sacrifice. That means all of us. It includes everything that we are. We're a sacrifice to God. And the idea is that we give our whole self to the Lord, every part of us. We don't just come and worship as an event and then forget it. It's part of who we are. We've given our whole self to the Lord. It involves every part of us physically, emotionally. Mentally, spiritually, just like David here is worshiping with all his heart. And I believe the Lord is pleased when we're intense in our worship, when we show the love to the Lord that we should show. And I think we need to be focused when we come to God's house. It's a lot like studying. You know, when I go to study, I have to say, okay, I'm not going to let my mind wander I'm going to stay focused here. And sometimes study is exciting and it's exhilarating, and sometimes it's just plain plotting. I had to stay focused. And I think, but we have to come in with the right mindset. You come to church saying, I'm here to seek the Lord, I'm here to focus on God. I want something from God for me. And I'm seeking the Lord. We don't allow ourselves to get distracted from that one thing of seeking the Lord. We don't mess around because God deserves our all. So notice it's done with intensity. But also notice it's done with variety. You'll notice here in chapter six There are all kinds of musical instruments. Look at verse number five again. And David and all the house of Israel played before the Lord on all manner of instruments, made of firwood, even on harps and psalteries, and so when he needs some other instruments there. All kind of musical instruments there were used. There were offerings and sacrifices, we see that in verse 13 and in verse 17 There was the giving of blessing. David blessed them in verse 18. No doubt this included David praying over the people. There was eating. Do you ever think of worship as eating? In verse 19, they were eating together in fellowship. You know what we did Sunday night? We worship the Lord out here on fellowship. It was good barbecue, wasn't it? We did it in fellowship together. We see this in the Bible. God's people coming together. We give thanks for the goodness of God and his greatness towards us. And we eat together. They certainly did that here. There was shouting. We saw that in verse 15. There was even dancing that David does in verse number sixteen. I know this is not a good thing to bring up in a Baptist church. It was dancing. David was dancing before the Lord. Now you know, let me just say here that this was kind of a worshipful dance. The dancing that David did is nothing like we know of today Some of the uh y some of the dirty, filthy, worldly type dancing, just get that out of your mind. That's not what David is doing here. It's kinda like And and this day they would hold hands in a circle and they would hop and skip and jump and they would sing praise to God. It was kind of like a sanctified ring around the rosy. They would just jump around and leap around and they would praise God and the Bible says there's nothing wrong with that. That was part of the custom of Israel. The Bible says in Psalm 149 Verse 2, let Israel rejoice in him that made him. Let the children of Zion be joyful in their king. Let them praise his name in the dance, and let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and the harp And so they were just praising the Lord. Again, that was part of the custom of that day, whenever there was some great event that took place where God did something wonderful. This was included as part of what they did, singing praises. But here's the point I'm trying to make. Worship isn't just one thing, it's a variety of things. It's all of what we do. Now in our contemporary day today, here's what we think. When we sing a song we're worshiping. Now certainly we are worshiping when we're singing a song, but if you think that's all there is to worship, you have a very shallow view of worship. It's a whole lot more than just singing a song. There's nothing wrong with singing a wonderful song. Let's do it with all our heart. But also realize that when we come to God's house, the way you listen to God's word is worship. The way you submit to the Word of God is worship. The way you give and the offering plate is worship. The way you pray when we all pray corporately together, that's worship. And let me also just say the way you walk out of here is worship. And the way you live your life the rest of the week, that's also an act of worship In fact if you come to God's house and you sing and shout and and and praise God and then you go out and you cheat on your income taxes and you cheat other people out of money and you don't submit to authority And you're basically hard to live with in your ho in your home, you're not worshiping God. That's a farce. You worship God in the way you live your life every day It starts when you get up in the morning and the decisions you make that day that leads up even coming to church. It's not just an event, it's who we are. Remember that's what Jonah said. Remember the mariners brought Jonah on death and they said, Who are you and what do you do? He said, I'm a Hebrew, I worship God. It's kind of ironic the fact he was running from them. I worship God. What do you do? I worship God. I like the way he said that. Because you know what you do as a Christian, you worship God. With everything that you do, you're a worshiper. And so it's there's a variety of it here. Let me give you the last thing. Worship should be done seeking his presence. It should be done with reverence. It should be done in accordance with God's truth. It should be done With joy. But also, number five, worship shall be done before the Lord. Before the Lord. This is an expression we see in this chapter. We find it in verse five. Look again in verse five. And David and all the house of Israel played how? Before the Lord. Look in verse 14. And David danced before the Lord. In verse 16, at the end, David leaping and dancing before the Lord. In verse 17, we see it again. David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the Lord. In verse 21, and David said unto Michael, It was before the Lord. Which chose me before thy father. And again at the end, therefore I play before the Lord. The point is we're not to get caught up with the celebration. But with the Lord, we get caught up with God. We're not to be worship-centered, but God-centered. Some people worship worship. They worship feel-good. They don't want to just go away you know, we don't want to just go away thinking that was great worship. We want to go away thinking that's a great God. What a great God. When you come away from a sermon, I don't want you to come away and say, oh boy, what a great sermon. I failed if you do that. You walk away saying, what a great God. What a great God we have. And it's the same in the worship service. We don't go away saying, oh, great worship. We go away saying, wow, what an awesome God. What a great God. Because it's before the Lord. We're focused on the Lord. We celebrate, but we don't focus on the celebration. To be caught up with worship for worship's sake would be like a young man who's in love with love. You know, any old girl will do as long as it's love He loves love. You know, rather than love being in love with that person, he's in love with the feelings. He's in love with the emotions, the thrill, the exhilaration, but not necessarily a person. And there are some people like that in church. They're in love with the celebration, but they forget about the person. It's God. Now, there are two implications for this. Let me just say it real quick quickly. Therefore, worship is not the same as entertainment. We don't come to church to be entertained. Worship focuses the congregation on God. Entertainment focuses people on the performance or the entertainer. We don't want to focus on the entertainer. Worship leaders need great skill to make sure that what's happening is God is the focus. God is the one that we're focusing on. Not ourselves. We don't point to ourself, we point to the Lord and His presence. And I know that there's a fine line, and I don't mean to press it too far, but again, we don't want to be entertained, we want to be led into the presence of God. Led into his presence. Here's another implication. Worshipers should be more concerned about what God thinks than what man thinks. You know what we see here at the end of the story David comes home and there's Michael, his wife, waiting for him. Look at verse twenty, then David returned to bless his household. Isn't it wonderful when you worship God, you bless your household also? Comes and he blesses his household, but there's Michael, the daughter of Saul, who came out to meet David and said, how glorious was the king of Israel today Who uncovered himself today in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovers himself. Okay, it's on now. There's about to be a fight here in the house. Because she kind of rebukes him. You know what? She was embarrassed with his enthusiasm. She was David's wife, but notice she's called the daughter of Saul. I don't think there's an accident she's called the daughter of Saul here. And notice her relationship to the worship celebration was she wasn't participating. She was just a spectator. Why wasn't she a participant? She should have been down on the streets rejoicing in the celebration, but instead she peeked out her window and she got embarrassed by what she saw. David seemed fanatical to her I mean just all his might out there, you know. And this embarrassed her. And her problem was like that of her father was pride. David, he didn't care about what people thought. He was so caught up in the fact the ark was coming, God's presence was coming, he was totally consumed with God. He didn't care about what other people thought about him. Know that the critics of true worshipers are always proud spectators. They're never humble participants. They're concerned about what others think. But David was only concerned about what the Lord thought. And that's the key, it was before the Lord. And he told her, he said, look, it's before the Lord. That I did all this before God. Twice he says it in verse 21. Is it I did all this before the Lord? This wasn't to show off. This wasn't to point to me. I wasn't the factor here, it was the Lord. And so that's the way we should focus in our worship before God. So worship should be a joyful celebration before the Lord. We should always be pointing to Him. We should be careful not to be Pointing, you know, let's not get so hyped up that we're distracting everyone else and we're pointing to ourselves. That's wrong. But we humbly point to the Lord and we give him praise And we give him thanksgiving. So worshiping God the right way means that we should be seeking his presence. It should be done with reverence. It should be done in accordance with God's truth. It should be done with joy. It should be done before the Lord. That's what we see here in David. Let me just close with this story that I read. I read about a A church in which the choir loft sits below eye level of the congregation. And running across the entire front of the church is a low velvet-draped railing. And several of the more creative choir members discovered that after finishing the song, they could crawl on their hands and knees behind the railing and exit through a side door. They could even then go and buy fresh donuts around the corner and then return to the worship service undetected. So one Sunday an elderly distinguished looking man made a successful exit to go get his donuts. And on his return trip, he realized that in order to reach his seat, he would have to crawl back, carrying the bag of donuts between his teeth. And so he started doing that. But it wasn't until he was halfway across that he noticed the laughter spreading throughout the congregation. He was on the wrong side of the railing. He was in front of everyone. Now we kind of laugh at that, but when you think about it, really it's it's kind of tragic. The sad commentary on the condition of worship. That it's okay to sing a song before Almighty God, who sits enthroned above the cherubim. and unapproachable glory, and then to sneak out behind a rail for a bag of donuts and munch on them during the rest of the service. That's not the heart of worship. I remind you that the God that we worship is able to see on both sides of the railing. Amen. That's true. And the God who comes and watches us worship here, he sees both sides of our life. He sees the worship that we give here. He sees the worship that we give when we're no longer here. And true worship before God is something that is so necessary for us. And so may God help us never to fall prey to just playing church and going through the motions, but to truly encounter the Lord whenever we come to God's house. That's key. When we encounter the Lord, when we come to God's house, he changes us. He picks us up. Whatever burdens you're carrying, he helps you Whatever problem he helps you. When you encounter the Lord, it refreshes your spirit. It gets you ready to face whatever else you have to face. When you have an encounter with God. Might that be our desire every time we come to God's house? Let's bow for prayer tonight. So Lord help us to have the heart of David. A heart that desires to worship you, Lord, not just go through the motions. A heart that seeks your presence with reverence, in accordance to your word, with great joy in our heart. And we worship before you. Not seeking the approval of man, Lord, but seeking your praise and approval. I pray, Lord, that every person here would truly, when they come to God's house, have an encounter with God. And that they would leave different than when they came. Let this be the desire of our heart. Lord, we know that you're here. We know that you want to bless us. We know, Lord, that you want to give us what we need. We know that you want to fill our hearts with yourself. But how many times, Lord, have we come and we just weren't ready for it? God, may that change. May we come seeking you with all our heart, worshiping you with intensity. With passion. Bless us, Lord, as we apply these things. We pray all this in the mighty name of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.