All right. Thank you so much, Aaron. Would you take God's word tonight, please, and open to the book of Philippians as we continue studying Philippians on Sunday night? And uh I want you to find verse 25 of chapter 2. um tonight. And we're going to look at verses twenty-five and went down to verse number thirty tonight. I want to talk about uh worthy of honor Look at verse 25. Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and companion in labor and fellow soldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants. For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick. For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. The most famous ship of all time, perhaps, is the Titanic. We all have heard that story, the unsinkable ship that sunk on its maiden voyage. There's been a lot of movies and books uh written about this, and uh but none of them include the story of uh the real hero of the Titan the story of the Titanic, which is the story of an evangelist, a Scottish evangelist by the name of John Harper. Harper was on the Titanic. He was traveling, this was in 1912, of course, and he was traveling to Chicago. He was going to become pastor of the Moody, the famous Moody Church there in Chicago. And he was on board the ship, he and his daughter, his wife had died years earlier. And when the Titanic struck the iceberg, he began to uh try to help people around him. He took his daughter and put her on a lifeboat and he began to shout, women, children, and the unsaved to the lifeboats. When when the fi when the ship uh was going down he had given his life jacket to someone else. And um survivors reported that at the very end of of his uh at the very end Harper was witnessing to anyone who would listen. In fact, one survivor recalls clinging to one of the ship's uh floating debris pieces of wood have caught a spar, and uh Harper was floating next to him, and Harper said to him, Are you saved? And the man said, No, I'm not. And Harper said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And a little while later, they met together again, and again Harper asked them, Are you saved now? And the man said, I can't say that I am. And again, Harper said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. Shortly after that, Harper went down. And he was never seen again. The man survived. He was one of only six people that was rescued. But in a public meeting four years later, recounting that episode, that scene that night, he said this. There alone in the night, and with two miles of water underneath me, I believed I am John Harper's last convert. Harper was a selfless man who in life and death struggled. Um but uh struggle though not of himself, but he didn't think of himself as what I'm trying to say, but he thought of others. Uh you know, men like John Harper are very rare. And he comes in the same kind of mold as a man like Epaphroditus that we read about here in chapter 2, verses 25, on down to verse 30. Uh if you were going to list great men and women of the Bible, Epaphroditus probably wouldn't be on the list. He's not a mighty leader like Moses. He's not a great king like David. He's not a distinguished prophet like Elijah. He's not a dynamic preacher like Peter. He's just a simple ordinary layperson. He was a man who was a member of the church at Philippi that was sent by the church to find the Apostle Paul. And yet, even though he was what we would call a common ordinary person, he's given perhaps one of the greatest commendations found in Scripture. Look at verse number 29. where it says of him, receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness. Hold such in reputation. Valued. It's the same word translated precious in 1 Peter chapter 2, referring to the Lord Jesus. And so Paul here is exhorting the church to honor him. Here is a man that is worthy of your honor. He's saying that Epaphroditus is a man that he's a gem. And people like him don't come along very often. Now why does Paul hold up this man, this ordinary man, and say that he's a man worthy of honor? Now we have to remember the whole context of Philippians chapter two Remember the whole theme really we find it in verse number five, if you'll go back and look at verse number five of Philippians chapter two, where it says, Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ. Jesus. Paul is speaking about a selfless life. To have the mind of Christ is to have a selfless life. In fact, in verses 1 through 11, the Apostle Paul points to Jesus Christ. And why was he doing this? Well, because uh he had gotten uh word that there was some trouble brewing in the church at Philippi. Evidently people were not getting along. Excuse me, if Aphrodite has brought this generous gift to Paul. And uh along with that he brought some concerns, some things that were going on in the church. And so Paul f uh understands that the problem that this church is dealing with was one of Selfishness. There were some people that were acting selfishly in the church. And so, in order to really correct the problem, Paul, what he does is he points to Jesus Christ. He points to the cross. He points to everything about Christ, really, his incarnation, his crucifixion, and uh and all of that He shows the supreme selflessness in the life of Jesus Christ. And then right after that, the Apostle Paul then begins to speak about some of the dynamics of a selfless life. We could say it like this. In verses one through eleven, he talks about the description of a selfless life. We find it in Christ, but then the dynamics of a selfless life or having a submissive mind or the mind of Christ And that is, he just goes through what will be a a pattern of a per that type type of person's life. You will obey, you will do all things without murmuring and disputing. We looked at that. You will ha live a blameless life in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. You'll shine as lights in this world. And so Paul is just giving all of this as an example. And then right after that, we saw in chapter 2 where Paul is discussing his travel plans. Now you might think, well, why does he do that? But even in this, Paul is weaving in this still this main theme about his selfless life. And what he does is he mentions two people as an example of people who have the mind of Christ. And if you're with us last time I spoke We looked at one of them. We looked at Timothy, and we said that he's a model of the mind of Christ. And now Paul is going to focus the rest of this chapter on Epaphroditus. So Paul's basically saying, look, here are two men that are worth imitating. Here are two men that are examples of what I just spoke to you about. And the reason I think he does this is because when we think about a selfless life and having the mind of Christ, it's almost like it's it's some goal out there that's too hard for us to reach. It's too far for us And Paul is giving us some living illustrations of two men who were able to live this way, as if to say to all of us, look, this is not an impossible thing. If you want to know how to live this kind of life, there are two people that you know about Philippians. And notice that Paul will use two examples that the people there in the church know very well. They knew Timothy well because Timothy was with Paul and his work there at Philippi. And then also, of course, a man from their own church, uh a messenger, a servant from their own church. And Paul is holding them up as examples of the mind of Christ. And so he points to Epaphroditus. Here's a man Paul says is worthy of honor. Just as Jesus emptied himself and was highly exalted, even so anyone who likewise emptied themselves will also be worthy of honor. And the principle is this, the more you humble yourself before God, the more God will honor and exalt you. So, we need to look at the life of Epaphroditus and see what are the characteristics of his life. And I want you to just see four things here about his life that we need to emulate ourselves. First of all He was strong in character. Strong in character. Look again verse 25. Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labor and fellow soldier But your messenger and he that ministered to my wants. Now Paul's letting the Philippians know that he's sending Epaphroditus back to them. Now why is he doing this? Uh it's not because he was dissatisfied with him. In fact, it's going to be hard For Paul to let him go, to send him back to the church. Epaphroditus was the messenger that they had selected to come and find Paul in Rome and give him the gift that they had collected for him. And now Paul says, I'm going to send them back. And Paul said it's necessary. And in sending him back, Paul is really honoring him for the selflessness, for the Christ-like service that he rendered to him. And so Paul, when he describes Epaphroditus, he's describing him in very endearing terms. He's a man who is strong in Christian character. In fact, there are three terms that he uses here in this verse. First of all, he calls him a brother in verse number twenty-five. My brother, first and foremost, he was a true believer. Paul says, he's my brother. When a person comes to faith in Christ, they are part of the family of God, and we're one family. And we all know that those who who are who know the Lord and are part of the family of God, we know that that intimacy and relationship and being in the church and part of God's family, that surpasses many other relationships, even our own family members. We f we we find more closeness and oneness and love in the body of Christ than in uh even in our own family. And here Paul says he is my brother. The name Epaphroditus means belonging to or favored by Epaphrodite. This was a Greek goddess of love and uh evidently he grew up in a in a family that honored these Greek gods, which is pretty y you know, understandable in that culture. Like Timothy, Epaphroditus was born and educated in that Greek culture, came from a pagan home and background. His parents perhaps worshiped this pagan god and named their son accordingly. But because of Paul's ministry in Philippi, Epaproditus heard the gospel and he became a believer. He became part of the family of God. And so Paul uses the term my brother, not just a brother. But my brother. And that implies there was a special closeness, a bond that Paul now shared with Epaphroditus. I think the possessive pronoun here shows a deep loving relationship. And I think why? Well I think the rest of the verse kind of tells us why. The Greek word here, companion in labor That phrase is one Greek word. Soon ergos. Soon meaning together or with ergos is the word for laboring or striving. Striving and laboring together. That's where we get our word synergy. And uh this term is used thirteen times in the New Testament, and all but one are used by Paul. So this is a term that Paul loved to refer to when talking about believers who worked with him, who labored with him in the ministry of the gospel. Paul and Epaphroditus became very close because they entered into the labor of the gospel together. And that always happens when you are laboring together. striving together for the gospel, there's always a bond and a closeness that will come because of that. And so if you want to share closeness with someone, just join them in the labor. of the ministry of God's work and there will be a close relationship. And so Paul says he's my fellow laborer, my co-worker, my companion in laborer, and then he calls him my fellow soldier in verse number 25. And fellow soldier. And again, this uh this is a unique word here, only used twice in the New Testament, used once of Timothy when Paul uh told Timothy to suffer hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. And now Paul uses it here to refer to Epaphroditus. This means that Epaphroditus shared in the battle and in the same struggles that the Apostle Paul shared. This means that they fought together, shoulder to shoulder, in a spiritual battle, in a spiritual war Epaphroditus took this long journey and now he's with Paul there in Rome. And I think that what Paul had in mind here was the trademark imperial soldiers battle ethic of standing side by side. That was again the ethic of those soldiers. Shields locked together. Swords drawn You are a uh fellow soldier in that sense. And Epaphroditus was that. He was a tested soldier. He was not just a weekend warrior, but he proved himself faithful. He proved himself worthy of this honor. How? Well Just by being willing to make that trip. You're talking about an eight hundred mile trip from Macedonia to to Rome and and and a day when it was very dangerous to travel. And not only that, he had to carry a large sum of money that distance So that would have made them susceptible to robbery and even death. Robbers often killed those that they stole from. They didn't leave any witnesses behind. And so here he is carrying this large sum of money. And the situation with Paul had grown very unstable. Again, Paul, we know that he was there to stand before trial uh to stand before Nero in a trial. And so it's unpredictable what could have happened to Paul. I mean, Nero could have just decided to put Paul to death, and it could have very well be that if Paul was going to be executed, that his companion could be executed as well. Nero was just uh he was an unpredictable ruler. I think I told you about him before. He killed his own mother, his ex-wife, others he didn't like. If he didn't like you, he had you executed And he could have done that with Paul. He could have done that with Epaphroditus. But Epaphroditus was willing to enter into the battle with Paul. Paul. He was willing to share the risk. He was willing to stand beside him in defending the gospel. He was willing to stay in the same quarters, which I would venture to say probably wasn't five star at that time He endured the same scorn and the same ridicule, entered into the same danger. This leads us to the next characteristic. Not only was he strong in character, but he was selfless in conduct. Looking again at verse number 25 where Paul says, but your messenger and he that ministered to my wants. Messenger here is literally in the Greek the word apostle, apostolos. It's not used in the technical sense of an apostle with a capital A, like someone who was sent by Jesus, but it's used as an apostle in a small A, and it the word just simply means a messenger, someone who was sent. And it's often used as someone in the New Testament who was sent by a church on a special assignment. If we if we got together and voted to send someone to another country to represent us. maybe to carry a love offering to another country and we voted on that person and decided to send them, that person then would become a apostle small A or a messenger, representing our whole church. And that happened often in the New Testament. And so here he is sent by the church. And what was his mission? Why did the church send him? Well, to carry this love offering. Remember, I was telling you that Paul um depended on the offerings of other churches at times to sustain him. And the Philippians were very concerned about Paul. They wanted to help him. They were afraid for his welfare. You say, well, what's the big deal? I mean Paul was under house arrest, right? Well, as I told you before, being held at Rome uh that the Roman government did not pay for prisoners. Prisoners were dependent upon help from the outside for their for their clothing, for their meals, for all of that. The Roman government didn't s didn't pay for that. Others had to pay for them. And so um And by the way, the Philippians, they would know this. You know why? Because they were a colony of Rome, away from Rome. They had they knew all the Roman customs, they knew all the Roman laws, and so they knew that if Paul was in that Roman prison, that he had to take care of himself. And or the others had to take care of them. And so they understood the Roman prison system. And so they wanted to support Paul. They knew that Paul was doing it out. Look in chapter four of Philippians. Look down at verse number ten, just to kind of give you an understanding. But I rejoice in the Lord greatly that now at last your care of me has flourished again. Paul's thanking them for their The big love of offering that they sent to him. He says, you know, your cares first for me again. You were careful, but you lacked opportunity. You wanted to give to me. But you couldn't you didn't know where I was, you couldn't find me, you didn't have the opportunity. But now God providentially has given you that opportunity to give to me again, and I just want to thank you for for that. Look at verse number 15, what they what it he says Now, ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only. Paul says, look. You know this. You know that no one was taking care of me. It was just you only They knew that Paul had no one else supporting him at this time. And Paul bears witness. So they took it upon themselves to give him a big love offering. to take care of them. This was not a small gift. It had to be large. You say, well, how do you know that? Well It had to sustain Paul for a long time. It had to be worthy of such a long trip. You're not going to take a trip 800 miles one way. And give him just a few bucks. Alright? You're gonna make sure that that gift is worthy of this long trip. that Paul that the whoever messenger would would be taking it would justify that long journey. And so it had to pay for Paul's outstanding debts, everything that Paul charged up until that point. that he perhaps r owed to the Roman system, and it needed also to sustain him for a long time in the future. And so they needed someone to take this gift to him. Talking about a lot of money. So that means what? Whoever you send, you have to trust them. I mean, you know, a sizable gift like that, it could be a see ya. You know, I'm going to Cyprus, you'll never see me again. No, it had to be someone who was trustworthy. And also someone who is courageous enough to do it, because again, having this kind of gift, this this kind of money, taking it that long journey, uh w would make them susceptible to robbers And it had to be someone who was willing to set aside his life and be a servant to Paul. This wasn't going to be a quick trip and back. This was going to take period over a long period of time. So really it's a person that's going to set aside everything in his own life. If he was a businessman, he's not going to be a businessman for a few years. Or if he had family, he's going to leave that family for a few years. This was going to be a big, big sacrifice So that was part of the mission to take to Paul this gift, but then the other part of it was to stay and to serve him. Look at verse 25 where it says, He that ministered to my wants. The word ministry here, or ministered, so we get the word liturgy, it carries with the idea of special service, a service of important, dedicated service, sacred service. It was used in the New Testament to speak of service that was dedicated to the Lord in the sanctuary of the house of God. This is this word is used uh And the Septuagint to speak of the consecrated priests and Levites, the service that they did to God. And so this was a worship word. What Epaphroditus did was an act of worship. in the sight of God. We think that worship is just coming to church, singing some songs, listening to a sermon. Publicly coming together, that's an important part, but that's just one small part of worship. Worship is everything that we do every day of our life. We do it under the Lord. And so this whole act that Epaphroditus was going to do, Paul he describes it as an act of dedicated worship to God, all the selfless service, the willingness to put himself in jeopardy. And to take this trip, all of that was a special, sacred, consecrated act of worship to God. And that's how Paul describes it He would be a very selfless person in doing this. Selfish, strong, trustworthy. And by doing this, again, Epaphroditus became a code laborer in the gospel. And he he did go. This is the the man that When Paul says, your messenger, that implies that they all got together as a church and they said, Who can we send on this journey? Who do we trust? Who can do this rugged trip? And they all came together and said, There's only one person that we can take, that we can send. Um and that's Epaphroditus. And so they they selected him. He did go, he did set aside his life. He did become fully committed to the gospel and to Paul. He did stay with Paul. We're not exactly sure how long he stayed with Paul. But I I believe it was a pretty substantial amount of time. And we'll see it was it was long enough for him to get real seriously ill and then get well enough to take the journey back. So He did say he did serve. And Epaphroditus represents those wonderful servants of God who serve selflessly for the gospel that we might not ever really hear about or know about. And yet what they do, they do it under the Lord. They do it without any fanfare. They do it without any recognition. And these are people that are worthy of honor. Worthy of honor. I think I may have told you before, I pastored a church up in uh upstate New York. And as soon as I got there, I was asked uh to conduct the funeral service of a missionary. Uh he was actually someone who came f who uh grew up in that church, was called, he went to Wheaton College, um got his degree, was a was called to Irian Jaya, which is a very, very difficult place to go, a jungle area in Indonesia. And he he he took his wife And uh they went to a very remote part of the jungle. You had to get on you could get there by a dugout canoe. That was the only way you could really get back to that part. Way back deep in the jungle He took a a a tin house rolled up in in these long, you know, boards and he got there and put up his tin house on these on these uh stakes, these boards, so that you know, k when it flooded, their house wouldn't flood. And he lived in that house, that tin house, and served in that region for forty years. 40 years. And he went around sharing the gospel, started several churches, and began to translate the Bible into the language of the Osmat people And uh after being there for many years on furlough, his doctor told him, You can't go back because if you do, you'll die. He said, I need one more year. I just need one more year. And uh against his doctor's wishes, he went back to the jungle. He he uh made sure that all the churches were taken care of. Did all the work that he needed to do to pass the torch to the next group and got on a plane to come back home to finally retire And on the way back home, the plane had to stop in Australia because he got so sick he couldn't make it home. And there at the hospital in Australia, he called his children. Talked to each of them for fifteen minutes on the phone, witnessed to all the nurses, and then he died. He died. And they sent his body back to the church, and there he was laid out in the church in a pine box, not a coffin, but a pine box. Just a pine box. And on his chest was that Bible that he had translated into the language of the Osmat people. And I did not feel worthy to stand and speak at that You talk about a selfless servant. Again, you don't know his name. You don't know who he is, but heaven knows who he is, because he's one of heaven's heroes. That's the kind of person Epaphroditus was. No fanfare, just serve and do it for the Lord. So he was strong in character, he was selfless in conduct, but here's the third thing: he was sympathetic in concerns. Look at verse number twenty-six. For he longed after you all and was full of heaviness, because ye had heard that he had been sick. For indeed he was sick nigh unto death. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. Now, Paul was grateful for all that Epaphroditus had done. But he knew it was time to send them back. And even in this we see the selfless heart of Epaphroditus. as well as Paul, because there were three reasons why Paul wanted to send him back. First of all, for the sake of Epaphroditus himself. And we get again we see this in verse 26. Where he says, for he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because ye had heard that he had been sick. Epaphroditus had got to the point where he was longing to see the believers back at the church at Philippi. He was concerned about them. Well, why was he concerned about them? Well, because they were worried about him. He was concerned about their worry over him. And he wanted them to let them know that he was alright. And so the Bible says he was full of heaviness. That word has the idea of being in deep anxiety, emotional turmoil. This is the word that's used in Matthew and Mark to speak of the agony of Jesus when he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. And so Epaphroditus is he's he's burdened down. And uh again, what caused it? He wasn't concerned about himself. He wasn't worried about himself. He was worried about the church at Philippi. He was worried about their concern over him. The church heard that he was sick. You say, how did how did they hear that? How did they hear that all the way back in Rome? How did the church in Macedonia hear that he was sick? Facebook. No, I'm kidding. Well, when if Aphrodite went to Rome, it's almost certain that he didn't travel by himself. I mean that large amount of money, you're not going to go by yourself. You're going to bring with you a partner. How do we know this? Well, because Paul kind of established this precedent. You remember when he was taking up a love offering from all the Gentile churches for the church in Jerusalem, and he was writing to the Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. Remember that they were mad at him when he wrote 1 Corinthians. And so when he got it all cleared up and they repented, he felt comfortable to bring up the love offering again. And so he took he talked about the the big love offering that he's going to bring Give to the church in Jerusalem. And he kind of sets down some guidelines about how they were going to do it. And part of the guidelines was there had to be accountability. They had to go in pairs, not just one person. When you have this much money, you don't just have one person in charge of it. There has to be accountability. And so you would send several, not just one, at least two. So more than likely, when Epaphroditus fell ill, one of the traveling companions returned to Philippi with that alarming news. To tell the church what had happened. And when the church heard about his sickness, they became worried. But again, he was worried over them because they were worried about him. In other words, this heaviness was not selfish in any way. Again, it was a concern and a love over this church. And so he was very concerned about them. But also Paul so Paul says, I need to send him back. He needs to be back. He needs to be together with with you. But also, and by the way, if Aphrodite is carry back the letter of the Philippians uh uh to the Philippians himself, give it to them as if that thank you letter really is what Philippians is. But Paul sends him back not only for Epaphroditus' sake, but also for Paul's sake. Look at verse 27. For indeed he was sick nigh unto death. But God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. And Paul here confirms he got sick, and he was sick until the point of death The Greek word here for sick refers to a sickness that is very severe. It's possibly a terminal sickness. It could have been. It's interesting to me that, you know, Paul, who was an apostle and had the gifts of the apostles, how come Paul didn't just heal him? That's another subject for another time. But this to me is more evidence that the gift of healing or the gift of the apostles at that time was kind of dying out. Or, you know, not everyone got healed. And you know, Paul didn't just lay hands on him and heal him. Uh that's not how this happened. He grew worse, for Paul says here, for he was sick. Nigh unto death. Nigh unto death. Now, but it says, but God had mercy on him, and not on him also, but him only, but me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. So evidently he was sick for a long time, long enough for news to travel back to Philippi about his condition, but God spared him. God didn't allow him to die. He recovered from his illness. And so God did heal him eventually or help him to get over this. Uh it just goes to show us that God doesn't always heal people the way we think or at the t at the uh you know, with miraculous healing. I believe that all healing comes from God ultimately. All of it. But God does it in his own way, in his own time, with his own will, and he'll use different ways to do it. And sometimes God will allow his children to endure that illness for a time because in that God is doing a sanctifying work. He's sanctifying not only that individual, but others that are a part of it, that that that are seeing it happen. And so and here, God, I think, uses this even in Paul's life. Perhaps it increased Paul's prayer life. Because Paul says, you know, God had mercy on him, but not just him, but on me. Because it would have been too great a burden for Paul to bear if Epaphroditus had died and Paul felt responsible for it, because this man had traveled all that way to minister to Paul. And Paul didn't want this man to die in service to him. And so Paul said, you know, I would have been consumed with sorrow. upon sorrow. This would have been a burden way too heavy for me to bear. And so now that he's well, Paul says, all right, now that he's well, I'm sending him back. I'm almost like, all right, I'm he's not in my care anymore. You guys gotta take care of him again. Uh in my charge here, the Lord was able to bring him out of this sickness, and now because of that, I'm grateful and I'm gonna send him back to you. This is the right thing. So he's sending him back for his own sake, but for and for Paul's sake, but also for the sake of the Philippians. Look at verse number twenty-eight. And I send him therefore the more carefully, that when ye see him again ye may rejoice. that I may be the less sorrowful. As soon as it was safe, he sends them back. Again, this will be a big loss to Paul. I'm sure he hated to lose him But Paul here shows his selfless side. Paul was willing to part with him in order for the church to be blessed. Paul knew that him coming back to the church would cause great rejoicing, that again, that ye may rejoice, that I may be the less sorrowful. Paul said, I'll be less concerned about you. My loss is your gain, but it will also be my gain because I won't be so concerned about you. I won't be so concerned over the church if I send him back. And so we see selflessness even here, don't we? Selflessness on the part of Epaphroditus, on the part of Paul. So he was strong in his character. He was selfless in his conduct, sympathetic in his concerns. But let me give you the last thing here. He was surpassing in courage Surpassing encouraged. Look at verse 29. Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation. Paul again says, Receive him. Receive him with gladness, honor him. He's worthy of honor. He risked his life. Look what it says in verse 30, because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life. To supply your lack of service towards me. Interesting word here in the Greek, not regarding his own life. Teraboeomai, which literally means to throw down to the side. to throw alongside. And it speaks of, you know, throwing aside your own concern about your safety, about your life. Voluntarily hazarding your welfare, exposing yourself to danger. This was a term that was used in that day to describe gamblers who threw their money down. and expose her to a danger of loss, of losing that money. It could mean to place everything on on on uh On risk, to risk everything. I uh I have here in my notes, I don't really want to say it, but I guess I will. Could mean to to place everything on a roll of the dice. I don't like that term roll of the dice But that's really the idea here. It's he gambled with his life. He was willing to risk it all. And that's the whole idea here. He put everything on the line for Jesus. Did you know interesting years later, groups of Christians known as the Parabolani, the Parabolani Which is based on this Greek word here. There was a group that raised up called the Parabolani, and they were called or the gamblers, and these were people that were willing to do great acts of service, risking their life for the cause of Christ. And they were labeled with this same word here. These are saints of God who are willing to get out of the comfort zone, to get out of the convenience of what they like. and willing to go to places and do things in service of the Lord. People who are willing to deny themselves, take up the cross, and follow Jesus. That's what the church needs today. And that's what the church has called us to do, to pick up the cross, to follow Jesus, take a risk for the Lord. And so He was strong in character, he was selfless in conduct, surpa sympathetic in concern, surpassing in courage. You know, when we come to the end of our life, the question will be, not how much have you been given? Or but how much have you yourself given to others? Not then given, but have given to others? That's going to be the real question. And so Paul gives us a picture of a man who was willing to give all and do it unto the Lord. And Paul says, here's an example for you to follow. If you want to know what the mind of Christ is like, if you want to know what a selfless life is like, look at Epaphroditus. Someone said this, those who forget themselves usually do something that everyone remembers. And Epaphrodis was that kind of man. He was willing to forget himself. And you know what? We're talking about him today. We remember him today because he was a man worthy of honor. May God make us that kind of a person. Let's bow for prayer together. So Father, thank you for this reminder that we have in God's word of this man who lived so very long ago. Who was a selfless servant who had the mind of Christ. Just an ordinary member of a church, and yet a man who was completely, totally dedicated to Christ. And was willing to risk all to serve his master. And now, Lord, we do hold him in honor. And pray, Lord, that you'll help us to have that same mind. The mind of Christ, the mind that characterized the Apostle Paul, who was willing to be poured out like a drink offering Who characterized Timothy, who was, Paul said, no one is like-minded, no one just like Timothy, who cares for the things of others, not for the things of himself. And now here a Paphroditus who was willing to risk all, gamble his own life, in order to do a service for the kingdom of God. Father, thank you for this example. I pray, Lord, that you'll help us to follow in it, to be more like our Master, the Lord Jesus, and we pray in His name