Open please to the book of Genesis. I want you to look in chapter 32. Some of you have been with us on Sunday night and Wednesday night. You know that we've been looking at the life of Jacob And I always say, well I'm gonna I'm gonna preach this and I'm gonna be done with the life of Jacob. This and then I find something else and I say well I'll I'll just do this one. And and then I find something else. So you say when are we gonna end this? I I don't know Um we'll just keep going until the Lord says, okay, you're done. But look in Genesis chapter 32, and I want you to look down at verse 24. And notice these verses here. And Jacob was left alone, and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was that of joint, as he wrestled with him. And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. This is an incredible story here in the Old Testament. In fact, this is really one of the most mysterious and somewhat bizarre stories that we find in the Bible Who is this man that appears out of nowhere at nighttime and provokes a wrestling match with Jacob, who is at this time, if we would believe the chronology as it lines up in the scriptures, about 97 years old at this time So don't think Jacob is a young man when this episode happens. And why does he do this? Why does he provoke this wrestling match? And why does he strike Jacob on the hip of his socket And why is he so concerned about the breaking of day and Jacob holding on to him until the breaking of day? And these guys, they wrestle all night long. Just think about that. Wrestling all night long. This is the first WrestleMania ever. These guys are going at it all night. And then why does he ask Jacob his name? And why does he assume the right to change that name? And so these are questions that we come to as we come to a passage like this. And the more, probably the most pertinent question is, what can we learn about this for our own lives? Well, Genesis 32 is about Jacob facing a crisis in his life, and God using that crisis to break him This is a story about God breaking Jacob with this crisis, about God breaking him before he can fully use him the way he wants to use him and to bless him Someone has rightly said that before God can really use anyone, first they have to be broken. Now we, when we break things, what do we do? We throw them away. But God, when he breaks something, that's the first step in the process of God really ever using anyone or anything And believe me when I say that there's no one in Scripture that needed to be broken any more than Jacob. He needed this desperately. He was very self-sufficient. He was a man of self-dependency, a man who was very independent. And Jacob just needed to be broken of all these things. He needed to be broken of his self-sufficiency. He needed to be broken of his independence. And let me just say in the way of introduction, we're all like Jacob. There's a bit of Jacob in all of us, as we said before. We have Jacob in our hearts. We are, if we're honest with ourselves, we are a self-sufficient people, aren't we? We think that we can do things our own way. We take pride in our independence. We take pride in our self-sufficiency. In fact, there was a study put out by George Barna, his research group. And they conducted this survey nationwide and they did it via telephone. They did interviews. They sampled about a thousand adults And this is what they said. Nine out of ten adults describe themselves as being self-sufficient. That's 92% of all adults like to describe themselves as being self-sufficient. And then they said, and uh uh two out of three admit that they like to be in control of their own lives And that's really us in a nutshell, isn't it? We like to think that we're self-sufficient. We like to think that we are in control of our own life. But let me just say this spirit of self-sufficiency and this spirit of pride is something that God hates. He loaths it. He loaths this kind of pride. You say, why? Because the Bible has teeth has taught us over and over again That when we depend upon ourselves, what does that do with reference to our relationship with God? It doesn't cause us to draw closer to the Lord, it pulls us away from Him. The Bible says this in Jeremiah 17. Thus says the Lord, cursed is a man who trusts in man, who makes flesh his arm, whose heart departs from the Lord. Anybody who is self-sufficient and dependent upon their own strength is driven away from God. And we see this in the New Testament. Remember the church at Laodicea? Remember their testimony? They said, We are rich and we are increased with good and we have need of what? Nothing. We don't need anything That's why we see Jesus on the outside of that church knocking on the door trying to get in, because they thought they already had everything they needed, and that's why we find in that passage Jesus saying to that church, I will spew you out of my mouth. Why? Because people that have that attitude, that have that spirit, are no good to God. God can't use that. And so Jacob has to be broken. Before he can enter into the promised land, God has to break him. Now whenever we come to an Old Testament passage like this, there's two questions that we always want to ask ourselves, and one of them is what did it mean to the original audience, what did it mean to them, and then what does it mean to us, and how do we apply it to us today And that's what we want to ask as we come to this. What did it mean for Israel? Remember, who wrote Genesis? Moses. And who is he writing to? He's writing to the nation of Israel. He's giving them a sense of identity of who they are, their roots, and also their purpose, their mission, which is to go and conquer the land of Canaan that God has given to them. And so Moses is writing all this and he's reminding uh the people of Israel that they need this same idea, they need this same sense of dependence upon the Lord. They needed to fully depend upon God before they could enter into the land of Canaan. Just as Jacob couldn't enter into the promised land and so He was fully dependent upon the Lord. Even so, Israel can't enter into the promised land until they are fully dependent upon God. You see, Israel's victory in the land of Canaan would not come in the typical man-made ways. It wouldn't come with military strength. It wouldn't come with military power. In fact, later in Israel's history, God was strong bond to remind uh reminding them of Zechariah 4. 6 where the Lord said, it was not by might and it was not by power that you were able to conquer the land. It was by what? It was by my spirit, says the Lord. You didn't do that through your own strength. It was the Spirit of the Lord who fought for you. And so God reminds them of that. And so the goal of Moses in writing this whole narrative. is to teach Israel a lesson. You see, there's a sense in which in this narrative Jacob stands for the nation of Israel. And just as Jacob wrestled with unbelief, even so the nation of Israel wrestled with unbelief. And just as Jacob had the tendency to depend upon himself and rely upon his own schemes and his own plans, even so the nation of Israel had the tendency to depend upon their own self. And to rely upon their own schemes and plans. And just as Jacob was self-sufficient and found it hard to rely upon the Lord fully, even so the nation of Israel was self-sufficient. And they found it hard to rely upon the Lord fully. And just as Jacob had to be broken of that self-sufficiency, And rely fully on the Lord before he goes back to the land of Canaan, the nation of Israel also needs to learn to rely fully upon the Lord before they could ever enter into the land of Canaan. And so that's why Moses, I think, puts this narrative in here in the book of Genesis. That's what it meant to that original audience. Alan Ross, the great Old Testament scholar, said this: the story of Israel The story of Israel, the man, served as an active parable of the life of the nation, in which is here portrayed the real spirit of the nation To engage in persistent struggle with God. And I think that's so very true. And what does it mean for us today? Well, this also applies to all people today. And we could extend the promised land to include the kingdom of God, which is done several times in the New Testament by the New Testament writers And we can simply say this, self-sufficient people can't enter into the kingdom of God. If you're self-sufficient, you're not going to make it into the kingdom. That's not the spirit that God blesses. That's not the spirit that will bring you into the kingdom. What did Jesus say? Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are they that mourn. Blessed are the meek. Jesus said in Matthew 18, he told the disciples, he said, unless you become like a child, breathless, like an infant child, totally dependent child. Unless you become like a child, you will in no wise enter into the kingdom. God will not allow self-sufficient people to enter into his kingdom. That's why Jesus said in Luke 13, 23, strive to enter in through the narrow door. He said, salvation, the kingdom is a narrow door. You have to strive He said, For many I tell you, will try to enter, but they will not be able. You say, What's the problem there? I thought salvation is easy. It's easy for anyone who will humble themselves It's easy for anyone that will cast themselves upon the Lord, but it's hard for those who are self-sufficient. It's hard for those who think they can offer something. Or are unwilling to completely to lay aside their pride. And so those kind of people they have to strive, Jesus said. They have to agonize. Because we like to feel like there is something that we can do to contribute to our salvation or contribute in and of ourselves. And you know what? When it comes to salvation, you know what you can contribute? Nothing It's all of God. Except we just humble ourselves and we realize our total poverty of spirit. But that also applies to Christians We will not have victory. We will not have blessing in our life until we learn this lesson that we must be fully reliant upon the Lord. Jesus tried to teach his disciples that. He said, I am the vine and you're the what? You're the branches. How much can a branch do by itself? Nothing. Once it's no longer dependent upon the vine, once it's no longer connected to the vine, what happens to the branch? It shribbles, it dies, it can do nothing. That's why Jesus said, I am the vine, you're the branches. If you abide in me and I am you, you'll bring forth much fruit. But without me, ye can do nothing. Unless you're totally dependent upon the Lord. And so we need this lesson for ourselves. We need to learn to be every day absolutely, totally dependent. upon the Lord. I heard about one man who prayed and he said, Dear God, so far today I've done all right. I haven't gossiped. I haven't lost my temper. I haven't been greedy or grumpy or nasty or selfish or overindulgent. I'm thankful for that But God in a few minutes I'm gonna get out of bed. And from then on, I'm gonna really need you. That's the spirit of what we need. And this is what the Lord is trying to teach Jacob So what I want you to see is just three encounters that happen here in Genesis 32 that I think serves to help break Jacob down and break him of his self-sufficiency. Here's the first encounter. He has an encounter with the angels. Look in verse 1. Jacob went out on his way, chapter 32, verse 1, and the angels of God met him. And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host. And he called the name of that place Mehanaum. And so he encounters angels. Now again, remember the background of this. Jacob is entering into a new season of his life. You remember Jacob left home twenty years prior. He was really forced out of his home because of his deception and lies. So he had to go to the land of Haran with his uncle. He was running from Esau because he stole Esau's birthright and he stole the blessing, and Esau swore to kill him And so Jacob had to run for his life, but he ran into the arms of Laban, who really was a difficult thing for Jacob. He met his match in Laban, who deceived him, who used him. And for really 20 years he was an indentured servant. And finally he leaves Laban. He was afraid to confront him and leave, so he left. He snuck out He ran off while he was away. And you know the story if you were here with us last time. Laban overtakes him, he catches up to him. There's a confrontation there about all that took place. They they finally make peace somewhat and they make a covenant together, and now Jacob is free to go on the rest of his way. He leaves Laban behind. However, having left Laban behind, now he faces a new fear. What's the new fear now? Esau. He's coming back home. And Esau, you remember what he swore? I am going to kill Jacob. I'm going to kill him. And so now he's going to eventually have to face Esau. And I think he's filled with fear. He left Laban, but he he continues on his journey. And folks, God is so gracious. He's such a God of grace. Because as Jacob goes on his journey, the Bible says in verses 1 and 2 that he's met on his way by the angels of God. What an incredible thing. How many angels? It's just angels plural. It doesn't really tell us how many. Jacob calls the place Mahanaum, which really means two camps. Well, the one camp he was referring to his own family, the other camp he was referring to the angels, and this is he said this is the camp of God. Camp means host or army. Here's a group of angels God sends these angelic hosts down to Jacob. This is an incredible thing. This is an incredible grace from God. Now you would think that Jacob from this found strength To have all these angels there. James Montgomery voice writes, perhaps the very legion of angels that Jesus would later say were available to him was here for Jacob. And so you'd think that he would have encouragement. I mean, if there were one angel there waiting for him, that would have been enough. But here's a whole host. And what should this remind Jacob of? What should it remind him of? Remember the ladder? The stairway to heaven? Remember the angels ascending and descending? Remember that was the promise of God that his presence would go with them? And now here when he's ready to go back into the promised land, he's faced with these angels again. And so this at this point you would think that Jacob would say, you know what? I remember what God said to me. God said that he would bless me. He was going to be with me. He was going to bring me back into my land. So I can have faith in God and I can trust him With this whole situation regarding this confrontation with Esau, I can really trust in God. You would think that would be his reaction. But we don't read that You want to see how self-sufficient he is? He still depends upon his own schemes. Because look in verse number three. And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau, his brother. unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom Edom. And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my Lord Esau, thy servant Jacob says thus I have sojourned with Laban and stayed there until now. And I have oxen and asses and flocks and men's servants and women's servants, and I have sent to tell my Lord that I might find grace in thy sight. And so what does he do? He's here, he's still fearing man instead of fearing God. He doesn't seem to take too much comfort from these angels. Instead, he sends these servants ahead to try to pacify his brother. And notice the language, your servant. He calls Esau my Lord. He puts on this front of humility. What's he doing? He's still trying to take control of the situation. He's still trying to manipulate things to his favor. And so he continues to travel. Look down at verse 6. And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. Well that that stirred him up. He travels further south, he reaches the river Jabuk, which is really a little wadi, a little dry creek there. on the border of the promised land, and before he crosses over into the border, the servants come back and they say, hey, we saw your brother. How did it go? Well he's got 400 men and he's coming towards you. That doesn't sound good. Coming with four hundred men? Why would you need four hundred men to say hello to your brother? What's the deal there? And so it shakes them up. Look at verse 7. Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. And so what does he do? He he he kicks into default mode here. He he g begins to make plans. He begins to scheme somewhere. He's depending on himself. His mind is searching up for a way to avert this disaster. And what does he come up with? He comes up with this master plan. And what is it? Look down in verse number seven. And Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. And he divided the people that was with him, the flocks and the herds and the camels into two bands. So he divides this whole camp into two. And verse 8, and he said, if Esau come to the one company and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape. And so he kind of splits them up and says, you know, if Esau comes to one, then the other can escape. If he comes to this one, the other can escape. You know, at least he'll only get half of my family. He won't get everything. That's part one of the plan. He divides, but then he sends presents. After all, doesn't a gift pacify great anger? So he begins to send presents to his brother. Look in verse 13. And he lodged there the same night and he took of that which he came to his hand a present for Esau's brother. 200 she goats and 20 uh he goats and 200 ewes and 20 rams and thirty milch camels and and on and on we can go. He's got all these presents, really a total of five hundred and fifty animals Just suffice to say this was a gift for a king. This is a gift larger than the towns were likely to give to pay tribute to a foreign king. This is a huge gift. But also notice that Jacob he doesn't give them all at once. He kind of groups them together. Look in verse number 18. And thou shalt say, Thus they be thy servant, Jacob's servant. It is a present sent unto my lord Esau. And behold, he also is behind thee. And so he commanded the second and the third. And so basically what he does is he groups them in droves. Here's the first drove, and then a little later will be the second drove, and then a little later the third drove. And you say, what approach is that? That's kind of what I call the price is right approach. Behind this door, door number one, you have 200 goats. And behind this door, door number two, here's 300 cattle. He's just overwhelming him. The idea is to overwhelm him with presence. What's he trying to do? He's scheming. He's trying to get his heart. Trying to appease them. Look at verse 20. Notice what he says. He says, And say ye, moreover, behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us, for he said Said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face, per adventure he will accept of me. Hopefully all of these gifts All of these presents will cause him to accept me. And so he's still scheming. And this is still depending on his own planning. And he said, well does he pray? Yeah, he prays. Look back in verse number nine. He prays to God, but it's really a prayer out of desperation. Look at verse nine. And Jacob said, Oh God of my father Abraham, God of my father Isaac, the Lord Which saith unto me, Return unto thy country and to thy kindred I will deal well with thee. I am not worthy of the least of all mercies, of all the truth which thou hast showed unto thy servant, for with my staff I passed over this Jordan, and now I'm become between two bands. Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau. For I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with my mother with the children. And thou sayest, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. So Jacob praised to God. And by the way, you know what? This is the first time in all of the Bible that there is a recorded prayer of Jacob. First time. First time where he really prays a prayer. You say, well, what about Bethel? Well, yeah, Bethel he made a vow to the Lord. But that's really not a prayer. And all those twenty years when God graciously protected him and God graciously revealed himself to him and did all these things he never prays, never goes to the Lord. Here, finally, he prays. And if you look at the prayer, there's a lot about it that's good. It's really a model in a lot of things. He acknowledges the God of his Father He reminds God of what he promises. He uses both the names of Elohim and Yahweh in the prayer. He confesses his own unworthiness He prays for deliverance, but there's two things that are missing from this prayer. First of all, he still does not acknowledge God as his God. He calls him the God of my Father. And secondly, he doesn't ask the Lord what he should do. He doesn't do that. He does what he thinks he needs to do. And so really this is a prayer of desperation. And by the way, there's nothing wrong with praying prayers in times of crisis. Where else can we turn to? But here's the idea. People who are depending upon the Lord don't just pray when the crisis comes. They are continually praying because prayer is what? It is a confession of our total dependence upon the Lord. If you only pray when a crisis comes, you're not really depending on God. And so Jacob, first time he prays And so this encounter does something to him. But I want you to see the second encounter. He encounters the angels of God. But here, number two, he encounters the Lord himself. Here's the second encounter. Notice verse 22. And he rose up that night, and he took his two wives and his two women's servants. and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabeth, and he took them and sent them over the brook, and he sent over that he had. Here's that same night, he does something else. This very same night, he's unable to sleep, so what does he do? Even though the presents are on their way to Esau. He still has no peace. Maybe this is the first realization coming to Jacob that he really can't manipulate the situation himself He still has no peace. Esau is coming to kill him and his family. How can they escape 400 men? And the pressure begins to weigh down on him. And here's what I see happening. Right now, the breaking process is beginning to happen in his life because he realizes there's really nothing more I can do. You know when God begins to break you, when he puts you in a situation where you realize, there's nothing I really can do here. There's nothing more I can do. And the pressure of that weighs down on you And so you know what we see here, what he does? This is what I call surrender. You see, write this down. In the breaking process, God has to separate from us the things that mean the most to us. That's part of the breaking process. He separates from us the things that mean the most to us. Because in verse 22, what does he do? He sends everything ahead. He sends everything across the river Jabak. And that remember that's the border to the promised land. He stays on this side, these side, he sends everything else already over there. And there's a progression to this. He starts with the things that are least valuable, and we see this later in chapter 33. We don't have time to look at it all. But he starts l with the things that are least valuable and he sends them ahead until finally in the end the things that are the most valuable, until finally he has sent everything ahead. And there's a sense in which what he's saying is, I am surrendering everything. to the Lord. I'm just get sending it ahead. I'm entrusting it. He doesn't expect to get it back. He doesn't expect to receive any of it. He thinks he's going to die, perhaps. And so there's a sense in which he is surrendering all those things, the things that mean the most to him, and now he is alone. And I think sometimes in the breaking process in our life, the Lord has to bring us to the point where we're willing to surrender the dearest thing to us, we're willing to surrender it. Or we're willing to separate from it. That's part of that breaking process. Jacob has to be alone. And when he encounters God, he has to be alone without possessions or protection. Have you ever had to surrender anything over to the Lord, the most precious things to you? And notice verse 24, and Jacob was left alone. There he is alone, separated from his wives, separated from his children, separated from his servants, his wealth. It's all gone. It's already over there. He's left alone. The British essayist Landor called Solitude, the audience chamber of God. Solitude is the audience chamber of God. And I think it is. But here's another step in this breaking process. In the breaking process, God has to reveal to us the power of our flesh. He has to reveal to us the power of our own flesh, the strength of our own flesh. Look at the rest of verse 24. And Jacob was left alone. And watch this. And there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. Now this again, this is incredible to me. Now I'll confess to you right up front, I I still don't feel like I got to the bottom of this. So feel free to study this on your own, alright? But I'm telling you, this is an incredible thing. He's there alone. In fact, Martin Luther called this passage one of the most obscure, difficult passages in the Old Testament. Suddenly at the camp at Jabeth, right there at that little wadi, that little dry creek, out of the darkness There appears this man. And Jacob doesn't know who it is at first. I mean you have to be terrified. You ever been in the in the woods alone by a campfire? And someone just jumped out? That's not fun. Here, this guy just comes out of nowhere, completely dark. Who is this? And then he grabs hold of Jacob, and the two begin to wrestle. I mean is this a bandit trying to rob him? Who is this? Is this someone Esau sent to kill him? I mean, he doesn't know. He's thinking all this. And this man wrestles with them all night long, the Bible says in verse 24, until the breaking of the day. This is incredible to me. This is not a dream or a vision. Sometimes when I hear preachers preach on this, they want to spiritualize this whole episode. I want to remind you that this is a real physical wrestling match. This is a real match. There's a real physical fight, and it results in a physical injury. This is incredible. And I mean, who was this? Well we know this was God. And this is you talk about incredible grace and condescension that God would come down as a man. This is a pre- we call this a pre-incarnate appearance of Jesus. This is God coming to him. And somewhere in this battle, we don't know exactly where, but he realizes that he's wrestling not with just another man. He's wrestling with God Himself. That had to be an incredible realization. And we need to be clear of something here. God is the aggressor. Jacob was defending himself. Now some preachers use this and they say they you know they use it to say, well Jacob, you know, we need to wrestle all night with God in prayer, and they use this as an example of wrestling with God in prayer, and that's all good and fine. You can do that. But just realize he's not praying right now. He's wrestling. Alright, now he had already prayed. He's going to talk a little bit later, but right now he is wrestling. And he's struggling. And Jacob wasn't really laying hold of God to gain something from God. That's not what's going on here. God was laying hold of Jacob. To gain something from him. And namely what? Namely, to bring Jacob to the end of himself. Namely, to bring Jacob to the end of all of his self-dependence. And sometimes God has to do that with us. You know what wrestling with God is? Wrestling with God is when God, as the aggressor, comes to you and he puts you in different, various circumstances in your life To break you of your self-sufficiency and your self-dependence until finally you get to the point where you're totally exhausted and worn out, and all you can do is look to God. That's it. That's wrestling with God. And God has to do that for strong-willed people. All his life Jacob thought that Esau and Laban were his adversaries, no The problem for Jacob was not Esau, and the problem with Jacob was not Laban. He schemed with them to try to get blessings from them. But rather the struggle is not with men. His struggle was with God. That was the problem. You know what? A lot of times we're good at blaming other people for our problems. Oh, I'm struggling. And oh, if only I had a a different boss. If only I had a a different uh you know, my problem is my spouse. And my problem is my my my parents or my boss or my poor circumstances. And God please take care of all that. But really, you know what the struggle is? The struggle is not really with all those things. The struggle is you're struggling with God Your struggle is against the Lord. And your struggle with yourself. The enemy isn't out there. The enemy is right here. It's inward. The problem is in me. It's in my flesh. It's in my strength of flesh. The strength that I think I have. The enemy is me, my selfish nature. That dominates my life. And you know what God has to do? God has to reveal to me the power of my flesh before I can be delivered from it. God has to reveal to me the power of my own strength, my own self-will, before I can be delivered from it. And so in the breaking process, God has to reveal to us The power of our flesh. How much strength did Jacob have? He wrestled all night. All night. That's how much strength he had. That's how much self-sufficiency he had. Now obviously God was not challenged by this. I mean God could have crippled Jacob the first second he laid his hand on him. But he doesn't do that. He wrestles with them. You say why? Well, God wanted to show Jacob his own sinful self sufficiency He wanted to reveal it to him. God wanted to show Jacob the power of his own self-will. And so he allows him to wrestle all night long. Now think about this. Have you I don't know I I used I wrestled when I was younger. And let me just give you a little perspective here. When you wrestle, you're actually on the on the mat with another opponent, and I'm telling you, you know how wrestling matches, you know how long they last? You understand how long? I'm talking about real wrestling. I'm not talking about that fake jump on TV, all right? I'm talking about when you're really out there, I'm talking about high school or collegiate wrestling, when you're out there with an opponent that's as equally strong or stronger than you, and you have trained and you have worked. You know how long a match normally lasts? About three minutes. And I want to tell you, after three minutes, you know what? You, if you've really wrestled, you are completely, utterly, totally exhausted. I can tell you that. I can tell you that after three minutes of striving with all your might with another opponent, after three minutes, you're just sweating, you're exhausted. You don't want to do anything else. Jacob, you know how long he wrestled with God? All night. All night he wrestled with the Lord. That shows you how strong he was in his own d self-sufficiency, in his own dependence. And he wrestled. And somewhere along the way He recognizes that this is God. But you know what this teaches us? Self-will and the flesh dies hard. But God has to break them. Just like we as parents have to break the will of our children, God has to break Jacob's will. And only God can do this. Only God can tame the flesh inside of us. And so God wrestles Jacob all night long. to let him know how strong his self-will was. But this is all part of the breaking process. Some of you out there you're saying, why does God allow me to wrestle in this situation? You know why he's doing that? He's showing you your own self-will. He's showing you that you're depending upon the power of your own flesh. And so therefore he'll let you strive under that problem. He'll let you wrestle with it continually, continually, until finally you're at the end of yourself And that's exactly where God wants to bring you because that's part of the breaking process. And finally, Jacob loses strength and the Lord breaks him Look down in verse number 25. And when he saw that he prevailed not against them, he touched the hallow of his thigh, and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint As he wrestled with him. Finally God had to break Jacob. And now he has no more strength. But let me give you the third principle here. In the breaking process, God must teach us to cling to Him instead of other things. To cling to him instead of other things. Now there's a little paradox here. Now I want you to know that after God touches Jacob's the hollow of his thigh, he touches his hip. The wrestling match is over now. God won. And by the way, God will always win. Just know that. He is the undefeated, undisputed champion. He will always win and God won. And the match was over. And yet there's something unique here. What happens now? Now Jacob just holds on to him. Now you hit you have to dis uh make a distinction here in your mind. The wrestling is over. Now he's just holding on to him. And now The Lord is ready to leave. Matchover, I won, you're down, I'm out of here. And Jacob reaches out and he grabs hold of him. And yet he still has the strength to hold on to the Lord. But now he's not He's not wrestling anymore. Now he's holding on to the Lord. And there's a paradox here in that now that Jacob seems to have this incredible strength to cling to the Lord after he's wounded He doesn't loosen his grip, he strengthens his grip. Now let me ask you a question. Do you think it was a problem for God? You think God's saying, look, Jacob, let's go I need to get out of here. I mean your grip is too strong, I can't break it. Let me go. You know, God could have broken that grip any time he wanted to. This is exactly the response that God wanted. God, you know what God wants from us? He wants us to hold on to him so tightly as if we will never let him go. Never turn him loose. And that's exactly what Jacob is doing here. God loves it when his children cling to him in brokenness. And say, I am not going to let you go until you bless me. I'm broken, I'm defeated, you won, but I'm not going to let you go now, Lord, until you yield up the blessing to me. Jacob, who was the heel grabber, who came into this world grabbing onto his brother's heel, is now the Jacob that is clinging to the Lord, holding on to the Lord with all his might, waiting for God to bless him. And again, we're all like Jacob. We won't cling to the Lord until we have to. Until we come to the end where we're broken. And then when we're broken, you know what happens to us automatically? We reach out and we begin to cling to the Lord. We grab hold of God. It's a natural reaction to where we're saying, okay, God, now bless me. And again, this is exactly what God wants from all of us. And so God has to separate in this breaking process all the things that are dear to Jacob. God has to reveal to Jacob the strength of his own flesh and will. God has to teach Jacob now to cling to him, which Jacob is doing. Here's another part of the breaking process. In the breaking process, we must come to see ourselves as we really are And submit to God. We have to see ourselves as we really are. Because look what happens next in this. Look at verse number 27. And he said unto him, What is thy name? Here you know God says, Let me go. And Jacob says, I'm not going to let you go until you bless me. And so the Lord says, What is your name? Now again I ask you, do you think God didn't know his name? You think God's asking us for information? No. He knows exactly who he is. So why does he ask this question? This question is designed really as a to elicit from Jacob, listen to me, to elicit a confession of who he is. It's a confession of his utter surrender and his utter dependence. You ever wrestle when you're growing up with your brothers And uh I would take my brothers. I always was able to you know gain over them. Don't tell them I said that. I always won these wrestling matches. But sometimes they were little or you know, smaller, bigger brothers picking on little brothers, all right I would get them into a clin a clench and they would be in pain. Oh, and I'd say, what do you say? What do you say? Say it. You're the best. Who's the king of the household? You are. You know, stay uncle, uncle. You know, you that that sort of thing going on until finally they're like in surrender, you know. This is exactly what's going on here. What is your name? And this is really a confession from Jacob. Because remember, what does Jacob's name mean, deceiver? Schemer. Jacob, do you know who you really are? What's your name? Now remember the last time this question was asked to Jacob, it was Isaac who asked it to him 20 years prior. Remember, Jacob was deceiving his father Isaac. Isaac didn't know who he was. Isaac said, What's your name? And what did he say? I am Esau. Now twenty years later, God didn't forget that. God breaks him. And now God says to Jacob, What is your name? And Jacob says My, this is a f really a truthful answer. This is a moment of truth for Jacob. He says to him in verse 27, and he said unto him, What is thy name in verse 28? And he said, Thy name, he said Jacob. He said, What is thy name, verse 27? And he said, Jacob, my name is Jacob. And again, this is more of a confession. Lord, I'm the deceiver. I'm the cheater. I'm the schemer. That's who I am. This is a realization. He had to confess from his innermost being, who he really was before God. And he was basically saying, I have lived up to my name. I have been a schemer. I have been a cheater. And there's a sense in which now he is he's turning from that. This is a repentance here. My name is Jacob. There are times when God will come to you and say, What is your name? But until you confess who you are before him, you'll never really be freed from that. What is your name? My name is bitterness. My name is greed. My name is deception. My name is unfaithfulness. And when you get to that point where you confess, you know what happens? You can be clean. You can be healed before God. Whenever you are ready to come clean before God, God will make you clean. And this is exactly what happens with Jacob. But until then, you'll stay just as you are. And here he's finally broken of all his self-reliance. of all his deception, of all his scheming, of all his manipulation, he's broken. And he says, My name is Jacob. But now notice what the Lord does. Again, this is the grace of God in verse 28. And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob. But Israel. For as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and has prevailed. Now remember to the Hebrews, the name reflects the character. And so there's a sense here in which God is speaking prophetically about Jacob. He gives him this new name. saying this will be your new character. No longer will you strive with men and scheme with men, but now instead you will become an overcomer. You will prevail with men. Why? Because you have you you you were striving with God. And now God will give you power. And the name Israel, it either means he who strives with God or it means God strives. Either one can be true here, but really both meanings are true. Jacob wrestled with God and prevailed in a sense of hanging on until God blessed him But first God had to prevail over Jacob by crippling his stubborn self-dependence. And so Jacob prevailing with men is a prediction of how God will now conquer Jacob's enemies for him. Why? Because no longer is Jacob scheming and taking matters into his own hands. Now Jacob is fully dependent on the Lord having been broken of all his self-sufficiency. And that's uh that's what it takes. And by the way, he'll limb for the rest of his life as a reminder. Look down in verse number, uh, again, verse 30, and Jacob called the plate, the name of the place, um P Pani p Penial for it said for I have seen God face to face and my life is preserved. And as he passed over Penial The sun rose up upon him and he halted upon his thigh. That is, he limped upon his thigh. As a token of this encounter with God, Jacob will limp. the rest of his life as a reminder that he is now broken and that now he is fully dependent on the Lord. And you know how the New Testament characterizes Jacob now, Hebrews 11, 21. He's characterized as a man who worships God leaning on his staff. Fully dependent upon the Lord his God. And really, that's the climax of the story. He's broken. He's yielded. Now. And a lot of these Old Testament stories, you know you notice what you notice, you have kind of the the beginning of the story that gives you all the information, and then it kind of builds to this climax. You have this conflict going on, this crisis, and then there's the climax Then the rest of the story, there's kind of the denulment. You know, if this were a movie, it's the last scene that wraps up all the loose ends. Because if I stop right now, some of you will be saying, well, what happened when he met up with Esau? So really the rest of thirty-three, and I we don't have time to look at all this, just a few verses in closing. But let's wrap up the loose ends. What happens On the third encounter, when he encounters his brother Esau, this is the next day, and look in chapter 33. In verses 1 through 3, basically, he lines up his family to meet with Esau in a very honorable way. Look in verse 4. And Esau ran to meet him. And embraced him, and fell upon his neck, and kissed him, and they wept. And he lifted up his eyes, and he saw the women and the children, and said, Whose are those with thee? And he said, Thy children, which God, the children with God have graciously given thy servant And then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves. And Leah also with her children came near and bowed themselves. And afterwards came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves. And he said, What meanest thou all this drove which I met? What would you send all this junk at me for? Why just send all these presents ahead? What's the deal with that? Jacob? What's that say? He didn't need to do all that. He didn't need to do any of that. Look at verse 9. And Esau said, I have enough. My brother, keep that thou hast unto thyself. I don't need all this. You keep And there was peace. You know why? Because the divine encounter that that Jacob had with God caused God to work on his behalf, and God prevailed over all of Jacob's enemies. To where that all of Jacob's problems, you know what happened to all those problems? All those problems went poof. They're gone. Because Jacob was now Learning to lean fully upon the Lord because the Lord had broken them to do that. And I want to tell you, beloved, again, this is a thing that God is teaching us. Some of you are sitting here tonight and you say, man, I had this problem here and I had this problem here and I have this problem here. Yeah, I know. The problems aren't really the problems The problem is the Lord is using these things in your life to teach you full reliance and dependence upon God And when we're broken and we're fully reliant on the Lord, you know what will happen? God, in his own time, in his own way, will remove all those things. And we will prevail. You know why? Because God is the one doing it for us. God is the one working on our behalf. You say, well what should I do? Take time to get alone with God. Because I want to tell you, when you spend alone time with God, that's part of the breaking process. And then when the Lord gives you victory, out of those victories, tell others. Let me close with verse 32 of chapter 32. Look at this verse. It's very interesting. We'll close with this. Look what it says. It says, Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day, because he touched, that is, the Lord touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that strength. You see, what happened after all this? Jacob he had to share this with his family. Dad, why are you limping? Dad, why why are you limping? Uh a little arthritis. Old age starting to catch up to me. No, he didn't say that. Let me tell you why I'm limping. I had an encounter with God. And he tells that whole story. And you know what? That that became a big story among all the people of Israel, so much so that even Orthodox Jews today, they do not eat the sinew of the hip of an animal. Because that is the place where God touched Jacob. And you know what that tells me? That Jacob shared the story with everyone. And it reminded all of what Jacob went through so that others would learn the same lesson that he learned. And that is to rely fully upon the Lord. Allow God to win or or let or or surrender to God in this process of breaking in our lives. Let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Lord, we do come before you and we confess to you the sin of our own self-reliance. How many times, Lord, have we tried to take matters into our own hands? How many times have we felt ourselves strong and able? To handle the things that are in our life, only to watch those things become a mess. And yet, Lord, we know that God, you bring these things into our lives to teach us the lesson that Jacob had to learn the hard way, and that is he had to be broken of all independence. And learn to rely fully upon you. And so, Lord, I pray that we would learn this same lesson. That we would be a people who worship God, leaning upon a staff. Leaning fully, totally upon you for all of the difficulties, all the problems, all the pains in our life. And learning, Lord, to look to you and allowing you to prevail and give us victory over all these enemies that rise up and cause us great fear. Lord, teach us to be totally reliant upon you. And let me just ask this. Maybe there's some people here tonight and the Lord has spoken to your heart and you say, Yeah, I've got some of these things in front of me. And tonight I am confessing my full reliance upon Almighty God. Would you just pray for me? Would you lift your hand? I've got these things in front of me. And I know God's using this to rely fully upon Him. Lord, you see these hands. Lord, I just pray for grace for all of these. And pray, Lord, that you'd help us all to learn, to be fully reliant, to be broken, surrendered before you So that Lord, you may bless us. What we want and what you want to do in our lives is to bless us greatly. So Lord, I pray that for every person with an upraised hand that says that's saying, Bless me, Lord. I don't want to let you go until you bless me. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.