Would you take your Bibles please and open to First Thessalonians chapter three? First Thessalonians chapter three. We've been studying this wonderful book and we're going to read a few verses of chapter three. Would you mind standing for the reading of God's Word? We will read start at verse 7, chapter 3. Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith. For now we live if you stand fast in the Lord. For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before God? Night and day praying exceeding that we might see your face and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. Thank you so much. You may be seated. Pray with me this morning. Father, we come before you today with thankful hearts. Thank you, Lord, that we can worship in this place. And we thank you for your word and how it comforts, encourages, strengthens us. So, Father, use your word in our heart today. And Lord, speak to us and bless hearts here, encourage hearts. And we pray in Jesus' wonderful name. Amen. Speaking on the subject this morning, you stand, I live. I'm nothing like my brothers. I have three brothers. They are all gifted with the ability to do things with their hands. They know how to fix cars. They know how to build things. They know how to maintain all types of things. I can do none of that. In fact I'm so pathetic that my wife is the one who has all the tools and fixes everything in our house. Not only is she a good singer, she can fix it things in the house. I I I'm not an artist. I I can't paint. Um my junior high school counselor looked at my grades in school and said, you'll never make it in college. Let us let's enroll you in a trade school. So they tried to enroll me in a trade school to be a commercial artist. They soon learned that that was a big mistake because I can't draw or paint. I don't have any skills for to be an engineer or an architect. You do not want me around electricity. And you don't want me working on your pipes under your sink. Um I I really can't point to anything tangible in life to say there's a testimony of my skill or my success. There's nothing out there for me to point to. I've built no house, I've fixed no car, designed no building, paint no picture, definitely not wired any home. But you know, when I was uh a teenager, uh God by his grace saved me, and he gave me a love for the word of God. And suddenly I knew what I wanted to do with my life. I simply wanted to teach what the Bible says. And honestly, the thing that I can point to now as any measure of success in my life are people that are being built up in their faith, that are learning God's word, that are being strengthened spiritually. If I can just help someone have spiritual victory. You see, that's the thing that we pastors can point to as a tangible evidence of our ministry, our effectiveness, or people that are strong in the Lord. People that are growing in the Lord. If you do well, my heart rejoices. My joy is increased. My sense of fulfillment is deepened. But if on the other hand you are not prospering spiritually, then I profoundly feel the weight of that. It's kind of like what Solomon said in Proverbs 10:1: A wise son makes a glad father. But a foolish son is a heaviness to his mother. And we all know this as parents. If our children are doing well, we're well. But if our children are not doing that well, then there's a part of us that really dies slowly inside. And the same is true spiritually. Paul called himself the spiritual father of these Thessalonians. In chapter 2, verse 11, you might recall where he said that I charge every one of you as a father does his children, talking to the Thessalonians. Paul was so deeply concerned about their spiritual growth and maturity, and he expresses it so well here in this The key verse really is in verse number eight of chapter three, where Paul says, For now we live if ye stand fast in the Lord. That we there is kind of a humble way of saying me, you know. Paul used we sometimes, but he didn't like using first person seemed a little bit arrogant, so he would say we. And Paul is saying, look, basically, you stand, I live. If you're standing fast, if you're strong, if you're stable in the Lord, I live. And what he meant by that, that is my life. You are my life to watch you prosper spiritually, to watch you get strong spiritually. You stand and I live. Now Part of the reason why Paul felt so passionate in that way was because God had used the Apostle Paul to start this church. If you've been with us on Sunday morning, you know kind of the background that God used Paul to start this uh church and a very strategic area there in Macedonia. It had a super highway running through it called the Ignatian Way that basically united east and west. And it was a significant place to spread the gospel because from Thessalon Thessalonia, or Thessalonica, excuse me, you can get the gospel out quickly there in Macedonia. A church planted there could really get the gospel all the way to Rome itself. And that's exactly what happened. When Paul went there, he experienced tremendous success there with the Thessalonians, but he also experienced tremendous opposition. It's his typical custom to go into the synagogue. Paul did that. The Bible tells us in Acts that he went in for three Sabbath days, explained and reasoned with them out of the scripture. They finally threw him out of the synagogue. And then they followed him around. Paul started a church in the house of a man by the name of Jason. And uh they basically went to that house looking for Paul because they wanted to throw him out of the city. There was a raid on Jason's house when they were looking for him. Acts chapter 17, verse 5 says, But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort. Gathered a company and set all the city on the uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason and sought to bring them out of the pe uh to to the people And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These men have turned the world upside down or are come thither hither also. They were trying to find Paul and Silas. They Paul and Silas were rushed out of town for their own safety. And so Paul spent a short time there in that city. He left far too early, and from there he moved on to Athens, and then from Athens he moved on to Corinth While he got to Corinth, the Bible says that he was there in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. He was really concerned about the Thessalonians. He knew that they were suffering persecution. He was wondering about were they standing, were they uh steadfast in their faith, what would happen to them. And so while he was in Athens, he sent Timothy back to Thessalonica to see how the church was doing. He went on to to the city of Corinth And uh and he was really burdened about the church. Were they standing? And so finally Timothy came back to Corinth and gave Paul the wonderful report that the church was indeed standing firm. That the church missed Paul. They wanted Paul to come back. They loved Paul. They desired for him to be among them. Despite the persecution and the opposition, the church was standing true. And Paul knew, however, they needed to be established more. This was the key idea here. Look in chapter 3, look in verse 2. And sent Timotheus our brother and minister of God and our fellow laborer in the gospel of Christ to establish it. That word establish is the key word. We see it again in verse 13. To the end that he may establish your hearts. Same exact Greek word there. And that's God's will for you, beloved God wants you to be established in the faith. He wants you to be strong in your faith. Now what I want you to see here from this chapter are three blessings that God will give to help Christians become firmly established in their faith. Here's the first one, number one. God sends people to help you. He'll send people to help you. Do you know as believers we need one another? There are over 50 one another verses in the New Testament teaching us that believers can't survive on their own. Christians need other godly Christians to help them in their faith. The word saints is never singular in the New Testament. It's always plural. And so Paul was so concerned again that he sent Timothy. Evidently, when Timothy came back and gave a good report to Paul about what was going on, Paul said, Good, then go back. And go and establish them. Continue to be with them. Timothy was God's servant at God's time for the believers at the church at Thessalonica at that time. Have you ever noticed how God will send godly people at seasons of your life? People that you need. It's not an accident that God sends people like this. into your life. Why does God do that? Well, several reasons that we see here in this passage. First of all, again, to establish you look at verse two, and Timotheus, our brother and minister of God, our fellow laborer of the gospel of Christ, to establish you. The word established means firmly fixed, to strengthen. It literally means to you know put put a buttress against a wall or a building. And this was one of his purposes to go there and to make them strong in the faith. And you know how you get strong in the faith? You learn more the word of God. God's word is what makes you strong. That's why it's important to be faithful in God's house. I'm kind of old-fashioned. You know, when my father got saved, we began coming to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I'm so glad for that pattern in my life because that's always been the pattern of my life. I'm just an old-fashioned believer. I just think that Christians ought to be in God's house when the doors are open. There are 168 hours in a week if you came to church, Sunday school, Sunday, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, that's just four to six hours a week. Are you willing to do that to invest in your spiritual growth and stability There are so many believers that are unstable in their faith. They're up and down, they're hit and miss. It's like James said for in James 1:6, for he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed Paul's prayer for the Ephesians is this, chapter four, verse fourteen, that we henceforth be no more children tossed to and fro, carried about with every wind of doctrine by the slight of men and cunning craftiness whereby they lie and wait to deceive. And there are some believers that are just blown by any wind of bizarre doctrine that might come along and there tries to scuttle their faith. Thank God that God sends people into our life to teach us the Word of God. But then also not only to establish you, but to comfort you. Look again in verse number At the end where it says to comfort you concerning your faith. The Greek word here, pericoleo, to come alongside and encourage. As believers, we need to be encouraged because we go through trials, we go through difficulties, we face temptation, and sometimes we fail, and sometimes we want to throw up our hands, and you know what? We need Encouragers in the church. In the New Testament, Barnabas was called the son of consolation. You know what that means? Son of encouragement. And the people, the church gave him that name. Why? Because he was always encouraging people. When Saul was converted and became Paul, the church was afraid to get around him. They thought he was just lying, that they were he was finding a way to get into the church. It was Barnabas that came along and encouraged the believers and introduced Paul to the church and the church to Paul. The Bible says that Barnabas encouraged the church at Antioch with a resolute heart to remain true to the Lord. That's what an encourager does: encourages you to remain true. But also another reason is to remind you, do you know that we are people that are prone to forget? We forget things all the time. We forget the things that we were taught. Did you know part of a pastor's job is to remind you of things you already know? Part of my job. Listen to 2 Peter 112. Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you in always in remembrance of these things, though you know them. And be established in the present truth. Reminding God's people of the truth is a way of establishing them. And Paul is saying here, look, do you remember, you Thessalonians, what we told you? Look in verse three, that no man should be moved by these afflictions, for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto For verily when we were with you we told you before that you should suffer tribulation even as it came to pass, and you know. Paul said, Look Don't be surprised about your sufferings, your persecutions. Remember we were with you? Remember we told you this? Remember we told you that Through tribulation, you have to enter into the kingdom of God. And I'm sending Timothy again to remind you of what I already told you, that it won't always be easy in the Christian life. There are difficult times, there are hard times. Don't be surprised. When suffering and trials come, don't be surprised Peter said that in 1 Peter 4 12, talking to the believers in Rome that were suffering. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing happened to you And and what he's basically saying here is, look, stop being surprised. There are some people that are like, hey, I'm I'm a Christian. I I shouldn't be suffering. Really? You think that? No, it's the opposite. You've been going the same way as the world. Now that you're saved, you're going in the opposite direction. You're meeting the world head on. Why should you be surprised? that you have difficulty, that you are suffering. Stop being surprised. Jesus said, in the world you will have tribulation. Sometimes people think that when they get saved, all their troubles will be over. No. What that means is that you are right with a holy God, that your the wrath of God has been appeased because of what Jesus did for you on the cross. Doesn't mean that everything's going to be all roses and no thorns now. In fact, some of your troubles might just be be beginning But you know that the thing about being saved is we have the Holy Spirit that lives in us. We have Christ, who is our friend That helps us through any trial or any problem that we might have. In fact, we're to count it all joy when we fall into different trials. James says, why? Because it builds our faith. The real problem is not why some humble believing people suffer, but why some do not, said C. S. Lewis. So, God sends people into your life to remind you of these things, but also to warn you. Look in verse 5. For this cause when I could no longer forbear. I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and our labor be in vain. You know, Satan's like a roaring lion looking for whom he may devour. He loves to devour the sheep. And what God wants and what Satan wants to do to God's people, the sheep, is to lure them away from the fold. If he can get you away from the fold and get you alone, that's part of the way he can make you easy, pray. And then you know what he does? He he His big three schemes are first of all he gives you lies. He sells lies to your mind. He's the father of lies. He wants you to be confused about what God says. In fact, he wants you to question what God says. He gives you lives, and there's temptations. He works. He can't take your salvation. If you're truly saved, you'll always be saved, thank God. He can't have your soul, but what he would like to have is your joy. He'd like to make you miserable. He'd like to take other things out of your life. He's a thief. He wants to steal all the other gifts that God has given you. Can't have your soul, but he'll try to take everything else. If you'll just Follow his temptation, believe his lies, and then his manipulation, he likes to manipulate people to do things And Paul feared for the Thessalonians. He called Satan the tempter, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you. And our labor v be in vain. If Satan had succeeded in pulling the Thessalonians away from what Paul had taught them and to get them to turn back into that pagan religion that they had, then all of what Paul did would be in vain. There's no guarantee that a Christian who begins well will finish well in the Christian life. And this is Paul's concern. And so Paul says, I'm sending Timothy. He's going to help you. He's going to establish you. He's going to help to comfort you. He's going to help to remind you and to warn you. So that you can be established. But here's the second thing God does. God gives us His word, His written word to strengthen you He gives his written word to strengthen you. Look at verse six. But now when Timotheus came from you unto us and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, that you have good remembrance of us always, designed greatly to see us as we also see you Oh to see you. Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith, for now we live if you stand fast in the Lord. When Timothy met Paul Corinth and gave him these This good news, literally the word here is Ewangelion, same word used for the gospel. Good tidings, the good report, that they were standing firm. Paul was just so thrilled with that. And you know what he did? He picked up a pen and he wrote a letter and he sent Timothy back. And he gave him this first letter of Thessalonians. So, you know, this basically suggests that God's word is the tool that God uses to establish his people. Paul gave them the word of God. Now, not everything that Paul wrote was inspired scripture. We know that Paul wrote some things that were not inspired, but these two letters to the Thessalonians, they are part of God's inspired word And God gave his word through Paul and Timothy to the Thessalonians because that is part of what God uses to strengthen and establish his people. And when Paul was with them, that's what he gave them. He gave them the Word of God. The reason we know this is if you look at 1 and 2 Thessalonians, what you'll find is that in these two short letters, every major doctrine of the Christian faith is touched on in these two short letters. Which implies that Paul taught about these things when he was there. He wasn't there very long. But I tell you what, when he was there, he got a lot done. And he gave him the word of God. And later on, Paul would say to Timothy, Timothy, preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season. Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. This is what you are to do. The Bible is profitable for doctrine. Earlier on he said in 2 Timothy 3:16, all scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. Doctrine that tells us what is right? Reproof, that tells us what's not right. Correction that tells us how to get right. Instruction, that tells us how to stay right. This is what God's word is for. God's word is through to nourish us. It's a light to guide us. It's a weapon to defend us. As God's people, you need God's word to establish you. That's why I'm committed to doing nothing but trying to give you the word of God. W. A. Criswell influenced me when I was a young college student. I wrote his book, Why I Preach the Bible Literally True. He was the pastor of First Baptist Church of Dallas. When he became the pastor, he announced that he was going to preach through the whole Bible verse by verse. And his pastor friend said, man, if you do that, you're going to empty out that church. They said, people won't come to hear that The church isn't gonna ro gonna grow. But he preached through the entire Bible in seventeen years and eight months. He started with the first verse in the book of Genesis, preached verse by verse all the way through the Bible. And in those seventeen years the church grew and flourished and was blessed. Because God's word is what builds his church. It builds his church. God sends people to help you. God gives his word to strengthen you. But here's the third and final thing. God provides believers to pray for you. Look in verse number nine. Paul said, for what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before God? Night and day, praying exceedingly that we might see your face and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith. Paul prayed for this church. I want to tell you, friend, if we're going to be establishing the faith. We have to pray for one another. We have to pray for one another. God calls upon his people to be people of prayer. God's house is to be a house of prayer. When the church began, believers met together, the Bible says daily in the book of Acts, chapter 2, verse 46, daily to pray. They met daily to pray, daily to study the scriptures and to worship. I think prayer is a thing that is lost in the church in America. I really believe that. I think we'll have revival in America when as many people come to the prayer meeting as they come to the potluck dinner. We're weak in prayer. We are. The Wednesday night prayer service is evidence of that. Do you know how that all started? The Wednesday night prayer service? It started in 1857. A man by the name of Jeremiah Lanfier. Just a businessman who wanted to do something for God, put out an advertisement that he was going to meet at a certain church just for prayer, if anybody wanted to come and he met Went to that one location at the advertised time. He was there for 10 minutes, 15 minutes, no one showed up. He was getting ready to leave and finally one man walked in And they prayed together. They said, we'll try this next week, see what happens. The next week, four people came. Then twenty people came. Then a hundred people came. And then they outgrew the church. They had to find another church. And then other churches started doing the same thing. And a revival broke out in America that came about by a prayer meeting. And that established a Wednesday midweek prayer service. By 1900, it seemed like all the churches in America had a midweek service. And they would come to church just to see God's face and to pray for one another. But you know what's happening in America today? The midweek Wednesday night service is becoming extinct. Along with some Sunday night services some some places. They say, well the reason church expressed, the reason for that is a lack of commitment. People are just busy and um you know But I I think it is a reflection on our spiritual temperature. How much do you believe in prayer? How much do you believe in seeking the face of God How much do you believe in praying for your children and your grandchildren? How much do you believe in praying for one another? Do you believe that prayer matters? Do you believe it makes a difference? That's really a reflection of that. We need to pray for one another. Paul said, praying exceedingly It wasn't just haphazard praying. Night and day praying exceedingly, fervently is the idea there. Stretched out. Intense prayer. He couldn't stop praying for the believers that were there in Thessalonica. We need that kind of prayer for one another. What was he praying for? Three things. For the maturity of their faith, he says in verse number uh ten at the end. that we might perfect that which is lacking in your faith, perfect cata or taizo to finish or complete, to furnish. The same words used in Mark 1. 9 to talk about mending of nets. Now, as joyful and as proud as Paul was of the Thessalonians, he also knew that their faith wasn't complete. They weren't perfect. Boy, they were doing a lot, but they still had a long way to go. Our faith never reaches perfection. There's always room for growth. There's always room for adjustment. We go from faith to faith, the Bible says in Romans 1, 17. So Paul prayed for these Thessalonians that they would just continue to reach perfection and maturity. And by the way, God answered that prayer because Paul wrote in the second letter of To the Thessalonians. He wrote this. He said, We are bound to thank God always for your brethren, because that your faith groweth exceedingly. He was praying for them. You know what's happened? They just continued to grow exceedingly. You know what? Prayer makes a difference. It makes a difference. He prayed for the maturity of their faith. He prayed for the charity of their life. Look in verse 12. That the Lord make you increase and abound in love, one toward another and toward all men, even as we do toward you. Paul prayed that their love would increase. Again, this was a time of suffering for these believers here, and maybe in times of trial and suffering and heartache, uh we might get a little selfward focused. And Paul prays that that wouldn't happen, that they would just continue to express love to one another, that their charity would abound toward each other. And other men. He wanted the gospel to continue to spread. Let me tell you something. We need to Love one another fervently and love those that are lost. That's what Paul was praying for for the Thessalonians, the charity of their life. But then here's the third thing, the purity of their heart. And verse 13, to the end, that he may establish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints. Paul prays for their hearts that the God would do the sanctifying work. God changes hearts through prayer. Again, the word established, firmly fixed, that they would be unblameable in holiness. Say, man, how can we be unblamable in holiness? Two ways. Number one, make sure you know Jesus as your Savior. Number one Make sure that you have put your faith in him. Make sure you understand that when he came to this earth as the sinless Son of God and lived a righteous life, and then died on the cross, he paid your sin debt And when you put your faith in Christ, not only do you have your sins forgiven, and not only do you get eternal life in heaven, but God imputes all the righteousness of Christ to you. When God looks at me today, he sees his son Jesus. Because Jesus has given me his righteousness the moment that I got saved. That's a positional righteousness. But then there's also a practical righteousness. You know how we are unblameable in holiness? At his coming, Paul mentions the coming of the Lord. That is, we, when we struggle with sin and we will, we immediately confess it before God. We ask for his confession. And we continue to perfect holiness. We continue to pursue practical righteousness, knowing that it's not going to be perfection, but that's the direction of my life. I want to keep short accounts with God. When I sin, I want to repent. I want to forsake it. I want to confess it through the Lord. Because when Jesus Christ comes, I don't want me to be out of fellowship with Him. And we don't know when he's coming. I went to a college that required us to keep our dorm rooms clean and spotless. If your room was uh not clean, you would get demerits. And if you got fifty demerits in the semester, th they would do something they would they would campus you is what they called it. And what that meant is, you know, um you couldn't sit next to your girlfriend in chapel, you couldn't say you couldn't date, you couldn't go off campus unless for things you had to have. And so, you know, me being a slob, I wanted to keep my room nice and clean. I didn't want to get campused, you know. And the way they kept you accountable was they would have a white glove inspection. You never knew when they were going to come and inspect your room. You come back from class one day and see a little pink slip on your dresser. That meant you failed the inspection, the white glove inspection. So I I was diligent. uh to try to not get camped at that time because I was dating Carolyn, you know. I wanted to date my wife, my future wife, you know. You know what? Paul uses the same motivation in verse 13. He says, look, you want to be blamable in holiness before God, even our Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. We don't know when Jesus is going to come again, but I know this, we're going to stand before him when he comes. And I don't want to fail his wake love inspection of my life. When he comes in that time. Like this the hymn writer said, When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, dressed in his righteousness alone. Faultless to stand before the throne. And so God firmly establishes you in the faith. He gives you three blessings. He sends people to help you. He gives his word to strengthen you. He provides believers to pray for you. David Linningson, the great missionary to Africa, was committed to the people of Africa. He spent his whole life there. And when he died. The people of Africa wanted to bury him there in Africa. But the British Missionary Society said no. England is his home. He belongs in England. We want to bury his body at Westminster Abbey But the people of Africa said his heart was here in Africa. So what they did was they cut his heart out and they buried his heart in Africa. And his body was buried in Westminster Abbey. You see, Paul, his body might have been in Corinth when he wrote this letter, but his heart was with the Thessalonians. And he said to them, Look, If you stand, I live. You're such a part of me. You are my life. If you stand, I live. If you're not standing firm, part of me dies. And really, that's the way it is for any true pastor. Listen, beloved, you stand, I live. You stand strong in the faith, you grow strong in the faith, I rejoice. Look at verse number nine in closing. Paul said, For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before God? Friend, let that be your testimony as a believer. That you're so firmly established that you fill my heart with joy. Because if you stand, I live. Let's vow for prayer. Father, we thank you again for The inspired word of God and how it challenges us in our faith. I pray, Lord, for all of these, your precious saints, for blessing in their life. For their spiritual growth and well-being, that Lord, indeed, they will stand firm in the faith. So that, Lord, it brings so much joy. To your heart, to the heart of others, to my heart, to see God's people growing firm in the faith. Thank you, Lord, for sending people into our life that help us. Thank you for giving us your written word. To strengthen us. Thank you for raising up people that will pray for us. Lord, these are the tools that you use. They're blessings from you. Lord, may this increase. May these things increase in our own church. May, Lord, you do your work in this body here for your honor and for your glory. And I pray, Father, for those that might be here today that are still yet outside of Christ, because they've never truly repented and called on Christ Lord, please, please do that work of regeneration in their heart. May they turn to you with all their heart. May they confess Christ as their Savior. With heads bowed and eyes closed. My challenge would be that first. Friend, if you're here, you don't, you've never trusted the Lord. I just want to plead for you to write where you are. Just reach out in faith and say, Jesus, I know you died for me. Come into my heart and save me. Right now I'm calling upon you. Save me Our Lord is such a gracious, merciful Savior. The Bible says if you call upon him, he'll save you. If you come to him, he won't turn you away. He'll meet you right where you are. You know what? I thank God you don't have to do anything difficult to be saved. You don't have to climb some celestial staircase and knock on the door of heaven and say, Where's Jesus? No, the Bible says that the word of faith is right here. It's right near you. All you got to do is confess Christ is Lord. All you have to do is turn to Him from your sins and say, Jesus, save me. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Would you do that if you haven't done that, please? How many here say that's me, preacher? That's my prayer. I want to pray for you. I don't want to embarrass you, but I want to pray for you. Put your hand up and say, I'm doing that right now. I'm calling upon Christ as my Savior this very day. Anyone here? That means that everyone here knows then that you are a believer. So friend, I want to tell you something. If you stand, I live. Stand firm in your faith. Ask God to establish you in the faith so that you'll be strong for His honor and for His glory. Father, bless your word to hearing hearts. We pray in Jesus' precious name. Amen