Right, would you take your God's word tonight? Open to uh the Old Testament book of 2 Kings, and tonight I want you to look at chapter 4. We're studying through the life of Elijah here in 2 Kings. And I want you to look at the first seven verses here of chapter four of Second Kings tonight, starting at verse one. Let me read this to you. Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying Thy servant, my husband, is dead, and thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord, and the creditor has come to take unto him my two sons to bondmen, to be bondmen. And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee, and tell me, and what hast thou in the house? And she said, Thy handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil And then he said, Go borrow thee vessels abroad, of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, borrow not a few. And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out unto thee all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. So she went from him, shut the door upon her, and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out And it came to pass when the vessels were full, that she said unto her sons, Bring me yet an a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed. And she came and told the man of God, and said, and he said, Go sell the oil, pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest. When I was a new believer, I enjoyed reading biographies of great Christians. And one of the biographies I read that had an impact was the life of George Mueller. I know probably you've heard of him before. You maybe read some things about him. In 1835, he uh started an orphanage in Bristol, England. And the way that he took care of those children was just simply by prayer. He never really let people know what he needed. He just simply went to the Lord in prayer. And his life is just filled with illustrations of how God just answered prayer There's a wonderful story about God's provision that's told that on one morning Mueller went into the dining room. It was for breakfast for the children. In that long dining room, there was uh the children lined up. But and this is what an eyewitness account says happened. I'm quoting from them. They said the plates and cups and bowls were on the table. There was nothing on the table but empty dishes. There was no food and no money to supply the need. The children were waiting for breakfast. Children, you know we must be in time for school, said Mueller Then lifting his hand, he prayed, Dear Father, we thank thee for what thou art going to give us to eat. Can you imagine being one of those children sitting there? He's thanking God for what they're going to get. There's nothing there. And according to the account, there was a knock then that was heard at the door. The baker stood there at the door when the door was answered. And the Lord wanted me to send you some, so I got up at two o'clock and baked some fresh bread and I brought it. Mueller thanked the baker and praised God for his care. Children, he said, We not only have bread, but the rare treat of fresh bread. And then he goes on to say, almost immediately there came a second knock at the door. This time it was the milkman who announced that his milk cart had broken down outside the orphanage and that he would like to give the children his cans of fresh milk Because he wanted to empty his wagon so it could be repaired. Isn't that an incredible thing? They had donuts and milk, basically, for breakfast. You know, God is in the business of just taking care of his children, isn't he? It's not hard for God to fill empty plates or to fill empty vessels. And this is what we're going to see here in this story in the life of the prophet Elijah. You may be here today, and it may be that your vessel is empty. You may be running on empty, and you need God to fill that vessel. Maybe it's your heart. You need him to fill it with grace. You may have some spiritual or physical need that needs to be met. Well, this story here teaches us that God's grace will meet us at the point of our need if we call upon Him and trust in Him to help us. That's what we learn really here from this whole story. So I want you to see this story here in three parts. Number one, here's the first part. I call this the situation of a grieving widow. And this story opens up what we see first under this is difficulty. This is a difficult uh life that this woman has had. Notice in verse 1, now there cried a certain woman. So the so it opens up kind of on a despairing note. There's a woman in distress who needed help. The word Cry is the idea of calling out in desperation. Here's a desperate soul, and she's crying out for help. And the Bible says that she was uh one of the wives of the sons of the prophets. So more than likely then she had a hard life because she was a pastor's wife. She was a wife of a man who was in prophetic ministry It may be that perhaps her husband was one of those that were in the one of the seven thousand in Israel that did not bow bow their knee to Baal. And since he was faithful to the Lord, and there's every indication that he was, because she says, You know that your s this servant feared the Lord, since he was faithful and he uh was a man who would not bow his knee to Baal. It's really not a stretch to think that he came under persecution from the wicked Queen Jezebel and those who worship Baal. No doubt there are many times he had to leave his home to go into hiding or to do some ministry thing. And so perhaps he was one of the many that Obadiah hid in caves, and he fed with water and food, if you remember that. We talked about that in 1 Kings chapter 18. Here's his faithful man, Obadiah, who fed uh some of the Lord's servants. In fact the historian Josephus thinks that this is the wife of Obadiah. It very well could be that Obadiah is the one who dies here and that this is his wife. But at any rate, we that we learn from her that it's not easy always to be a child of God, is it? God never promised us that we would be free of difficulty. He never promised us that we would be free of persecution. When Jesus said, Follow me, he said, pick up your what? Your cross, right? Be willing to endure hardness. Being a faithful and godly person does not exempt us from the burdens of life. This woman had some burdens. She faced difficulty, but then she faced death because we see again in verse 1 that That she said, Thy servant, my husband, is dead. She's talking to Elisha here. My husband died And again, he may have died, uh being he was one of the sons of the prophets, he probably died relatively young. Maybe he was a young ministry student. Maybe he was going to the Fay Theological Seminary of that day, Fay Theological Seminary of Bethel or something like that. It's not easy to uh be a son of the prophet, to be faithful to the Lord. And if this guy was going through seminary and had to have wife and children, I know it wasn't easy for him. I've been through that You know, try raising a family, going to school, paying the bills, living from hand to mouth. A lot of times it was God's hand to our mouth when we were going through that. And here suddenly, however, as she's with her husband trying to be faithful, suddenly her husband dies, and now she has to deal with the sorrow of death. Her beloved friend, her her provider, her protector have been taken away and her heart is broken. And now she's alone with her sons fa uh after suffering this this terrible thing. Have you ever have you been there? Have you had to suffer through something like this, suffering through the death of a beloved one, a loved one, someone that was your beloved, someone that you love dearly. So she had to face death and then she faced debt. Because again we see in verse one It says, and thou knowest that my thy servant did fear the Lord, and the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. The only thing her husband left her when he died is his debts. Apparently, like many ministers, he was not a financial genius. And whatever funds that he left are they were soon exhausted. and the predators came knocking at the door. There was no social security system in ancient Israel. God did have laws and customs that provided for families for those who were uh in in difficult straits. Uh he had laws where, you know, people were to take care of their family members. the elderly, the disabled. God also provided laws designed to keep people out of bondage, out of the the bondage of debt. Laws like the Jubilee law and and the and Sabbath laws Laws regarding lending practices, as you know in the Old Testament, if you lent money, you couldn't charge interest. All these were supposed to protect people from the bondage of debt. There was one allowance under the Old Testament law that if you did have debt, that your sons could be uh servants, they could go into temporary servitude. um to pay back that debt. And this is really what's happening here. This creditor has come to her door, she doesn't have anything to pay back the debt now. Her sons are turned into what we could call temporary slaves. They're going into the safe slavery of service until the debt was paid back. Now again who's who's to blame for this? Well obviously the the the prophet who died didn't provide well, perhaps he could have done better But also there's another thing in here, according to the customs, you're really the neighbors are also partly to blame, because their fer failure to care for a widow and her father that's children is a sign of the apostasy of Israel at that time. You see, uh under God's laws, they were responsible to take care of someone like this. And this really shows again the con the spiritual condition of Israel. They were followers of Baal, many of them. And uh they were not taking care of this man of God's family. They were they were entitled to receive help from the people of Israel, but they weren't receiving it. Again, in those days it was the responsibility of God's people to care for the needs of God's servants. In fact, later on here in chapter four, we're going to read of a Shunammite woman who builds a prophet's chamber, a small room where Elisha could stay. That was part of the culture and custom of that day, just taking care of the servants of the Lord. But the fact that this dead prophet's sons were about to be sold into slavery exposes to us a society that did not respect the ministry of the Word of God, and they weren't really concerned about fulfilling God's law. And so this kind of shows the condition. By the way, it's still the same today. God's people are responsible to take care of of God's servants. The Bible says, let the elders who rule well be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the Word. And again the Bible says you shall not muzzle an ox that treads out the grain Or to say it like this, the laborer deserves his wages. And so the Lord is honored when a church provides wealth for its servants. And by the way Grace does that. Grace is so good to the servants of the Lord here. You're I I get treated better than I deserve. So I don't want you to think that I'm up here You know, I'm trying to you know, get you to feel bad so that you'll give me a raise. All right. That's not what this is about at all. In fact, if you offered me a raise, I would reject it. John please stay out of my preaching, John. No, I I agree with him. John, were you talking about me or you? Oh, but he he's absolutely right. I'm gloriously content. And again, I'm thankful for the loving care that Grace provides all of our servants. So this woman was facing uh difficulty and death and debt and now destitution because A widow really had to depend upon her children to take care of her, but now her sons were going to be taken from her. And uh she's crying out now for help. In verse 1, when Elisha comes by, Again, she cried out to him. This is a cry of desperation. And she lays out her situation before the man of God, which is to say she's bringing it to the Lord. Through his servant, here is my situation. And really, she's an example to all of us. We're to do the same thing When we're in a desperate situation, when we're running on empty, we need to run to the Lord and lay out our emptiness before the Lord, to tell God all about it, and then trust God to work on our behalf. And here's the second part of the story now. We saw the situation of a grieving widow. Now we see the sympathy of a godly prophet What we're going to see here now is that Elijah takes care of this widow. Elijah in the past took care of a poor widow. Now Elisha is going to do the same. And in this narrative, what we see is that Elijah's ministry is starting to look very similar to the ministry of Elijah. And I think that's purposeful on the part of the writer. He's he's kind of giving us a comparison. He's showing us that Elisha is the rightful successor to Elijah. Uh Elisha performed many of the same kind of miracles that Elijah performed. Both prophets struck the Jordan River with a mantle, parted the waters, and both walked through on dry ground. Both prophets brought water to a thirsty land. Both prophets performed a miracle in oil for a destitute widow, as we're going to see here. Elijah raised a widow's son from the dead, and we're going to see that later on Elisha will raise the dead. And so this narrative further establishes the fact that Elisha is Elijah's successor. He's going to show the same care. for a poor destitute widow. And what he does is he he asks her two questions. We see this in verse Two. And Elijah said unto her, What shall I do for thee? That's the first question. That's a wonderful question to ask. When someone's having a difficult time and they're in desperate circumstances, what can I do to help? What can I do for you? We see here the compassion of the prophet Elijah. Jesus says, some having compassion. makes a difference. We should have compassion on those that are in need. The best way to show compassion is by getting involved personally into a person's crisis. Ministry demands personal involvement. First John three seven but says this, three seventeen rather, but whoso hath this world's good, and seeeth his brother had need, and shed up his vows of compassion from him How dwelleth the love of God in him. If you have it to where you can help someone meet their need and you see that need, God puts it in front of you, and you you shut up your heart, there's no compassion. John says, how do you can you say you have the love of God in you? When we see a need for a brother or sister, we are to respond with personal involvement. And uh this story really teaches us many things, but one of the th many things it teaches us is God's loving care for widows. We see this, this is a theme in the Bible. In Deuteronomy 2719, listen to what God said. We this shows his heart for widows. Cursed be he who perverts the justice due to the widow. If you pervert justice due to a widow, you'll be under a curse. Isaiah 117, plead for the widow. In Jeremiah 22 verses 3 and 4, do no violence to the widow, for if ye do this thing indeed, then there shall enter in but in by the gates of this house Kings Sitting upon the throne of David, God said, if you allow yourself to get to the point where you don't care about the widows in your society, that's the day when this whole thing's going down. In Exodus 22, 22, ye shall not afflict any widow. If thou afflict them in any way, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry, God says. People who refuse to defend widows are under God's curse. Again and again, prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Zechariah rebuked God's people for withholding justice from widows or oppressing the widow or the fatherless or the sojourner or the poor. By contrast, people who take care of widows receive God's blessing. Job proved his righteousness by making, quote, the widow's heart to sing. Job was good to widows. So God blessed those who cared for widows, but cursed those who did not. And you remember even in the ministry of Jesus, remember Luke 7, Jesus is approaching a city, he approaches a funeral, a dead man's being carried out His mother, who was a widow, is following behind with great sorrow, because now that her son is gone there's no one left to take care of her. And when the Lord saw her, this is what Luke says, and he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not And he came And he touched the buyer, and they that bore him sat still, and he said, Young man, I say unto you, Arise. And he that was dead sat up and began to speak, and delivered him to his mother. So Jesus saw this widow's plight He had such compassion on her that he did what? He raised the dead son so that he could go and continue to care for his mother. That's the compassion that that God has for widows. In fact, we see even in the early church they were supposed to take care of the widows. In the book of Acts, this was part of the deacon ministry. Paul gave Timothy specific instructions in 1 Timothy 5 on how the church was to take care of widows. They were to discern the widows that had genuine needs. And they were to do all they could to take care of them. The book of James says that pure religion before God is to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction. And so when I and when Elisha says to this woman with a heart of compassion, what can I do? He was exemplifying God's heart. for the widow. And then he asked a second question. What do you have? What do you have? Again in verse 2. He says, uh, what uh what hast thou in thy house? What do you have? Again, he's trying to assess her knee And I think even in this question, maybe God was using us to get her to just s see that need and speak that need. You know, sometimes we're hesitant to to say what our needs are before others. Maybe that's a little bit of pride on our part. But there's nothing wrong with telling what your need is. Let your needs be known and take what little you have and put it in God's hands. This is what Elisha is going to ask this woman to do. And notice how she responds in verse 2. And she said, Thy handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil. Pot here is uh a word that really means a jar, or we could say a flask, one little one little jar of oil, one little flask. This could be used by the her husband in in the past as maybe to anoint people, or maybe it's just one little jar that was used um to fill up the lamps. Um they used oil and lamps to light the house at night. When I was over in Israel in archaeology, we dug up a few of these little lamps that were used to hold oil. And I think this is what this is talking about She had one little jar of oil, and that's all she had. But friend, little is much when God's in it. And little is much when God touches it. So I want you to see the third and final thing here. We see the situation of a grieving widow, we see the sympathy of a godly prophet. But here's number three. There's the sufficiency of a great God Because I want you to notice how God meets her need. And really, this is a pattern for how God meets our needs when we are running on empty, when we need God. Notice how God works. I I have this. First of all, God works synergistically. What do you mean? Synergy is where two things work together, right? Where two things are working together. God could have met her need many ways. But what God chooses to do is to work in cooperation with her. And God gives her some simple orders. Here's what I want you to do. Look at verse number three And then he said, Go borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels. Borrow not a few. And so here she says, go out to your neighbors and go borrow some vessels. Now they probably had empty vessels around, and again it was something that uh neighbors were supposed to help out, widows in need, and so God says, Go to your neighbors Borrow some of their empty vessels, make sure it's not a few that is borrow a lot of these empty vessels. And verse three, then he said, Go or excuse me, verse four, and when thou art come in sh Thou shalt shut the door upon thee, and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. So when you got all these vessels gathered together, just take the one little flask of oil you have and begin pouring and filling up those empty vessels. And when the vessel is full, set it aside, and then go to the next vessel and fill it, and then go to the next one and fill it. And so this is what she does. She begins pouring oil from the vessel into the empty vessels. And she begins filling these empty vessels with oil. And she's doing everything that God said She responds with obedience. Now, the very command would be a test of her faith because, you know, this humanly speaking doesn't make sense. You want me to gather up empty vessels and then You want me to take the little bit of oil I have in mind and just keep pouring? I mean, you know, how's that going to work? You know, it's really not for us to try to try to figure out what God's going to do. You know what our part is? Just to obey God. Just to do what God says. What does the Bible say? Trust in the Lord with all thy heart. Lean not to your own understanding. Just obey God It's really not her concern. And sometimes God will ask us to do things or will have us do things that really may not make sense to us, but you know what God wants from us? He just wants us to be obedient to his word. And he wants us to trust him. And when God wants to do something great in our lives, he normally does it in cooperation with our acts of faith. With our obedience. He wants us to do our part. When Jesus wanted to raise Lazarus from the dead, he told the people to roll the stone away. Anybody who can raise Lazarus from the dead can ro roll the stone away himself, don't you think? But God said, you do that. You roll the stone away, I'll raise the dead. When Jesus wanted to turn water into wine, he told the servants, fill the water pots with water. Well anybody that can turn water into wine can certainly fill the pots with water. But he didn't do that. That was their job You fill the jars with water. I'll turn the water into wine. Every time you look at a miracle in the Bible, I should say most times you look at a miracle in the Bible There's always man's part in that. God has man do something. You do your part, and God will do his part. She simply needed to obey the word of God and then trust God to do the rest. You say, well, I don't understand. You don't need to understand. You just need to obey. God works in coordination with us, but also He works secretly. He works secretly. Notice what he says to her, shut the door. This was not to be a public display. God wasn't doing tricks for the public. God was doing a miracle for her. And what this really tells us is that many times when God does his work, he does it in secret. Just because you can't see God working doesn't mean he's not working. Many of the greatest things that God does we can't see. We don't know what he's doing, but trust me, he's working. I love the verse Ecclesiastes eleven five, as thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all. You're never going to understand or see all the works of God. Many of God's greatest works are done in secret. In fact, it's really kind of arrogant for us to demand to know and see everything that God does. God doesn't have to explain it to us, all that he's doing, nor does he have to show us. Deuteronomy 29, 29 says this: the secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things which are revealed belong to us. And so don't think that just because you don't see what God is doing, that God's not working. You know, a lot of times people think, you know, preachers sometimes think if we don't see the altar swelling with people, then God's not working in people's hearts. A lot of times that's just really the preacher's ego that wants to see a full altar. Many of the greatest works that God's done in the result of a sermon, we don't ever see the result of it. We don't see what God's doing there. I remember there was one man I'm thinking about who uh came to the altar, he got saved, God did a work in his heart, started to grow. But then suddenly something happened to him one time and he dropped out out of church. He didn't pick up a Bible. He walked away from the Lord for years and and did not come back. And I thought, well, m this person truly wasn't saved. They just they made an empty profession and then they're not saved After all, doesn't John say they went out from us because they were not of us? Had they been of us, they would have no doubt continued with us, but they went out that it might be made manifest they were never of us So I said this person was never really saved, and that's their we need to pray for them. And then you know what? Years later, this person just showed up in church, and you know what? They started right back in, getting faithful. They kind of picked right back up where they left off. You know what I found out? That in that person's heart God was working all those years. He was doing things that I couldn't see that no one else could see, and he was working in that person's heart and bringing them back to the place where they Should be. Friend, just because you don't see God working doesn't mean he's not working. He's working all the time in the hearts of people. God works secretly, but then God works sovereignly. Look again, look down here in verse number five, where it says, So she went from him and shut the door. Upon her and upon her sons who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more, and the oil stayed. That is, it was it was it stopped It stopped only when all the empty vessels were filled. That's when the flow of oil stopped. And this is picture is a picture of a God who's in complete control control. of that oil, of the flow of oil. This was a miraculous work of God, but it shows a God who's in control. And I think this oil really can point to several things symbolically. I think it can point to God's grace working in the lives of people. You know, God knows when to pour the flow of grace into our life when we need it. It may be again, you may be here tonight, you may be running on empty, and you may say, you know, I'm in the midst of a trial, I'm in the midst of a crisis, and I need Strength that I don't have. Well, friend, bring your emptiness to God and trust God. And you know what? God will fill you with the grace that you need. He's in control of the flow of grace. He knows how much you need. Remember the Apostle Paul? He was being hammered by the Corinthians, and and uh they were questioning whether or not he was a real apostle And Paul began to talk about the visions he had after all those false apostles were giving all these bogus accounts, these bogus spiritual experiences. And Paul said, you know, I had a real experience. I was called to the third heaven And uh he said, I saw things there I'm not going to tell you about. Now if it was a preacher today, he would have written a book and then, you know, got a movie out of it. But Paul said, I'm not going to tell you about these things. They're not, you don't need to hear that right now. But then he says this, and just to humble me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Through the abundance of the revelations that God gave to me. God gave Paul many visions and revelations. We read about them in the book of Acts. He had over seven times. I mean, if God if Jesus appeared in my office seven times I would probably be a little arrogant about that. You know, God help me, I know my sinful nature. The next time we had a board meeting and people didn't agree with me, I would say, hey, did Jesus appear to you seven times? He appeared to me seven times. We're going to do it my way. You have a tendency to get arrogant about that. And God can't use arrogant servants. He needs humble servants. And so Paul said, you know, lest I should be exalted above measure, because of all these revelations, God humbled me. How did he do it, Paul? He gave me a thorn in the flesh. A messenger of Satan, so that I wouldn't be exalted above measure. And Paul three times said, God, remove this, please. Remove this thorn, and God said, No. I'm not going to remove it. But I tell you what I will do. I'll give you enough grace to deal with it. My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in your weakness. Sometimes God just He knows exactly how much grace to give us. Not sometimes, but all the time. This oil can stand for grace. This oil can talk about the filling of the Spirit. You know, the Bible says we're to be filled with the Spirit, and literally the verb there is be being filled. We're to constantly operate it under the the the control of the Holy Spirit. We can't live the Christian life without the help of the Holy Spirit. Trying to live the Christian life without the Holy Spirit's like trying to drive a car that's on empty. With no gasoline. You can't do it. We need the filling of the Spirit. It could stand for financial resources. There are times when we just need help from God. And Paul was like that. Paul understood that God providentially controlled The financial resources that he had when he wrote to Philippians a thank you letter, he said, you know, I'm glad that your giving has flourished to me again I'm grateful for that, not because I needed it, because I I know how to be abase, I know how to abound, I know how to do well without a lot, without having a lot, and I know how to live having a lot I can do all things through Christ which strengthens me. But the point is, Paul knew that God providentially is the one that controls the flow of resources. So he was content with that. If this is what God wants, then I'm content with it. So God reveals he's in sovereign control. But let me give you the next thing. God works Not only synchristically and he works secretly and he works sovereignly, but he works sufficiently. Look down at verse 17, verse 7, excuse me. Chapter 4. Then sh she came and told the man of God, and he said, Go and sell the oil and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest. This story has a happy ending. Because the widow came and told Elisha how the flow of oil didn't stop until all the vessels had been filled. And Elisha says, Good, now take the oil that you have and go and sell it, and then pay off your debts, and then live off the rest. You know, oil was a was a precious and well used commodity in that day. They used it to light their lamps, they used it for for cooking One commentator said oil was liquid money in those days. And so the widow was now rich. She went from being poor to rich. She went from poverty to solvency. God not only met her immediate need, but he met her need for many days in the future. He did more than was expected. God always provides for those that trust him. He always does. God's grace meets us at the point of our need when we seek his help. Let me give you one more thought and we're done. So we see here the situation of a grieving widow, the sympathy of a godly prophet, the sufficiency of a great God. But I want you to see that What I notice about the miracle of the jars of oil, we've already pointed out how the ministry of Elijah and Elisha were similar. And sometimes we have a tendency to think that Elijah was a greater prophet than Elisha, but Elisha really does twice as many miracles as Elijah. Elisha does, as Elijah. The great Scottish minister William Steele suggested that the relationship between Elijah and Elisha also teaches us about The relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus. Just like Elijah pointed to John the Baptist, he was a type of John the Baptist, Elijah is a type of Jesus. This whole story points us to Jesus because in many ways we are like the widow in this story. In this life, we face difficulty. We face the specter of death. We face debt. You know, we all have a debt that we cannot pay. That's the debt of sin in our life. That sin makes us a slave. You know, we're all enslaved because of the debt incurred against us by our Father. And that Father is Adam. And just like Elijah said, go sell the oil and pay the debt, that's what Jesus does for us. Jesus pays the debt. The debt of sin that we cannot pay. The Bible teaches us that the worst slavery is the slavery to sin. But Jesus made provision. And so that's why we read in Galatians that We, when we were children, we were enslaved to the elementary principles of this world. We were enslaved to sin. We were enslaved to the world. We were enslaved to the devil. But God did not leave us in that bondage. Listen to Galatians 4, 4. When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those that were under the law, so that we might receive the adoption of sons. We're no longer slaves, we're sons. When we put our faith in the risen Christ, when we put our faith in the finished work of Christ, God brought us from slavery and made us his child. And now we're free. So have you placed your faith in the finished work of Christ Or are you, you say I'm saved. Well, are you a vessel that's empty? And you need God to fill your emptiness. Friend, God will meet you at the point of your need. When you call upon him and you trust him, he will do that. Let's bow for prayer together tonight. So I want you just to take a moment and just maybe you're here tonight and you say, Man, that's me. I I'm empty. I need I need God's fullness. I feel like I'm facing something, uh, a situation, and I I just don't have the strength for it. I need God to fill me with his grace. And so tonight, would you just take a moment and just bring your emptiness to the Lord. Bring that empty vessel before God. Confess your need. Just tell Him what you need. Ask God to fill it. Fill that empty vessel, Lord. I need your grace in this situation. I confess I can't handle this. Would you please fill this empty vessel? Maybe you've been walking in the flesh, not the spirit, and you need to just be renewed in the Spirit. Ask God to fill you with His Holy Spirit. Be filled Whatever your need is, I know this. We serve a great God, a loving God, a merciful God. And He's willing to meet you right where you are. He's willing to give you exactly what you need. Tell him what you need. Let him fill you. Father, again thank you for loving us. Thank you for your grace, Lord. Thank you for caring when we're empty Thank you, Lord, for being willing to meet us where we are and not only give us what we need, but to give us even more than we need. Lord, do that for us tonight. We bring our emptiness to you. We bring our brokenness to you. Lord, would you fill us tonight? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.