So good to see you here in God's house tonight. And I want you to take your Bibles and open to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. It's Such a privilege to be able to come to God's house and study God's word together with God's people. And tonight we are looking at 1 Corinthians chapter 6. We're in a study through this book in the New Testament. And tonight I want to talk about your body, his temple. Heard about a pastor who was visiting a church member at his place of work. This man worked at a coal mine, and as the pastor was getting ready to go to kind of into the mine, he saw there on a a mound full of coal dust, a beautiful, pristine white flower And that kind of intrigued him. He was wondering how that flower could stay so white in the midst of all of this dark coal dust. And he took some dust from the coal and he sprinkled it on the flour and he saw how that the coal dust just slid off the petals. That flour had properties to it to where none of the dust would stick on it. it remained white and pristine pure. And when he did that, he thought about uh the Christian living in the world. You know, we live in such a a sinful world today. And God wants us to continue to live a holy and a righteous life. And it's not an easy thing to do. We have to develop a kind of a righteousness, a holiness about our life where the sin of this world doesn't cling to us And this is really the issue that the Apostle Paul is addressing here in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. This is why he's writing this, and it's so very needful. I don't have to tell you that we live in a very licentious and moral society today. That's all around us. The proof is all around us. And there are constant temptations that we have to fight as believers. Well this was the condition here, of course, at the church at Corinth. They were living In the city of Corinth, of course, and it was a very wicked city. Now I've already told you before in our study of this letter how that Corinth was known in that day as kind of the uh the the Center for Immorality. It had a reputation about it. In fact, uh there was one scholar who says this, he said all this evidence talking about the immorality of Corinth suggests that Paul's Corinth was once the New York Los Angeles and Las Vegas of the ancient world. Now if you're from those cities, we apologize for that quote there. But it but you understand the point that he's making here. This was a just a culture that was so immoral And here's the thing, as the church, we don't want the culture to affect the church. We are to affect the culture. We don't want the world to affect the church and compromise the church. The church is to have an impact in the world, right? That's our calling. And so this is what Paul is calling the church here, Corinth, to do. And he's going to deal with a problem. And as you notice that 1 Corinthians goes from one problem to another. And sometimes, you know, I've I told you when I started this letter that there's enough in here to offend everybody. And that's very true because he just deals with one problem after another. It's kind of a corrective letter He already dealt with Christians in the courtroom we saw in the first part of chapter six. Now he's going to deal with this problem of immorality. and and and and sexual sin. And in chapter seven he'll he'll deal with issues of marriage and singleness. In chapter eight he'll deal with issues of of Christian liberty and when we are to limit our liberty for the good of our brother. In fact he'll deal with that from chapter eight. on through to chapter 10. And then of course in chapter 11, the abuse of the Lord's suffering. And so he goes from one problem to another. But what is Paul seeking to do here? He's seeking to bring believers to maturity. And that's why it's good for us to study this letter, because some of the problems that the early church had, we still have today. And we just need to hear this because we need to be reminded of the Word of God and the truth of God so that we can be uh fortified. against the enemy, which a lot of times is our flesh. And so Paul's now going to deal with this problem of immorality here in the church. And I want you to notice what he says. Look at verse 12. All things are lawful unto me But all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Meats for the belly and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. Now what is Paul talking about here? And why is he bringing up this issue here of immorality? Well, as you know that in the city of Corinth there was a temple, the temple of Epaphrodite. And that temple as part of that pagan religion and part of the worship system sent out prostitutes. And there was a sense in which in the Greek world To commit this heinous act of immorality to them in the pagan religions was like an act of worship. Now many of the people that were saved out of that in the church were still going back to doing some of those things. They were still committing some of these sins. And Paul was in the city in Ephesus now. How does he know about this? Because there was a delegation of people from the church at Corinth, three men who came to Paul at Ephesus, and they're giving Paul the problems that the church is dealing with, and this is one of the problems. One of the problems was that there are still people that under the name of liberty are still going out and committing sexual sins. In fact, what we read in verse number 12 was a slogan. Look again in verse 12: all things are lawful unto me. There were some believers that were going around and they were quoting that. They were actually still participating in in immoral acts of disobedience to the Lord. In order to defend their behavior, when someone approached them about it, they would say, hey, all things are lawful for me. In other words, I have the liberty now. We're not under the law. Now the Corinthians understood the gospel of grace. They understood that once you're saved by the grace of God, you can't lose your salvation. Aren't we glad about that? That God is the one who keeps us? But now here's the thing: grace is not a license to sin. And there are some people that use the grace of God kind of as a license to go out and do whatever they want to do. And this is called the theological term that many people use for this today is called antinomianism. From the Greek word gnomos meaning law, anti meaning no, no law, and so it's living as if there is no law, that the Christian has no laws that he has to obey. He has total liberty to do whatever he wants to do And so there were many that were using this slogan, all things are lawful. By the way, when they quoted this, they were not quoting any scripture. Where did they get this slogan from? Remember, I told you that part of the problem in the church of Corinth was their love of human wisdom, their love of Greek philosophy. They were not quoting Scripture, they were quoting Greek philosophers of that day, men that they learned from And this was one of the slogans that these teachers of wisdom would use to say, you know, we're free, we have the liberty to do what we want to do. They would take this slogan and they would say, for the Christian, all things are lawful. And so they were using this to uh as an excuse to justify their sinful life and action. You know, people who live in disobedience can find ways to justify their behaviors. The Bible says in the book of Proverbs, the sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason. People can find a way to justify what they're doing. And here they are, they're quoting these Greek slogans and they're saying, we have the liberty to do this. And so Paul writes here to correct this problem. And part of the questions he's going to answer is this, they would say, Don't we have the liberty to use our body as we please? And after all, it's our body, and we have liberty. Can't we do with our body what we want to? And Paul's going to take issue with that. He's going to address this very thing. Really, he already starts in verse 9. And we looked at that last week. Look in verse nine. Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate nor abusers of themselves of mankind, and there he just kind of lists a litany of immoral sins, some that were b uh being committed there in that culture and city, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners shall inherit the kingdom of God and such were some of you. So really he starts right there pro uh making his argument when he talks about these things. This is what you were in the past. This is not the way a Christian is to behave now. This is not what a Christian is to do. And some again were asking, don't we have the liberty, aren't we free to use our body as we please? And of course the answer to that is no. You don't have the liberty to disobey God's word. And you don't have the liberty to use your body just the way you want to. And so Paul is going to deal with this. And what he's going to show us here are three Basically, three ways that when a believer sins, they're sinning against their body. And especially with respect to this sin of immorality. So here's number one. Immorality or sexual sin damages the body. Look again in verse 12. All things are lawful unto me. But notice how Paul finishes that that slogan. But all things are not what Expedient. It might be lawful, but it's not expedient. He kind of uses the yes but argument. Yeah, but. And the word expedient means to be advantageous. Paul said, it's not to your advantage to do this. It's not for your advantage to continue in this. You pay a very high price when you commit this type of a sin. It's very damaging to you. It's very damaging to your body. If you continue in this lifestyle, it's not expedient for you. Now, the Bible has a lot to say about this. That when a person lives with this type of sin in their life, how damaging it can be for them and very in many ways. But just kind of look with me at the book of Proverbs real quick. Can you do that? We're going to come back to Corinthians But look in Proverbs chapter five because the book of Proverbs kind of gives a warning here about this very thing, Proverbs chapter five And uh this is a father warning a son to be careful with the world in which he lives. In chapter 5, verse verse 1, rather, my son, attend unto my wisdom and bow thine ear to mine understanding. That thou mayest regard discretion, that thy lips may keep knowledge, for the lips of a strange woman drop as a honeycomb, for her mouth is smoother than oil, her end is bitter. As wormwood. In verse 5, her feet go down to death. Here's the very first thing. There's deceit with this sort of thing, but also death. It ultimately leads to death. That's the warning there. Be careful, young men. Be careful about this thing because it will lead to death. Look in chapter 6 and look in verse 27. Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned? Can one go upon hot coals and his feet not be burned? And the advice that Solomon is giving here is that look, you can't participate in this type of iniquity and it not hurt you You can't take fire into your bosom and it not burn you. The lie of the world is that you can live a licentious and moral life and you can get away with it. But friend, that's the lie of the world. The Bible says you can't take fire and your bosom and your clothes not be burned. Look in chapter five, look in verse number nine, back up in Proverbs five, nine. Lest thou give thine honor unto others in thy years unto the cruel. And here again is a father who is warning his son, and he's saying, Listen, if you capitulate to this type of a sin, you're going to lose everything. It's going to enslave you. And you're going to you're going to give your years up. You're going to you're going to Be sorry that you give gave your ears to the cruel. Look in verse 11. And thou mourn at last when thy flesh and thy body are consumed. What's he talking about there? He's talking about physical Bodily disease. It's interesting that the Bible talks about transmitted diseases all the way back in the ancient days here in the book of Proverbs. He's saying, listen, it's going to hurt your body. Your body will be consumed because of this. And I believe that uh transmitted diseases and these things are going out there is a judgment from God to an immoral society. I know that sounds harsh and I don't Mean to be harsh, but I just see it as a judgment from God. Listen, God, when he gives his commands to be pure, he's trying to protect us He's trying to make us happy. But then there's disappointment. Look in chapter 5 and look at verse number 12. And say, how have I hated instruction in my heart, despised reproof and have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear unto them that instruct me. And silently basically saying you're going to regret it if you don't listen to me. One of these days you're going to look back and you're going to say, Man, I wish I'd listened to my parents. I wish I had listened to my pastor. I wish I'd listened to people who instructed me about this, and I wish I did what I was told to do, and now I'm disappointed. Because I didn't listen. And that's what he's saying here. There's all kind of damage, but then there's disgrace. If you look in Proverbs chapter 5 Verse number fourteen, he basically says, you know, now I have to face public disgrace. And that's really what he's saying there in that verse. Now I have to face the disgrace of what I have done. The penalty for what I have done is just public disgrace disgrace. And so Paul says this is very damaging. Go back to 1 Corinthians now. And so this is the point that Paul's making. He said, look, it's not expedient. for you, O Corinthians, to live this way. It's very damaging, this sin. But also Not only does it damage you, it will dominate you. Look in 1 Corinthians 6 again, verse 12. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but watch this next phrase, but I will not be brought under the power of any. And again, Paul, while he quotes this slogan, uses the yes, but Argument, yes, but I'm not gonna allow anything or any sin to bring me into its bondage. And when he says be brought under the power, the word for power here is a Greek word which means to be under the domination of, to come under this domination. And we could literally say to be enslaved to And that's the word that the Bible uses many times to talk about addiction. We have the word addiction today. That's kind of the contemporary word, but the biblical word is slavery, to be enslaved. This sin enslaves like no other sin. It is enslaving. It will dominate you. That's what Paul is saying here. And by the way, here's the principle for the Christian life. Everybody Is a slave to someone or something. The question is to who or to what. As a Christian, the Bible makes it very clear: who are we to be a slave to? Jesus Christ. We would be a slave to righteousness. Now before we were saved, we were enslaved to sin. But now that we're saved, that relationship has been severed. I no longer have to listen to my sin nature. He's no longer master over me. He doesn't have any authority over me. I now have a new boss, a new master, and that is the Lord Jesus Christ. And so now I am to make myself a slave to Christ. and righteousness. But now here's the the thing. You as a Christian can still be a slave to sin if you yield to sin. And Paul talks about this very Principle in Romans chapter 6. You are a slave to whomever or whatever you yield yourself to. And as a Christian, you are to be a slave only to Jesus. But this sin is enslaving. This sin can dominate you. That's what Paul's saying. I don't want to be brought under the power of anything except the Lord Jesus Christ. And so don't be enslaved to this is what the Apostle Paul is saying. Again, just write down Romans 6. 16. Know ye not that to whom you yield yourselves to s yourself servants To obey, and the word there really is slaves, do la slaves, his slaves you are, to whom you obey, whether sin unto death or obedience unto righteousness. You have the power as a Christian to say no to sin and yield yourself to obedience to God, which leads to righteousness, or you can yield yourself to sin, which leads to what? Death Sometimes I'll have people and I'll say, well, I just can't help it. If you're a Christian, you can too help it. You have the Holy Spirit living inside of you. You're no longer under the bondage of the sin nature. You have a choice to make. You have the power through the Holy Spirit to choose against sin. Don't you swallow the idea that you don't have a choice. You do have a choice. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, you can say no to any sin. You don't have to be addicted to anything. But you are as long as you will continue to yield yourself to it and make yourself a slave to it. You have the power through the Holy Spirit to say no. I'm going to be a slave to righteousness. I'm going to be a slave to the Lord Jesus Christ. And Paul is saying, look, this sin here is so very enslaving. In fact, all sin is enslaving. And we have to be careful of that very thing. And so this sin damages the body Paul says, this sin dominates the body, seemingly like very few other sins. But also it defiles the body. Look in verse number 13. Meat for the belly and the belly for meat But God shall destroy both it and them. Again, Paul is using the uh arg the yes but argument. Again, he's using a quote that was Given back then. Here's another slogan they would use to justify their behavior. Well, meat for the belly and the belly for meat. Yes, Paul says, but God will destroy both it and them And what they were saying with this slogan was that, you know, this is just natural. Just like eating is natural, even so uh sex is natural. And so, you know, it's just a natural thing. It's not wrong. It's just part of the natural order of things, meats for the belly and the belly for meats. And notice how Paul handles that argument. Yes, but God's going to destroy both. And and basically what Paul is saying here is that, you know, we we're we're not to live just for these biological processes We're not to allow the body to be in charge of us. We're to focus on the eternal. The body isn't just for temporal things, it's eternal. And God has much more planned for you as a child of God. than just these natural instincts. The human body has more value than just fulfilling biological appetites. We're not animals. Look what Paul says in verse number 14 And now the body, verse 13, rather, meets for the belly, and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. But watch this, now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. That is, it's not the body isn't just to fulfill natural appetites, and it's not definitely for this sin of fornication. It is for the Lord. God has an eternal purpose for you and your body, he's saying. But for the Lord and the Lord for the body, look in verse 14. And God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. You know what God's going to do with this body one day? Just like Christ came out of that grave, and God raised up the body of the Lord Jesus Christ, and now Jesus has an eternal glorified body and he has a purpose there in heaven as our intercessor. Even so that is true with you because when this body dies, you know what's going to happen? God's going to give us a resurrection And we're going to get a brand new body. God's got plans for us, eternal plans. And so the whole idea that Paul is giving us here is that look, stop being so overwhelmed and focused with these temporal things. Of this world, they're going to be destroyed. God has an eternal purpose for you and for your body that He's going to raise up one day. Don't defile this body. That God has given you. And so that's the first argument. But notice the next thing: the body is the member of Christ. Look at verse 15. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ. Now, what is Paul saying here? Here he's going to go back to an argument that he uses in several other places in the New Testament, and it's the argument of the unity of the believer to Christ. That union that a Christian has with the Lord Jesus. Now I think I may have told you this before, but in theology there are three mystical unions that theology talks about. And when we say the word mystical, we don't mean that it's it's something that is, you know, secret. We're talking about something that we can't fully comprehend because the truth of it is so wonderful that we can't fully grasp it. There are three mystical unions that the Bible talks about. There is the oneness within the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, three individual, distinct persons, yet they're one. There's a unity there that we can't fully grasp. That's one mystical union that theology talks about. There's another mystical union that is the divinity of Christ, the deity of Christ, with the humanity of Christ. There is a oneness that comes and the two natures of Christ that comes together in one. And those two natures dwell concurrently in one person without one affecting the other. He's fully God And yet he's fully man. And there's a mystery there that we can't completely comprehend, but we accept it and we understand that and we know that. There's a third mystical union that the Apostle Paul likes to talk about. And listen to this: it's the union between the believer and Jesus Christ. And don't you know that when you became a Christian, you became one with Jesus? Now, this is the truth that Paul falls back on many times when he talks about a Christian living a sin in their life. Because if you go to the book of Romans, chapter 6, he's answering this one question. Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And then he says, God forbid, no way. Why? Because of our union, our oneness with Jesus. And here, Paul's going to use the same argument. You are one with Jesus Christ. You know why, Christian, you should live above sin? Why you shouldn't capitulate to this horrible sin of immorality in your body? Because you are one with Christ. There is a union there with you and Jesus. And wherever you go, guess what? You take Jesus with you. Wherever Jesus is, he has you with him. That's why Paul says we're seated with Christ in heavenly places. You say, wait a minute, I'm seated here at Grace Bible Baptist Church tonight. Yes, I know. But in the mind of God, if you're a believer, you're also seated with Jesus in heavenly places. You're so much one with Jesus that when God looks over at Jesus, he sees you seated there with him. You're one with them. So wherever Jesus is, you are. Wherever we are, that's where Jesus is. He's with us. He's totally one. And this is the argument that Paul uses. Now look what he says in verse number 15. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? And look at the rest of it. Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. Here's a horrifying thought that he's presenting here, isn't it? That whenever a believer goes to a brothel Or an immoral place to engage in an immoral activity, what are they doing? They're taking Jesus with them He's going with you there. And so what you're literally saying is, Jesus, come with me as I engage in this horrible sin. That is a horrifying thought. And Paul means it to be. Because look what he says at the end of verse 15. Shall I take the members of Christ and make them the members of Harlem? Look at the next phrase. What? God forbid And that is the strongest negative in the Greek language there that Paul's giving us. God forbid, may it never happen. May that never be true of a believer. That they would take Christ with them. To engage in such a horrible sin. And so he's talking then about this unity, this oneness that the believer has with the Lord Jesus Christ, the body that you have is a member of Christ. And don't ever forget that, that wherever you go, Jesus goes with you. Look at the word joined there, a very strong word. What know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he shall become one, but he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. The word joined there, again a very strong word. And when this sin takes place when a man is joined to a harlot He becomes one and there's a sense in which you bring Christ into that because you're joined to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so that one let me tell you something. I propose that this one thought right here, if you meditate and think about that. Should keep a Christian from ever, ever engaging in any kind of a sin. The fact that we would take our precious Lord with us to the wrong place. God forbid. God forbid. What a strong argument that he's using there. So what's the practical Fall out of this. Look at verse 18. Flee fornication. There's the practical part. Run from this sin. Run from it. Flee from it. And the word here is a present tense imperative. Keep on continuing to run from this. The verb here is fuego, is where we get the word fugitive. Someone who continues to run. You know what the Christian is? A Christian is someone who keeps on continually running from sin. That's what we do here in this world. We are running continually. This word fuego, it's used to talk about one who runs from a poisonous snake. or one who runs from an attacking enemy. It's used to talk about one who runs from a dangerous plague, anything that is dangerous. You run from that. And Paul is saying that with regard to this, you run. You don't sit around and think about how you can overcome it. You know, and I think the great illustration of this is who? Joseph, right, in the Old Testament. And think maybe Paul was thinking about Joseph when he wrote this. In Genesis 39, when Potiphar's wife caught him What did Joseph do? He said, Well, you know, Mrs. Potiphar, let's just sit down here on the bed and talk about this for a while. No. He was a very wise, intelligent man, and he ran. And the Bible says he left his garment in her hand as the idea is she grabbed him and he said, You can have my coat, but I'm out of here. He just ran. And this is what Paul is saying. Flee, run, run from sin. Run from any situation. That would put you in a position where you can compromise your testimony, run from that, Paul says to the Corinthians, and the Word of God says to us. as well here today. Because look what he says again in verse 18. Flee fornication, every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sins against his own body. You are defiling your own body, which leads to the next point that Paul makes, and that is the body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 19. What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and you're not your own. You don't belong to yourself That's a fallacy. You say, oh, it's my body. I can do without it. Now listen, if you're a Christian, it's you belong to Jesus. Your body belongs to him. And it is the temple of the Holy Spirit. In the Old Testament, God had a temple for his people. In the New Testament, God has a people as his temple. And you individually, as a Christian, your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. And again, this is an overwhelming thought when you think about it. We talk about it so much that sometimes the gravity And the majesty of that thought could slip by without us really understanding. Do you understand that the God who created all there is dwells in you? That's an incredible thought that he has chosen of his grace to condescend, to come down, and to live in this body. To make this body his temple. And I think when Paul says this, where he says, What? I think it's a kind of in a sarcastic way, you Corinthians who claim to have all this knowledge and you have all this wisdom, don't you know this? Don't you understand this? That your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God. Now listen, there are two Greek words that are used in the New Testament to talk about temple. One is a word Heron that talks about the outer court, and this is where people on the outside congregate. The outside court That's one word, but there's another word, naos, and that refers to the inside of the temple. This is the holy place. This is the holy of holies where God would dwell. And the word that Paul uses here when he says, your body is the temple. It's not Huron. It's Naos. Your body is the holy of holies. Your body is the holy place where God comes to dwell. Let that sink in. Your body is the holy of holies, and it's to be treated as such. You know, in the Old Testament, the Jews would always treat that part of the temple with incredible reverence. And that's the way we are to treat our bodies spiritually. It is the Holy of Holies where God comes to meet with us. You remember on the day of Pentecost? Well, let me back up for a minute. You remember in the Old Testament, whenever God was in the tabernacle in the Holy of Holies, everybody knew it how? Because right above the tabernacle, what would there be? There would be a a pillar of fire, right? A pillar of glory. Whatever that pillar of glory would hover just above the Holy of Holies. Everybody in Israel knew that God was there in that holy place, that holy of holies. On the day of Pentecost in Acts chapter 2, when the Spirit of God was poured out What did the Bible say happened? Right above the heads of all the believers, there were cloven tongues of what? Fire. Remember the Old Testament? The pillar of fire above the tabernacle? Now in the New Testament, the pillar of fire, when the Holy Spirit was poured out, was right above the head of all those believers there. What did that signify? That God now had moved in. To dwell. This was now his home. The body of the church was his new temple. The body of the believer was his new temple, and the Shekinah glory of God was hovering just above the head of every believer to signify to all of them. That now God is living in the new Holy of Holies, which is the body of the believer. And so Paul says, Don't you know this? Don't you understand that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit of God? And look in verse number 20. For ye are bought with a price, and here's the whole sum of all of it. Therefore Glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God. You don't belong to you. You belong to God. It should be the purpose of all of us. That we glorify God. That is our ultimate purpose, that we glorify God in our body and in our spirit. And to the Corinthians, Paul was saying there's no way that you can glorify God in your body. By capitulating to the cultural licentiousness that's all around you, God has called you to be different. And beloved, here today, God has called us to be different. Different, different from the world. We are to glorify God with our body. Let's let's bow for prayer together. Lord, we know that sometimes there are subjects that are difficult to talk about And uh we would rather think about other things, but Lord, these are needful things that you've given us in your word. We know that the heart of man hasn't changed from the early church even to today. And the temptations that the early church Christians faced, Lord, we face them today. To the same degree. And in some cases, even to a greater degree. We live in such a sinful world. Lord, we it's all around us. And yet, Lord, you've called us to be different. But Lord, you haven't left us alone. We're thankful That you have given us your spirit. That we don't have to capitulate to the cultural demands around us. That we can be different because, Lord, you've given us the power through your Holy Spirit to live differently. to glorify you with our spirit and our body. Lord, let that be our determination tonight. Let the truth of our oneness with Christ, Lord, so permeate our mind and our heart. That whenever a temptation comes, it has no power because we know that we're one with Christ. We wouldn't dare think of capitulating to bring our Savior down with us into any sin. Lord, let this one thought provoke unto us holiness and righteousness in our practical everyday living. Bless these words, Lord, to the hear, to the hearing hearts of all those who are here. And Lord, may it help us. May it strengthen us in our walk. Thank you, Father, for your goodness to us. And we pray all this in Jesus' wonderful, matchless name. Amen.