Well, would you take your Bibles tonight and would you open please to the book of Romans, chapter 8? And I want you to look down at verse number 26 tonight, Romans 8, verse 26 And I want to speak tonight on uh a verse of scripture that I'm sure you know very well. And uh And just kind of dissect this verse, and hopefully it'll be a help to us in our own Christian walk to apply some of the things that we've been learning about the Holy Spirit of God. Now, as we said before, um the Book of Romans is such a great book. It's got so much theology in it. And I feel like in these past few months I've been really, you know, giving you a lot of theological sermons here. Hopefully you've had a chance to digest some of that and And uh it uh you know it's it's kind of a learning process to learn all these things. But I want to just kind of uh look at a verse of scripture and apply what we've been talking about in reference to the Holy Spirit of God Remember, I said that the book of Romans to me is kind of the closest thing that we have in the New Testament to a systematic theology. And Paul just takes a topic and he b he just brings verses in from the Old Testament to try to talk about that topic. And I think in chapter 8, what we've been learning is on the Holy Spirit of God and the ministry of the Holy Spirit in our lives. And I want to specifically apply this in one area of our life where we desperately need help as Christians. And uh and by the way, thank God that we have the Holy Spirit, right? I mean we can't live the Christian life without the help of the Holy Spirit. You may as well try to drive a car without an engine as to live uh the Christian life without the Holy Spirit of God. And the truth is we are weak. Aren't we? We need his help. And so we thank God for the Holy Spirit. And just mark this down. God gave us the Holy Spirit not as a reward for our faithfulness, but as a gift for our weakness. And let me say that again. God gave us the Holy Spirit not as a reward for our faithfulness, but as a gift for our weakness. Sometimes I'll hear preachers say, well, if you want the Power of the Holy Spirit in your life, you have to do this, you have to pray this many hours, you have to, they give you a long list of dues. And my response normally is if I could do all those things, I wouldn't need the Holy Spirit. I'm weak. I can't do all those things. And so the Holy Spirit is given to us not again as a reward for our faithfulness, but as a gift for our weakness. And so I want to address one area of weakness that we all have that the Holy Spirit helps us in. And that is in the area of prayer. Look at Romans chapter 8. Look down at verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. For we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. That's a verse I'm sure that you've seen before, but I want us to look at it again, hopefully in a new light. But here's the first thing I want you to see. I want to confess to you that I'm weak in this matter of prayer. Okay, are you okay with that? Uh I I I can do better. I haven't done very well in this matter in my Christian life. I'm weak in this matter of prayer. I need help in prayer Now, don't look so holy, so do you. All right. All of us, I think, struggle in this area. Now my weakness is not faith in God Because I want to tell you, I believe that God answers prayer. I really believe that. I believe God our Father is so gracious, and what does the Bible tell us? We're to bring whatever we have before the throne of grace, and we can come boldly because God does Hear prayer. So my weakness is not there. We have a prayer hearing and prayer answering God. And my weakness is not faith in Jesus Christ. I thank God that Jesus is our high priest. He is there at the right hand of the Father even now. He makes intercession for us and with us. I totally believe that with all my heart, don't you? We have a high priest and intercessor, our Lord Jesus Christ. And so I believe that. So my weakness is not belief in the Father. And my weakness is not belief in Jesus and his role in prayer. But I think my weakness is I don't utilize the help of the Holy Spirit enough when I pray. I don't depend upon the Holy Spirit enough. And I want to tell you that all three members of the Trinity are involved in our prayer life. Effective prayer is praying to the Father, through the Son, in the power of the Holy Spirit. Okay? It is to the Father. through the Son, in the power of the Holy Spirit. Like I say, I don't have a problem knowing that God answers prayer And I don't have a problem understanding that Jesus, I go and I come in his name when I pray. My problem is I'm not leaning and depending upon the Holy Spirit when I pray. I need to pray in the Spirit. And what this verse here tells me tonight as we look at it is that the Holy Spirit is our prayer partner. You never have to go to prayer alone. You understand that? This isn't something you do by yourself. You have a prayer partner. And that is the Holy Spirit. And you know what the Bible calls this? The Bible calls this praying in the Spirit. And that's the thing that we need to learn. And that's where I'm weak. And I need to understand what the Bible tells us about this here in Romans 8, 26. That look at it again. Likewise, the Spirit helps our what? Our infirmities, that is, our weaknesses. Also, write down in your Bible Ephesians 6, verse 18, where it says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit. And also write down Jude 20, where it says, Beloved, building up yourselves in most holy faith, praying in the Spirit. And again, that's the key. We have to learn to pray in the Spirit. We must do that. And Jude says, when we do do this, what this does is it builds our faith. It builds our faith when we learn to pray in the Spirit. Now the truth is this. God makes us perpetually weak. That we might be perpetually dependent, that we might be perpetually powerful in prayer. And again, I want to say that. God makes us perpetually weak, that we might be perpetually dependent. That we might be perpetually powerful in prayer. And so the fact of the matter is, there's a sense in which our weakness in this area is good. Because what it will help us to do is realize this weakness so that we don't try to do this ourselves, so that we are dependent upon the Holy Spirit to give us the help that we need. Now, let me ask you a question tonight. You don't have to raise your hand. How many of you realize you need help in prayer? How many of you are willing to confess that and realize it and say, Man, I can't do this I need his help. Well the good news is you have a helper. Look again in verse 26. Likewise, the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities. Look at the word help there. If you haven't Circles that word. That's an important word. And the reason I say that is this word's only used two times in the New Testament. This particular word, this compound word. And let me tell you what it is. It's a compound word this the Greek scholars kind of help us see from really three words, a su, which means with Anti, which means face-to-face, and then lumbano, which means to take hold of. And so you put all those words together, and this word help means this, to take hold of With face-to-face, to take hold of with face-to-face. And this is how the Holy Spirit helps us in prayer Again, this is only used one other time in the whole New Testament. You know where else it's used? The Jews in that passage. You remember the story of Mary and Martha? And Mary was s at the feet of Jesus. And what was Martha doing? The Bible says she was cumbered about. She was um her gift was the gift of hospitality. She was trying to get everything ready. She was trying to get supper ready. And Mary Well, she was just plain lazy, according to Martha. And she was just sitting there. Actually she wasn't. She was doing the better thing, the Bible says. She was sitting at the feet of Jesus. And um Martha went over and said, Um, Jesus, can you get Mary to help me, same word there. You know, grab hold of with face to face. Now Dr. Herschel Hobbes illustrates the word like this. He says this picture a man with a wagon and the back door is down in the wagon. This is back when they had the old wagons with the horse drawn, you know, wagons. And he said, picture the wagon back door down. He said, a bale of hay fell out onto the road. You come alongside. And you get on one side, and he gets on the other, and you together pick up this bale of hay. You're face to face, you're facing each other, you're with him. You take one side, he takes one side, and together you lift that bale of hay back onto the wagon. He said, this is really the essence of the word. And what the word does is it implies a what? It implies a partnership And this is what he's talking about here in prayer. This is what real prayer is. Real prayer is a divine partnership. You understand that? If you're praying by yourself, you're not getting a whole lot done. Because prayer is a partnership with the Almighty. And here it's a partnership with the Holy Spirit. You and the Holy Spirit are grabbing this prayer burden, we could say, and you're Face to face, you each have an end of it, and you're taking this prayer burden and you're laying it before the throne of God and you're doing it together. Friend, that is true prayer. And I and I don't know about you, but sometimes I have these burdens in prayer. I can't lift that burden by myself. I need someone to help me lift that burden of prayer, and that's what the Holy Spirit does. It's kind of like moving furniture, isn't it You ever try to move a heavy piece of furniture by yourself? I mean, you just can't do it. It's impossible to do it by yourself. And and friends, so it is with prayer. The Holy Spirit is our helper. And this this burden of prayer, this thing that we have to do of lifting things before the throne of God. We can't do that in and of ourselves. We need his help. The Holy Spirit, in this matter of prayer, he will guide us. He will inspire us to pray. He will energize us. As we pray, he will sustain us, as we pray, he will not do it without you, and you cannot do it without him. It's kind of like, you know, I I I did this with my my son Josiah when he was just a little guy. And uh we were one time we were in a parking lot waiting for Carolyn um to you know she was shopping, she was spending all my money in the store I was waiting in the car for her and uh Josiah was just a little guy so I put him on my lap. Don't judge me, okay? But I we just took a little drive around the parking lot with Josiah hands on the wheel You know, it's like the little guy driving the car, don't turn me in, okay, to the police. And uh, you know, we so you know it was just a lot of fun. Now the truth of the matter is, uh I didn't need him to help me drive that car, right? Some of you don't look like you believe me when I say that. I didn't need him to help me drive that car. I could drive it by myself. And uh but he needed me to help him drive it. He couldn't do it by himself. Uh he couldn't do it without me. And I didn't want to do it without him. And together, you know, we had a lot of fun. We had a lot of fellowship. just in that little moment of just sharing the wheel together. Now let me just tell you this. God is sovereign. He's powerful. And the truth of the matter is he doesn't need your help in running the universe. He doesn't need your help in taking care of things. But you know what? You know what prayer is? Prayer is the privilege of God saying, do you want to put your hands on the wheel with me? You want to share this with me? And he wants us to have this wonderful fellowship of actually putting our hands, as it were, on the steering wheel of life. And saying, hey, you can help me guide this thing in your life if you'd like to do it. This is part of what your calling is. Again. I can't do it without him, and he will not do it without me. And so prayer is this wonderful fellowship of God saying, Jerry, put your hands on the wheel with me, and let's go through this together. And that's what prayer is. And it is a wonderful fellowship. And I want to tell you, friend, if you're not praying, you know that's what you're missing out on. You're missing out on this wonderful fellowship. God loves us so much that He has given us the privilege of driving the car with Him together. Isn't that an exciting thought to know? That the God of the universe, who really doesn't mean need my help, is willing to come down and listen to me and allow me a part In guiding things in my life through prayer, and it's a wonderful, wonderful privilege. But let's get back to the point. We have to confess our weakness. in prayer. And the Holy Spirit helps us to overcome these weaknesses so that we can put our hands on the wheel and we can have this wonderful fellowship of praying. Now, let me just give you a few weaknesses therefore that the Holy Spirit helps us with. Are you taking notes? Here's the first weakness. Here's the first infirmity that I personally need help with and probably you too. Number one, indifference. Indifference You say, what do you mean by indifference? That is we just don't pray as we ought. We don't have enough concern about it. And why is that? Because Sometimes we get into the flesh. Sometimes we are just carnal. Now, I already established this when we were going through the book of Romans. Carnality is not a permanent position for a believer But a believer can lapse into carnality. How many of you know that? It's possible for us to get into the flesh. It's not our default mode. It's not how we normally operate, because the Bible says the carnal mind is death. And if you're constantly living in the flesh with a carnal mind, you may just need to get saved. But friend, it is possible, however. For a believer to be carnally minded from time to time, and to live in the flesh from time to time. And when that happens, you know what? I don't want to pray. Look in Romans chapter 8, look down in verse number 5. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, but they thereafter spirit the things of the spirit. And because sometimes we do get into the flesh, because we do still have that old carnal mind You know what? That makes me indifferent to this thing of prayer. It makes me apathetic when it comes to praying. Someone said the problem in America is apathy, but who cares? And that's sometimes the way we act about prayer. The problem in prayer is apathy, and many people don't seem to really care. And so you know why we don't pray? Because we don't want to pray. We just don't want to. You know something I notice about people? People do things they want to do. Did you ever notice that? That's a great revelation. You should write that down. People normally find time to do the things they want to do, no matter what it is. Uh and and a lot of times people just use excuses why they don't do the things they should be doing, but really the bottom line is they just don't want to do it Because I have found that people find the time to do the things that they want to do. And the reason you and I don't pray more is because we just don't want to. We don't want to. And that's a shame because we're missing out on fellowship with God. And we don't have appetite to pray. You know why? Because that is part of our flesh. Your flesh is at warfare sometimes against God. And so because if we're not walking in the Spirit, you're not going to want to pray. You may as well expect your cat to go swimming or your dog to go to the opera as to expect your flesh, that fallen part of you, to want to pray. And so what we have to do is we have to stop covering up and acting spiritual and saying, oh, I pray well all I want to, all I should. No, what you have to do is stop trying to cover up that weakness and just, you know what you do, you just confess it to God. A lot of times, sometimes I'll just say, God, you know what my problem is today? I just don't want to pray. Lord, help me in this matter of indifference. And the Holy Spirit will do that because look at chapter 8, look down at verse number 15. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again, the fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we what? We cry out, I have a Father That's the work of the Holy Spirit. You see, when I realize that I'm weak in this matter of wanting to pray, I'm not walking in the Spirit the way I should, I confess that weakness to God And I say, God help me for my indifference. And you know what? When I yield to the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit then takes over, and he reminds me that I am the child of God and Suddenly I find something welling up inside of me, a desire to want to pray. I can tell you when I'm walking in the spirit and what I'm not. Friend, when I'm walking in the spirit, I want I want to go to God. I want to bring everything to God. I want I I pray all the time when I'm in the Spirit. I pray while I'm sitting in my office. I pray while I drive. I pray sometimes while I'm studying. I I pray when I'm doing other things I'm constantly in this spirit of prayer because that's when I'm walking in the Spirit, because the Holy Spirit, who works inside me, teaches me to continually cry out and say, I have a Father. And so what I have to do is I have to confess this weakness in prayer. But friend, when I'm in the flesh, I have to be dragged into the prayer closet. Because I, at that point, don't want to pray. To pray in the flesh is to fail. It is drudgery But to pray in the Spirit is is a delight. It's to pray successfully. So we are to pray in the Spirit if we would be mighty in And again, Paul confesses his weakness in verse 26. Look again, likewise the Spirit helpeth whose infirmities Our infirmity. Now, lest you think that I'm the only one that has this problem, Paul admits it too. Notice he says our, our infirmity. And he includes himself in there. He helps me in this hour infirmity. So Paul confesses that in the matter of prayer, he was weak. He was infirmed. And that's exactly what the word infirmities means. It means weakness. And so again, you're looking at a weak man, and I'm preaching to weak people. And we must confess our weakness to God in this matter of prayer. And you know why we do that? Because number one, it's a fact, as we already established, but number two, it's an asset. Your weakness is an asset. Not a liability, it's an asset. You say, how so? Remember what Paul said? That God's strength is made perfect in our weakness. And so when we confess that weakness, God takes over. God comes in and in his power. He enables us to pray in a greater way, and he gives us the desire to pray. So first of all, there is indifference. But then I want you to write down here's another Here's another weakness. Write down ignorance. Ignorance. Look again in verse 26. Likewise the Spirit help with our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. And so here's the second thing. We don't really know sometimes what we should pray for. You know, people come to you and ask you to put them on your prayer list. And over time, you know, you add more people and you add more people. And I know some Christians, their prayer list, it's about as big as a phone book Because they have all and by the way there's nothing wrong with that. That's fine. Put people on your prayer list. It's good to have a prayer list. I'm s saying there's nothing wrong with that. But after a while, if your li your list is so long, you don't have time to go over all those things You know? And then there are some people when they have a long prayer list, they just kind of they kind of pray wholesale. Lord bless all these people on this list. Amen. And we kind of we kind of short circuit the whole process of prayer. And the truth of the matter is we can get frustrated if we have too long a list or too many things to pray for. And I think sometimes the key is not to try to pray for everything, every time we pray, but to pray for the right things. And this is where we need the help of the Holy Spirit. Our prayers have to be channeled in order for them to be powerful. Or we could say for prayer to be effective, it must be selective. So we have to know what we're praying for. And how do we know what to pray for? And again, this is the question, how do we know what we should pray for? And I think the secret in this, in prayer, is that the prayer that ends up in heaven is the prayer that starts in heaven. It's kind of like completing a circuit. Prayer is God the Father A f of putting a a desire in our heart through the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit really finding a desire in the heart of the Father, putting that desire in our heart, then sending it back to heaven in the power of the cross. And so really it's kind of like a circuit, isn't it? The Holy Spirit gives us a desire of something we should pray for. We know that's from the Father, and we bring it back to the throne. In the name of Jesus and in the power of the Spirit. And so it's kind of like this constant circuit. And so really the Holy Spirit can guide us even in what we should pray for. How many of you believe that the Holy Spirit can impress something on your heart? How many of you believe that? And I think we probably have experienced this in our Christian life, haven't we? I mean, just out of the blue, do you ever have a desire just to pray for someone or something uh in your life? And and I've had this happen where people have uh actually prayed for me at a time when I needed it and I didn't realize I needed it. Uh for example, when I was pastoring down south, uh one time All hell had broken loose on me. I mean, it was one of the really hard days of my life. And uh that very day, I got an email from a pastor in London, England. And you know what the email said? It said, God has placed you on my heart. I've been praying for you all day. What's going on? That's what the email said. And uh I couldn't believe that. I should believe that. But it was just so incredible that at that very moment. And by the way, I had not communicated with this pastor friend in about a year. It's not like we communicate every week. I haven't communicated him with in over a year. And just out of the blue He says, God has put you on my heart. I'm praying for you. Tell me what's going on. Aren't you grateful for Christian friends that walk that close to the Lord? Where the Holy Spirit puts something on their heart And I think that happens in prayer often. I think it happens more times than we really realize. I think an important step in prayer is when we go To the Lord in prayer, we yield ourselves to the Holy Spirit and say, now, Father, direct me on the things that I should pray for. And the people that I should pray for. A lot of those things are obvious, but the Holy Spirit might put someone on your heart And he'll tell you how to pray for that person at that moment. Again, it's God's putting your hands on the wheel and saying, join me in this as we take care of this one individual. Let me ask you a question. How many of you are thankful for the prayers that you've prayed that God did not answer? As you look back? You know, Ruth Bell Graham, uh Ruth Graham Bell, excuse me, the wife of Billy Graham, she said this. She said, if God would have answered every one of my prayers, I would have married the wrong person six times. And sometimes I look back and I say, God, thank you for not answering that prayer. You knew better at that time. And you know, sometimes you might have a troublemaker in your life and you say, God, take care of him, strike that person down. You know, I'm sure the early church prayed Saul of Partius. Saul was going around persecuting Christians, killing Christians, and I imagine the early church said, Lord, just kill this guy, because he's killing us. But that wasn't God's will with Saul's harshness, was it? God didn't strike him dead, he struck him alive And he became the greatest apostle in the early church. And so I believe that the Holy Spirit can lay on our heart even what we should pray for. Now, again, it's nothing wrong with having a prayer. Let's go ahead and have it But just be yielded to the Holy Spirit and say, Holy Spirit, help me to pray for the things that you want me to pray for. Someone wrote this that God has four basic responses to our prayers. One is no. He might just say no. This is not my will. This is not what's best, and in that we have to trust God. Secondly, God can say his answer can be slow, not no, but slow. In other words, your request Is not at the right time, maybe the right thing, but it's not yet the right time Just be patient. And then another answer a person said is not only there's no, there's slow, and then there's grow. You need to grow a little bit before you can get this. This is not the right time for you to have this. How many have ever said that to your children? You can't have this right now, you know. Um I have a little grandson that's around the house grabbing everything. And I'm constantly saying, No, no, no You can't have this right now. You know, sometimes God does that with us. Your motives are not are not right at this time or you're if you if I gave this to you at this moment in your life, uh it wouldn't help you It's too much for you at this time. And then another answer is just go. So there's no, slow, it's not the right time. Grow, you need to grow before you get this and then go. Your request, the timing, the condition are all right, and God gives you that answer. the way you want that answer. But again, I think the key is that we have to be yielded to the Holy Spirit so that He can help us. He can tell us what to pray for and how to pray. So there's the problem of indifference. There's a problem of ignorance. But also right down number three, there's a problem of inability. I call this a problem of inability. And that is sometimes we're just physically weak. I mean, we're just tired. How many of you can relate to that? I mean, you're just tired. I mean, how many of you don't raise your hand on this one, okay? We don't want you to reveal too much of your sinful flesh here. How many of you ever, when you started praying, you fell asleep? I'll go ahead and raise my hand on that. study and I remember one on one occasion I got ready for church early that morning was ready to go to church and I did worked all night and I was dressed up in my suit. I was ready to go but I still had some time and I thought I'm gonna pray before I go to church But I'm not going to get on my knees and pray because I know I'll fall asleep. So I decided I'm going to stand up next to the bed and pray. And that way I won't fall asleep. The next thing I knew, I woke up on the floor. Hours later, church was over. I was just there alone. I don't know how that happened. I don't know if maybe I was caught away in the third heaven during my prayer and God brought me back. I don't think that's what happened. But how many of you, you know, sometimes we're just physically tired. I mean, we're just physically exhausted. Do you remember Peter, James, and John in the Garden of Gethsemane? They all fell asleep. And Jesus said to them, You know, can't you just watch with me? And what does it say? The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. There is a legitimate fatigue and tiredness. I believe that Jesus was tired during his earthly ministry all the time. He was constantly walking from town to town, ministering. He never turned anyone away. There was always people around him He was so tired that he could fall asleep on the back of a boat in the middle of a storm and the storm not wake him up. That's being pretty tired in ministry. And I think sometimes when we pray, we get groggy. Our mind is foggy. We're weak because our flesh is just tired. And you know what? The Holy Spirit can help us even in this. Because look in look in Romans 8, look at verse 11. It says, But if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, He that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwells in you. Now I know that that verse is referring to the resurrection that's going to happen for all of us But I think there's a practical application there in that it's the Holy Spirit to actually give strength to our mortal bodies. He can strengthen us to do the things that we need to do. To strengthen us physically. And I think that that is referring to the energy that the Holy Spirit of God can give us even when we are physically weak. He can give us strength. Now let me give you the fourth weakness. We said indifference, and the Holy Spirit helps us with that, and ignorance, and the Holy Spirit can help us with that, and inability. But then here's a fourth one: inaccessibility. Inaccessibility. And what do I mean by that? You ever feel like when you pray that your prayers aren't reaching heaven? You ever feel like, you know, I just don't feel worthy to even come before God? I just feel like the heaven is is inaccessible right now. You can't seem to approach God. There's like an iron curtain of unworthiness stretched out over your Roof there, your ceiling, and you feel like that you have no right or privilege to go to God in prayer. Well again, look in Romans 8, look at verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but ye have received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba Father. And he's reminding us here, look, when you got saved, God took away that spirit of fear or that sense of punishment or unworthiness, even. And he gives you this spirit of adoption, and he's constantly reminding you that as a child of God, you have now been given a right, along with the privilege, a right to go to God. And the Spirit reminds us of that because again, there might be times when I say, God, I don't feel worthy to even come into your presence. I don't feel worthy to even bring these things to you. And at that time, I kind of had this spirit of fear in me. But the Holy Spirit comes and he reminds me and says, Look, Jerry, you know what? You're right. In and of yourself, you're not worthy. But you know what? You are a child of God now. And Jesus paid for all of your sins And your prayers are not based on your merits at all. Prayer is based on the mercy of God in Jesus. And you are adopted into the family of God. You have a divine right. To go into the presence of the Father. Isn't that an incredible grace that God gives us? That you can go into the presence of the Father. I can approach God because of the blood of Jesus Christ. Because of what Christ has done for me. So he takes away this spirit of fear and he replaces it with this spirit of adoption. So much so that now I cry out. I have a Father. And when I feel like heaven is inaccessible to me, the Holy Spirit comes and he reminds me of who I am in Jesus Christ and what Christ has done for me. And I have access to the Father anytime I want. I can have to come sometimes I have to confess my sins. But friend, I have access to the Father. And he tells me that and he reminds me of that. And I'm I'm grateful. You know, it's really the Holy Spirit just takes me by the hand and he says, Come on, Jerry. Let's go to the throne because this is your right. You know what it reminds me of when we had a school here and I was an administrator? And uh, you know, Abby was a student here, my daughter Abby. And when a student wanted to see me and they didn't want to go through the normal protocol, they would just say, Abby, can you, you know, get me in with your dad, help me out here And sure, she would just burst through the door with this study, hey Dad, so and so wants to talk to you. And uh, of course, you know, I would try to tell her, Abby, you have to go through the normal protocols here. But she still would do it. Hey, come on, Dad. I'm your daughter. Here, help my friend out. You know, there's a sense in which the Holy Spirit just brings us To the Father, because it's our divine right. He reminds us that this is something that we have now that we are in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have this access. And then let me give you the fifth thing here, the fifth thing. There's indifference. He helps us with that. There's in a ignorance. What to pray for? He helps us with that. There's inability. And he gives us strength, and there's inaccessibility, and he reminds us that we have this wonderful privilege because of who we are. But then here's the fifth thing: inexpressibility. Inexpressibility. Write that down. Because look again in verse 26. Likewise the Spirit also helps our infirmities, for we know not what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit itself makes intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. And I think many times we come to God, we don't know how to really express our desires or say just exactly what is on our heart. Words are vehicles that really carry our emotions or carry our feelings, our desires. And many times we have these desires. That are so heavy that there are really no words that can really adequately carry what we're feeling in our heart. And you know what the Holy Spirit does at that point? He brings that to the Father. He interprets that before the throne. He takes our groans Are weeping. Again, let me ask you a question. How many of you, you don't have to raise your hand, but how many of you, when it you had a burden on your heart, and when you tried to pray about it, really all you could do is just sigh? Or maybe just weep. Because you really couldn't verbalize how you felt. And you just poured your heart out to God. In tears. Someone said it's not the length of our prayers, but the strength of our prayers that get the job done. And sometimes the strongest prayers are prayers that really have no words. It's just great emotion. Did you know that the Holy Spirit, even in those moments, He takes those groanings? By the way, the word groaning here is pains. Literally, it's a word used of childbirth, a mother giving birth. And it's the pains that we have. Maybe something in life has broken us, has absolutely crushed us, and we're broken. And all we can do is just go with that pain. The Holy Spirit, our prayer partner, will take those groans, those pains, and he'll bring them before the throne. And he will articulate perfectly exactly what we need to say because that's what he does. He is our prayer partner. So, friend, I just want to encourage you, when you pray, remember you have a you have a partner. You have someone that will help you. Don't try to do this by yourself because we're too weak to do this by ourselves. Remember that prayer is a divine partnership. It is God asking you, inviting you to put your hands on the wheel and have this wonderful fellowship. But yet he reminds us that we're weak and we need help with these things. Thank God we have the Holy Spirit that is our helper in these matters of prayer. Aren't you grateful for that? Let's let's bow for prayer tonight. And so, Father, we so thankful for this verse. Because Lord, we confess we are weak in this. I know that I am. And I don't pray as much as I ought. And sometimes when I pray, I'm not sure how to pray. And sometimes I'm just so tired, Lord. I'm so weary. And I don't feel like I'm worthy to even approach the throne of God. And then there's times, Lord, when I The feelings I have, I just can't express. Lord, I thank you that in those moments, those times, I have a prayer partner. I have someone who helps me to lift this burden and lay it before the throne. So Lord, remind us all that we don't do this by ourselves. We need our prayer partner with us. to make our prayers effective. And I pray, Lord, that we will indeed be a praying people. Forgive us for not doing it more. Forgive us for our carelessness in this matter. Make us mighty warriors in prayer. And Lord, we pray all this in the matchless name of our Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen.